people have a very strong reaction when this idea is brought up that plants could have intelligence.
We keep forgetting that we might very probably be wrong as to what human intelligence consists of.
Let's see, what is it that unites us all in the tree of life? It's like the master key.
Plants are seeded, they don't need to be sentient. That was the Dalai Lama's approach, which means
to me that was very informative because I understood that our prejudices, our biases,
go way deeper. We have trouble thinking of it as nested instead of as linear.
What we share is regularities on planet earth. The sun sets and the sun rises for any form of life.
That's news, that's information to any form of life whatsoever.
Bacteria swimming up a chemical gradient is generating those energy flows.
And that interaction is the intelligence, right?
That's it. Intelligence is flesh and bone. It has to do with biology, not with following a recipe
book. We're navel gazing and we need to rethink everything, root and branch, like get started
from square one because we are just not getting it. This is not against anyone. This is against
ignorance. This is all of us teaming up together against ignorance. That's what propels science.
Love speaks the language of molecules. Can you truly appreciate that tree or that plant you are
walking by or encountering in itself, for itself, detached from your needs? Nothing evolves
without somebody else co-evolving. So everything is co-evolution. Science,
if it's not reductionist or mechanistic, already has the resources to fill the awe, the wonder.
Hey everyone, welcome back to Love and Philosophy.
Today we are going to talk about plant cognition. And if you think you understand what that means,
maybe you do, but maybe you don't. Give it a try. If it turns you off, definitely listen to this.
If it turns you on, definitely listen to this. It's with Paco Calvo, who's written a wonderful
book called Planta Sapiens. It's very easy to read, but it's also just a really good book.
Paco is a renowned cognitive scientist. He's a philosopher too, of biology. He's known for
his groundbreaking research in plant cognition and intelligence. And he does that in Murcia.
Sorry if I say that wrong. He tries to teach me at the beginning how to say it, you'll hear
as we're coming on, but I still struggle. But Murcia, in Spain, where Paco leads the MINT
lab, which stands for minimal intelligence lab, and he focuses on what that might mean,
minimal cognition. There are lots of different studies about that, but he does a lot of
interdisciplinary work between the cognitive sciences and biology. And he's very interested
in plant behavior, plant problem solving, decision making. Again, if all of that sounds
strange to you, if you're coming from human-based studies of those sorts of things, then I think
this might be really interesting in his book as well. He's looking at the complex interactions
in adaptive responses that plants exhibit, more or less. And he's really contributed to
how we talk about and think about this word cognition and intelligence, which as you know,
is something that's definitely part of this whole idea of navigability. What is really
wonderful about this conversation is that we talk about rethinking cognition, rethinking what
intelligence means. We talk about Darwin, why Paco loves him so much. Darwin laying in bed sick,
watching his plants and how that leads to so many insights. And just that idea of observation with
presence, what that means. Paco tells this great story about the Dalai Lama or Dalai Lama. I also
probably say that wrong, Dalai Lama. When Paco was on his book tour and there was a reception that
he had with the Dalai Lama and he sort of just assumed that they would be on agreement about
life being intelligent. And you'll hear that he was a little bit wrong about that, which is very
interesting. Also, he studied with some great philosophers, for one, Paul Churchlin. And I was
really intrigued in his book because he tells the story of something he learned from Paul Churchlin,
which is really wonderful and shocked me a little knowing Paul Churchlin's philosophy, which is a
little different than what this story tells us. And actually it's been really helpful for me to
hear that. And there's lots of other interesting stories in here and Paco himself is just a really
great conversation partner. So I hope you enjoy it. I'm glad you're here. Hope you're doing well
wherever you're making your way. I send you lots of love. And if you want to support this show in
any way, it really helps. And I really thank you. And there's many ways you can find to do that
whatever way you want. It's appreciated. Paco Calvo. Okay. I just want to make sure I don't say
something wrong. But Paco Calvo is usually easier to pronounce. Murcia is way more difficult.
Okay. Did I say that wrong already? Murcia. Oh, that's still wrong. No, no, that's pretty good.
Yeah. Okay. It's not an easy word for foreigners. No, that's a hard sound. All right. Yes. Okay.
Okay. Hi, Paco. Thank you so much for being here today. It's really wonderful to see you.
Yeah. Thanks for having me. So I've been reading your book, this one,
Planta Sapiens. It's so wonderful. And there's so much I want to talk about in there, but
I kind of want to start at the end in a weird way with you discuss these expeditions to Mars and so
on, trying to sort of explore planets and so forth. And you bring up this really interesting
thing, which I'd never heard of until your book about plants, inspiring some new possible ways
of thinking about these things. And I just want to tell you, I was at a neuroscience conference
recently, and one of the questions, they were talking about computation and how we think of
modeling the brain, of course, and all of this. And someone in the audience, one of the questions
was, so all of these models are inspired by thinking of human brains, but does anyone ever
think about other forms of intelligence when they're trying to come up with computational
models? So I wonder if you could tell us a little bit about that at first, just the idea, for
example, maybe of the grow bot. Oh, I see. Well, I mean, literally, you can find sources of
plant based inspiration in any walk of life, literally any field whatsoever. I mean, if you
think, because to start with, just think of the morphology, the materials, the actual, you know,
if you think about computation, nowadays, it has become fashionable to talk of, you know, to speak
of morphological computation or the way we decentralized or outsource computational power
into the periphery, into the embodiment or into the environment. So how we outsource things
out of the, you know, the CPU, right, that we are supposed to have, right. But we don't, after all,
right. So that's one of the things about plant sapiens, because, you know, as you know, having
gone through it, I like to think that we kill two birds with one stone, like we get to understand
plants better for what they are in themselves and for themselves. At the same time, it allows us to
rethink what we, you know, this distorted picture we have of ourselves. And the same happens with
robots. So when we are designing our robots, our gadgets, our toys, think of a humanoid,
typical Japanese humanoid or rovers on exploring Mars, right. And we can't help it, but I'm pretty
sure we don't do it on purpose. We just can't help it. We can't implicitly, tacitly. So we
take ourselves, however tacitly, as the gold standard. And sometimes we don't even verbalize
it or make it explicit, but hey, if you're going to explore somewhere, your whereabouts, you got to go,
you know, stand on your two feet and walk and locomote and, you know, to reach point B and
starting at point A, you've got to move your body from point A to point B, right, to get there,
to reach your target. And that's something, it's so obvious to us that we don't even give it
some thought to the very possibility that other forms of life might have evolved different ways
of reaching their goals, right. And one obvious alternative is growth. So plants, when we say,
you know, when we say, hey, they are sessile, they are stuck, they are anchored to the root system and,
you know, we think that they've got to be stupid somehow because they cannot locomote,
as if in locomotion itself was the mark of intelligence or the borderline in between the
non-intelligent and the intelligent, instead of saying, hey, isn't it amazing, evolution,
how many different tricks it can play. So to me, the example of robots, which in the book,
the reader will see, it's kind of towards the end of the book as an application, but it gives you a
lot of food for thought to rethink many of the ways in which we approach or we appreciate our
surroundings or our dealing, our interaction with other organisms, right, biological or artificial.
Yeah, as you say, the robot normally, of course, we're thinking of how can it move from point A
to point B in the way that you just laid out, but plants also move from point A to point B without
leaving point A, you point out. And that's a whole different way to think about designing
an explorative vehicle. It's absolutely amazing. Well, think in the case of the robots in this
chapter nine of the book, as I explained, most of the headaches, like engineers at the Jet Propulsion
Lab or you name it, which any space agency, when they have a rover exploring Mars or the Moon or
whatever, all their worries have to do with things that could go wrong as I locomote from
point A to point B. So a crack on the ground. Oh, don't get stuck. Watch your wheels or a sand dune
and you can't keep propelling yourself or a slope, 30 degrees or a cliff. So anything
can mean travel or, oh, I mean, for God's sake, I mean, this costs the fortune. You better keep
your rover up and running, right? Absolutely. So this is the issue that we are not solving the
problem by adding more code, so by adding more information to the algorithm. So you are not
foreseeing all those possibilities, all those contingencies and trying to solve it by including
those possibilities in the recipe book that your rover is following. You simply solve the problem by
thinking of a different problem space. So if you grow in a growbot, a growing robot, a growbot,
in a growbot, as you reach your target through growth, you don't care about the crack on the
ground. You grow over the crack. So you don't care. This is like a hanging bridge. If you
need to swim across the river to get to the other bank, you care about the stream, the strength of
the water falling, right? But if you get across to the other river bank as a hanging bridge,
you don't care about the stream of water. You just hang over it.
It's a wonderful way to learn from plants. It opens up all kinds of other possibilities. Also,
I bring it up not only because I think it's spectacular, but also because it speaks to a
lot of these issues of when we think about what intelligence is or cognition is, we often think
of it as you were already sort of bringing up, as somehow being able to move or something involved
with movement. And I kind of wonder about the difference between growth and movement, to be
very honest with you, because we could get into that a little bit later. But now I want to think
about, in that context that we just kind of laid out, this wonderful, beautiful idea of Darwin
watching his, was it cucumber plants and the tendrils, right? Because this is kind of
a wonderful example of this growth that plants do, and the way that we might rethink
something like a bot on Mars, the way that a plant can reach out with its tendrils and explore
is just spectacular. I was going to say, but you see, I mean, even in the case of Darwin,
you've seen there is a lot of Darwin in the book, right? Yeah, I think I fell in love with Darwin a
little bit in your book. I've read so much Darwin, by the way, let me say. I mean, as a neuroscience
and philosopher, Darwin is everywhere. But your book, I felt your love for him. This is love and
philosophy, so I can use that word. I hope it's okay. Definitely. It's my hero. I mean, actually,
even when I was writing the book, this all started in sabbatical in Edinburgh,
and I was writing just in front of, in these cafes in the Old Town, just opposite where he was
lodging as a medicine student in his early 20s or late teens, right? Oh, that's wonderful. Yeah,
I felt that, that space, being in the space, and you wanted to end it kind of where he was walking.
Absolutely, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. No, no, I was just going to mention in relation to Darwin and
the cucumber tendrils and everything, that to me, what's truly amazing about what Darwin was able
to do is something I keep telling my students nowadays, I mean, in 2024, because we are so
obsessed with thinking, hey, if only you have the right tools, we would all be able to appreciate
what we are missing, right? Like, oh, yeah, yeah, sure. This is just a matter of budget,
of equipment. Give me the right observation tool, and I'm pretty sure I will support it, right?
And no, we keep missing it. In our lab, we time-lapse plants, right? So, we've got to
time-lapse them. We've got to speed them up, because the time scale in which they grow,
the growing behavior, the time scale in which it happens, and our time scale of observation
are so different that we need to accelerate them through time-lapse photography. So, we take a
picture every minute, every five minutes, whatever, like for days, weeks, months, then when you
assemble the footage, you say, oh, my God, now I see what's going on here, right? But that's,
there is a danger here, and it's that we become mentally lazy. It's as if you could simply
students think, oh, you know, that's pretty easy. I mean, on a Friday evening, you set the settings
of your time-lapse camera, okay, up you go for the weekend, come back on Monday, assemble the footage,
oh, wow, look, popcorns, and then just watch the cucumber doing its thing, right? No. Even watching
time-lapse footage of plants doing their stuff, you will still miss it if you are not in the
right frame of mind. So, that's why it's so important to do, first of all, prior to using
time-lapse equipment, to do what Darwin was doing, because he was observing plant behavior
to the naked eye. To the naked eye means in plant time, so in its own time scale. So, rather than
accelerating plants, he was decelerating himself. So, to me, that's the right way to do it, to get
started. Of course, then you need to do time-lapse, right? But at least to get started that way, to
train your eye to be in the right frame of mind, and that's what Darwin was able to accomplish. So,
to me, it's still amazing that so many people nowadays still miss plant intelligent behavior,
and they even complain that we are anthropomorphizing plants by time-lapsing them.
Some plant physiologists, you know, they complain along those lines, right? Like, I beg your pardon,
and when you're studying a hummingbird flying behavior and you use speed cameras,
are you anthropomorphizing hummingbirds? I mean, we need these tools, right, to flesh out the
behaviors. But what Darwin was able to do to the naked eye, it still shocks me today.
Yeah, I'll let people read the book to really get the full story, but I guess we should say
for people listening, so he was sick, right, and he's in bed, and the plants were kind of in front
of him. So, in a way, life sort of slowed him down, and so he was just really mesmerized by them.
There's a wonderful quote in there, I'm not sure I remembered exactly, but that he was fascinated
by his tendrils or something, and it was just watching them move, and sort of, as you say,
when you slow down and actually observe something, it does open up in a different way.
There is something more genuine, something that you do get to achieve that you just
cannot reach otherwise. So, there is something to it.
It's real scientific practice. I think Darwin, I mean, we won't do the whole thing about Darwin,
but he's a great example of that in the way that he took time.
Yeah, absolutely. And nowadays, that's an issue. I mean, today,
fast science and, you know. Yeah, we've gotten really away from that. We've forgotten how
important that is. Absolutely. And plants, it's another thing plants could probably teach us,
actually. Yeah, definitely. But just to get to this, so that opens up something that I really
want to talk about a lot, which is people have a very strong reaction, a lot of people, when
this idea is brought up that plants could have intelligence. So, you, of course, wrote a whole
book laying out ways of doing that. For example, with the tendrils moving, I mean, we're already
talking about that as a kind of intelligence, but you show in a way, you show many ways,
for example, through that they have to make choices and decisions and so on,
how this relates to the way cognition has already been studied in human ways. But
what's very interesting, too, is that people are so reactive about that, that
when you hear a plant is cognitive, either it's fascinating, when there's also people
who are completely fascinated by it, and it draws them in, and then there are other people who
really are turned off by it, and even a bit feels like a violent thing to them. But I think,
and I want you to talk about this, but I feel like that's coming because these words, we locate
them with our assumptions as human, just by default. So when we hear plant cognition,
not we, but yes, we, like the big we, it's like, okay, then that must mean that plants have what
is a human cognition or a human intelligence. This is the part that seems very hard and nuanced,
and of course you do a wonderful job in your book, but to realize that that's not what you mean when
you say plant intelligence. The plant is a different embodied creature. It is a different
embodiment. And so its intelligence will not look like human intelligence.
Yeah. Well, there are two issues here. You're absolutely right. But there are two issues here.
One is that sure, we should try to assess any organism's form of intelligence in its own terms.
So you don't compare one to the other. You just do, I mean, I give this talk to secondary school
kids, and I ask them always, who do you think has better eyesight? An earthworm or an eagle?
And they all go, an eagle, an eagle. I say, hold on a sec. Who can see better underneath the leaves,
the foliage? And they say, hey, yeah, sure. I mean, then this, you know, shakes all their
convictions because they are assuming that an earthworm, the way they see the world,
which by the way, they don't even have eyes, just an eye spot, light gradients. It's a degraded
form of vision compared to the eagle. Instead of thinking, hey, this is the best adaptation they
have provided the needs they do have. And they don't have the need of the eagle to identify a
rabbit and planet from 200 yards. So we keep missing the point that it's not about comparing
ones against the others, as if there was some measuring rod and we were providing the gold
standard, right? With that being said, mistake number two is to, so even if you get here and
say, okay, sure, let's just value everyone's unique form of intelligence, we keep missing,
we keep forgetting that we might very probably be wrong as to what human intelligence consists of.
Because even if we tell them apart and say, hey, let's talk about plant intelligence or plant
sapiens and homo sapiens and don't go nuts about it because we don't mean to say that plant sapiens
equates homo sapiens. So hold on a sec. In a sense, I do mean to imply that one equates the other.
Once we have revised what we truly mean by human intelligence. So the problem is that human
intelligence is not what computational neuroscience or cognitive psychology tells you
it is. So we are obsessed with the computer metaphor. We are obsessed with the brain mind
divide as if this was a matter of checking out the mental software running on your neural hardware,
right? And that is so deeply rooted, that metaphor, the computer metaphor, that we go through
undergrad education in psychology, in neuroscience, in computer science, and we don't
think twice about what we truly mean by that. I mean, is somebody sitting at the wheel in my
brain? How do you mean? So we keep forgetting that there is not a little homunculus doing the
cognizing, the driving, the navigation when I navigate my surroundings, right? So because that
is that, to me, distorted metaphor is so deeply rooted. That is what makes people, you even said
violently, like very, very strongly oppose. I'm sure you felt it more than. Oh, absolutely. You
can't imagine. I mean, I couldn't tell you the type of things that some people tell me by email,
right? I can imagine, because it's almost a reactive. I have a feeling that by discussing
plant intelligence, we are taking something that belongs to us. So one thing that when we put these
two things together and we think of intelligence as a continuum and not as a binary black, black or
white thing, even a continuum is the wrong approach, because with the idea of a continuum,
we can think of minimal intelligence as opposed to full-fledged intelligence. And no, it's not
that. So to me, my approach is to think, hey, let's see, what is it that unites us all in the tree of
life? It's like the master key. So I would like to think that we are trying to search for the master
key, some master key that unlocks any branch in the tree of life. Right. So to do that, to me,
the idea is to get started the other way around from the bottom up, not from the top down.
So when you get started from the top down as we are sapiens and then provide the gold standard,
and then what do we usually do? Either we go for mammals because they have a neocortex
or primates, or even those more open-minded try to extend it as much as possible, but always within
the animal kingdom. Yeah. Starting with what could possibly be a brain or something. Right, right.
And you know what's really funny? That this happened to me, that's not in the book because
that happened afterwards, precisely when I was on tour promoting the book and I was having this
reception with the Dalai Lama. Wow. Sorry, we have to pause for a minute. You're having a reception
with the Dalai Lama? Yeah. Well, we were having this meeting in Dharamsala. Oh, okay. Wow. Wonderful.
A group of Buddhist monks. So the Dalai Lama, he was receiving us, like the Western scientists,
one morning. So the organizers, they said, hey, if you have a book or something, you can bring a
copy with you and give it as a present to the Dalai Lama. So I brought the copy of plant sapiens
with me and handed it to him. Oh, lovely. And said naively, out of, you know, mere ignorance,
I was thinking, well, sure. I mean, this thing that we were talking about, like being on the same page,
something that unites us all, I'm pretty sure like the Dalai Lama will be with me. I mean,
we'll be on the same page as opposed to these, you know, Western reductionist plant physiologists
that don't get it, that they think this is just a matter of unearthing molecular mechanisms or
whatever. The Dalai Lama should, I mean, pretty sure. So I handed the copy to him of plant sapiens
and I said, because plants are sapient, or I said plants are sentient, I told him, I think. And then
he went like raising his eyebrows. I said, no way. He said, only animals can be sentient. And you know
what? He gave me a copy of a book of his, like from 2012, I think. I hadn't read it. So I read
his book on the way back, flying back to Spain. And I found this quote in his book. And it was
just what we were talking about, robots. It was about locomotion. And he was explicitly saying that
animals need to be sentient because they locomote. So he was identifying, connecting far too
straightforwardly in sentience to locomotion. Plants are sessile. They stay seated. They don't
need to be sentient. That was the Dalai Lama's approach, which means to me that was very
informative because I understood that our prejudices, our biases go way deeper because
for us it's too easy to blame Western mechanistic reductionist science and think that other
traditional knowledge or other cultures have a more, and no, I realized to me this was good news
in a sense. It was good news, like as in saying, hey, there is something way deeper than simply
Western scientists doing their mechanistic, you know. So I think it's something very intriguing.
It goes way deeper. So I learned from that conversation.
That's a wonderful, wonderful story because it also helps us like bring empathy into this because
it's not that the people who react violently or even in that case, it wasn't a violent reaction,
but an immediate no, right? That actually, yeah, oftentimes it just comes because people care so
deeply about trying to understand mind and cognition. And they've gone so deeply into it,
into the literature or their whole lives are kind of based on doing a certain kind of neuroscience
or it's because they care so much about it. And they've tried to build up a narrative.
And it's usually this linear narrative. And it's usually in the way you were describing of the top
down, bottom up, as if it can only be one way or the other. We have trouble thinking of it as nested
instead of as linear, that there might be nested ways of thinking about it. So I just, I don't
think it comes from, it comes from a place that people care so much. And the reason I think it
gets so passionate, you would know more about this, but it's because there's such hard questions.
If you do give intelligence to plants within that linear framework, in general, it's hard,
but because then it becomes like for the Dalai Lama, as you were telling that story, I was thinking,
well, then his approach to, you bring it up in the book in terms of pain and emotions and suffering
and stuff like this. But if you're going to fit plants into that linear model, then the questions
become almost impossible to answer. But what you're saying is we need to rethink all of that.
Absolutely. So you know what I think? This is something which this is in the book. When I say,
remember, I say, hey, what counts is not what's inside the head, but what the set is inside of.
Right. This is a motto from ecological psychology. Yeah. You talk a lot about the
relationality and the context and the environment. But to me, when we apply this other bottom-up
approach and this thing I was telling you about, about finding or looking for this master key,
right? That gets to open any branch in the tree of life. Think about it. If we put it this way,
things are way simpler. I think we make it far too complicated because we are
starting to run full of it. So if we don't think what's inside the head, but what the head is
inside of, what are we sharing? We think that we need to be sharing brain tissue, locomotion. No,
what we share is regularities on planet Earth. So the sun sets and the sun rises for any form of
life. That's news. That's information to any form of life whatsoever. So we have all evolved
adaptations that tune to environmental regularities that are all informative to any form of life.
If you think about circadian clocks, that's crystal clear. I mean, sure, we all need to tick
to the planetary cycles, so the day-night cycle. And you see the circadian clocks in plants are the
very same thing as in animals. It could be so narrow-minded to say, hey, but plants don't have a
suplachiasmatic nucleus, where you have the master clock. So you see the light goes through
your optic nerve, then hits. So you have your master clock, and then that puts in sync
or your peripheral clocks. So the way you explain circadian clocks in neuroscience,
does a disfavor if it is supposed to help understand what unites us all by focusing on neural tissue
alone, as if you couldn't tell time without the neural tissue. So what counts is not the material
substrate, the implementation that allows you to tick, but rather, regardless of the type of
implementation, the fact that we all have feedback loops in our molecular clocks in any form of life
whatsoever, because the sun sets and the sun rises, and that's news that on evolutionary time,
you need to care about, because predators come out, you need to go hunting, you need to hide,
temperature goes down, relative humidity. So all these environmental parameters
correlate with those day-night cycles. How come a form of life is going to ignore such regularities
being so powerful and so informative? So when you put in those terms, it could be the other
way around. It could be a miracle if some form of life wouldn't tune to those regularities.
So when you put it in terms of the environmental regularities themselves,
you don't care whether I use neural tissue or non-neuronal tissue to deliver the goods.
It's just a matter of being in sync with those planetary cycles.
Absolutely. I love that you bring up regularities, because this is how I think of it too. This is a
research channel, that's how it started. But the way I've come to think of it, and what I was so
excited about in reading your book, because you open up a lot of things connected to this, is that
starting in so-called bottom, at the bottom, bottom up. I want to come to why I think that's
a little problematic in a minute, but if you just think of any body that comes into this encounter,
this world, it's all about making its way through those regularities. Now, I think of it in terms
of making way and navigability, and that sounds like what we were talking about at the beginning,
where something has to move from A to B. But what I'm trying to do, and I think it's very close to
what you've already done in a way, is rethink what we mean by what that means to navigate or
to make way. I don't use navigate all the time, because it does connect so much to this idea of
movement in the way that Dalai Lama meant it. And for good reason, because it does explain a lot.
But if you think of, you talk about landscape in your book too, but I try to think about different
kinds of landscapes, different kinds of spaces. And in that sense, a plant is definitely moving
through a space, a landscape, an encounter, its life, in the same way that everyone means by
movement of cognition in terms of animals and plants. Plants are perceiving affordances,
so they are perceiving their own possibilities of interaction with the surroundings.
They do it through growth, but what counts is those encounters. Exactly, with those regularities
of the environment. Absolutely. It's shaping it, and it's being shaped by it in the way that-
That's it. It's got to be reciprocal. And as we say in ecological psychology,
the unit of analysis is the plant environment system as such. If you detach it and you think
of the organism, plant or human, or you think of the environment, you miss the plot. It's got to be
the system as such, the plant or animal environment system as such. Then is when you get to see how
you are generating information by either locomoting or growing. But the fact that- So now,
if I get closer to the webcam and you see my face, you see my image expanding in your retina.
Now, if I move away, you see my image shrinking in your retina. So these patterns of expansion
and contraction is what's informative. Put it this way, if plants were not able to generate
these flows of energy, in this case, an optic flow, but could be any energy form whatsoever,
gradients and relative rates of change in this model. So if plants were not able to generate
these energy flows, they couldn't be intelligent. But I don't know of any form of life that doesn't
generate those energy flows. Bacteria swimming up a chemical gradient is generating those energy
flows. Plants growing- And that interaction is the intelligence, right? That's it. That's it.
It's not that they're intelligent and they do that. That is the intelligence,
which then builds into what we think of as human thought.
It's emergent. So it's an emergent phenomena out of the interaction itself. So you cannot- That's
what I meant about the cognitive science approach. Yeah, right. Start with the brain.
You cannot try to find what's being stored somewhere in your brain. It's about the
interaction itself. It's always emergent, dynamical. Exactly. This is why I think the
bottom-up is right, the way you're describing it. I think cognition starts with whatever life,
any life that's making its way through any space. I think intelligence and cognition start there,
although they're nothing like what we as humans experience as thought and cognition.
But the problem is that because we are where we are as humans, and we can even think of ourselves
as life at a certain sensory point. And at this sensory point, we have this idea of thought in
this very traditional way where we imagine there's kind of this, it feels like there's something in
our heads where we see images or we hear words or whatever. And so that just in an everyday assumed
sense is what we think is cognition. And then, so that's why a plant couldn't possibly be having
this experience, right? And people don't think about all that, but it results in a violent
reaction when you say plants have intelligence. But it's funny. You see, this violent reaction
because believe it or not, even the Dalai Lama was open to the very possibility of AI
sentience. So that some future AI- I love that you bring that up. Yeah. Isn't that funny that we can
give it to AI, but not plants? Yeah. It's amazing. I mean, I'm not kidding. So the Buddhist monks in
this meeting, they were open to the possibility of a future AI giving rise to the emergence of
sentience, their own form of sentience. And all these Western scientists attending the meeting,
they did agree as well. Nobody dares to say, hey, how could an AI possibly? We don't know.
They remain skeptic in an open sense, like saying, well, we don't know. We'll see what the future
has for us. We'll see in 10, 20, 50 years time, future AI, we don't know how sophisticated it's
going to be. And they don't realize that it is meaningless to me because that sophistication
is sophistication that only has to do with algorithms. Intelligence is flesh and bone.
It has to do with biology, not with following a recipe book. So it's not about the algorithm.
It's about the implementation. I couldn't agree more. I guess what I was trying to say is since
most of us began in that place, it feels linear. So when we say bottom up, the way it's heard is
that there's a plant and then it evolves into a human. And I don't actually think of it like
that. And I don't think you do either. I think it was more as nested. There's all kind of many
different kinds of possible intelligences as life. But it starts from the very beginning in terms of
the bottom of whatever you want to define as the first kind of life probably, but not in this form.
I guess even the actual way we visualize the tree of life is distorted. Because evolution,
we see it as if any species, animal or non-animal, we see it as an impoverished
stage, as if they hadn't reached their goal in evolutionary terms, as if they were impoverished
versions compared to us. We are at the pinnacle. And this is the Aristotelian approach.
That's that linear thing. That's why top down, bottom up. I think we even have to leave that in
a way because people then lock into that. It's not like that. It's not like that. It's not that
there's a plant to an AI. And that's why the AI seems like it would be more easy to understand
because it's built in that line so that it comes after us. And we don't know how it will happen,
but at least it's like sharing all these kinds of things that we associate. It's a confusion.
It's a confusion for me that I think it helps. I don't know what to think of affordances. If you
think of an embodied thing like a plant or an insect or an animal or a human, then there's a
kind of trail or a path of affordances that reflect only that body. Especially if that's
what an affordance is. But when you think of an AI or any kind of tool or machine, the affordance
is always to whatever's using it. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. No, no, definitely. So putting the
example again, going back to the robots, that's a vicarious exploration of Mars, right? So we want
to see Mars through the rover's eyes. And we don't get it that that's in principle impossible
because the possibilities of interaction being perceived, the affordances being perceived,
relate to the body scale of interaction. So what you are able to do as a rover on wheels,
the type of interactions you can engage in because of the body plan that you have and
the scale of interaction allows you to see one thing and not other things. So we speak of this
room as if it was the room in which we can all inhabit like you or an ant or a giraffe or an
elephant or a plant. As if the room, no, no, it's a different room for every single organism.
Absolutely, yeah. In semiotics, we know that. That's biosemiotics. It's meaning-making.
And there's plenty of experiments using our tools, our AI, such that we understand that a bee
has a different phenomenology than a fox. We cannot translate from one to the other.
It's just a nice translation. You can understand that they're
dealing with the regularities with a pattern that's similar, but it doesn't mean the body
is similar or the experience is similar. That's why there's something about the regularities.
We are all dealing with the regularities of our environment with a similar pattern, but the way
we, what those regularities are in specific and what the body is in specific and what the
environment is all goes into is kind of whatever this is we're trying to assess, I guess.
And you see, remember in the book, I speak in the epilogue. One of the issues that keep me awake at
night is education, because most of it is not about scientific facts. It's not asking, hey,
we need to replicate these experiments or we need to get more robust data. And if we get that data,
more robust data or better experiments or better working hypothesis and test them,
taking them to the bench as if we needed more solid science, which of course we do,
but it's not just about that because if we don't rethink education, we won't be able to
take to the bench alternative hypothesis. So most of this thing we are talking about doesn't
even have to do with plants. It has to do with the overall vision that we have.
And the problem is not about plant biology, even though we have a lot of skeptics in this field,
like these violent responses you were mentioning. In psychology, undergrads
studying psychology for majors, they are never exposed throughout their careers to
Gibsonian ecological psychology, for example. They are only taught cognitive psychology.
And the same happens in cognitive neuroscience. In some course, if you are lucky enough to have
one professor who has an inclination and they might mention Gibson or affordances in two or three
classes, but not asking your curriculum, academically speaking, is not envisaging
the academic curriculum as trying to walk you through all those alternatives. So even when you
are thinking, hey, we are doing the best possible science we can, all the alternative hypothesis
that you are able to envisage belong to the same problem space. And thereby you are making
inferences to the best explanation by discarding some alternative hypothesis and landing on others
in this narrow position in which you are. Yeah, sure. I mean, that's a good way to test your
hypothesis. But there is all this region of logical space that you have not navigated
because you cannot simply, don't even think that it exists. And that doesn't have to do with the
scientific method. It has to do with education. Yeah. And actually, I see this as very much
connected to what you are opening with in terms of rethinking intelligence and the way it's
example of it is plants in a way. Because in the same way we were talking about it,
it's not linear and there is not only one path. If you are going to explore a landscape
or a space, depending on your body and depending where you are and depending what tools you have
and depending on all these things, it's going to be different how you explore and get to whatever
the goal is, even if it's the same goal. But in science, we think there can only be one way.
If you find the way, that's the way. It's very hard for us to hold the nestedness in the same way
I think that it's hard for us to hold that there's different kinds of intelligences, that plants can
be intelligent in a way that's different than humans, but it's nevertheless a similar pattern.
Do you know what I mean? Yeah, definitely. Yeah. We put it all under as if it belonged to the same,
in one basket. Well, even when you are critical about plant intelligence, those skeptics,
even when they criticize the very idea of plant intelligence, they miss it completely by discussing
plant intelligence as if all plants share one form of intelligence. Right. I love that you bring that
up in the book that you can't speak of all plants. You have to look at each individual.
So when people say, are plants intelligent? If I ask someone, are plants intelligent?
Intelligent, they would go yes or no. But very few people ask, which plant are we talking about?
So if I ask, are animals intelligent? Everyone would say, who do you have in mind? A dolphin,
a termite. I mean, who are you talking about? Before answering, a dolphin, oh wow, an elephant,
a mosquito. But in plants, we don't even picture the idea that different plants might exhibit
different smarts. And even someone who would say, yes, animals are intelligent, will then say, well,
a dolphin would be intelligent in a different way than a bee, and so forth. But plants, so you see,
when a plant physiologist criticizes the very idea of plant intelligence by simply saying,
physiology explains it all, like photosynthesis or this or that, that's the best proof,
the best way to show that they are not getting at the heart of the question. Because who cares if
first, some of them cannot do photosynthesis. Some of them don't have chlorophyll, parasites,
and they have to suck up sugars from host trees or whatever. And so any example you provide,
there will be counterexamples. But in the end, it's about, hey, what are your problems? Your
problems, the ones you have to deal with. Yeah, what's your goal? What's your challenge?
Not just the different species, but the different individuals belonging to the same species.
I mean, remember in plant sapiens, I speak of domesticated versus wild plants, right?
Yeah, that's wonderful. Do you need to oil your machinery to get all your smarts at their best,
because there is no agriculture. Nobody's going to be there looking after you.
So it's wonderful the way you began the book, too. I think this speaks to this,
the Delphic kind of conversion moment. If you want to tell it, you can or not,
people can just read it. But there's this kind of know thyself in Delphi. And I was recently there
maybe like a year ago, so I could imagine it very well when I was reading it. And yeah, you talk
about, I think you have this wonderful phrase of thinking into other organisms or the experiences
of other organisms, thinking into that. And in a way, I feel like even with what you're talking
about with education now and this slowing down and what we were talking about with Darwin and his
bed, not bread, Darwin in his bed watching the vines, there's some kind of way in which
we've arrived at a moment ecologically where we have to maybe observe in a different way and
rethink what a self is in terms of knowing self, what that means, rethinking what intelligence is.
I mean, I feel like you're bringing that up and starting us in that place.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean, remember, I mean, this is not a spoiler because in the
preface, I use the expression like navel gazing, right? Yeah, right. So we're navel gazing and
we need to rethink everything, you know, root and branch, like, like, get started from square one,
because we are just not getting it even even. So to me, look, sometimes I'm even more worried
about those who think they are sensitive enough or they already appreciate plant life than about
those that don't, because the skeptics can be skeptical and you know why and it's just a matter
of, you know, as we said, of education, whatever. But sometimes the ones who already think they do
appreciate plant life and they are, you know, they might be doing it for the wrong reasons.
And that's more difficult to identify because they already think they are on the same page.
So that observation isn't happening, actually. It's a similar, like you've latched into the linear
story and you just kind of go without. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, already. Yeah, that's it. That's it.
So you don't get to see the hey, I started wrong for it, right? So to me, the example is I think
of environmental studies, right? So many people who are very sensible, you know, to all the
climate crisis, all the mess we are creating and everything. And they speak, they still speak of
plants as resources. And then we speak of, you know. I love that part of the book too, the way
you show that way of thinking of it. Yeah. So even then, so know yourself. Are you sure you
know yourself? So we should be rethinking ourselves the way we think we appreciate plants,
which might be for the wrong reasons. Yeah, and the way we just assume what they are when
we're walking around and being in the world with them. That's it. So is it possible? There's
something wonderful about that, by the way, which your book also does. It opens up something for you
too, if you take the moment to do that, I would say. Your life expands in a nice way. Well, I'm
glad you say that. I mean, I hope it does help in that sense as well. I mean. I think so. You see
the world as more alive as it is. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So to me, I would like to think, you know,
this is a work in progress as in myself. So every day I need to remind myself, hey Paco,
hold on a sec. When you are encountering or walking through my garden, whatever,
or going for a stroll in the forest, you name it. Can you truly appreciate that tree or that
plant you are walking by or encountering in itself, for itself, detached from your needs?
Can we truly care for them, truly forgetting about our needs? Because even when you are into
environmental science and concern and all this, it looks to me that we are not truly getting there.
Like we value them, but in our heart of hearts, we value them because, oh shit, we need oxygen,
we need textile, we need food, we need them. And I think that we should rethink it all.
We should not care for them because we need them. We should care. I mean, think about it.
How do you mean? Do you mean to say that if we didn't need them, we shouldn't care for them?
I mean, imagine we managed to get our oxygen, textile, some other way. Does it mean then that
we can't, you know, forget, just, I don't care about them anymore because they are not resources
that I need? No, they've got to have their intrinsic value. And ethically speaking,
morally speaking, caring for them, it has got to do with what they are in themselves and for
themselves, not because of the way I need them. And I think we are far from being there.
I think this gets at this love, you know, word, which we'll come back to, but it's wonderful you
say that because just a few days, not a few days, a few months ago, I guess, I asked my husband who's
working with plants or with trees specifically, actually, like, what if they did come up with
some way to have some kind of, or Erzot's tree that you could put in cities, because he works
in urban planning, that you could put in cities and do the job of trees, like, something would be
really missing there. And just to try to connect these threads a little bit, because your book,
I think it's much bigger than even plant cognition, which is already a big thing,
but in these ways we're talking about. But there's something in this about, like,
we've talked about Gibson a lot, and some quote I like about him was trying to get past this
way of thinking of subjective or objective, or thinking of I and them, human and plant,
like, this beyond dichotomy, which is a theme of mine, and that's what I love about his writing
in a way. And I feel like it's what I, one of the things I love about what you're doing with the book
too, and this know thyself, and it's, like, there's, it's, we're seeing ourselves in a way,
I mean, not to get too mystical, but if we stop and see the plants differently, we're also seeing
our own potential and capacity differently. And in a weird way, you bring it up in the book of how
the plants are kind of using us too. And, like, how do we want to be used? And there's this kind of,
you know, ecological interaction that we can really change the potential of what's possible
for us too, in this slowdown and change. Oh, I see, I see. Definitely, definitely. Well,
that's a great way to put it. Thanks. Yeah. One thing we keep forgetting is that even when we
put it in an evolutionary context, is that we forget that there is nothing as evolution as such.
I mean, there is only coevolution. Nothing evolves without somebody else coevolving.
So everything is coevolution. So when you think of a flower and a pollinator,
sometimes we put the focus, the emphasis, the spotlight onto the pollinator, because we might
be interested in understanding how the pollinator, you know, tracks the scent or lands on the petals
or whatever it does. That reminds me of in the book, you talk about the bee and the orchid,
right? The bees using the orchids and that's beautiful. So it goes both ways. But funnily
enough, so there are like two hurdles. One is shift from evolution to coevolution.
There is no evolution as such. Every single form of evolution is coevolution. There are always
more than one actor. This is an arm race, right? So pollinator flowers. So this is an arm race and
you are getting here because I got here because you, and then you understand how everything is
flourishing. The pollinator's capacity is to navigate the flowers and the flowers to attract
the pollinators, to lure them to all the things that this is always a pattern of coevolution.
But the second part of it, it's that we, in this dichotomy frame of mind that we have,
we can't help it, these binary decisions and everything. We keep thinking that, hey,
we are, you know, they are the actors and we forget that we are, but just one more actor.
So engage likewise in these patterns of coevolution. So the very same way that
flowers and pollinators coevolved, agriculture, when we are selecting plants, phenotypes through,
you know, the selection we've been doing for a few thousand years,
we don't realize that we are the pollinators. And if so, we are also being selected.
And if so, if everything is coevolving, it is true what you said, that we might see
in which ways we might dynamically find other trajectories from the perspective
of we being just one more actor and not the master overlooking its garden.
Exactly. That's that thing that it's so hard to articulate that I feel like we're all trying to
articulate in a new way, which is like, or that your book is, when you say we need to rethink
intelligence, it has to do with this. And it's what I was trying to bring up with the scales and
that it's not an either or, that it's not just one or the other, that in fact, as you were talking,
I was thinking, yeah, so if you're going to assess it from the point of view of the bee,
it's going to look this way. If you're going to assess it from the point of view of the orchid,
it's going to look this way. If you're going to assess it from the point of view of the human,
it's going to look this way. And those are just assessments. We forget that. Those are just
measurements, right? The process itself, the ecological, the ecological is never stop. It's
ongoing and it's all of it. And it's all mutually kind of co-determining, depending on where you
want to look, all the potentials and what is to come. It's like the real thing unfolds in real
time and you cannot press pause. And this is like, you run the film of evolution. And if you press
pause by definition, you are going to miss 99% of what's going on. You're just taking snapshots.
It's like what you were saying with the videos, right? It's wonderful to watch the video of the
plant. But as you point out in the book, just because we've built that on our human kind of
cognition, you miss a lot. You have to actually... Definitely. So the fact this happens in science,
the fact that there are cognitive and subjective biases, some people think that they have this
romantic idealized version of science and they think, no, no, science can be truly objective.
And nobody believes that nowadays, right? We are aware of our subjective biases,
where our cognitive biases, our confirmation biases. I mean, science is done by humans
with their hormones, with everything we are. So science is just the product of human activity,
like any other product, any other thing we do, right? So with its virtues and its miseries,
so this means that it's not about finding the way to do away with those biases. It's about
being aware and making them explicit. So I can take a snapshot and study the pollinator.
I just need to remind to myself that this is just a snapshot from the point of view of putting the
focus on the pollinator. And I need just simply to remind to myself, this is just a slide.
I'm slicing reality. I'm cutting across and just getting a few dimensions. And then you need to
remember, remind yourself that this belongs to an n-dimensional hypercube. And you're slicing.
In the book, you bring up the famous Nagel article or essay or piece, what does it like to
be about? And in a way, this is kind of what we're talking about too. And it relates to,
in one way, why technology is good, because there's no objective in the sense of the opposite of
subjective that there's some kind of, but there are inner subjective scientific practices that
are robust and that we do make these assessments and we do try to get somewhere. And in a way,
with our telescopes, our microscopes and you recording the plants, it's all a way for us to
at least get a little bit better idea of how to become a plan or become, it's not that we ever
will totally, but we are in a way in this slowing down and rethinking and know thyself,
we're trying to see from different perspectives or invent ways, even books or music or movies
are doing that in a sense, but science is doing it in a very rigorous sense.
Yeah, no, definitely. Look, I mean, recently I was reading Ed Young's An Immense World.
The best seller. I mean, many people watching this.
About the animals and all their different sensory capabilities.
Yeah, it's an amazing book. And if you, I mean, this is a good start. I mean, just a suggestion
for listeners, for watchers, right? They are watching this. If you take an immense world,
Ed Young's book and plant sapiens and literally apply Ed Young's recipe moving out of the animal
kingdom, it explodes exponentially. So the mental gymnastics you need to do to understand
what Ed Young's is asking you to do, like to put yourself in the shoes of what is it like to be a
bat? What does he like to be an elephant? What does he like to be a snake? What does he like to be?
And then to understand, hey, your sensory channels are not the ones that clear cut,
that we have our five senses, blah, blah, blah. Things are way more complicated. Some animals,
you wouldn't believe they would have the snake with their tongue, with having a stereo sense of
smell. And then you get to see all the details of different animals doing their own things and in
ways that you would never imagine. And the way you were saying, yeah, we can use all this,
we can make an effort and a leap of imagination, scientifically informed,
to put yourself in the shoes of all these life forms, right? So Ed Young, he even mentions
what is it like to be a bat niggles later in the preface.
It's a wonderful question.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And in plant sapiens, this is the title of one chapter. What is it
like to be a bat? What I really love that you present, though, is because people kind of stop
sometimes with asking the question and sometimes it's assumed, well, we'll never know what it's
like to be a bat. But two very interesting things. First, that you studied with Paul
Churchill and that's very interesting. How in the world did that happen? I was kind of shocked
by his take on it and how, I mean, just having read his other philosophy, but maybe if you feel
like it, you could say a little bit about this moment of Paul Churchill and how you ended up
there and this Fahrenheit Celsius thing that he... Yeah, definitely, definitely. So to me,
I mean, Paul Churchill, both Paul and Pat Churchill, I mean, at the time that was in the
late 90s. And so I was on a Fulbright scholarship. And so it took a year to write up my thesis
at San Diego UCSD. So I was doing my PhD in Glasgow. So that was this year to write it out.
Okay, because you were also with Andy Clark around this time. So yeah, there was a lot of
kind of wonderful geography. Yeah, there was a lot of going on stuff and I was lucky enough to
be able to be there. So in the case of San Diego, it was in the 90s. It was like the time was the
mecca of artificial neural networks and stuff. And Pat and Paul Churchill were making all the
progress in neural computational perspective in philosophy and all this stuff. But I do recall
this master course Paul was teaching at the moment and I attended. This idea of truly making the
effort as he was recounting the story of how he moving from Canada, he was changing from Fahrenheit
to Celsius or the other way around. And having to make all this effort to change
metrics and how you end up interiorizing it. So it becomes your new native language
as you become fluent into thinking Celsius or thinking Fahrenheit.
If you think through those assumptions in a way, you don't have to think about it.
Yeah, that's it. That's it. You filter the way through the pair of glasses you wear and then
you see the world through. But the ones you carry with you from birth, they're like your mother
language and your mother metrics. Those are so rooted that you forget that once upon a time,
you had to learn those. It's as if they came with you from birth. And no, of course they don't,
right? That means that if we are patient and stubborn enough, which Paul was, you can say,
hey, I'm going to make the extra, extra, extra effort to learn a new language as if it was my
new native language, my new mother tongue, right? And you're going to stretch this not just from
Celsius to Fahrenheit or vice versa, but to any other system of coordinates that you can translate
into moving from one space to another, right? And then you can go get to more bizarre places,
not just temperature units, but moving kinetic energy. So you can start thinking in native
speaker in Jules if you are talking about energy or whatever. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He kind of goes
down to if you start to try to think like the electron or something. Yeah, yeah. So now Paul
Churchland, he's a very original thinker. And I found a lot of food for thought in brainstorming
and having the, you know, at the time to be, I was in my twenties to me was like,
amazing that you were around those minds. To get his, to pick his brains and all that stuff, right?
But with that being said, there is a twist and it's what I think they didn't go far enough.
And the Churchlands, they were doing something great at the time, which was questioning this
language like or this for Dorian frame of mind, right? And the philosophy of psychology and the
philosophy of science, like science and psychology doesn't have to do with, you know, reasoning and
logic following rules and linguistic formatting. And they were exploiting this vectorial space,
right? Like the vectorial space of the weight matrix of a neural network, an artificial neural
network. If you have a matrix with all the values of all the synapses, the connections, the strengths,
right? Then they were using artificial neural networks as their way of modeling the human mind
and the mind of a scientist. That's why he was able to apply those insights from connectionism,
from neural network theory to the philosophy of mind and to the philosophy of science.
So that was at the time to me revolutionary, but afterwards I realized that there was something
missing here and is that they were just changing one format for another. So they were moving from
a linguistic format to a vectorial format. So when people think that their views were very
radical, they were not that radical. They were changing one representational language for another,
still representational language. So they were still into representationalism and computationalism.
They were simply saying, hey, computations and representations are neither linguistic or
pictorial or based on good old fashioned AI. We have vectorial vectors and we have the space
provided by the way we are approximating a function in a neural network. But it was still
computational. It was neuro computational. Yeah, that's a good way to explain it. I think
it's the eliminativist kind of side. In a weird way, you could almost look at it if you wanted
to open it up in the way that you could think of that as ecological as smushing it together,
but then you need the ecological. That would be another talk. But what I like about what you do
in the book and what you just said there, the way you laid it out with the vectors is actually,
I can see how you and your young 20s had a kind of revelation because in a way they're saying what
we've been saying. They're showing that there's multiple paths to a similar goal and that you can
actually assess them with science and maths and kind of even think of them computationally,
which is very helpful if we understand that it's just one assessment in the way we were
talking about. That's right. That's right. Yeah. So it's wonderful in the book that you present it
like that because then I started thinking, gosh, even talking about how do we start to understand
thinking through the experience of a plant or animal or insect. We already do it when we learn
a new language, for example, or this Fahrenheit Celsius kind of opened up to me thinking, well,
we actually can think through different kinds of experiences. It's what we do when we read a good
book. And so I guess it's wonderful that you made that connection and to go a little bit farther now
as we end and to come to this love. And you do talk about plants and emotions. And for those who
have violent reactions to plant cognition, plant emotion is even more, I guess. Absolutely. Yeah,
definitely. Definitely. Yeah. I mean, you have the intelligence. It's a hard pill to swallow.
Then you have sentence. How do you mean? I mean, having their own subjective experiences.
You know, even when I say legumes go to bed. Yeah. Plants can sleep and wake. That is proven,
actually. Yeah. Yeah. You can anesthetize plants. This is incredible. Yeah. Yeah. So, but think
about it. I mean, the same way we spoke of the circadian clocks and what unites as only tree of
life. This is a way, way to end, I think, because here is one master key. Think of melatonin,
right? So melatonin, we know it's being secreted by the pineal gland. We know what it does in
mammal. And you know what happened in the nineties when it was first seen, observed in plants,
95, 1995. So three, four decades after it was identified in mammals. Scientists, plant
physiologists, they couldn't see it. Yeah. It couldn't possibly be true, even though it was
exactly the same thing. The same molecule. The same molecule. They couldn't see it because
the frame of mind, this is a great example of the theory of observation. Yeah. So plants are not
supposed to have it. Thereby, what I'm seeing is not melatonin. Can't possibly be that. You don't.
But what's funny, beyond the sociology of science and how long it took for, it took like eight,
10 more years for the society of plant physiology to acknowledge it and give it a name. They added
the prefix phyto, no? So that it seems like it's something different, but it's the same thing,
right? The same thing. It's exactly the same thing. The same thing. But phyto, the prefix,
yes, because our melatonin is the good stuff. Theirs is phyto melatonin, right? But that's not,
the more interesting part of it is that when you see legumes folding their leaves at night,
so the legumes, they go like this. They fold their leaves on the sunsets and then they
unfolding in the morning prior to the sun setting. So it's anticipatory folding. So it's circadian
based. So they fold them prior to the sun setting. They unfold them prior to the sun rising in the
morning, right? And that's an amazing pattern. But what we don't see is that they are actually
the temporal, the dynamical profile of the concentration. It peaks with sunset and then
it has a second peak in the middle of the night and make the worse off during the day. So the
very same thing as in mammals. Yeah, it's this nervous system kind of. Yeah. So you can go to
the kitchen cabinet and pick a melatonin synthetic tablet and take a pill to ease yourself to sleep
one night because you're stressed wherever you've been on your phone for too long. So we know that
melatonin puts us back in sync, right? And then when you see plants with the same dynamical profile,
the same concentration levels, the same wearing off during the day
and the leaves folding and unfolding, we resist the idea of them
going to bed sleeping. And we know Paco's got to be speaking metaphorically.
How do you mean metaphorically? This is the same idea of action potentials. You don't need neurons
to fire action potentials. Plant cells fire action potentials. Doesn't need to be neuronal tissue,
right? So what unites us all is already there. So sentience, love, right? So when you spoke of
sentience of subjective experiences, of course, the mistake is to anthropomorphize plants and
think, hey, if they experience the world, they've got to somehow experience it the way I do. I mean,
for God's sake, stop, get rid of the gold standard and yourself. Imagine we don't inhabit planet
Earth. So this is a good mental exercise. Imagine we travel back in time before humans or animals
existed, mammals, and you see plants. Imagine you are just a Martian scientist landing on this Earth
a few million years ago. You cannot use homo sapiens as the gold standard because we haven't
evolved yet. So how would you study what that plant folding its leaves is doing and the
melatonin? And so how would you study that without using yourself for the sake of comparing,
for comparison purposes? That's the challenge, intellectually speaking. Wouldn't you arrive to
the conclusion that they are taking a nap, that they are taking a break, that life needs to rest?
Any form of life whatsoever needs to rest. And it's back to the regularities and what we
sort of started with the robot and what we can learn from plants. And if we can get out of that
human stance, I think it's also about this whole trying to think from different perspectives.
If we can get out of that human stance and do that thought experiment like you just explained, then
it actually opens up a lot. It tells us a lot about what intelligence is, what cognition could be,
because this plan and the space that you just described, it's going through its encounter.
That's its movement, I would say. It's moving from A to B without leaving A, but it's movement.
And so it's developing something like melatonin to do that. And this is an intelligent system, but
it doesn't look anything like humans, but then the patterns can be connected. So you open up this
nested connection. But what I think is even more important about that and what you say in your
book is actually then you have to give up on anthropomorphizing the plant.
Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the mistake. I think they are
targeting the wrong... The type of straw man they are fighting against is not the position.
I mean, I usually say sort of in jest, I say, hey, if I was like in your food,
if I was in your shoes thinking that I'm thinking like this, like plants, like human-like,
of course I would go nuts as you do. But look, that's not what I'm defending. Get rid of
that comparison by default. It is you, the one who is anthropomorphizing them, and that's why
you are going nuts. I would go nuts as well. Just get rid of that. That's not part of my picture.
That's not projecting you yourself, not me. And I think that that's the hard work you're
doing is trying to get people to slow down and realize that you're not saying what they've
assumed that you're saying. Because that's the hard work of... And at some point it'll become
obvious, right? But people will start to think they won't react in that violent way when they
hear it in the same way that some people would have reacted the same way with animal intelligence
at some point. But now because we've connected to movement, the Dalai Lama can assume that.
But it just takes time and it takes people kind of putting themselves out there and being
criticized. And again, education. That's why... And education in the way that you describe at
the end of the book. The new generation. I mean, this is not about these guys that they might
retire and never get it. It's the new generations, the people who are now in primary
school and secondary school, those are the ones that need to understand it in this other way.
Yeah. And if they do, it opens up a better, and I would think better, but we don't have to say
better, but another way of being as the world, which we really need right now.
A little bit more humility. Yeah, humility and understanding
self ecologically. Absolutely. Absolutely. Just to kind of end though, I think one thing
that is hard for people who do... So there's the people who react violently against the
anthropomorphizing, but then there's also a lot of people who want that. And that's part of the
reaction of why some people in science are so violent against it, because some people want to
believe that plants are speaking to them in a kind of way. And of course, everything is speaking to
everything. But I think what they don't want to give up about that is that there's something
quite awe-inspiring and wonderful when you do start to communicate with plants. And it's hard
to talk about that. And so it becomes like a cartoon version of it. What I say in the book,
remember, they say at some point that the magic is already within the science.
Absolutely. That's what I wanted. I wanted to bring that up because you bring that up in the
book. And that's a very important point. We're not giving up anything. It's becoming more wondrous.
It's just... Absolutely. So science, if it's not reductionist or mechanistic,
already has the resources to feel the awe, the wonder. And this kind of space of
also understanding that you're looking at yourself in a way when you're looking at the plant,
or the plant's looking at itself through you or something, it becomes less mystical because
it's kind of what we do with science. You brought up Patricia Churchland and that made
me think of dopamine. And we didn't have time to talk about it, but plants also have dopamine
and GABA and these kinds of these things. Many, many, many neurotransmitters. Emotion.
Yeah. Well, think about it. No, it's funny, actually. I'm glad you brought this before we end
because some of our critics have said, look, glutamate or GABA
that we know plants have it, it's not a neurotransmitter. It's just a metabolic
byproduct, secondary metabolite. Why? And you know what their answer is? Because
this is in print. So this has been published. I mean, this is what they said. They said,
this cannot be a neurotransmitter in plants because the Wikipedia, they went to the Wikipedia says
that neurotransmitters relate to the idea of a synapse. So if there is not a synaptic bridge,
a synapse in between neurons, you cannot have a neurotransmitter. So think about it.
Instead, this is a very important, this is a very good point about education. So in plants,
you have examples where glutamate triggers a calcium wave that spreads all over a plant
and triggers a systemic response to herbivores. Right. So it's a signaling, it is playing a
signaling role, systemic signaling. Right. So what a better example of glutamate as playing the role
of a neurotransmitter than this signaling role. Right. So they stick to the definition on grounds
that have to do with looking it up the dictionary or at the Wikipedia. And instead of saying, hey,
in light of the evidence of this systemic signaling responses in plants that we find related
to glutamate or GABA, oh, let's revise our definition of neurotransmitter. In plants,
it does need to relate to the synapse because of course, implants are no synapses. So instead of
saying, hey, we need to enlarge the picture and redefine what we mean by neurotransmitter to make
it more encompassing, to bring in all these non-neural guys, which still exhibit systemic
signaling responses. So instead of saying that, they ignore that evidence and say, no, no, they
cannot possibly have it. It's just a metabolite. And we know GABA is not just a metabolite.
The literature is there, but they want to turn a blind eye on grounds that try to stick to our
privileged status of animals. No, no, this is an animal thing, like with melatonin. No synapse,
no neurotransmission. End of the story. Instead of thinking, wow, I mean, this is systemic signaling,
oh, let's enlarge the picture. Let's redefine those terms because the history of science
is the history of revising. You cannot do science without revising. We would be stuck with Ptolemaeo
thinking that everything revolves around the earth if we were not revising.
Yeah, absolutely. You unpack it really well in the book. And a lot of it seems to me to be
getting stuck on, again, that you need to have a brain and the intelligence is kind of this one
thing and the linear stuff, rather than understanding it could come in many different ways and how
fascinating it is that not only are their patterns shared, but there are even chemicals that are
exactly the same chemical, right? To me, once you open up this and let it be a scaled kind of
intelligence where it's not just like a plant needs to have a brain or there's some chain
of going to the brain or whatever, it's very hard, but you're doing it in your book opening
the space. But then it becomes, actually, I could see those people who are criticizing it could
actually improve their own research in a way, in the same way that robotics can be improved
by plant intelligence. It gives you another way of thinking about it.
Yeah, definitely, definitely. So this is not against anyone. This is against ignorance.
Yeah, or just like opening up the space, right? And the way that you talk about in the education
part, which is learning a new way of thinking, I think, in the same way that you're presenting
at the beginning. And we need adversarial collaboration. So it's good to have the skeptics
on board. But we against them or them against us, this is all of us teaming up together against
ignorance. That's what propels science revising without apology. You don't need to apologize for
noticing or discovering or unearthing that things were not the way we thought.
Sorry, the earth is not at the center of anywhere. I mean, we are just, you know, modesty, humility.
Exactly. And this is a very hard question, but I did find myself thinking about it because this
is called love and philosophy. And so it's interesting the way we can think about,
you do talk about emotions and plants in a way, and in a very non dramatic, easy to access
understanding of it in the book, I'll just leave it to people. But it kind of became, I don't know
how to think about love and plants. It's hard. Is it like, I mean, I could think of it in a very
mystical way of just the plan and the sunlight are in love with each other. And that's that
process in a way, or I could think of it as my love the way that it the way that I in relation
with the plant or the, you know, it's relational somehow. But I don't know, does it? What do you
think? Can this word even be brought up or? I wouldn't have any problem with that. Again,
if we if we unpack it in a way that is not, you know, doing a disservice,
as in when we say plants go to bed, sleep tight, they are not, of course, you know,
you don't go. No, they're not taking each other into little beds. But if you put in terms of
energy flows, the idea of, you know, good vibe, you know, being in good terms with your surroundings,
and, you know, in terms of kind of symbiosis or something, and energy, and, you know,
if you think of all the sensory channels in plants, and the parameter space that the stuff
they are able to sense and respond to, you know, electromagnetic fields, king, non-king,
parental relations. So all the things they go through in their meaning making,
of course, part of the story has got to do with a good vibe, good, hey, this is good news to me,
I feel comfy, I feel bad, I feel good about it. So this is, oh, this is good. This is good. I mean,
that's something that shouldn't be at odds, because it boils down to biochemistry.
And in the same way that you are identifying these hormones on these neurotransmitters. So
love speaks the language of molecules. What's wrong with that? Again, you don't miss anything
by speaking that language. You reveal the magic in the science itself. Chemically speaking,
plants speak an amazing language of chemicals, you know, volatiles, you know, compounds,
airborne compounds, bringing news, sharing news. I mean, they need each other, they need other plants,
king and non-king, other organisms belonging to different kingdoms. How come they are not gonna,
you know, we cannot trade in? So as long as we don't personify it in human terms,
why not? I mean, it's part of what makes the world go round, right?
Yeah, yeah. And I think that in the same way you were talking about, when we think about the
synopsis and all of this, like, we really have to put it in a kind of lineage always, that if we're
talking about this kind of human cognition, then yes, we're thinking about brains and synopsis, or
if we're talking about plants, it's a different lineage. And you have to look at the whole thing
and then not smush them together. And why wouldn't that also be true for something like thinking about
what love might be? Absolutely, absolutely. So I think that things are easier if we remove ourselves
from the picture. Then things get way easier, like, you know. Yeah. But to put you right back
in the picture for the last question, the very last question is, you've been putting a lot of
your life into this. People criticize it. People also love it. But well, there's a lot of criticism,
but there's also a lot of success. Yeah. But I do wonder, has it brought some kind of love into
your life? I mean, do you ever have that kind of a feeling when you are in your garden or with your
work? Well, definitely, definitely. Look, for one thing, it's true, this Darwinian idea of slowing
down. I mean, when I started, look, right here, this attic, let's see if you can see this right
there. That looks like nice wood. Takes me to the attic. Well, that's where I started time-lapsing
vines prior to starting setting up the lab on campus, right? So that was when I started as
a sort of amateur playing Darwin, so to speak. Literally, actually. Continuing Darwin. Well,
I brought all my Darwin to the attic. It's still there, all Darwin, all botany books. And I was
playing there for the sake of it, for the sake of, you know, joy, having fun, literally.
And I did that, this exercise of stop time-lapsing and watch them to the naked eye.
And you can't imagine how rewarding that was. Because I would sit on stool for a few hours,
some people are going to think I'm crazy, but they are faster than you can think of. I mean,
when we say they are so slow, well, in a sense they are, but they are way faster than
we think. So if you take a climbing beam, Faseolus vulgaris, and you sit and watch it revolve,
it goes, you know, a whole circle, whole revolution in less than an hour, 50 minutes,
an hour. I mean, people watch a film for two hours. And if they like the film, time flies.
Well, time flew for me watching the climbing beam. And really, every time I think about it,
I feel that, you know, I felt something that I knew I wasn't getting from the time-lapse
observations. I knew that the animation, the acceleration through time-lapse,
assembling the footage, was in a sense an artifact. And I knew that to the naked eye,
I was getting the real thing. That took me in my own garden. I live in the outskirts in the
house with an orchard, so I have my orange trees or my lemon, olive trees, or like Mediterranean
orchard. And now I have these weeds, the ones that you would pluck and pluck and pluck.
Now I let them do their job. And I have actually even assembled some time-lapse
in my orchard, and I time-lapse them. So I've been time-lapsing my weeds. Now I have this weed
that has grown huge and is, you know, doing its mess on the olive tree. And I'm getting this
perspective of 20, because I have been living here for the last 24 years. So 24 years is a decent
amount of time to give you some perspective in terms of how the orchard has been growing and
which trees have been, you know, having to compete for space with others who has been doing what.
So for example, my cacti, Mediterranean weather. So cacti are a big thing. I love cacti.
So at the beginning, you know, when you get started, you want to push them to give them a little
little help, extra help, right, to your plants, you know, when you're gardening. Oh, you know,
like, and then I realized, you know, I planted like, you know, like, like 80 different cacti,
right, 80 different species, 20, 20 plus years ago. And I didn't do anything to them.
Nothing. So summer came, forties, four weeks, months, hell. I couldn't water them.
I wouldn't do anything to them. Most of them died.
But those that survived, you wouldn't believe it, the size they have. I have, some of them are
taller than the olive trees. I have never done anything to them. So we are obsessed with,
when we think of caring about our plants, we can help to anthropomorphize our care and think that
the pruning, we have to prune them, we have to add nutrients, we have to water them, we have to
provide, you know, and, and we don't realize that we are not that special. And that to me was a
message of plant sapiens to realize that we are not that special. We need them, but they don't need
us. In fact, they do way better when we don't care about them. So when you look at my plants
in my orchard, the ones that are doing great are the ones that were meant to do great,
because they don't need to be spoiled by me.
And I get joy getting to your question. I get joy out of realizing how unnecessary I am to them.
We are not that important.
That's very beautiful. It actually opens up your book in a new way to slowing down and
almost plant bathing or plant being, just being with them and not trying to be
important to them. It's a whole other kind of practice.
Fellow travelers, not masters.
Yeah, it's a beautiful stance to try to take. And thanks for doing it. Thanks for the book.
Thanks for talking with me and staying with us.
No, thank you. I really enjoyed the conversation. Thank you for your interest
and for doing this and everything.
Yeah, it was great.
