They were different ways to evaluate what you did, and you felt no less affirmed or achieved
because these worlds had a certain sort of confidence or they stood for something
that you really wanted to be a part of. Now, because arts in general and literature is a
profession, everything is done to a certain level, but things stand out less. I feel in this new
generation, a great awareness of what is happening now and slight sort of impatience with the
past. I sort of feel where I exist doesn't exist anymore. You really fell into quite a moment
in time. Yes, that's very true. Yeah, entangled a lot of lives. I think about that a lot.
Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. Today, my guest is Daryl Pinkney. I've been
thinking about my New York years a lot recently, and in so doing, I went back and read a book I've
been meaning to read the last couple years, actually, Come Back in September, which is
Daryl's book. I've read all his other books. I've known him for a while. He's an incredible writer.
But the reason I went back to this book was because I was thinking about New York and this time when I
was a young student and trying to be a poet, I guess, and sort of idolized a lot of people from
the New York School of Poets era or the Beats era or what I think of as the New York Review of Books
era, which is Daryl's era, and he was part of it. A lot of the women I was reading, for example,
like Susan Sontag and Elizabeth Hardwick, Daryl was, one might say, best friends with. He met them
when he was a young student at Columbia University and became close to them. And the book is about that
come back in September, so I'll let you read it. But it's this group of people like Jim Jarmusch
and Nan Golden and, of course, Elizabeth Hardwick, Elizabeth Bishop, Barbara Epstein, Robert Lowell.
Daryl's also worked with the playwright Robert Wilson. You'll hear him talk about Lizzie here.
He's talking about Elizabeth Hardwick and Robert is Robert Lowell. These are all sort of famous
writers and poets that a lot of people almost mythologized, I guess, in the early 2000s and
still do now. A really somewhat tragic but also just incredibly intelligent, creative, rather radical
period of time in literature and poetry. And I idolized it back then. We all sort of did,
thinking there was this group of people that we wanted to recreate or be like. So I've just been
thinking of that a bit and that's why I read Daryl's book and I'm so glad I did and got to have this
wonderful conversation with him. And I'd also just by chance watched this film, All the Beauty and the
Bloodshed. Maybe you've seen it about Nan Golden and Daryl appears in there a few times. But in any
case, it sort of comes back to this theme I think of a lot and you probably hear me talk about a lot
about trying to hold the paradox. Because this time period in my life was glorious, really wonderful,
and also really painful and really hard. And in a way, these literary movements are that same feeling
of holding that beauty and that pain. And this film about Nan Golden really expresses it and Daryl
expresses it well in his writing, though almost in spite of himself. But it was healing to talk to him
and to revisit his work because I realized he's already holding the paradox, so to speak, within him
and within his writing are all these streams and rivers from so many places that have inspired me.
That's kind of what we get to by the end is realizing, trying to express to him that I see all these
threads in him and that somehow it's incredibly meaningful. It's a reason for writing, which is why I'm bringing
it up, because even though there's all this pain and challenge in it, and maybe it is mythologized in a way,
there is a real transmission that takes place through literature. When I think back to those years,
which were hard, but also beautiful, literature and poetry really got me through them in a way.
And I know I'm not alone in that experience. A lot of people have felt that way. All of which to say
I'm just sending some gratitude to Daryl and to all of these people, many of whom have now gone,
who wrote and took risks and put themselves out there and made themselves vulnerable. It's not easy to
to write and take chances, and it's no wonder that it can often cause some heartache. But in any case,
I do think it's worth it is the point. And Daryl sometimes says, is it really worth it to write
another book? Do we really need another book? And I think the answer is yes, we do. I'm so glad he
wrote, come back in September, and I hope you'll look at it. Also, Black Deutschland is a really good
book. Another one that was important to me, with all the time I spent in Berlin. I'm rambling on,
and it's fitting because Daryl and I talked a lot before I finally hit the record button. So this just
sort of starts right in the middle of things, but we quickly get to a lot of these themes I've already
brought up. So I'll put links in the show notes to all his books. And okay, here we go.
Why are you less inclined to just let everything go?
I think in some cases or on some issues, it's because I don't find where I'm standing
going. And I don't know if that's a function of age. For instance, I was away during the
Columbia demonstrations, but I was really offended that the administration went to such lengths to
arrest students. That's not what they're supposed to do. And it went with this climate of being
intimidated by a House committee that has no business in how a university governs itself.
They're not answerable to Congress. Congress doesn't fund even large research institutions. So
I thought that was really not upholding the Columbia sort of traditions. I was really
disappointed. At the same time, you can always find at any demonstration, someone who will confirm
whatever the worst aspect of the story you want to give it. It sort of brought me back to the days
of student rhetoric and being overboard. But then Hamilton Hall was my place. Breaking glass didn't
seem to me 1968. It seemed to me rather January 6th. So I felt very kind of alienated from that sort of
tactic, you know, which brought back the days when I was alienated from that sort of tactic.
Yeah, it reminds me of your book. And I actually what you're saying reminds me of I don't it's not
in the book, but I for some reason, or somewhere I remember you saying, or reading or mentioning
that, I don't know if I have this right, but that the way James Baldwin wrote was to just give it all or
throw it all out the window. No, that's not right. It was like to give everything you have. There was some
phrase. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Throw it all over the fence or something. All right. Yeah. Well, you
certainly did. Because I associate that with some other conversation I think we've had about what we
were saying before I started recording about giving it your all or yes, just, you know, saying what I
also feel it's slightly generational. I don't want to be the guy always saying in my day,
or sort of correcting. I mean, people have to make their own mistakes, really. And so just as
you're willing to let the city belong to another generation, in a way, this particular issue,
where it stands now, has taken on a generational character that I wasn't aware of until it happened. And
maybe the way we were brought up with it was also generational, since many, well,
a couple of my closest friends had survivors in their families. And this was the first generation
that, you know, was going to summer camp in Israel, that sort of thing. So you just grew up,
especially where I lived and, you know, what was socially possible.
It sounds like more, you were more careful, though, because, yeah, I heard you saying at
some time you used to be less careful, but actually having read the book, this book,
come back in September, where you're actually a little bit careful in there. I mean,
okay, I mean, first we should say hi, Daryl. It's great to see you.
It's good to see you. Thank you for coming and talking to me today for love and philosophy.
Thank you for digging me up and talking to me again. It's always true.
I love talking to you. You know that. Yeah. Same here. Same here.
And there's actually too much I want to talk to you about. So that's the problem, but
Well, that's fine. It's good we just jumped in.
So do you mean careful in the way of careful from the point of view of now,
or that that guy was careful back then? Well, there's like, it's both ways, both and neither,
because I feel like there was a place maybe where you had to be careful, but you were also
resisting or getting away from that and going to New York, right? Like,
Oh, yes. I mean, that was what that was about.
That was the whole story. But in certain parts of the country,
most parts of the country or certain like you had to sort of be I don't know, you didn't have to be,
but you were fighting it. But I don't know that that tension is what I'm trying to bring up.
One of the things that made New York interesting, it had a rather bad reputation in the rest of
America. It was a place where a lot of people came to save themselves by sort of being themselves.
So the town was full of weirdos. And it was affordable in that way. So it was also much
more of an adventure for a young person who, you know, nice thing about being socially stupid is
that it gives you a fearlessness that you don't really have.
Well, that's the whole youth is wasted on the young thing, right?
But no, no, no, I mean, we did things that, you know, we can't believe we did,
but we did them. Yeah, and then a kind of innocence or belief that
the world was sort of on your side. Mm hmm.
So it's not wasted. It's a bad word to be in a phrase.
No, it's not wasted. So
When did you come to New York exactly? 1972.
So it was 72. Okay. Yeah.
And so, you know, it was very much in the aftermath of 68.
It was some sort of big complex people had about not being as cool as the people from 68.
Some of you and they were sort of figures from that time still very much around.
Mm hmm.
And the thinking of that time was still sort of very much in the air.
It's just that suddenly, probably not so suddenly it wasn't.
And I think it had to do with the draft ending, the war ending.
Yeah. And certainly this odd period that the civil rights movement went into of, you know, being,
trying, what happens after this kind of mass movement? You know, what, what is,
how are the politics of change made part of the system? Mm hmm.
And I guess that happened in the seventies, which was why people disliked Carter so much, because
it wasn't a way a second reconstruction. Mm hmm.
Uh, but I think also importantly, that second wave of feminism really sort of broke through.
And for me, in the form of introducing all this writing, I had no idea about.
Yeah. So that was a big deal.
Because, you know, we were very into the avant garde.
Uh, historically. Which was, at that time, what was it exactly?
Because, you know, was it? Good question.
Yeah. You know, good question. There were several.
And, and they were historical. So it was a kind of model for judging where you were,
or placing yourself or defining what your sort of work would be about.
So when you were in Indiana, before you went to New York, who was it you were dreaming of?
I know Sylvia Plath, right? But when you thought of New York, was there a, what were you thinking
of the beach? Were you thinking of Frank O'Hara already then? Or was it more just the city?
No, I didn't know about Frank O'Hara until I got to New York.
Oh, you didn't? Okay.
No, I didn't. I had never heard of the New York poets.
Okay.
Um, and you know, Plath was just a kind of, you know, uh, probably a real gay thing,
since she was a suicide.
Is that a gay thing? Suicide?
Well, I'm a tragic woman. It's like Judy Garland.
Yeah, the tragic woman. Yeah, that's true. Right. Okay.
Not necessarily suicide, but it's also a girl thing.
I mean, I had a big part of things then.
Okay. I didn't know that.
This kind of early death.
I thought of that reading your book that like that play of illness, death,
life, like that razor edge border.
But, you know, uh, earlier because of the war, it had a different meaning.
Okay.
That, uh, youth was, I mean, here, youth culture was aware of itself and not that aware of how
transitory or trans transitory fleeting is as a category.
Because in America, you know, it goes on forever.
And then one day it's, it's not there anymore.
Yeah.
Um, but you know, there was sort of the rock stars and people like that romantic figures who,
who died, who were sort of sacrifices.
And of course the politics of the time were full of these sacrifices.
Right.
That was kind of the sixties, right?
With everyone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The sixties.
Janis Joplin.
I mean, you could just name so many people that were.
Exactly.
So young.
Yeah.
James Dean.
So that was, that was a big part of it.
But then also in the seventies, you could meet, um, the founders of various avant-garde.
You know, they were still alive and running around New York.
Like who, I mean, did you have somebody in mind?
Cause you ended up being friends with who for me was the avant-garde or for my generation,
right?
Like coming to New York, working in bookshops, whatever, 20 years later, that whole crowd
was.
So I'm trying to think, I mean, we were still obsessed with the beats and Frank O'Hara and
that whole scene too, but I'm just trying to figure out who, if you had someone in mind.
I hadn't been dead that long when I came to New York.
Okay.
And I had David Shapiro and Kenneth Koch as professors.
Oh, wow.
Kenneth Koch was a friend of his and Ashbury was around.
So, and they were certainly thought of themselves as an avant-garde and their connection to
their painting.
David Shapiro was a really wonderful teacher.
Um, uh, one thing he was so close to our age and, you know, he just
was full of things I didn't know, you know, and he would say, uh, let's go.
And, and the next thing, you know, you're at sort of Larry River's studio at a party and
you're holding the ashtray for sort of Warhol, who of course you're not going to speak to.
Yeah.
Just hold the ashtray for him.
But he was very kind of generous with this, yeah.
He was very generous with the idea that New York was this intellectual, uh, adventure.
Uh, and so that, that was a big deal.
And there was a lot happening in music and theater and dance, um, all the time.
Yeah.
Something was going on.
I always liked the city for, um, grubby, urban,
urban, you know, sort of, uh, uh, fantasies, you know, that your kids sitting in Indianapolis,
Indiana and New York seems a bit sort of dangerous and people stay up late and
the kind of people you don't know and you like to, you know, so that was always a big part of it.
For some reason I had this image.
You kind of dipped into it at some point with your family when you were young or
something and had gotten the feel for it or wanted to go back.
Maybe I just made that up in my head.
No, I went, uh, to the New York, uh, world's fair in 1964.
Oh, okay.
And so, you know, what had been on television was made real.
And yeah, it made an enormous impression on me.
There's actually not been other places I've wanted to live.
I can understand Los Angeles, but poor San Francisco has always seemed to me just to kind of
not exactly another version of New York.
I have never wanted to live in San Francisco either.
I always go there thinking, okay, this time I'm going to fill it.
I'm going to understand why everyone talks.
I've never felt it either.
It's beautiful.
I'm almost ashamed to say that sometimes, but I, it's the same.
It's beautiful, but.
Oh yeah.
It's definitely.
I have no interest in.
No, I don't vibe with it.
I don't like crave it like New York.
No, no, no.
But now, you know, New York is, uh, different once again, and it would be odd if a city hadn't
changed in 50 years.
I find the strange thing is that, that avant-garde got bought out by, um,
the bourgeois lifestyle.
You know, so Lower East Side, East Village.
Yeah.
Everyone wanted to be avant-garde.
So then the avant-garde became.
No, everyone wanted to be here.
Yeah.
It's kind of.
It cost a fortune to be here.
A plain wooden table is so expensive and a sort of, you know, very ornate sort of thing
that you can get at a country house.
So isn't, uh, and this is where taste is at the moment.
Minimalism, uh, because you can't make a mistake.
And I think the city is full of people who don't want to make a mistake stylistically,
which is too bad because a lot of the eccentricity of the city just visually
is gone.
Not that I had much visual sense.
Street corners have changed and I can't remember what was there.
You know, these sort of new buildings.
It depends places where I spent a lot of time.
Uh, I haven't been to 48th and 8th in a long time since before the pandemic.
And I was there recently and that was a big shock because the corners are all different.
And since there was a restaurant, there is still a restaurant there where I used to go
along.
It's this corner.
I sort of, that is imprinted on my memory and it's completely changed.
Is that where the bar is that I can't remember the name of right now?
No, no, this was actually a good restaurant called Orso.
Oh, Orso.
Where people would go to the theater.
And so I went, was taken there a lot.
Oh yeah.
Um, but it had, you know, like parking lot and a sort of fragile, strange old building
that maybe had once been a movie theater and then this and that were there.
Uh, but that kind of ghostly New York has, is gone.
You know, the ghost of an earlier era has been sort of developed.
So, because you're always walked around New York and you could sort of feel its past.
And I'm sure you can now also, um, because the architecture or this and that, but at street
level, it's very, it's very changed.
I find, you know, I was kind of shocked.
A lot of chains, you know, chained or chains, chains, chains, chains, chains, like chains.
Oh, chain stores, you know, chain stores.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's what I was about to say.
I was kind of surprised that you were talking about the lower or like the East village below
Union square and Lower East side and stuff.
And you were saying that even like in the Lower East side, it wasn't there, there weren't
cafes everywhere and stuff.
It was pretty dark.
And you kind of walk, try to get from one light to the next or something.
Yes.
You could hear sort of people having sort of rooster fights
in the sort of backyards and things like that.
Oh my gosh.
I know.
Where was the book?
You didn't work for Bob and Terry.
Did you at the bookshop?
You said two guys with ponytails in the book, but it wasn't the pre pre St.
Mark's bookshop.
Was it?
No, no, no.
Okay.
The bookshop where I worked was 89th and Broadway.
Oh, for some reason, I thought it was downtown.
Okay.
Lucy worked at the strand.
Yeah.
Right.
And, uh, it was Luke back then.
You're right.
And I never worked at St.
Mark's though.
That was the coolest place going completely.
Well, that's where I worked when I was a kid or like coming to school.
That's where I worked.
And that's how I discovered, for example, Elizabeth Hardwick or Daryl
Pinckney.
Yes, because we had the New York review and that's where we always had those books.
And like, that was that feeling that you show in the book of being kind of obsessed with,
it feels like such a small world now in a way, because I've gone so far out of it.
But at the same time, it feels like all the world still where you're just everything is
about kind of what's being written about in those like the New York review of books or the New Yorker
or what poetry is coming out or what little weird book that you didn't know that now you're going
to discover and it's going to change your life.
Like, for example, Sleepless Nights was for a lot of us back then, or you made me feel that again.
And well, that's so rich, very very kind.
I mean, there were different forms of success back then, you know, and
I don't think people should be hypocritical about making money.
I remember feeling that people were a little mean about the group because it had been a bestseller
more than anything.
It's not a terrible, trashy novel by any means.
And it really, I think, probably hurt Mary McCarthy's feelings.
At least that's what I remember Lizzie and sort of Bob saying, because the review made fun of the group.
But that was a kind of snobbery about the bestseller.
Which bothers me, but I also, I mean, I felt that so much when I was young.
I don't know if you did, but I think it messed me up a bit.
I mean, not only with the writing in New York, where you feel like you're supposed to be,
you can't sell out or something.
I mean, the whole thing around the beats and around even like, you know,
yeah, all of it.
I think Kenneth Koch and John Ashbery were more away from that, but it still felt like all that
was about you have to be authentic.
And somehow that got related to don't make a lot of money and have a bestseller.
Same with music, right?
At the time, and it's completely crazy.
But it's a con of Bohemia that goes back to Paris in the 1830s.
Because I'm poor, I'm more real.
Yeah.
I'm pure, you know.
But it hurts people.
And Bohemia actually, I can't remember the history I read, but it's actually,
Bohemia is sort of an elevator up, you know.
It's not a socially static zone by any means.
No.
And a lot of these success stories of the period we're talking about sort of illustrate this.
But I think it's also got something in it that Mary was a woman.
Nobody ever said that Norman Mailer had copped out because his novel was a bestseller.
Right?
No.
I thought he got it, too.
He didn't get it, too.
No.
No.
You know.
You know, the model that the literary world, I think, still follows is Hemingway and Fitzgerald.
This kind of early promise, early success.
And, you know, the sort of financial independence that goes with it.
I still think this is the literary, the model for literally the world of literary fiction.
It's just the world of literary fiction is probably, I mean, you go in a bookstore now,
and young adult fiction is a huge section, and the graphic novels is a huge section, and anime
is a huge section, and literary fiction is, there it is, but it's not as, I guess,
there have always been genre of fiction, you know, that sort of thing.
But there were also, there was not making any sense.
Yes, you are.
It's really hard to talk about, because I'm thinking, because here's the thing, right?
Okay.
I'm going to just talk about my own experience, because, and you can tell me, but as like a
20s, early 20s, right?
I'm in school.
I'm kind of half living in Europe, but working at the bookshop when I can, trying to make money.
And you have this idea, you want to be like the author that everyone wants to read, right?
Like you're, you're driven by that.
You're reading every night, you're taking, like spending all your money on books.
And then at the same time, that's kind of the sellout in a way, because to do that,
you have to do kind of what I think you're saying, which is write this formula book,
which then gets processed in a certain way.
It's kind of transitioned, right?
Where you try to get some kind of huge contract to write a book, and then you get a lot of press.
And that's really different from that feeling I'm trying to describe of
this like arty thing that you describe in your book, where it's this life gritty,
you're living the, the art, you know, those things have somehow gotten,
I don't know how to reconcile that.
There was a body of a world where that was success, or that was the dedication.
And it's still the dream, right?
You know, it's even why people want New York.
I don't know.
Nobody, I mean, it's hard enough to write was the idea.
But that whole kind of thing, assumptions had a lot of confidence behind them.
And I don't know if the world of literary fiction has the same confidence that it did then.
Possibly because for one thing, literature isn't sacred anymore.
It's a profession.
So that's about, it's about people instead of, I don't know, this might be idealizing it.
But even when I read your book, there's, and of course, some of this is just hindsight and telling
a story.
But I felt like I always looked at these groups, right?
Of people who would go and talk about ideas and try to create stuff together.
And of course, there's a lot of bad stuff in that and illness.
Like, I could tell the story in a negative way.
But the point is, there was this spirit that kind of bled into everything that you wanted
to be part of, you know?
And now it's more about you become an individual bestseller or something.
That's like way too generalized.
But in your book, it feels like there's a group.
I sort of know what you're saying.
I guess I'm trying to say they were different ways to evaluate what you did.
And you felt no less, you know, sort of affirmed or achieved by the fact that it was only in
this world or that world because these worlds had a certain sort of confidence or they stood for
something that you really wanted to be a part of.
Now these things, because arts in general and literature is sort of a profession,
everything is done to a certain level, but things stand out less.
And there's much more of it as the reading population declines.
And so I feel in this sort of new generation, a great awareness of what is happening now.
And slight sort of impatience with the past, or certainly with the values of the past,
and especially the critical values of the past.
And also, it affects this idea of sort of traditions and sort of where your work stands
in a line because that sense, I think, goes.
And so people sort of think that success strikes by lightning, you know, and they're all waiting
for their big chance.
Yeah.
And that's the only thing that matters is that you hit it big.
The rest, you know, isn't there.
It's sort of like a children's drawing.
There's blue sky up here, green down at the bottom and nothing in between.
And this loss of the in between, I think, is sort of to the detriment of literary New York.
For one thing, it may still be the capital of print culture, but print culture itself
is, you know, not sure what it is anymore.
Anyway, because it's business models don't seem to be working.
I think that's a wonderful way to say it.
Yeah, especially the children's drawing.
It does feel like that.
Yeah.
So, you know, I sort of feel where I exist doesn't exist anymore.
But I think people want it.
I really think like you were talking about the bookshop.
When you go in, you see the youth side and the, you know, all these things that that's
where they're getting that feeling.
I think that people still want it.
It's it's just that now we kind of get it in a slightly it's a different genre.
It's a different genre.
But I think they'll still crave what you had, even if it's kind of a dream.
And it still is the fuel for why I don't know if we were on camera yet or not.
We were talking about New York's or become sort of bourgeois and like it's not the same anymore.
And actually, that's because people wanted to experience exactly that what you were kind of going
through, but now it's become somehow rarefied or it's not even I don't know, maybe it's there
in different ways, but everything's too expensive.
Yes, I think that, you know, young entrepreneurs didn't feel they had to become
square like their parents in that old beat world, beat word anymore, you know, that they could they
weren't. Also, a lot of many people think they're creative. That's another problem.
But I was just thinking about like the New York Review where you were working and you were the
you had all these mentors that were this thing that we're talking about these poets and writers and
critics and this kind of group of people who, yes, it was kind of small and insular, but it was
New York and it actually was kind of the scene in the world. I mean, it's, you know, it's taught
in schools and stuff now. So, but you were in this scene and you talk about it and how it felt like
you had a kind of, I don't think you use the word family, but you say you were part of something,
you know, I feel like that's kind of missing in the literary world. But people crave it still.
I don't know if, say, in magazine life, where a lot of stuff is by Zoom,
if there is this office life anymore, because that's what that was, a kind of office life.
And a kind of mentorship, too, you know, because you're in the country, more than that,
it was the sort of contributors dropping in. And it was the ease of dialogue between older and younger
that has changed a lot, I think. Because, you know, I wanted to talk to these
older figures and to hear what they had to say. I mean, I suppose that you could sort of see them
as mentors. But firstly, they were friends. And that's where the honor of knowing them
came into things, you know, that they, I mean, friendships between different ages.
Yeah, definitely it was friendship. I think mentor was the wrong word. But
I was thinking more about after review.
You know, mentor, certainly they, they printed me. So what else is that?
Yeah, but I think after maybe it was kind of, I mean, this, this was like a lifetime,
once you met her for the rest of her life, talking about Elizabeth Hardwick, for example,
which is kind of the, the sun in which the planets revolve around in the book, in a way.
Yes. Later on, she would sort of say she was furious that I moved to England, you know, but
I didn't stay. I'm sure she was. I mean, yeah.
Well, but I guess, like, I was going to ask you, do you think?
She didn't like England so much.
She didn't like what?
England so much.
Did she come visit her?
She visited Lowell when he lived there. Yes.
But yeah, but you didn't move there till.
Well, 88.
Oh gosh, it was 1990.
Oh, wow.
So the book ends it in 1981. And it has this postscript that's just 1989.
Yeah, I know.
Because everyone's dead, but.
Yeah, there's so much, like, I think death comes, the word death comes like 20 times in the last
20 pages or something. And then.
They all die.
Yeah, but it also makes me think of New York and that was kind of a huge change, changing year,
right? Like with AIDS and.
It's one of the reasons lots of people left.
Yeah. Is it why you left or was it James or.
I didn't know James then.
Okay.
I mean, I knew his poetry certainly, but.
Yes, I mean, it was a combination of things for one thing.
My father had to sell the apartment I was living in.
That's such a cool scene when he comes with the deed.
I was totally not expecting that either, by the way.
He was really crazy.
I love that.
And it sounds much more glamorous than it was, but prices back then were a whole different thing.
Yeah.
Um, but it, you know, it meant that I sort of could be very casual about employment.
Um, there's always somebody backing you.
Uh, well.
Often there's somebody backing.
Mm hmm.
Because there are people who not had any.
Um, so that was a part of it.
Um, I also, um,
got sober.
That was a big part of it.
Okay.
Uh, and then.
The black Deutschland kind of.
I always wondered if that was in any way.
Experientially true, but very different in the story.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, black Deutschland.
It wasn't the drug.
Completely made up.
The only thing that's real is Berlin.
Yeah.
But just that, that pilgrimage of like getting kind of starting a new life.
While.
That's true.
Sober in a different way.
That's what I wondered about.
That was true.
Yeah.
Um, um, and, um,
Yes.
Uh, and then of course, yes.
AIDS.
Because so many people sort of had died.
And, um, um, I remember nights when one sort of kept on doing drugs because the space that would
have been taken up by the luck or bad luck of meeting someone didn't exist anymore.
You know, at least not for me.
I wasn't sort of going home with anyone.
Um, in.
This was 1985.
That's when it was really scary.
Yeah.
So you mean like, because you talk in the book, I love that too, that you feel in New York.
I mean, it could, I think it's very special in New York where that you don't know what's
going to happen at night.
I mean, even like, um, Andy, we're all using the ashtray as you hold it or all these kind
of weird things happen.
Right.
I mean, it's happened to me too.
And during that time in the seventies, when you're around all these people.
But so that, and also that like, who are you going to meet?
And there was this kind of very erotic, romantic mixed up with all the, everything that was
going on spirit, but you're saying that kind of everyone then had to just stop all like,
you can't, that part of it was gone.
A lot of it sort of was going on, but for me, it seemed a very darker, much darker scene.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and I was afraid.
Yeah, of course.
So, you know, um, the bars were less fun, um, if that's where most of your gay life had
been taking place as blindness.
So, you know, so fill it with drinking or drop more drugs or something instead of the
other high.
Yeah.
Instead of brotherhood.
Yeah.
Or brotherhood became a form of sort of.
It must've been terrifying.
Visual.
It's hard to think about that time.
There's so much spirit there.
It's hard to imagine.
What was it like when it was happening as it was happening?
It must've been terrifying, you know?
Well, really terrifying, lonely, stigmatizing.
Yeah.
Um, you know, everything one could read in a book or see in the film is, is true.
You know, and it went on for quite a long time.
Mm hmm.
You know, I think it wasn't until the nineties that they had some cocktail that extended
life.
Um, but in the early mid eighties, you know, it was really, um, cause you had sort of a
culture that was so hostile to it.
And yeah, I had a roommate, a former roommate from college whose mother was a noted sex therapist
on TV and her whole rap was that it was a punishment for, you know, uh, abnormality.
Oh gosh.
And that was around a lot more.
But then, you know, I mean, living with that on top of everything anyway.
Yeah.
Especially cause you kind of came to New York that in part, wasn't it to have that freedom
and privacy?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And now it was kind of being, I don't know, a story being told about it.
It wasn't true.
It was a blight.
It was, yeah.
It's really, really bad.
So that's when you went to England for that?
No, I went to Berlin.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
I thought you said England.
That's why I was confused.
That's why I said it wasn't.
Well, we lived in England when I met James in Berlin.
Okay.
He'd come back from the far east and had this farm where he was starting this garden
and the garden absorbed more of his attention and he didn't want to keep coming to Berlin.
So I came to Oxford.
Okay.
I kept waiting in the book for you to tell the story of meeting him.
Cause you kind of mentioned like, oh yeah, that Susan, the Susan, the, I think that's when
you're talking about Susan Sontag at first, you know, like who would introduce me later to.
She did.
To James.
But then it never, I never, I, cause I don't think I've ever really heard the story of how
exactly.
When Susan was writing the volcano lover, she was in Berlin and the sort of DAAD apartment.
And, um, I saw her often.
And then every day she took me to dinner to the same place every day.
And unlike the 31st day, she said, I can't have dinner with you.
With James Fenton.
And I thought, instead of thank you for being so sweet to me night after night, after penniless
night, I just thought, well, who am I, you know, why can't I meet James Fenton?
Because I'd read him, you know, uh, Seamus Haney wrote this sort of glowing review of children in
exile in the New York review.
So I'd read this, read the book.
Then the next day she didn't say anything.
And I knew Susan well enough to guess this meant something didn't go well.
Um, I remember she was due to me to our repair and I think did, but she never talked about it.
That's two people.
I can't really see quite not surprised.
She didn't say anything anyway.
So after a while, she said, you know what he did?
He read the newspaper and he would explain to me eventually that he was traveling with a young
Filipino photographer who revered Susan.
And he knew that if he didn't make her talk to him, she wouldn't.
So at the beginning of the meal, he opened the newspaper and she had to talk to this guy.
Wow.
And then he closed the newspaper and then they proceeded to.
Very smart.
And then she said, I'm sure she wasn't happy.
There he is.
And he was sitting in the Paris bar with this Filipino photographer.
A few tables away.
And she introduced us.
It took a couple of days.
Days, that's all?
Yeah, days.
Was it like love at first sight or was it just fascination or?
No.
Is there a such thing as love at first sight?
He had these sort of big eyes and sort of hairy hands.
You know, he was a real poet.
I never got over this thing I have had for poets.
This was my big campus thing, poets.
I had this idea.
I was going to ask you if you think in poetry.
No, I don't.
Because you kind of write like it and you kind of talk like it.
There's something very.
No, like a failed poet?
Oh, no.
No, not a failed poet, but.
No, but you know what I mean?
I do, yeah.
It was a big, I sort of.
Yes.
And there's so much I haven't read that it's very hard for me to move on to
the poetry of the present moment because I'm still thinking about
what I never got around to reading.
You think there'll be time and then one day you realize.
But that doesn't make you kind of get off.
And the thing for poetry for me is you want to read it again.
You know, I don't know if you do, but there's certain people, certain poets,
certain people that it changes.
So when you're in a different place in life and you read it, it's like reading.
Yeah, he doesn't change.
He doesn't change.
But it calls me back to.
That time.
And that freedom of verse, Frank O'Hara.
I don't reread Ashbury anymore.
I haven't read him in a long time either.
I just hadn't thought of him so much of it.
And when David Shapiro died, I.
I looked at started to read a book of his and I ended up reading Frank O'Hara.
Because that's who told me about Frank O'Hara was David Shapiro.
What did you read?
Which one do you go back to?
I mean, Frank O'Hara.
Yeah.
The last one was.
Do you remember the days when we were still first rate?
And they began with the big apple and it's hog mouth.
That one.
Oh, yeah.
It's called animals.
You reference a few in the book, too.
The movie star one.
I can't remember it right now.
Yeah.
And lunch stuff.
And I love the one.
I can't remember what it's called now about the ship.
The ship.
Here I am with my Polish rudder in my hand.
And like, I can't.
Something about always waiting for the ship to come back into the shore.
Or I don't know.
Yeah.
No, there's a lot of them.
Yeah.
But those change for me, too, when I read them again.
But they are very of a time.
Yes.
And then, you know, it's nice to have a sort of new experience.
I did another Robert Wilson piece about Pessoa, a Portuguese writer, about whom I knew nothing.
I mean, really pretty much nothing.
Except that he weirdly had a hundred pseudonyms or something like that.
And by the end of the piece, by the premiere, I had sort of very high regard for his poetry.
And I'm glad that I had that time with it.
Whether or not I'll read it again soon, I doubt, you know, that kind of thing.
And there are also things I always mean to reconsider.
Because I think in my youth, I was at such a high horse about poetry, especially.
That's, I think, that sort of New York Review, Lowell thing.
Yeah.
I was very sort of free verse in my real life, but very
influenced by certain critics in critical life.
What am I saying?
But there wasn't a snobbiness there.
I want to go back and sort of give things a second chance that I used to be very snobbish about.
Okay.
Right.
Particularly someone like Gwendolyn Brooks.
Oh.
Because she means so much to Terrence Hayes, a poet I do have regard for.
And, you know, people like that.
I always liked Gwendolyn Brooks.
The Chicago sort of feeling.
Yeah.
But that didn't go well with what you were involved
with us.
No, I made a distinction between the early Brooks.
And then the Brooks that changed her mind and went with black power.
And that's the Brooks that people respond to now.
Just as the Baldwin I always thought of as, you know, this angry ending.
Um, people start with him now.
And that's the Baldwin who rings for them.
The one who's run out of patience and isn't so pretty.
Yeah, it all sort of goes together though, doesn't it?
I mean, the transition and the trying to live, live it and.
Yeah, do you think we are who we know?
And I mean that in a kind of deep way, because like thinking about your book.
And yeah, sure.
Yes.
And that includes family that you got along with or didn't get along with.
There are people you know.
Lizzie used to advise people, write about your families because you don't know it.
But they're already characters in your head.
Heads.
And if you're afraid to write about your family, then you can't be a fiction writer.
You think that's true?
No, because I think there's different kinds of fiction.
But I understood what she meant, which is, you know, don't be sentimental.
And there's something about being able to write about your family, which does
free you in a way.
I mean, if you get to the point where you can
live with your family in your imagination in a way, I think it's a different place to be in.
Not an easy place to be in, I would say.
No, I think a lot of things, you know, I think my family would have been hurt by a lot of things
had I said them then.
Yeah, I felt that in the book that you're kind of hiding.
I mean, not, I mean, you couldn't, you couldn't show them who
you were, but at the same time, they were very proud of you for doing something different.
I mean, there's some very sweet scenes, like when your parents come to New York and, or,
I think you say in one part, something that, like, you wish you could keep talking to them
because you don't know them.
You kind of, you see this door opening, like, oh, these are actually interesting people who
are probably as rich and layered as I am, but you just don't have the time to pursue it.
It's not something you did back then, become friends with your parents.
They were very much these authority figures.
It's sweet that your mom's like calling Elizabeth Hardwick and
saying Merry Christmas and stuff.
I mean, it's, it's really very, I don't know.
It's very sweet and I want to say special.
That's not the right word, but you really fell into quite a moment in time.
Yes, that's very true.
Yeah.
And tangled a lot of lives.
I think about that a lot.
And, you know, I mean, I think that probably youth is always a very good time.
But I think so much is hanging over people now.
War and this thing we identify as climate poverty.
The things we can't even see yet.
That it does affect the sense of the future.
And whatever we thought was going on then, the future was always filled with possibility.
And I don't know if the young feel that way now.
I don't want to talk in the generalities about youth that used to drive me crazy.
But, you know, just these days, the, you know, you get this kind of last summer of something
before the whatever.
And this feeling of waiting for something to happen has been with us for a while.
But this sort of insecurity and.
Yeah.
And the disconnection.
I mean, for me, it's again, I keep coming back to this relational thing of you actually
being because the book, you know, it's so social.
It's you're with people in all kind of complicated ways, trying to figure things out.
And there's a kind of earnestness to it of trying to live life, you know, and it gets messy.
And there's actually quite a lot of illness that comes eventually and stuff.
It's not that I'm saying, like, we should put this on a pedestal as a way to live again.
But there is an earnestness and an authenticity of connection of human relation that I feel
is harder now.
I mean, COVID has something to do with when you're talking.
I'm thinking about the kids who had to sit behind their screens
and didn't go to school.
And that really changes you.
You know, I've seen it in kids and friends and stuff.
It's not it.
I mean, the only good thing about it is that it's a widely shared experience.
So nobody so you can connect through it that way.
Yeah, you know, it happened to people.
The strange thing is, of course, our historical memory is so brief these days that there's
things get put away before there's room for them.
You know, so everyone's living with a lot of baggage that is heavier than it need be.
I'm so glad you said that because that that makes me think that that was actually the part
of the thrill of wanting to be part of that scene of writers and stuff.
It was this and it's actually what I noticed so much in your book is that there's this kind of
this transmission that's going on over time just through knowing one another.
And I think it can happen.
I was going to ask you when I said, is life about who we know?
Is it also who we read?
Because I think you can it can also come through who you read.
Like if you really read certain poets, poets or authors, and you really kind of know them in a way,
and then you kind of transmit that in whatever you do, that lineage, that connection, that feeling
of time, which is really different from what you were just describing. That was that still is what
motivates me. And, you know,
there's a kind of reading that makes you feel close to this book or this work and, and then maybe to a
degree to the author at that moment, not that you're going to go off and stalk anybody or sit.
No, it's just a recognition that you can kind of closeness because it's human contact.
The reason we still read is to have this kind of enrichment by contact and
learning something that you didn't know you didn't know.
So I think that's always very important.
And people who read are not as lonely as people who maybe don't.
Yeah, and it keeps you...
No way to test that one.
Well, I've always, there's a difference. Like when I know someone reads...
It's also what you read.
Yeah, it's also what you read. But I think there's something about reading stories, narratives,
and poetry. I mean, many things that what you're doing is sharing perspective with...
So you're kind of, there's at least, you're learning, you're learning a kind of pattern or
a habit of how to open yourself to a new perspective. Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, you're getting outside yourself.
Yeah. And that is a different kind of way of being in the world.
More people need to do these days.
Yeah. Well, many people don't, right? We...
Instead, there's a closing down of pathways.
I'm so finished with identity politics.
And I don't want to sound like some right-wing person, but...
I think we need to embrace the universal, the concept of the universal.
Again, you know, our commonality and stop with all these sort of competitive identities.
I sometimes get the feeling that in the United States, the only authority you can speak from is
that of the victim. And it's an imitation of the Black civil rights movement, but it's also
a misunderstanding of it, you know, but a lot of people who are coming off as victims aren't at
all. This is crazy. It's sort of debasing who's really a victim. You know, it's just a kind of
part of power relations, you know, to who's more convincingly a victim. And this is a disgrace to people
who really are, you know, but it's a sort of manipulation that is everywhere.
In America at the moment. And it's really tiresome, you know?
Yeah. And I think also for the people who engage in it, because just to try to...
Because I think when you're in it, it seems like what you're supposed to be doing, sort of in the
same way that if you look at certain people and they've made a lot of money or they have a lot of
attention, you think that must be the way to do it. But if you're living in that phenomenology,
it isn't actually what you would choose if you could know what it is. And I think it's similar
with what you're talking about. It almost feels like to be part of the group, to be accepted,
you have to have a story like that. And it can almost feel like the farther you go with it,
the more accepted you're going to be, or the more intention that you get until at some point,
you've actually lost yourself and you've become the story that you might have convinced yourself,
connected you to all these people, but somehow you're alienating yourself, you know?
It's actually the opposite of what I was trying to describe with that, connecting. But I don't
think people know they're getting into that. It's just, you get in that inertia where you feel like
you have to do that if you're going to be cool or part of things or make some real change in the
world or whatever, you know? It's like people, if you have friends who feel the only way they can
ask for your attention is to be always in crisis. And this is a bit like that. The only
way that I can justify wanting to talk to the world is about a crisis, mine or yours or the world's.
There's no other sort of register in which I can ask for your time, which is why we do like
storytellers because they're talking to us in another way. And with the story, you get what's,
I think missing in that, what you just described, which is your, these, these things are like portals,
right? These experiences we have, when we share them with one another, we can, of course, like my
experience isn't your experience, but when I'm reading your book, there's so many moments where
I feel so connected to you, whether it's when you talk about your sister and her suffering from that,
I didn't know that about your sister. And I've had that in my own family. So there's a line there
where we are patterns connected, which I wouldn't have had if I didn't spend the time with your book.
And that's just one, there's many, but it doesn't mean you and I, it doesn't mean you and I like
share the same. It doesn't mean you and I share the same history or are ever going to completely
coincide. We have very different things, but it opens up a way for us to share paths and then new
paths open. And when you become a, when you're just like a, in the victim mindset,
that opening is not there at all, right? It's either.
It's a competitive mindset. That's the problem with it. You're competing for attention as if it's
a resource, you know? And as I said, there are stories that really are about people becoming
victims that we should pay attention to. Yes. It's an important story, you know,
important experience. You're, you know, and I don't want to trivialize anyone else's trauma.
So, I don't mean that everyone is free to tell his or her story. That's the point.
But I'm not interested in everyone's stories. I think I'm too much of a narcissist.
You only want to tell your story. To really make room for someone else's
trauma or something like that. I think that's why I'm not really on social media. I can't,
you know,
you have to make choices about what you read. This is one of the most painful things about
running out of time. Do you feel that now? You've said it a couple of times. Are you,
are you feeling like you're running out of time to do all the reading and all the...
Well, I feel like I'm running out of time and it doesn't make my character any better than it
did. It doesn't make me any lazier or less spoiled than I have been. You know, I order books
and I live with hundreds of books I've not read yet. And I don't sort of get them in the evening
instead of whatever it is one does on YouTube
before sleep kind of knocks you out. I watch sort of ridiculous things like people falling into water.
People falling into water. Stuff like that. Cranks and fails.
I guess you need something light. Yes. Yes. You know, I really have a tear of going to sleep with
the last thing I've seen or something. And also YouTube has become my music delivery system.
YouTube is great. I do think that a lot of these conversations are opening up through things like
YouTube and podcasts and the music and stuff. There's a lot of new ways that people do find
connection and share their stories. And they say it doesn't burn as much energy as it used to.
Yeah. We have to figure that one out. But did you say you have a tear of going to sleep? Like you
need to have the right thing to go to sleep or something? Is that what you mean? Like the right...
I don't like to go to sleep with the last thing I've read being about Ukrainian soldiers who go into
hiding in order not to serve. I think it's so important to defeat Russia. And at the same time,
I don't think Russian artists should be punished. And St. Petersburg to me was one of the most
beguiling cities. And I'm not a well-traveled person. But St. Petersburg, one of these places
where the books jump out and start walking around. So I miss being able to go there.
Yeah. I can't even get into that because it's just too...
It's too sad for words.
But I'm glad we at least acknowledge it. It's another one of those things I just...
It's hard to get my head around right now. That that's actually...
Also, it's a lot of places.
Daffur, you know.
Yeah. And of course, yeah. Gaza, yeah.
You name it. And I was thinking the other day, well,
I never hear about Myanmar. It's not that those people have stopped. It's just that I don't
read about it. But I look up less and less in that way.
You know, I have the slight kind of falling behind with current events.
I don't really know who the new politicians in the UK are.
That's different for you. Gosh, I remember when you just knew every little thing.
Yeah. But, you know, I don't really have a sense of Keira Starmer or anything you think.
Well, I think as we, you know, when you start to realize you have a certain amount of time,
and also it's just like, what do you want to be thinking about? And what sort of energy do you want
to be living in? And yeah, how much can you do something that's going to be productive? And then
is it going to be productive to think about it all day and live in it and feel terrible? And like,
you know, probably not. So, you have to find some boundaries.
But also, I find myself turning more about the past, reading literature from the past,
trying to look for clues in the past. And if I'm able to do another book,
one of them would be trying to trace my family and slavery. Because the one thing about the
White Pinckney family is that they were such big deals and such good business people, they kept very
careful journals. And so I can find these names going back in the records.
I always wondered about that. Yeah. And they make much more available than they used to be.
Do you think of New York as home? I wonder, what feels like home? Is it Indiana? Is it?
James.
Oh. Yeah. You've been together so long.
Wherever James land is, it's fine.
That's so sweet. It makes me think, Sontag said where your books are, right? I think you say
that in the book, is your home. Well, where your James is, is your home, is your book.
Yeah. You're in one of the most successful relationships I've seen over these. I've known
you a long time. It's not like we talk every day or something, but I have seen that you and James
were in love 15 years ago or whatever it was, and you still are. And you, yeah, it's kind of
like, who knew, right? Berlin. I think it's because we were kind of old when we met.
You think that was the key? I was 40. I was 38. So
You were ready. A lot had happened. And again, as I said, I just like, I was stuck with me.
Well, you're lucky. We were both lucky. Yes. There's something I have to ask you about
before we go, because it's the end of your book and it's got the word love in it.
It's the Marion Moore quote. At the end. Yeah. So after everything, after everything we have loved is
lost, then we revive. Isn't that the Marion Moore? Yeah. Can you, I mean, after everything we have
loved is lost, then we revive. It almost makes me want to think after everything we have desired or
something. Or, I mean, isn't the revival the love? Or how do you see that quote?
I think the way Lizzie read it, which is that she means wisdom, you know? And I guess for Lizzie,
that always went with the kind of stoicism, you know, as the burden for seeing clearly.
Um, you know, that you can't act on it. It's just this deeper understanding you're stuck with
from your life. So that's kind of like what you were saying when, how you were feeling when you
met James, this, and that's philosophy. Oh, I was feeling a little different.
I was feeling a little different. Well, that's different, but it's also this, you said you were
older. And so you, you had a certain kind of, there's a kind of wisdom that allows you to be
in a different place with someone. Okay. Uh, no, I mean, I, yeah.
You sometimes don't know what you want until you see it and then it's available.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, love of wisdom though, I think goes into this,
why poets do what they do to you too. There's some, and it also probably ties into your family
and all these things, cause you know, you come from a family that's loves wisdom and yeah.
So they were into education. It was sort of one thing, real inheritance from slavery was education,
the importance of it. I think that was a big deal.
That talented 10th kind of idea or, or just appreciation of, I don't, I mean, they certainly,
I think a lot of, yeah, maybe, maybe, but they never came off quite that way. You know, uh,
I had a great, well, a great, great grandfather who I've seen an affidavit that he couldn't write.
So it was just as Mark from 1898. And yet at the same time, 24 years earlier, he had the South Carolina
legislature pass an act that changed his name from Limus to Limus Pinkney. In other words,
he went out of his way to acquire the master's sort of name. All of his children, I think they were
13 from two marriages. I get the feeling went to school. And his son, Limus, I have his copy of
Milton's work. Because when you graduated back then, the custom was to give you either the Bible or
Milton. So I have this, this book, and he went to the Atlanta Baptist Seminary that eventually became
Morehouse. And he was a minister in the South around Augusta, in Augusta, Georgia. And at a time when,
uh, this is sort of like before World War I, um, young Black men were being lynched all over the South,
by the dozens. He got his sons out of the South into colleges in the North. And I don't know how he
did it. But they went to Brown. They went to the University of Chicago. They went to Boston University.
They went to the New England Conservatory for Music. Not his daughters, just his sons.
And then he died, um, early and unexpectedly. But I don't know how he did it.
But I'm sure it comes from this kind of reconstruction drive about education. And there must have been
something like a Peabody fund or Rosenwald fund or something like that. I've been trying to
find. It's really interesting. The trace how he did it. Yeah. But that wasn't for reasons of
Talented Tenth or anything like that. Um, well, maybe it was because he sort of clearly thought they
would do well, but it was to save their lives and get them North. It's a very different set of
priorities. And yeah. But to go that way, North was a very different deal. So it was amazing. And
he wasn't a rich guy. Incredible. That's a credit story. Yeah. I think it's just, there's, we have to
go because we've been talking, but there's just so, it feels so rich with the, um, your family history,
right? Coming in and there's all of this, what you're talking about. But it's true for every Black
person. Every Black person has lived Black history through this or her family. You know, in every
era or ACOG, we all have someone who went through that. All those decisions that, yeah. And then it's a
different kind of knowledge. Yeah. Well, it's different kind of life. Consciousness. I mean,
what about that idea of double consciousness? I wonder what you think about that. Like that.
I mean, I don't. I've always accepted it, but, um, I've never found
the gay, you know, what we would call the, the gays are being looked at. I've never found that
very comfortable and not just for racial reasons either. Yeah. I even wanted wondered about the
other, like the queer, the coming into the, like almost like a quadruple or triple, or there's many
ways of this doubling or is there, I don't know. No, there's only one way. It's just comes down to
cruising or being in New York and who's camera ready and who's not, you know? Okay. But I mean,
it's a little bit more, you know, you have this amazing family history and you have this
Lowell kind of heritage. Very detached from my bad character, which only makes me care about.
Say it again. And very detached from my own bad character, which only just makes me care about,
you know, being noticed by so-and-so. No, but Daryl, really, I'm serious. Like, um,
I know. Coming, coming from where you did, it's, I mean, maybe I'm making it too dramatic,
but I just think of you coming out of this family, which is like kind of a, I mean, a very,
I don't know if it's upper class or, I mean, my family wasn't that like well read and well,
like you had some kind of pressure on you to be a man of knowledge. Education more than
class aspiration. I think education was part of the religion of citizenship,
you know, and it was something no one could take from you. Cause as I said,
none, they weren't, nobody, nobody was rich or particularly black bourgeoisie, but.
But like the story you just told, you know, they believed in books. They really do.
So I see you having that richness. And then you come into the Lowell richness,
which he wasn't, he like the, from Samuel Johnson. I mean, there's this whole other kind of
literary, I can't remember it all, but I mean, it's like the most kind of literary background you can
have. So then you're with in that tradition. So you have these like two really rich and don't really
exist. Like at least that Lowell kind of classics trained Brahmin-ish, I don't know what you really
call it. That whole, that, that was kind of really, I imagine it, that was like really full and still
alive at that moment, but almost at the end, but you, you kind of smushed those together. And that's
the kind of what I was thinking about with this doubling, but then also just being very true,
the queerness too. And so there's that doubling. So I'm kind of saying there's like many different
ways in which you were getting different perspectives that were. And that's the book.
Yeah. That's the book. And that's why you can only write the book. No, you understood. I'm very
pleased you got it. Okay. There were these, these scenes were also influences and represented
different literary traditions. Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. I think in writing the book you've,
you presented in a way that it can continue living. That's what I was trying to say about.
Oh, well, I hope. That's kind. Thank you. I think so though. It's, it's because if you don't,
if you don't talk about it and write it, then it doesn't get transmitted and passed on. But if you do,
it does and you did. So yeah. Okay. No one else could have, right? Who, who else could have
those two strands coming together that, I don't know. So everybody has, you know, writers get to where they
are, um, by different means, but, but, but by very similar that are very similar at the same time.
You know what I mean? There's patterns that connect. Things you need that different worlds can provide.
I would say. And that's why that question of, are you who, you know, are you the people that you
are with is actually a really deep, rich question. Yeah. You know, your chances often come from
opportunities. And that's what New York was. Yeah. You know, that kind of mobility.
And also what you gift to generations to come, because if you hadn't, you, you connected, I'm not
trying to put you on a pedestal because we all do it in different ways and it matters for all of us. But
in your, in your case, it is quite unusual, right? That you, you did leave a particular environment
and bring it with you and enter another one and kind of, you entangled some threads that probably
normally wouldn't have been entangled in the same way. And it, it's like opening another path, you know,
that wouldn't have been there. I don't know really how to say that, but I think that's,
I think I understood that connected to all these other themes I've been talking about,
about relations and history and community and opening. It's a very generous way to read it. So
thank you. But I think it's, you know, you never know what results from your, sometimes it's very
different from your intentions, but for one thing, I wanted to show these women as being, to remember how
smart they were. They just, they really were. And so, and not to sort of see them, I don't know.
I wanted to say in a gossipy way, but of course it's full of gossip.
Yeah, you love gossip, don't you?
No, no. And yes, these sort of different worlds that sort of didn't meet, but that
had a claim on me. Definitely.
Yeah. And you them too. I think it's, I think you gave them a lot too, probably. But yeah,
of course, these are three of the most amazing women in kind of, in New York. So it's,
yeah. All right. Well, again, my deep thanks. Yeah. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Daryl. Yeah. It is nice to talk to you again. Okay. Anytime, anytime you ring,
just let me know. All right. Yeah. Well, and when you're coming to New York, say hi.
Okay. I will. Same. If you come to Netherlands, you always have a place. Okay. Have a great day
there or good afternoon. You too. All right. And have a good evening. And thank you again from,
from my heart. Really very kind and generous reading of it. I really mean it. I'm very touched.
Yeah. Really very touched. Well, good. I'm glad. Thank you for letting me talk about it and say all
that. All right. I give you a big hug. See you soon. Same here. I hope. All right. Bye.
Bye.
