Hey, so this is a little bit of a different conversation. We decided to just read a paper
together and talk about some ideas. But before we get started with that, maybe you want to introduce
yourself. My name is Mirko Prokop. I'm a second year, just about starting my second year PhD
student, interested in everything related to agency, cognitive science, and trying to, well,
in particular, find a sort of naturalistic angle onto the notion of intention and intentional action
within the context of more recent approaches in the cognitive sciences that maybe we'll get to
talk about today a little bit. Yeah, I'm excited to see where it goes. So we met in Portugal, right?
At the... Yeah, the conference. Yeah, it was a philosophy of mind conference. So we just
realized that we both have a lot of similar interests, but we're coming from different
places. So we thought it might be fun to just have a conversation and see where it leads about
some of these issues. And you already mentioned one, which is intention. Another is, well, we chose
this paper. Maybe you want to talk about the name of the paper and introduce that just for a second.
Well, the name of the paper is Intentions in Ecological Psychology and Anskombian Perspective
by Miguel Segundo Ortiz and Annamarie Calles. I think it was published in 2022 in Review of Philosophy
and Psychology. So yeah, I guess we can put it in the show notes. Yeah, and it's an interesting paper
because it tries to introduce, as I understand it, an approach in the philosophy of action that used to
be a bit unorthodox and maybe misunderstood for a while by Elizabeth Anscombe into the field of
ecological psychology and tries to sort of bridge or bring these two fields together. And I thought
that was a really interesting proposal. We're not going to be able to really dive deep into their
arguments, I guess. But yeah, but let's just set up a few of these like bigger terms. So like philosophy
of action is one. And then we have an activism, and we have ecological psychology. Those are maybe
three. Yeah, and activism is sort of the perspective that I bring into, or that that's sort of what I'm
working within. I don't, I'm not sure if if the authors of the paper would identify themselves as
sort of an activist. I think they're coming mostly from this ecological perspective. But yeah, it would be
good to, you know, clarify. Well, I think there's maybe Chimero and Boggs, isn't, I think those papers
are referenced in this paper. Actually, I'm not entirely sure. But there's been this movement,
probably in the last, maybe five, five years of trying to figure out how inactivism and ecological
psychology fit together. And I found a lot of those themes coming up in this paper, which basically
comes back to this idea of the cognition that's kind of like the sandwich model of Elizabeth Hurley,
or her kind of that she makes fun of versus this kind of direct perception of something like a
Gibsonian point of view. Thinking, I think there's a way in which these have been thought of as
opposites, especially when it comes to something like action. And of course, in the philosophy of
action, I mean, maybe you can speak to this a bit. But it's this idea of that intention, for example,
would be something mental going on in the brain, which wouldn't fit with ecological psychology,
because that would be like a direct perception. So you wouldn't have the sandwich thing happening
between perception and action. But again, this is another thing I hope we can explore a bit,
because I feel like even in this paper, and definitely in the literature, what is perception
and what is action? And are they opposites? Are they different things? Are they, you know,
what are they? What is the relationship? I think this is actually usually at the heart of these
discussions and of this paper too. And that's kind of the dichotomy I'd like to talk about.
Yeah, yeah, I completely agree that that's sort of, I think that there are a lot of ideas in the
paper that speak directly to this kind of contrast of dichotomy that I guess we can talk about. Yeah,
maybe it would be good to just introduce the ideas of, you know, ecological psychology,
some central ideas that could frame the discussion, like the notion of affordance, for example.
Yeah, well, I guess we should talk about ecological psychology. First of all, neither of us are
trying to be experts. So feel free to, to disagree with whatever we say here. In fact, we welcome that
because that's part of it. Yeah. But just kind of trying to talk off the top of my head, that's all
we're trying to do here. And then I would say ecological psychology is this embodied, situated,
non-representational approach that, of course, is mostly associated with JJ Gibson, although his wife
worked a lot on it later. And there's different notions of it depending on what you read and which
time you read it and who you read. But I think in the big picture, from my point of view, we can say
non-representation is very important, which means they don't believe there's representations in the brain
that are necessary for perception and action. And that it's situated, contextual. Yeah, go ahead.
No, no, I think I was just thinking, I often find that, that divide between people saying,
oh, I, I'm an anti-representationalist. I'm a representative. I think everything about
cognition is about representations in the brain and so on. I, I mean, people use these terms very
differently and I often find it more pleasing than helpful to, to draw these kind of sharp
distinctions. But, so I was just thinking, you know, a different way of thinking about specifically
the notion of, or the understanding of perception in ecological psychology as something that's not
necessarily mediated. So that when you perceive an object or a situation or something, it's not like
there is a step between the perception and the processing in your brain, and then you becoming aware
of what's in front of you. It's just that the perception of what you see is sort of direct in
this non-mediated sense. And if you have that view, I guess you can dispense with the notion
of representation and say there's no need for, for some sense internalizing what you see in terms of
this mental item that's called a representation that can then be worked on inside your brain.
And that's where it gets into a lot of trouble, of course. That's where the Gibsonian framework is
so criticized because even just the way we, in a very common everyday sense, we feel like we have
thoughts which don't seem, that direct perception account doesn't seem, if you put it in the most kind of
cartoonish way, doesn't seem plausible. Of course, there's tons of literature about this that really gets
into the specifics, but just for an everyday kind of approach, like you do feel like there's some,
it's not that there's just perception and action. It does feel like there's something like rumination,
for example, that could happen. As if this mental action isn't action, it's something different. And
this is where a lot of these debates come in about, as far as I understand, ecological psychology in the
Gibsonian sense, especially J.J. Gibson was kind of this third way, right, between cognitivism
and behaviorism. So you had this behaviorism model where it was more, let's just study behavior,
which might be associated with this, okay, it's just action. There's nothing going on in the brain,
we're not going to think about that. Because it was then associated with consciousness, right? And
that was kind of thought of as like, you can't, you can't touch on that, it's too mystical or spiritual,
or you don't need it, right? Just study behavior. And then you had the cognitivism, which was sort of
went the other way around and started really focusing on cognition as the subject and thinking
more in terms of it, language and mathematical models and the brain. And this approach went the
other way. And I think the ecological approach, at least what I've, because as you know, I'm coming
at this from my own research, and so are you, but what interests me about the ecological is J.J.
Gibson's early writing, where he's talking about trying to overcome this dichotomy of mind and body or
mental and physical or cognitive and behavior. And to see this in a very different way, which is a
really hard thing to do and to come up with an eye with a way of seeing that that isn't linear,
and isn't fitting into any of these places. And I feel like ecological psychology was trying to do
that in the beginning. But then of course, it's got all these different interpretations about
affordances, perception, action. Yeah, so I don't know how that relates to your work exactly,
or what you think about that.
Yeah, I mean, I have to say, I'm not too familiar with ecological psychology and the early writings
of Gibson. Although I would love to read, it's definitely on my reading list.
Yeah, you're more coming at it from the intention, you've read a lot of Anscombe, right?
Well, I've tried to read a book, Intention, a few times.
A few times.
I mean, yeah, I guess I read it. But, or at least certain sections of it. But, you know,
I, many people say it's a lifetime exercise to really try to understand it properly.
Yeah, well, all of this is, right?
It's definitely, yeah, it's very inspiring. And I think it's a great, you know, the authors in that
paper, they do a great job of trying to bring her kind of perspective, which initially seems a bit
hard to combine with a naturalistic approach to the mind and to action. And they tried to bring her
that perspective, nonetheless, into a field that, you know, ecological psychology or things of
itself as a kind of scientific approach to the mind, I guess. Yeah, and that's why I found it very
interesting. But I do think it leaves a lot of questions open still. And yeah, let's get into what
the proposal of the paper is. But first, I know we mentioned affordance, you did, that we should
sort of think about that. And basically, affordance is usually defined as opportunities for behavior.
It's basically sort of what, from a particular subjective point of view, if we go with like
von Okskull, what that subject's environment or umwelt, which is different from environment,
affords it for behavior. So it would be very different, for example, for if we think of a river
and some logs and grass for a human, this would afford certain things like perhaps exercise,
maybe beauty, things like this. The log might be a place to sit and rest. For an insect, it would be
completely different. It might be a home, it might be food, and so forth. These are kind of the
opportunities of behavior which are relative to the subjective body. That's how I see it. Do you have
anything that you'd like to add about that? Yeah, I mean, yeah, I think my basic understanding is
exactly what you said. But perhaps a different way of thinking about it is that it's also a
con or an understanding of perception that's inherently sort of relational, so that you have to
consider the kind of bodily structure of the agent in order to make sense of the particular kinds of
things that the environment affords to the agent or the kinds of behaviors that it enables the agent to
to do. So a tiny toddler, for him or her, you know, that's a staircase might be like a mountain.
It's something that they have to climb up with their hands and feet and so on. Whereas for us
grown human beings, it's something that we can step on and walk up. But for the toddler, it's
the way that it perceives that staircase is very different from us. So it affords different actions.
And of course, if you think about between different species, the difference might be
or is even greater, you know, that I don't know, I'm not able to climb as a monkey. So a monkey might
perceive some particular kind of tree as perfectly climbable. According to its body. Yeah, like
directly, yeah, affording climbing up or escaping for a predator. And I don't because I just don't have the
bodily capacities to do that. Yeah, it's good. You bring up this relationship is important,
right? Between the body itself, not just some kind of subjective idea of perspective, but the body
itself. Yeah. And the environment, right? This is an important part of in activism of ecological psychology,
of philosophy of action, its body, its environment. It's this relationship, right?
Yeah, I think this is where certainly my understanding of ecological psychology
merges quite well with the inactive perspective that I've worked on a bit and then I'm interested in.
Because as I understand it, it thinks of cognition as something that is always a relational process
between the organism and its environment. And it's not enough to just look at sort of one part of the
equation, let's say, you know, the brain, and then try to figure out what cognition is. Because
if you think of it in that relational way, you always have to take into account both the structure
of the environment and the structure of the agent that enables this kind of complex, dynamic,
intelligent behavior to occur. And I think that's an understanding of cognition and that an activism
certainly shares. Yeah. And to go to Von Ock's school too, a lot of people say niche construction
started with him, but you could also trace his work to other things. But what comes through is
like what you were saying, that there's a particular kind of body and a particular kind of context,
which then you can't dissociate perception and action from that. And when you were talking,
I was thinking of these loops and cybernetics and how all of this is a similar tradition,
right, that kind of leads into an activism and ecological psychology. And that also kind of
starts with Von Ock's school, who also talks about these loops between a body and the environment.
I'm not sure loop is the right way, because that sounds like you come back to where you started.
And I think in terms of dynamical systems and complexity, we never come back exactly to where
we started. But in any case, the idea of this looping between a body and an environment as part of the
perception action structure, some even call it the perception action loop,
is really important in all these contexts, isn't it?
Yeah, absolutely. I have to also say that, you know,
Von Ock's school, you've mentioned him to me, and I've heard about him, but he's definitely also
an author that I need to read more. And that is on my reading list. But just what went through my head
as I was listening to you, what you were saying about these, you know, perception action loops and
cycles, is that what I've sometimes found is that especially when you then start to think about
agency, it does seem to introduce a kind of asymmetry in that relationship, in the sense that
an agent is sort of like the active part of that relationship. If you observe an organism,
organism, how it behaves in its environment, even an organism that we might think of as something
relatively simple, a tiny fish or something, they're moving about, they're exploring, they're
doing things. And of course, if you have a ecological understanding of cognition, then
then you want to say that not everything about that behavior can be explained just by looking,
like by dissecting the fish and looking at its tiny brain and nervous system and doing experiments
with it. The environment is certainly important, but then at the same time, it seems to when you
think about agency, that it's still sort of the fish who's the main actor who brings forth this kind
of relationship in a way that makes that organism the source of what's going on. And in a very
important sense, the sort of seat of the intelligence. So even though on an ecological approach,
you do get this idea that the structure of the environment is very important and you can't just
look at the brain or just the organism. But then when you start to think about agency,
to me, it often seems like, yeah, but there is definitely some kind of asymmetry that
what happens within the organism at the time of the action, or perhaps in general,
in relation to the concept of cognition, is the central place to look, I guess, when you try to
explain agency. You know what I mean? That's really interesting.
What do you mean by asymmetry there? I guess what I mean is that you don't want to
end up in a place, and I think this relates to some things they talk about in the paper,
where everything that an organism is doing is sort of triggered by the perception of affordances in the
environment without the organism having some way of, you know, actively mediating between
which kinds of affordances it perceives, which affordances it acts on.
Exactly, yeah. Because otherwise you end up with a very mechanistic view of what's going on,
where agency just kind of doesn't seem to have a place.
That's what I was sort of referencing earlier as the main critique of ecological psychology,
or of a direct perception, let's say, because there's many different ways of defining ecological
psychology, but of direct perception, right? It's exactly that. There does seem,
there's something else, right? And if we define things in these kind of binary ways that we're used
to, which in my work I'm trying to get out of that, like you would be able to understand cognition
as scaled rather than on or off, or only there or not there, so that if you really take the whole,
everything we've been talking about into consideration, the body as it's developed
historically and evolutionary in terms of evolution, but also of that body itself, be it an insect,
a fish, a human, whatever it is, then it's interaction over time and space, which is another
important part of all this. The way that the creature experiences time and space is something that
a lot of these writers talk about, even going back to Von Ock School, about how you divine
perception and action in the first place, but then you could have many different kinds of cognition.
And to get to your point, that kind of mediation that you're describing could easily develop out of
those loops for something like a human, for something like an animal in a sense, because
it wouldn't be different from the way that you are making through that environment or that context
or that ecology. At some point you might become aware of those patterns. The agent might become
aware of its own patterns. Some people say cells already do this, right? But, and in a way we could
understand this kind of middle sandwich thing between perception and action, as it feels for us,
as another way, another loop of that. And activism sort of starts to do that with sense making, for
example, starts to kind of think of it in that, in those terms. But although I think,
I think, I mean, my, my research project, when I, when I started this, like about a year ago,
was also coming out of a bit of a dissatisfaction with the notion of sense making, for example,
as being this, this bringing forth of meaning, in a, in a, in an interaction that an organism has
with its environment, as sort of the basic understanding of cognition. And, and I should
say, you know, that I don't think that, yeah, that's, I'm so glad you said that.
That's all that activism has to say about what cognition is, but it is very, very wide understanding.
And, and even though I really like, or I'm a fan of thinking about, you know, the continuity between,
between us and other organisms, there do seem to be very significant differences in the way that we,
for example, are able to, like we, I mean, human beings are able to act in the world as opposed to
a tiny fish or even a bacteria or a cell. And I think that, you know, one thing they pick up in the
paper, which is really important and which I'm interested in is this notion of, of intention.
That's also throughout the history of philosophy, I guess, that there's been a kind of,
as I understand the idea that intentional action proper, like acting on a reason, intentionally
knowing what you're doing whilst you're doing it with a particular goal in mind and being aware of
what you're doing and able to explain what you're doing to others, if they ask you why you're doing
this, that that's the kind of capacity that is unique in some sense to humans or, you know, specific.
And I'm not really sure if that's the best way to think about the notion of intention, but it does
seem to get at something that, you know, is important to, we need to explain when we want
to understand certainly human agency and perhaps also agency of other animals. And, well, I guess
one way that, that we could, that they pick it up in the paper and that I think relates to what we
talked about just before is this idea that our intentions do seem to affect the way that we
perceive the environment and the way that we perceive certain affordances rather than others.
So if I'm, you know, let's say in a beautiful city on, I'm a tourist and I'm just looking around and
wanting to see, to see everything, but I'm in that particular moment, extremely thirsty.
Then what I will be looking for is not the nice architecture or whatever, but my whole perception is
going to be sort of geared towards finding something to drink, like being a water fountain
or a shop where I can buy some water. I think the idea that they have, that they want to bring into
the paper is that just talking about affordances is not really enough to explain the way in which
intentions affect the way that we perceive the environment. Because depending on the kinds of
goals that I want to achieve in a particular moment, I really just do see or feel or taste or whatever
different things. And so there's this sense that the intention really changes the way that we relate
to the world. Yeah. And that gets to the idea of agency too, that you were talking about, because
agency basically is like control over the perception action cycle. It's different from an agent, but
yeah, having agency. So in the way you're describing, it sounds more like something like Descartes or Hume
or Hobbes, where it's like the intention is almost like a desire or, or a drive or something that's
then guiding the organism. And as you brought up before, there's also a way in which you could,
like, let's say you're a meditator and you could maybe sit with this desire and maybe overcome your
thirst or something like that. And that seems to be that mediating middle thing that we're talking
about. How do you see that in terms of intention? Yeah. I mean, I think it's, it's not just the
desire, but it's also a really a conceptual or maybe, you know, a way in which your perception is
affected by your intention. So I think, you know, in the, in the standard view, in the philosophy of
action, you often have these two kind of components that people think that are important to make sense
of the notion of intention. The one being the sort of conceptual belief component, you know,
that when you do something in order to achieve a certain goal, you, the idea is that you have some
kind of belief that what you're currently doing is maybe the best way of achieving what, what you want.
But then on the other hand, you also have, of course, the, the, this desire component,
the affective component or the emotive component, which is already, you know, in this word emotion,
the kind of thing that, that sets you in motion that actually brings you to act. And then that's
also essential to making sense of intentional action. And often, you know, people tended to think about
these, I think Hume, for example, might have thought about these as relatively distinct
in the explanation of action, you know, this like conceptual and the emotional affective
aspect, which is something that is, I think, characteristic of a lot of maybe traditional
cognitivist views in the cognitive sciences of thinking of intelligence or cognition, on the one
hand as something that's not directly related to affectivity in the way that, that things feel to
us. And on the other hand, of thinking about things like pain and affect. And I'm, I'm certainly
interested in thinking about these two things as much more interconnected than, than, you know, maybe
the standard account of, of action or cognition seems to suppose.
Yeah. There's so much in there I want to talk about. I want to think about philosophy of action
and the Davidson view versus the one they're presenting here, but maybe first we should just
give a little abstract of the paper. I mean, what is this paper actually sort of trying to do?
What's the issue at stake here?
Yeah. So I guess that they see, as I read it, the notion of intention kind of lacking in ecological
psychology, or at least more sophisticated explanations of what intentions are. People
mention that notion a lot, but they don't really elaborate. Apparently that's what they say,
what it really amounts to. And they want to say that it's important precisely because of these kinds of
examples that I've given that intentions do affect the way, or, you know, they, they affect which
of we actually perceive in the environment in a particular moment, depending on the kind of goal
or intention I have. And so it's not enough to just talk about affordances, but you also have to
bring in this notion of intention. And then they, yeah, I guess we should say too, that just, we didn't
mention it before, but in ecological psychology, I mean, a lot of people say that one of the main things
it's trying to do is explain agency, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I don't know if we said that,
but we connected, I mean, we talked about agency, but, but yeah. And so you're saying that this paper's
kind of saying, okay, but in that like explanation of agency, we don't talk about intention. Or if we
do, we talk about it in a Davidsonian sense, but okay. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's, that's a very,
very important point to mention that we should have said earlier that, you know, in the notion of
affordance in some sense, tries to bridge this like classical sandwich model that you've mentioned
earlier between like, they're trying to distinguish between action and perception by saying, you know,
what, what perceive are not sort of objects that are neutral to us, but what we actually perceive for
affordances, which are possibilities for action. So if I look at a chair, I'm not just seeing some kind
of neutral object, but I'm seeing something to sit on, you know, if I have the goal in that moment to,
to find something to sit, then that chair will give me the opportunity to realize that,
so it will afford me sitting. I think that's the whole idea. And that's why, you know,
the notion of affordance is inherently related to agency. Then in the paper, they want to go a step
further and say, well, but then when we start to think about intentions and the way that our goals
affect our behavior, which particular intention we're trying to realize in a, in a given moment,
actually restricts the kind of affordances that we perceive. And which is what I tried to explain
with this water finding, trying to find water case. And so I think they want to make the point that,
well, you need to provide some kind of account of what intentions are to make the story of
ecological psychology complete in explaining agency. Yeah, exactly. So it's trying to use Anscombe's work
to explain what intentions are, but also to ecological psychology would say, okay, I mean,
it wouldn't fit with thinking there's some representational state or like internal mediation,
if you take it as direct perception. So they're also, aren't they also in this paper saying, okay,
well, with Anscombe, we can not only provide a definition of intention, but we can show that it
doesn't necessarily need to be representational and therefore could work with ecological psychology,
rather than Davidsonian intention, which would require this sandwich thing, right? Then something
mediating or representational, I think is how I understand it. How do you?
Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good way of putting it. So I think they, they first make this move of
saying, well, we need to start thinking about intention in ecological psychology. And then they ask,
you know, why hasn't there been more discussion of that in this particular literature?
And one reason that they offer is to say, well, because of the fact that most of the most influential,
what's sometimes called the standard account of action, which is often attributed to
Donald Davidson, do think of intentions as well. Yeah. Mental things, mental objects that, as I said earlier,
are often thought of as these pairs of beliefs and desires, but they're still in the minds of the
person who is acting at a particular time. And Davidson actually emphasized a lot that this idea
that intentions cause behavior. So they wanted to provide a sort of causal account of that. And if you
have that view, they, I think the authors think that, um, that's hard to, to square with ecological
psychology because it has this kind of anti-representational approach and wanting to not
think of cognition as, or things like intention as something that primarily takes place in,
in the mind of, of an agent.
I wanted to ask you, this is something that confuses me. Maybe you have some insight on,
but in, in what you were just talking about, or in a David Davidsonian model of philosophy of action,
how do we really distinguish, like, as I understood him, and I haven't looked at this literature in a
while, but it seems that action is always something that's been mediated in a mental sense, right? So it's
not like movement. It's not just an, um, movement that action, the way we, we're almost redefining
action from a normal everyday use as action is now the thing that has become mediated. Do we just
think of action and movement as not the same thing that action is always mediated in a Davidsonian sense?
And is it the same in Anscombe or is this paper showing us it's could be seen differently?
I think there's a lot of things in there that, that make it all very, uh, complicated. Um,
most people would want to distinguish between action in general and then intentional action,
and then you, you might still distinguish between action in general, intentional action,
and then basic behavior, like behavior. So if you think of something like reflexes, for example,
um, I guess many biologists or people working on the mechanics of reflexes or whatever, wouldn't
want to necessarily think of that as an, as an action. And if I, I don't know, snip my fingers
next to your eye and you blink, um, there's some sense in which there's not something that you really
do, even, even apart from the distinction between action and intentional action. I think people have
tended to just wanting to distinguish between action in general and then intentional action, which goes
back to this, this question by, um, by Wittgenstein in his philosophical investigations where, um,
I wrote it down somewhere. Um, just sorry, the wording right. Yeah. Like the arm thing about what's,
what's yeah. So where he says, like, what, what is, what is left over when I subtract the fact
that my arm goes up from the fact that I raise my arm and the way that he's phrasing that question
seems to sort of suggest that there might be two different kinds of projects or two different things
that you want to understand. Like one is me raising my arm, which is something that I do intentionally.
And the other thing is, um, my arm going up. So like in, in the German, it will be that the passive,
you know, my arm hebt sich, in the sense that there's something that the arm does to itself.
So if I throw a ball at you and your arm goes up and you catch it, uh, that would be more like a reflex.
But if, if you have awareness that you're going to raise your arm now, and then you raise your arm,
that's intentional action. The first one is just action. And the second wasn't intentional action or.
Yeah. The throwing example is interesting, actually. I'm not sure what I would say to this. I wouldn't,
you know, maybe, yeah, I wouldn't necessarily say that I did it intentionally, but it was also
more than just a reflex. Maybe, you know, maybe it was something that I'm, I'm good at catching balls
or something. Uh, so some kind of action. Um, but to finish, uh, the thought from earlier is that you
might think of on the one hand being there being, um, my intentional action of raising my arm.
And on the other hand, some kind of happening in the world of my arm going up. And you might think that
intentional action is sort of one happening in the world that, that we think of as an action plus
something extra, which is then the intention. So you want to describe that extra feature,
and then you have an understanding of what distinguishes intentional actions from
non-intentional actions or from just actions in general. Um, I mean, there's reason to think that
Wittgenstein thought that the question is not really very helpful and Anscombe, certainly I don't,
as I read her, didn't think that it was a good question to ask. So I think she, she wanted to kind of
say that, um, you, we shouldn't think of intention as some kind of extra feature that is present
whenever someone acts with an intention or, you know, acts intentionally. Um,
and so in some sense, you can't really make sense of the question of
what an action in general is apart from the question, what an intentional action is,
so that these are kind of, um, interconnected conceptually for her. And so this search for
some kind of extra feature in addition to maybe behavior or action in general,
there is, I think, just kind of a misguided approach to understanding the nature of, of
intentional action.
I was just thinking about, um, as you were talking, I was thinking about how
you probably know this too, but often in philosophy, when you go to classes, you, one of the things you
get told or you are supposed to learn is that when we talk about intention, we don't mean it in the
way that we use that word in everyday life. Do you know what I mean? Like there's this kind of
supposedly different way in which the word is used in philosophy, which I don't know, maybe we should,
we should talk about that a bit too. And also just for people who don't care about all these like
specifics of philosophy, which, you know, nerding out on it, like we do, like, what are we really
talking about here? Why, why do we care about, um, I mean, I think these are huge things that
matter in our lives. Agency and intention are huge things that matter in our life. And I feel like we
can get so caught in just talking about all this like wordplay kind of stuff, um, which is important
too in a context, but I think here, I would also like to kind of think of a big picture too. What
are we trying to, to understand? Um, but first let's talk about that intention. Do you really see
that there's some kind of difference between this philosophical idea of directedness, uh, in the way
that we define intention, um, versus the way we use it in everyday life? Because I even feel like in this
paper, the way we use it in everyday life is the way they're using it, but I don't know.
How do you see it? Well, I mean, that's another reason why I find reading Anscombe quite refreshing
in, as well as perplexing, but, but mostly refreshing because, well, she certainly thought that,
these are not just philosophically interesting questions of thinking about the nature of
intention. But I think as far as I'm aware, her thinking about the philosophy of action was,
and specifically about the notion of intention was, um, spawned by the, the dropping of the
bombs on Hiroshima and, you know, president Truman kind of saying, or, you know, someone might've
thought that he could have said something like, you know, I didn't do this intentionally. I just
signed a piece of paper and I didn't really drop the bomb. So I'm not responsible for this.
Whereas she, I think, wanted to really say, no, you are, you are responsible for that. And I guess
she thought that the reason for that doesn't hang on a particular mental state that Truman had at the time
where he signed that paper. Um, but it had more to do with the, with the way in which he knew that
when he signed it, he was actually ordering the bombing. Uh, and, um, then, you know, Anscombe wanted
to think of in, or wants to think of intention as, as, as she says, a sort of form of description
of actions or, or events in, in the life and in human life, which usually is sort of
goal directed, uh, of actions being done in order to do something else.
Uh, so she thinks that whenever we use the term intention and she's really concerned with the
everyday use of intention, uh, there is a kind of pattern, uh, present in, in human life that is,
if you like, teleological so that then is concerned with, um, us doing certain things in order to
achieve other things. Um, I'm so glad you brought that up. I didn't know that. I didn't know that
about that. That was, yeah. I mean, these are, I think really, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, as I,
because, you know, I mean, philosophy is a wonderful way to learn how to think critically
and things like this, but at least for me, I don't know. I kind of sensed it when you were saying
you got a little annoyed with this sense making thing, but for me, um, the reason I'm trying to
understand cognition is, is, is because I want to understand, uh, how we might reorient our relationship
to self in terms of just the difficulty that it, that humans can fill in their interaction with their
own bodies and selves. And in social context, that's, that's ecological for me, but also how we
can understand, you know, my little dog here and, um, the trees and like all of this kind of life
around us, um, as having some agency and that is always tied to cognition. And that is always tied to
these issues that we raised at the beginning about like, what's really happening between perception and
action and action. And is there some kind of, um, mediation and that story you just told about
dropping the bombs, right? Uh, for me, that makes me think, okay, there's a reason why we really need
to know when a subject is aware of themselves as a subject and what has led to what they perceive
and also what action follows from that perception. And for me, I feel like a lot of this in the paper and
even in these studies, what frustrates me is that it's so insular that it's as if there was no, uh,
history, there was no trajectory. This is why I tried to bring in this like landscape and trajectory,
because I feel like when we really look at all of this, we have to look at a kind of
a being as having a trajectory that determines its perception and action. And that perception and action
are actually just our ways of assessing, um, something that's ongoing and dynamic. They don't need to be
thought of as separate or, or whatever, just different ways of assessing this. And this gets
brought out a little bit in the literature too, but I'm just talking now, but I wonder what you
think about that. And, um, if, if you feel in your philosophical work and study, like, how do you
balance that or how do you think about these kinds of bigger themes and what, how they motivate your work
or? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I guess I got, I really, uh, do think that the philosophy of action,
despite being often very technical and also a lot of the literature that in the last 10 years or so
has been, or maybe a bit more published on, on like the new Anne Scombien approach to philosophy of
action, rediscovering. I mean, Anne Scombien published her, her book intention in, in the fifties,
but then it's been forgotten for a while, you know, that, or not forgotten, but
interpreted in ways that were kind of mistaken. Um, that, you know, I was, I was thinking,
I was reading that and thinking, you know, that really, really matters. And, and I do think that, um,
also, I mean, uh, I didn't study law or anything, but as far as I'm aware that, you know, in German
law or probably in any, uh, criminal law, if you want to prove someone guilty of a crime, they did
something, you have to normally show that they did it intentionally, or at least if they didn't
do it intentionally, uh, they would usually get a milder sentence. So it's not like figuring out
what the nature of intention is, is something that has no impact on the way in which.
No, good point, good point. Yeah, that is, that is how people get sentenced.
Yeah.
But I, I also like the, the thing that you were saying, I think you were mentioning this sort of
continuity of, of agent agency across the spectrum of life. And this is something that I find really,
um, important to, to not always look at what makes us sort of distinct and interesting and special
as human beings, but also would connect us to, uh, to other organisms and of their capacities for agency.
Um, even, even fairly simple organisms. And this is something that, you know, the inactive approach,
uh, is happy to embrace to some extent of ascribing agency, even to, to cells and, and unicellular
organisms. And yeah, I think I'm sympathetic to that. I, however, as I said earlier, uh, the content,
looking at the continuity, shouldn't let us overlook the, the differences that there are,
that are very important, you know, because I can't really hold my dog accountable for the kinds of
things that he did in the way that maybe I can hold my friends accountable. And that seems to have to do
with the form that agency takes in human life and the kind of ways in which we are able to act,
which is often related to the notion of a reason. People say, I'm able to act on a reason
and to, to communicate, to explain to you why I did something, which is, you know, some central
in Anscombe's work that she focused a lot on this question, why? Uh, and she thinks that the, the actions
that are intentional are the kinds of actions to which, as she says, a certain sense of the question,
why has application where that sense, uh, if you know, where the answer of positive gives a reason
for what you did? And then she tries to work out that particular sense of the why question.
But I can't really ask my dog, you know, why did you, I don't know, we on the floor or something.
And I can't really, uh, hold them accountable for that in the same way, if I act as I could,
maybe my, my drunk friend or something. That means you can't apply a human definition of cognition
to a dog, right? Which I think is what we, we are all trying to do or think we can do. Um,
that we can just come up with an idea of what cognition is and it's going to apply across the
board or something, or that we can come up with a definition of agency and intention. But to go back
to those subjects we raised at the beginning, I think what I'm seeing is that you can think of
cognition as something that all creatures have without assuming that it's the same. And when
we look at something like ecological psychology and inactivism and philosophy of action, I think
what we're, what a lot of people there are trying to figure out is how to understand that, right?
Like, how do you understand that there, for me, I put it in my terms because that's like what I have
to do. But for me there, as your dog has a history, a trajectory within, with its body and its
particular affordances that you could hold it accountable relative to that trajectory.
But of course you can't hold it accountable relative to a human trajectory of cognition,
but that doesn't mean that your dog isn't intelligent and cognitive. It just means that
it takes a lot more work, right? Do you think that connects to Anscombe at all and her idea of
practical knowledge or? Yeah, I mean, absolutely. There's a, again, there's a lot of things that we
could talk about here. I mean, another reason why I found Anscombe nice to read is that she's very open
to the idea of attributing attention to non-human animals. And she actually says explicitly, we often
do describe the movements of animals in intentional terms. And you say like, why is the cat crouching like
that because it's stalking the bird? And you know, you might say, well, its intention in crouching is
to catch the bird. And that's a perfectly valid description of what's going on. But then people
might say, oh yeah, but the intention of the cat is very different. And I think Anscombe also says
something like, you know, even, even though the cat cannot express its thoughts in the way that
I can, if you ask me, why are you doing this? We still attribute intention to the cat and it's
perfectly fine. But of course, you know, there is still a difference between me and the cat in the
way that I act or that I'm able to act. I think a lot of the things that I do are very cat-like in a
way. So I want to think of it more as a spectrum of different forms of agency, many of which we share
with other animals. But I also feel like there is something quite specific about the form that
agency takes in human beings without that implying some kind of hierarchy that we're like better than
the rest or something. It's just that because of our evolutionary history and cultural evolution as
well, probably our agency ended up the way that it is now. And I'm interested in understanding
that specificity in action, which I do think involves the notion of intention without
introducing a kind of break in the, in our relationship to all life on earth and possibly
somewhere else. There's somewhere in the paper, I think they talk about intention is like patterns of
something, patterns of organization of pattern. Does that sound familiar? I think this is kind of
a really interesting thought that I liked reading that. I'm not sure I can relate it to Enscombe. You
could probably do better than me, but in practical knowledge and all of this, but I do like thinking
of intention as the organization of patterns or, or because in that way that like we could think of
it as continuous in a sense of if you, if we think of perception and action, or we just think of
cognition and perception and action as ways we're looking at how a creature makes its way, whatever
creature that is, we would first have to determine the body and the environment in the way that we were
saying before. And there would be certain statistical regularities that this creature is encountering,
be it a human, a dog, an insect. And their sort of organization of those relative to their body would
become, would be its cognition. Knowledge doesn't necessarily mean that you're aware via language or
something like this. So, so creatures movement through its world is its knowledge. It's its cognition
from our perspective, maybe not from it, its perspective. But how do you see this patterns of
organization and action in relation to Anscom? I mean, certainly that that's, I guess the central,
one of the central pieces of her account. And it's kind of hard to just summarize in a few words,
because yeah, I guess she also thought that you kind of have to do the work yourself and reading
through the book and trying to really understand where she's coming from. But yeah, I guess the basic
idea is that she wants to think of intention as a kind of form that, that actions take in the way
that they're related to each other in terms of means and ends that when there is an intentional action,
you can usually describe what's going on as saying this person or this animal does that in order to
achieve something else. And then there's the notion of practical knowledge, which is also absolutely
essential to Anscom, which is related to this in the sense that she wants to say that when someone is
doing something intentionally, they are aware of how, what they're doing right now is a means to an
end that they want to achieve. And that's sort of, in essence, the practical knowledge, like when you do
something, you know what you're doing and you know why you're doing it. That's constituent for her,
I think, of acting intentionally. And she thinks that you can bring that out by looking at the way in
which people answer this why question. If I catch you walking down the stairs and I say,
what are you doing? Or why are you doing this? If you reply something like, oh, I wasn't aware that I
was walking down the stairs, or maybe I just woke you up from sleepwalking. You know, that answer,
Anscom thinks shows that what you were doing, you weren't really doing it intentionally. You weren't
doing it based on knowing what you're doing in that situation. Whereas if you said, I'm going to fetch some
milk from the shop, or like, I'm going down in order to go to the shop. You know, that's an answer
that, in a sense, reveals this pattern being present of you being aware of how what you're doing right
now contributes to achieving a goal that you care about. And I think, in a sense, Anscom thinks that
working out the structure of this teleological, you know, goal means an end-oriented pattern
really is all we have to say in order to understand the notion of intention. And just to try to bring
that back to the paper, the reason why it's nice for ecological psychology is that this is a kind of
non-representational way of thinking of the notion of intention. You don't have to think of intention as
some kind of mental state that is present at the time at which someone is acting, and that then somehow
causes you to act. But at the same time, you know, thinking in Anscombe in terms about intentions in terms of
sort of forms of descriptions or patterns of organization of action
is often a bit unusual and obscure, and it takes a while to get into it. And I'm certainly still
struggling to fit that view into a naturalistic understanding of intentional action where we
do have to look at, you know, how is the body of the agent actually constructed? What role does the
nervous system play in the production of intelligent behavior? All these are, from a naturalistic perspective,
essential questions to answer. The question, what is intentional action? You said you want to
try to think of a naturalistic notion of intention. What do you mean by naturalistic for those who,
I mean, what's like your way of thinking about that word? That's another big question. I don't think
I can or want to give a definite answer to that, but I guess most generally I just think of it as
a notion of intention that is compatible or supported by our knowledge from the natural sciences,
and in particular biology, and the bunch of disciplines that make up cognitive science,
like psychology and neuroscience and so on. Yeah. For me that has to do with organization of
patterns too. I could see how we think of naturalistic in a sense of having noticed patterns or having
observed patterns and having maybe even data and tested them and the kind of scientific method could
be understood in that way, which is really far away from the way someone might just think of intention
in an everyday sense, which actually feels like this mental inner kind of thing that's going on. But
what I think this paper is trying to do is collapse that a bit through this notion of intention as
that, you know, that they're getting from Anscombe. And it seems connected in a way to naturalizing
intention because what it's doing is it's saying, okay, we can observe something as intention without
it being necessarily something that the subject is aware of holding in their present with at the moment
that it's taking place or something. But then when you zoom out and you look at it through scales,
you can see the trajectory, you can see the pattern of organization, but it doesn't mean the person
or the agent necessarily has to hold all that in some kind of mental realm while it's happening.
No, absolutely. Yeah. I'm interested in the idea of thinking of these
these kinds of patterns of organization of actions in terms of means and ends that Anscombe is trying to
describe as in many cases very strongly embodied, like in the sense that your body knows what you're
doing when you do something intentionally. And that the way in which, for example, when you're walking
along across the street, intentionally, an absolutely central part of that action is the way in which
your legs and arms and all movements of your body are coordinated to produce that goal-directed behavior.
I mean, of course, you're aware in some sense that you're walking down the street. But to me,
it's much more plausible to say my body is walking, you know, my knowledge of how to walk down the street
is really just in my body. That's what I've been doing my whole life since I'm, I don't know, one,
one and a half years old or something. And I don't need to think about and think about that in some kind
of abstract, detached way that you then might want to describe in terms of beliefs about what you're
doing and stuff like that. So I'm very interested in this idea of thinking about practical knowledge,
which, as I said, is essential, at least on Anscombe's view, to intentional action as something
that is very much embodied and that these cycles of organization of action are ingrained in the
structure of our body. I'm so glad you said the word embodied. We've been talking about the body a lot,
which is also very important in all these other contexts. But this is going to be a little messy,
but I just have to try to kind of go for it a bit, because this idea that you're talking about in this
kind of continuum and it being embodied, the organizational pattern is embodied. And that
becomes the main problem, right? And all these things of how do you go from that, from this embodied
cognition that's not necessarily about, it's about the subject, but it's not necessarily about
what we think of as subjective awareness, of having awareness that you are acting in a certain way. And
those always seem very distinct. But I think what I'm seeing and what I think a lot of people are
trying to get at is that this is a continuous process with that embodied cognition. You as a
little boy developed your way of, you made way in physically how to get to the park, but also in
terms of your emotions and your thoughts and all of this, right? And you through language sort of
developed in this in the same way, an awareness of your organization of those patterns via language,
which becomes starts makes us start to feel like, oh, there's like a little me in my head
or something. But really, it's just this kind of we've organized our patterns of behavior via language
in the same way that we organize our patterns in our body as we walk and we learn this. So there
becomes this continuity between life and mind of a continuity between the way we make our way
physically and the way that we come to understand ourselves through awareness via language or
something. But this is where it gets tricky, doesn't it? When you start to think of my dog or
your dog or an insect or something, you really have to think, okay, they're doing the same thing with
their body and that's cognition, but there's a very different sort of language. There probably is
language but it's not what we call human language. So their awareness of their patterns would be
different even if the organizing pattern is similar. This gets very hard to talk about and
we get really confused. We have trouble not thinking of everything in terms of language-based
thought or something. So something like practical knowledge, I feel like it's really tied. I mean,
it makes sense with Wittgenstein and her coming out of that, that it would be so tied to language
in a way. But I feel like in this paper sort of trying to do it that we could almost try to
unstick the language, understand that that's one form of way-making and one form of knowledge,
therefore, one form of practical knowledge. But there's also a practical knowledge in the very
way that she introduces it that isn't about being aware through language of your actions,
but that could still be very relative to this pattern formation through just aligning with
what you've been moving through your whole life, whether you're a cell or a human. And
I know that's very messy, but I feel like it's not just language-based and it seems very language-based
still in her work. But maybe I'm wrong because I haven't read her as much as you trying to get past that.
I think this is something that I have to think more about and that I would love to reread also
aspects of Anscombe. And I think one thing that she does think is that it is essential to the kind of
practical knowledge that is constitutive or very important to make sense of intentional actions,
at least in humans, that we are able to express to others our reasons for doing what we did intentionally.
This is why this why question is so, so essential because Anscombe seems to think that it is essential
to you being an intentional agent, capable of acting intentional, that you also are able to answer
that question if I ask you, why did you do that? And I love that you mentioned language there because,
of course, that is the way that we typically communicate our reasons to each other for what
we are doing. But another thing that I've been really interested in that relates to that is that
language and also this why question is something that only really matters in a social context, right?
So normally you wouldn't really ask yourself, why am I doing this? And you don't really,
there is a sense in which you don't really have to make explicit or express to yourself the reasons
for why you're doing something. I mean, that might be related to this kind of obscure notion of Anscombe
that she wants to think of practical knowledge is what she calls knowledge without observation.
As you know, the way that you know what you're doing is not through observing yourself and then
making explicit to yourself, oh, there is a body that's moving in the world and has these kinds of
features. That's a very good knowledge without observation. Yeah, that's different than being able
to answer the why question. Just like the water pump example. What is that? There's a guy pumping
poisonous water into a house and if you ask him why he's doing it, he can answer it. And there's this
kind of whole train of why questions. That's kind of the famous example I can link to. But in any case,
I was imagining that is the same as understanding why you're doing it. And it's not at all,
actually, or observing yourself. Well, no, it's essential. I think it's essential to that example
and other cases of intentional action that the person or this man in this case knows what he's
doing in pumping water into into a house. His answer is I want to kill the family inside or
something, I think, right? That's why he's pumping poisonous water or whatever. Yeah, exactly. But I
think that the idea of knowledge without observation is that when you ask him, why are you doing this?
He's able to answer that question, not because he's sort of looking at himself from a third-person
perspective and observing what's going on as happenings in the world that lead towards
there being poisoned in a house that is connected to a pump that he happens to be operating.
But he knows what he's doing without observation, as Anscombe says. He just has this,
well, embodied know-how, you could maybe call it. That's sort of the way that I like to think about
it. Because he has that knowledge without observation that he's able to answer the why question
immediately when you ask him. But yeah, I mean, in that example, again, it's just sort of essential
to there being practical knowledge that he's able to express his reasons for doing something in some
sense, based on a kind of knowledge that is not based on his observation of himself.
Yeah. And as you said, it's a social, I think in a way there's that loops also. I mean, as you said,
this is a social thing we don't really ask ourselves, but actually I would kind of push
back on that a bit too, because I think part of the social reason we ask each other is to awaken the
individual to start asking that question for themselves, which we do usually maybe as children,
because we realize we're part of the social environment and we have to appear in a certain way,
or we have to be able to say like what we're doing. You know, once we start asking those questions,
it changes that cognition of self in a particular sense. That's what law is in a way. It's that
asking why and having to answer. Yeah, no, absolutely. I do think that's why it's so important to
to look at social interaction, especially also in early development in order to understand the
the notion of intentional action, because through being forced to justify your actions or explain
your actions to others, you also, I think, you know, gain a sort of different relationship to
your own actions that when you then start doing or do something, you're able to sometimes ask yourself,
why am I doing this? Or perhaps in a different way, you know, ask yourself, if someone were asking me,
what would I say? Yeah, very complicated, because the man pumping water, for example, if you ask him
why he might not tell you the truth of why he might tell you, I'm just pumping water to help them or
something. There's all kind of weird, weird loops, which the more aware you become, the more you observe
these kind of patterns, or your own knowledge, the more your knowledge changes. And the more you could
use that in different ways, right? The more you can shift perspectives and see how others might see
you and what you should, you know, it reminds me a little bit of to go back to Van Uck's call again,
of he he talks about the umwelt, but he talks about two different kinds. I think it's work,
work well, it's in German, work well, and mark mark well, maybe. And one of them is more like practical
knowledge, as I see it, this, this Vick is more like the agent in its environment, uh, aligning
with its sensory regularities and developing organizational organizational patterns. And you
don't need, it doesn't need to observe it in the sense that we're talking about. And then the Merck
would be the observation, and it's more symbolic or semiotic. There's some kind of symbol, like language
would be attached that makes sense with language and a meaning and all the stuff gets ascribed to it.
So I guess what I'm trying to push at is can we, when it gets back to the paper and trying to think
of perception and action and as ecological and, and bringing intention into that, can we imagine
that there's a sense in which this is a kind of a scaling or a continuity, not a linear, linear kind of
thing? Yeah, I wouldn't want to. Yeah, I mean, what I, what I said before about this notion of
practical knowledge being somehow embodied or something that we don't really have to
make explicit. And then on the other hand, having the capacity to make it explicit in terms of
language, um, you know, the way I, I sort of think about it now is, is that there, yeah, like you said,
they're not like, it's not like a linear progression or a kind of sharp distinction between
one kind of practical knowledge and the other, but that there are sort of intertwined in the way
that we act and in the way that we explain ourselves to others. Um, but then in order to
make sense of that relationship, it's not enough to just look at individuals, but you also have to look
at how they interact with other individuals or you have to take into account the social dimension.
It gets back to what we were talking about with, you know, it very much, I think inspired this
ecological notion of affordance or something like a niche construction that's often connected to it.
Yeah. It's the way in which, as you're saying in the context or these particular atmosphere of
affordances for a particular body, as we were saying are always different, how that actually can't
be disengaged from one's development of intention and also how one uses something symbolic like
language in order to, to observe that intention, even if it's not in oneself. I think with what we
were talking about earlier too, we often think that means the subject is observing themselves, but,
but there's, can be observation that's not from the agent that's being observed. That would still,
we could still imagine that's intention, especially when it comes to something like law. You might be able to
observe a trajectory and call it intentional and directed without necessarily the agent themselves
having an awareness of that trajectory, but then that's not the same as the everyday use of intention
that I intended to hurt them and therefore I made this action. I think that's a whole nother
field that I would love to know more about how, because the idea to me that in a trial,
for example, you're trying to figure out whether there was intention present and whether, and what
the intention was, as I guess, for example, in the Trump trial, they need to somehow prove that he,
he was aware of what he was doing and inciting that. And in some sense, they're trying to, I think,
prove, you know, that he did what he did intentionally and posting all these messages and so on.
And the way they probably would prove that is through language that he spoke or wrote or said
something to someone. Yeah, that's true.
In the sense that they're trying, that's what they're trying to, or part of what they're trying
to prove. And, but this idea to me that you're looking at all these thousands of pieces of
information and videos and whatever, in order to, to then retrospectively say, oh yeah, that person did
what they did intentionally, and therefore they are culpable and so on. That is like really
fascinating, but also quite perplexing because I, there is a sense in which I don't think it really
gets at what actually happened at that time, or it went through the person's mind as they did it,
which again, it's the idea that, you know, it's not really about that when we want to think about
intention. Yeah, as you speak, I'm reminded of this video I just saw just randomly. I think I was
like an airport or something, but they were interviewing one of the guys from that who
went into the Capitol and he was, and they were trying to kind of say, oh, you were just like
brainwashed by all this propaganda that was directing your actions that you weren't really
intending it. And he was saying, no, I knew what I was doing. I was, I did it on my own. Nobody brainwashed me.
And that gets very tricky too, doesn't it? Because we think we choose sometimes, but we've just
absorbed a certain trajectory of media that is leading us, but we, we are also at the same time
making the decision to be led. So you have to get beyond that dichotomy of it only being
one way or the other that someone else, or that the inertia of the trajectory is what's leading you,
and that's the intention. So your intention is like somehow the inertia of a larger intention,
for example, the Trump campaign versus that you somehow can distinguish between those wider
intentions, social intentions, and your own intention. I mean, that too is really quite
interesting. And I think it also brings us to the paper again about perception and action.
And like, how do we really distinguish between perception and action? The ecological theory would say
perception is action. It is an activity. It's doing something. It's not something that's happening
in some inner world or something. The paper says it's going to define intention or that it could,
Anscombe's theory could sort of define intention in a way. Did you really get that? Like what,
what that definition was in the end? I mean, we've been dancing around all these possible
possibilities. Anscombe's understanding of intention or, well, this is the reason it's, it's kind of
difficult because Anscombe doesn't really provide, if you like, a kind of positive account of what
intention is in terms of the necessary and sufficient conditions for there being an intention present and
so on. And she has this sort of very Wittgenstein-inspired approach of looking at the way in which we use
the expression intention or someone acted intentionally or the notion of intentional
action in everyday language in the way that we talk about actions and explainer actions to others
in order to work out this kind of pattern that she thinks is present that I've tried to
elaborate a little bit on. This is why reading Anscombe is often a bit frustrating and at the same
time extremely fascinating and inspiring because she doesn't really give you that direct answer.
I think the authors also are very aware of that they talk about in the end of the paper of integrating
the Anscombe kind of approach to intention with, let's say, a more empirically oriented scientific
approach to agency. And yeah, I think they do say that there is still a lot of work to be done in
that direction, but it's an interesting proposal to try to bring Anscombe's perspective into that field
in order to try to think about intention in different ways and in particular to get away from this idea of
it being some kind of mental state or representation in the minds of an agent.
I found it hard to really understand what they were offering as the definition of intention,
but I feel like in the abstract they say that they're going to, let's see, we will argue that
Anscombe's account can meet the two challenges of bringing intentions into the framework of ecological
psychology. First, it can explain what intentions are, if not representational states. Okay,
so I guess we we've kind of talked about that, right? It's more, it's not necessarily explaining
or giving a definition of intention so much as showing that it doesn't have to be representational,
right? Yeah, I think that's probably a good way of putting it. It's probably not the right way to
think about Anscombe's account in this sort of positive way of giving you a theory of that is intention.
And even though in some sense, of course, she does give you some kind of conception of that notion
that is illuminating. But yeah, I think what they want to say in the paper as I read it is that
her way of approaching it is in principle a lot more compatible than with ecological psychology than
the kind of standard approaches in the philosophy of action. Broadly, I can start to understand how we
might imagine intention as these patterns of activity that are these organizational patterns
of activity, I could understand how that relates to basically just the statistical regularities of
of what is encountered from a particular body as it's making its way, and how the organization of that
the body is, is the organizer of that is perception and action, depending which way you want to look at
it. So of course, there's a kind of directedness or intention of the body. Even it doesn't necessarily
have to be goal oriented, like the body has to make its way. And you develop a kind of directedness
as you do that, because you do create these patterns that are organizational. And also one of the potential
criticisms that someone might level against the paper, when it is precisely hanging on that question of
whether you want to think of this making way or moving around in the world in an intentional kind of
way, as involving goals, you know, as being teleological means and goal directed. And I guess for
Ansgimp, that notion of a goal is absolutely essential to making sense of attention. So if you want to take
her approach and sort of face value, I guess you would have to provide some kind of naturalistic
explanation or incorporate this notion of teleology or goal directedness into your whatever your
scientific framework is, if you want to take her kind of approach on board. And that might involve
explaining a way the notion of goal in some other kind of way, or just embracing the notion of
organisms as teleological goal oriented systems, which is something that I guess an activism does,
and has been criticized a lot for.
When we're talking about making way or navigation as cognition, when we're looking at cognition,
which for me means how any agent is making its way through whatever encounter it finds itself in,
there's always something someone is assessing that. So from the point of view of the
assessor, the person who's doing the assessing, there will always be teleology, there will always be some
possibility of a goal, because you can see the trajectory, and you're looking at one particular
trajectory. So I guess what I want to do is open up like the scale of that. So it's not that's not the
only way of looking at that agent and that behavior or that perception or that action, whatever
it is you're looking at. It's one way. And it's probably like, depending on how you've framed it
and what you're looking for, you can put it in those terms. But it's not always and only that.
Sometimes there's just wandering. Sometimes we're lost, you know, and I mean that in all kinds of
different ways. And this too is a form of waymaking and there can be intention ascribed to it. I think that's
what I was saying before. The fact that intention can be ascribed to it doesn't mean that it's
intention for the agent in question. But that would be a whole other thing. But it's interesting
that you say so for Anscombe, there's always a goal, you would say. There's always teleology
in your reading of it.
Yeah, although again, this is like very takes us or would take us into some kind of
deep territory about the way that people read Anscombe and there's different interpretations
of that. And I'm not really sure what mine is or what the correct one is, whatever. But yeah,
for her, this kind of pattern or structure that she's trying to describe, which she thinks is essential
to the notion of intention, that is a teleological pattern. So it is this idea that when someone is
doing something intentionally, you can describe what they're doing as something that they're doing
in order to do something else. So you're explaining in some sense what they're doing right now
by appealing to some future action or state of affairs that hasn't realized itself yet,
but that in some sense explains what's happening at the moment and identifies what's happening at the
moment as an intentional action. And so in order to make sense of that kind of pattern,
you need that kind of teleological goal-oriented kind of explanation. And if you ignore that and
you want to say, no, everything is purely causal, mechanistic, physical, and we need to understand
organisms on that reductive basis, and there's no teleology allowed at all, it's just a metaphor,
it's just a way of speaking about living organisms, then I think it becomes very hard to
incorporate the kind of Anscombian approach to intention and perhaps agency more general within
in a scientific framework if that's the way that you want to think about nature.
It's well said. It makes me think of a million things.
I love what you said about this idea that sometimes we are lost and sometimes we're like,
you know, doing something but we don't necessarily have a particular kind of goal in mind or particular
kind of intention in mind. And I think that these are actually quite central moments in our life as
agents because it's so... I mean, digression, that's how many things are discovered. That's what this is.
Yeah, yeah. I was actually reading Walden yesterday because it's my good night book at the moment.
I've been reading it for over a year now. It's a little piece of cake that I'm always... And there
was one section in it that I marked because I thought it wouldn't be relevant and it's to our
discussion. And it's actually exactly about the kind of thing that you said, which I really love
because it made me think about, well, doing something in a different way or made me think
about the notion of intention in a different way in these moments when we lost. And so he's
he's saying, and I'll quote, not till we are lost, in other words, not till we have lost the world,
do we begin to find ourselves and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations.
End quote. And I love that. And he's like talking about this in the context,
you have to... He's like describing how he walks back at night to his little hut at Walden Pond and
finding his way in pitch black, just, you know, feeling the path that his way making trips back and
forth have made over the last month. And he's like describing this moment of just,
yeah, kind of losing where you are, but you're still, in some sense, you're, you're still an agent
in the world, you're still trying to make sense of what's going on. And in some sense, you're actually
creating on the spot, the meaning that you find in that situation. And I think that that these moments
of being lost, but still acting with the kind of directedness and intentionality,
they're quite centered to the idea of an action of bringing forth a world of bringing meaning
through the kind of activity that you do as an organism.
Thank you for that. No, thank you so much. That's so good. And so true. I mean, because as scientists
or philosophers who work in scientific environments, or even just like a society that's geared towards
science, and should be, we want to just, we want to have teleology, even if we call it, or we want to
have patterns, or we want to have, you know, that's what we're looking for. It doesn't mean we're finding
our way. And it doesn't mean we're navigating. But we have to, there's no choice but to make way
through the encounter. That is life, it's making way. And it's not intentional always that we've
decided which way we're going to make. And all of that is so rich. I guess this gets to the beyond
dichotomy too. I don't see that we have to say that because a teleology can be from some particular
position or scale, discovered that it's going to apply to all scales. Just the same way that a body
is made up of cells. And there will be particular things for the body that don't apply to the cell,
weirdly, or vice versa. But they're still the same process from some other perspective. That's a
really hard thing to hold in mind. And that's what we need new models to understand. So reading these
papers through, you know, this idea of agency, it's interesting to bring that back. And you're saying
you see that always in a goal oriented sense. Yeah, definitely. I don't think I or the authors of that
paper would want to say that every, every organism, even every organism of the same species has the
same kinds of goals, you know, in that sense, obviously, there are many teleologies, if you like.
But I think what I was more trying to say is that when you think about the notion of agency quite
generally, at least I find it quite hard to make sense of that without involving some notion of a goal
or of a purpose, which, to me, it doesn't mean that you're sort of having left that you've left the
field of natural science. It's just that's a sort of fact about how we understand the concept of agency.
And that needs to be explained. But it's sort of important to acknowledge that when you start
thinking about concept that it's so that's so difficult, rather than trying to reduce it to
something else that it that is completely devoid of any kind of goal, goal directedness. Because then
agency just kind of seems to, for me at least, my intuitive grasp on the concept seems to kind of
fade out of the picture.
Yeah, I worry sometimes about, I mean, a lot of these approaches are, once we start thinking, of course,
teleology is still naturalistic science and all of this, it can be. But I do think we have to use caution
in in this rigidity of often when we when we talk about these words, we do talk about them in a dichotomous
way so that it's either or, and that there's only one teleology, or somehow we find the right goal or the
right. Or, you know, and I guess what I what I want to do is, that's why I said teleologies,
not teleology, but is, of course, from as I was saying, from any position of assessment, we could
see goals. But we can't always ascribe that goal to the thing that we're assessing. I think we have to be
very, very careful about that something like Von Oxco, for example. Once you start doing that, you get into
really dangerous areas, which he did. I mean, he he had all these crazy ideas, you know, political
ideas that were really detrimental and wrong, that were very, very tied to believing, oh, we can
determine what a goal is for some agent. So I guess that's where I'm trying to open up the space where
it's, it's too easy to say everything is goal oriented and only goal oriented. It's better for me to say,
the measuring or the science is always going to be able to see particular goals when
assessing particular trajectories. But the overall bigger model we have to remember is not linear
ever. And from there's always you can always see many, many overlapping trajectories that then needs
a new model for how we understand what all this is, this this way making it, which isn't necessarily a
linear movement from someplace to a goal. You know, that that mindset is what bothers me. And what
is so we can so easily get stuck in, I think, through these very inspirational and true ideas.
I mean, a lot of the people that inspired me got stuck in those places. And it's hard to,
I don't want to, I don't want to do that.
I mean, I really like your, your idea, as far as I, we've talked about it of way making,
because it does always involve this historical dimension that makes it very
unique to each individual. You know, we all have come our own, our own way to where we are today. And,
and we will all, you know, go different paths, which sometimes cross and sometimes they don't.
But, but there's the sense that the kinds of goals that we care about, and that we do pursue,
and that guide our behavior, they are very much, yeah, tied to the kind of
individual that we have become, and that we are in the process of becoming.
And in that sense, yeah, I completely agree. I completely agree that it's, it's treacherous to
sort of think of teleology as one thing that applies to all.
Right. There could be even contradictory, contradictory teleologies in, within the same agent,
as part of the same agency. I guess it's just the rigidity of thinking that we're going to look at
this system and we are looking at everything. And so if we find the goals of that system, then we've
somehow solved something for multiple perspectives. It gets to what we were talking about, about the
cognition of how you can apply human cognition to a dog or whatever, in terms of if you're going to
punish them. You know, it's more that, I feel like we need more nuance in terms of
understanding that there's not, there's always multiple goals and multiple trajectories of getting
to any one particular goal. And the goal itself might look like a goal from one perspective and from
another not, I guess I'm just trying to open up, up that space, but I do want to get your, your opinion
or your perspective about this notion of whether we need affordances to have intention, because that's
also raised in the paper. And I feel like the authors say you don't need, you can have intentions with,
they don't depend on, on the affordances.
I think the, the point they make is they want to say that intentional action doesn't always depend on
affordances being present at that moment that are relevant to what you're trying to achieve.
So I think they have this example of someone looking to, to cut an onion or something, or looking, wanting
to cut an onion, but there's no knife present in the kitchen. Um, so they're just exploring the environment,
looking for something to cut the onion. Um, even though in that particular case, there is nothing there
that affords them to cut with. Um, and they say that it's not necessary for that being an object that
affords cutting in order to speak about there being an intentional action, and perhaps even the
intention of cutting an onion, that is beings and realized through exploring the environment in order
to find something that you can cut an onion with. Um, that's, that's a good point. It's the presence of
affordances in that moment. So that would again, go to that trajectory and that history that at some
point you've understood you, you've had a knife to cut the onion. So that would be sort of where the
directedness is coming from, but that doesn't mean that then the tool itself is present. I guess that
makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. And I think the other idea they, that's really central they want to bring in
is what, what we said earlier, um, that intentions do modulate the, the affordances that we do actually
perceive and that this is sort of the central fact that they think is important to take account of.
And that's why you need to start thinking about intentions. Yeah. I guess they, they want to say
that, you know, looking, adopting the kind of Anscombian approach can give an explanation of that without
thinking of intentions as internal representations of goals that are somehow, uh, projected onto the
environment. But it's rather that because when you're engaged in a particular kind of goal oriented
behavior, where you're doing something in order to do something else, like exploring the environment
for, you know, looking for something to drink, um, this intention, this like teleological connection
between, between the actions that you, you are, um, trying to sort of trace out in time in order to
reach a goal that actually restricts which affordances you perceive. Like you were saying
at the beginning, if you arrive in a brand new city, but you're thirsty. Yeah, exactly.
You're going to be focused on finding something to drink, not exploring the beauties of the city or
whatever. And so they, they want to, yeah, I think as I understand that they want to use Anscombian
in that way to, to keep hold of the idea of direct perception that affordances are perceived directly,
rather than through some mediating representational process, whilst also accommodating the idea that
our intentions affect which affordances we perceive at any particular moment in time.
I have to read it again and think about it, but I mean, on the first, first pass, I thought it was
very plausible, um, interesting proposal. Yeah. It's, it's great to have Anscombian brought in like
this. And I think that's really rich. There's, I think they say it in the paper, there's tons more
that could be explored. Did this paper give you anything new in your, your work?
As the authors also say in the conclusion of that paper, it's more a beginning, you know,
than a conclusive account of intention or something, because you have to really
do the work of trying to integrate the kind of Anscombian understanding of intention with
a, there's a naturalistic or scientific or empirical or whatever you want to call it understanding of,
of cognition and the mind and the body. And that's certainly something that I'm very interested in.
And I think it's important and that we should take an interdisciplinary approach to that question.
Um, and cognition in general. I mean, this is why I loved, you know, meeting you and talking to you,
um, and thinking about, you know, beyond dichotomies, beyond disciplinary boundaries and, and trying to
think about this in different ways that are maybe raising eyebrows, but, but can lead to
things that's the point just to kind of question and ask and explore. So thanks for offering this
paper. I mean, you, you came up with it. It was great. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Till next time.
Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I hope you have a good evening.
