How can we cut across this dichotomy of subjective and objective, rather than choose between
one or the other?
Gibson, I think, on the shoulders of somebody like William James and a few others, I'll
mention John Dewey as well, really have offered a revolution in our thinking to think relationally,
not dualistically.
Immediate experience points both to the experiencer and that which is experienced.
And when we use particular language, we should try to be as clear as possible.
If you use a term in lots of different ways, before long, the term has no meaning anymore.
So what are affordances?
They're relational properties.
They're properties of the environment defined relative to an active organism.
Let me just say one thing about the paper you mentioned, affordances in the body.
The purpose of that was that back at the time it was written, there were several people
writing about affordances who said affordances might apply to grabbing tools and objects
and glasses, but it has nothing to do with culture.
And that paper is completely to refute that argument, that we can extend affordances to
the cultural domain and the meanings in the cultural domain while being consistent with
the approach of ecological psychology.
We perceive by moving through the world.
So if we think about navigation as moving through the world, what happens is we detect
information as we move through it.
We don't need a map to find our way.
It's a tool and it can help us.
A map has great utility, but we don't need a map to find our way.
Animacy is the most essential quality of living things.
The problem historically is we've been stuck only in that second area.
Think about how Descartes even starts his meditations.
He's reflecting about himself.
He's not reflecting on the world.
The environment is not in the head.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy, Beyond Ecotomy, where we look for the patterns that connect
and explore spaces holding what might seem contradictory or irreconcilable, holding paradox.
And that word is a good word here, paradox, but not as good as love.
I'm glad you're here.
Today we have a really special guest named Harry Heft, who is legendary in circles in
environmental and ecological psychology.
What those terms mean, we will talk about here with Harry.
For those of you who are big JJ Gibson fans, you might be thrilled to learn that Harry
Heft knew Gibson and even drove him to work every day for a while when he was a student,
asked by Eleanor Gibson, by the way, another prominent scientist.
And during that time, they discussed today's topic, which is affordances that has a lot
to do with this subject-object meeting place that is beyond both subject and object in
these direct perception ideas where perception and action can be seen kaleidoscopically as
one process, or where navigation and making way might be understood as cognition, but
before cognition was ever called cognition.
Terry and I mentioned navigation, cognitive maps, and wayfinding.
And wayfinding is a specific term that's used in neuroscience and psychology.
You could best understand it as ascertaining your position and then planning and following
a route.
And that's different from this term waymaking, which you might hear sometimes, which is a
more general term that I use just to mean moving through the encounter.
It doesn't require planning or routing or anything.
Can include that, but doesn't have to.
It's just embodied movement or movement in bodies.
But that's a topic for another time.
Today is all about Harry Heft and his amazing life and work and its connection to JJ Gibson,
but also to another person I've loved since I was a teenager, William James, someone that
really influenced Harry, too.
In one of his books, he traces the path from William James to Gibson.
Actually, for those of you who like these kind of literary families, you can actually
trace James to Holt to Gibson to Harry, if you really want to.
Anyway, the term that we will talk about mostly here is affordances.
I wonder, for those of you who work in neuroscience or philosophy or some STEM field, how many
times you've heard the word affordances or used it yourself in the last week.
It seems to be a term that expresses quite a lot for us these days, and Harry and I discuss
whether it's overused.
He's one of the first people to talk about affordances, to bring it into popular discourse,
so to speak, scientifically.
So it's interesting to hear his opinion about whether that word is still meaningful, if
it still has the same meaning, if it's used in something like computational or technological
contexts, if it still makes any sense.
But the word itself is often defined as opportunities for behavior.
For those of you who have knowledge that overlaps in other fields and don't use this word a
lot or don't use this word at all, it just means opportunities for behavior.
So if you think of a human and a dog and maybe an insect walking in the forest on a path
to the lake or something like that, they're all going to have different affordances, different
opportunities of behavior in that same shared space.
So maybe there's a piece of wood that's great for the human to sit on and rest.
Maybe it's good for another creature there, the insect perhaps, as a home.
Maybe there's moss growing on it.
Also the dog might perceive different affordances.
Maybe it wants to drink water from the lake, if that's okay.
There's also the trees themselves, which would have different affordances.
An important point is that affordance is a neutral term.
It can be good or bad for the position, the person, the creature, the embodied interaction
or transaction that's going on.
So in any case, it's different affordances for everyone according to their body and position.
That's a very general, basic idea of this word, which we will try to get a better grip
on.
I also would highly recommend Harry's books, which I will link to, especially Ecological
Psychology in Context, where he talks about James Gibson and Roger Barker and this legacy
of William James.
And also the paper that I talk about here with him about affordances, which I'm putting
in the show notes.
And you cannot go all the way back to the 80s, I think even 1980, and read An Examination
of Constructivist and Gibsonian Approaches to Environmental Psychology, which is by Harry.
There's a lot that he's done relative to these themes.
He's also done a lot of work in the lab and work with kids and work with landscapes.
And his main inspiration, as you'll hear him talk about here, is environmental in an even
bigger sense.
He was first inspired to go into this because of Earth Day.
That was just starting, E-A-R-T-H, Earth Day.
And he wanted to understand how children and their environments interact.
What are the affordances that are beneficial there?
And this nests into bigger ideas of the environment itself, humans as part of that environment,
and how we might be creating changing affordances for ourselves, but also at all these other
nested levels.
So we get into quite a lot of that here.
I'm just really thankful for Harry and his work, and I hope you enjoy this conversation.
We're mid-December now, so there will be one more conversation that I'll post.
That's going to be with Karl Friston.
Season's greetings with Karl Friston.
Christmas with Karl.
Whatever term you like to use is good for me.
And then in the New Year, Evan Thompson, one of my favorite scholars in the world.
I will post our conversation.
Also, most of you know I'm very interested in Hegel.
And I have a wonderful conversation with Karen Ng, who's a wonderful Hegelian scholar.
She wrote The Concept of Life.
I'm going to post that early next year as well.
Many conversations already coming.
But just as the year winds down, I hope everything's going well for you and it's not stressful
and you're looking forward to the holidays, whatever you're going to do.
See family or just read a good book, take a walk.
Nourishing and with delightful affordances.
I'm really glad that I got to know you this year or that we've come into contact this year.
I appreciate you being here and listening and all that you do.
Thank you for supporting this show and this research.
Signing up for Substack or YouTube or whatever you do.
Even just thinking of it in a good way.
Thanks for that.
Here we go.
Hello, Harry.
Thank you for being here.
It's really wonderful to see you today.
Yeah, thank you.
It's nice to see you again.
Thanks for the invitation.
Yes.
It's my honor.
I'm really fascinated by so much of your work.
Today we're going to focus on this term affordance, which in many different fields I work in,
I hear used all the time.
And many of us in psychology and philosophy know that word associated with your work and
with Gibson.
This is where I want to start today.
You have such an amazing reputation relative to ecological psychology, environmental psychology.
For those who don't know these terms, maybe we could start with what is environmental
psychology or ecological psychology?
Are these different?
How would you approach those two words, disciplines, fields?
Yeah.
If I may, may I start with just a little bit of autobiography to explain this?
So I think most of us are products of the times in which we grew up.
And when I was a student, a graduate student, it was the time of the first Earth days.
And it was prompting attention to the relationship between human activity and environmental quality.
And there were a group of psychologists then who were kind of late in their career, but
they thought psychology needs to get engaged in environmental issues.
And they came together and they started a field called environmental psychology, which
is a pretty big umbrella term.
And that's what initially hooked me.
It was a time of environmental activism.
And it's like, okay, this appeals to my late adolescent mind.
Let's get engaged in this.
So it's a pretty sprawling field.
I ended up going through a graduate program, which was an interdisciplinary program on
environmental studies and psychology and planning and so on.
And what I was interested in at the time was the relationship between the quality of environments
and human development, particularly child development.
And my view at the time, which is kind of this sort of sophomoric approach to things,
is how can we make environments optimal for child development?
So starting there and within the umbrella of environmental psychology, I thought, well,
let me see how psychology treats the environment.
And that's when I became really frustrated because it leads to, I think, a couple of
directions which were not helpful for my applied interests and then ultimately for my theoretical
interests, one of which when it instilled that there's two threads and they're both
dominant and they're both kind of related.
One is to define the environment in physical terms, as a physical scientist might, which
has great value.
There's no question about that.
But then, you know, is that the best way to approach thinking about the environment when
it comes to psychological problems?
I was doubtful.
And then the other thread, and it kind of comes, stems from the first one, is people
arguing that, well, we experience the environment subjectively, you know, the environment we
experience is in our head and the person variables matter a lot.
Well, the person I was studying with at the time who kind of helped shape my early thinking
wrote this great essay to environmental psychologists with the title, The Environment is Not in
the Head.
Okay.
He said, you need to look, you need to look elsewhere.
I mean, there's going to be connections, but like, how do we conceptualize the environment?
And that's when he steered me in the direction of James Gibson's work.
So Gibson developed ecological psychology, which is different from environmental psychology
for theoretical reasons.
Environmental psychology is somewhat a theoretical.
I mean, it's sort of a grab bag of different approaches to try to see how we can answer
a particular problem.
But Gibson was concerned about the fact that indeed the environment is not in the head.
His philosophical inclinations led him to think that the notion of indirect realism,
that is that we each experience the environment indirectly by way of, let's say, mental representations,
does just not sound philosophically.
For one thing, and I know this is familiar ground to you, it leads to a position of solipsism.
And so we're all trapped in our own private worlds.
And so when I went back to my initial question, well, how can we make environments psychologically
more better for kids, it can't be thinking about the environment as being in the head,
but the environment, that's sort of a common ground for all of us.
And this is what Gibson did.
And what he did was he provided the grounds for a direct theory of perception, that is
not perceiving the environment indirectly, but perceiving it directly.
How do you do that?
And this is sort of the revelation, and it really redirected all my thinking.
I came across this in graduate school.
Do you remember when that happened exactly?
Was it one of those moments where it's kind of what you've been looking for?
Absolutely.
I mean, I could point the paragraphs to the paragraphs in Gibson's 1966 book.
I was sitting in my office as a graduate student, just about still on my chair.
It's like, oh, that makes perfect sense.
Life-changing.
And it's really, I mean, he didn't explain it the way I've been about to, but it's really
pretty simple.
I mean, if you ask, how do we hear?
And we can think about the model of like two tuning forks.
If you set one tuning fork resonating, how does it cause the other one to resonate?
And the answer is not very mysterious, is that there are vibrations that are set in
the air, which travel from one place to another.
We've known that for centuries.
But no one ever thought about applying that to vision.
And so what Gibson did, building on a few earlier ideas, is he developed the idea of
a medium for vision.
That is to say that we can think about the air in our room as filled with reflected light.
If we're not sitting in the dark, which we're not, neither one of us are right now, there's
light coming from a radiant source, like a lamp or something, and that light bounces
off of all the surfaces in the environment and creates sort of the steady state of reflected
light.
And then what Gibson then did is let's look at what the structure of that reflected light
might be.
Now, at this point, I won't go down a rabbit hole, but basically what he showed is there's
structure in reflected light, which allows you to detect a surface at a distance from
you.
In other words, there's a possibility for direct real-life.
And so when I went back to thinking about children, it's like, well, what are the environments
that children are directly experiencing?
And although in my dissertation, I was looking at physical variables and other things, it
became clear that the key to it was what is it that kids perceive, adults perceive, directly?
And Gibson answered that question as they perceive affordances.
Okay.
So what are affordances?
Briefly, no, no, they're relational properties.
They're properties of the environment defined relative to an active organism.
Before you go into affordance, because I think there's a lot to discuss there, I just want
to try to think big picture about what we're doing or what this is.
So we're thinking about experience and perception.
Is it safe to say that the kind of main problem is how do we account for, I think you say
meaning and perceptual experience in your work often, this word meaning, but really
it's how is this happening?
What are we trying to do with all this?
Well, let me answer by sort of providing one other piece of background, and this will be
a moment.
What, once I sort of had been working in Gibson's domain for a while, it was always very puzzling
to me where this, these ideas came from.
And one day and on 30 years ago, I was talking to a colleague in philosophy and I instantly
saw where it came from and it turns out for you philosophers that listening, it comes
from William James's radical empiricism.
For people who aren't philosophers and you've read James, you've only read James's principles
psychology probably or varieties of religious experience, but that's not where you're going
to find this.
You're going to find it in his last essays where what he does there is reject dualism.
He says that immediate experience points both to the experiencer and that which is experienced.
So if we, if we perceive whether, and this is referring to an affordance with, if we
perceive whether an object is graspable, we experience that in our immediate experience.
Now we can subsequently reflect that, oh, it has to do with the properties of the object,
objective properties, where we can reflect after it has to do with my experience of grasping
things and my body size, but that's not the immediate experience.
Those are kind of post-hoc analysis.
The immediate experience is this object that I can do something with.
It's affordance and it's, although William James does not use the term affordances, that's
where radical empiricism begins.
It's a complete rejection of dualistic epistemologies.
So if anyone wants to give, well, I have to say that my book that was published in 2001,
the first half of the book is really justifying that claim.
There's a lot in there I would like to think about.
First of all, it's interesting you mentioned James.
Did Gibson study with James, with his student or something?
Yeah, the first part of my book was a historical treatment of that question.
So James, James's student toward the end of his career was Edwin Holt, who was at Princeton
and Gibson was a graduate student at Princeton.
So there's a lot of circumstantial evidence which points to the fact that Gibson sort
of came, was exposed to these ideas through Holt.
Okay.
That's what I was trying to remember because I knew there was really a direct connection,
not only in ideas, but even in place and people being in similar learning environments.
And then you knew Gibson, which we'll get to, but I like this big picture.
You're talking about childhood place and how, and a lot of your work thinks about what that
is and how to understand that.
We can think about what importances lead to what sorts of paths and ways.
I'm trying to think about this big picture of we're in the world and it feels like everything
is in our head somehow.
There's this idea that perception is in the head, I'm being very general, or it's a matter
of something physical in the environment that's causing something.
So there's always been this either or, it's either subjective, it's about me and my experience
in my head, or it's objective, it's something happening in the world.
And it's been very hard for us to hold those things as not opposites.
And I think what Gibson does in your work and James, even though it might seem sometimes
it's one way or the other, even radical empiricism can sound really on one side, but if you really
dig into it from my perspective, it's actually showing a way that both of these are interacting
in some kind of dynamism.
How do you think about that?
Even that sounds too dualistic to me.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah, so let me just say something about behaviorism, which some people take very negatively as
being reductionistic, but there's another kind of behaviorism, which is sort of what
organisms do as whole organisms.
So imagine, and this is just a hypothetical, you put a child on the floor with a bunch
of objects, but they're going to crawl around, and that's important, and they'll come back
to that, but what they're going to do is they're going to interact with things that
they can meaningfully touch or lift or grab.
And so kids will grab objects that are compatible with their hand span and so on.
In other words, they engage the world in terms of objects that have properties that are suitable
and scale to their body and scale to their skills.
So the objects that they grab, they are affordances because they point both to the object itself
and to the possibilities for action of the individual.
So part of the difficulty for traditional philosophers is, okay, let's start with the
mind because that's where Descartes told us to start, but a behaviorist of the stripe
that I like says, no, let's begin with action, with behavior.
And in fact, among philosophers, that's where Mirleau-Ponty starts.
He starts with action.
So what is it that we're engaging and what are the properties of those things we engage?
And Mirleau-Ponty didn't use the term affordances, but he and Gibson really fit together quite
nicely.
There are so many terms in phenomenology that fit very well with the idea of affordance.
And you bring that out actually in the paper, which I think you wrote in 1989, and it's
called Affordances in the Body, an Intentional Analysis of Gibson.
That one is really famous.
I think everyone's read it and I encourage everyone to go and read it now.
But okay, so it is a kind of phenomenological lived experience in the way you described
it.
The child is going to have a different experience of those objects on the floor than the dog
or the cat or the parent.
But at the same time, those objects on the floor are the environment.
So we have both and for some reason we feel like we either have to start inside or outside
to try to describe it.
But I feel like what you are starting to get at with that paper where you bring in Mirleau-Ponty
is that it's both.
When you're talking about action, you're already talking about both, some body, the situation.
If you start with action in an environment that has things in it, you're not starting
inside.
You're starting at where the individual and the world meet.
It's really, if you will, a transactional concept.
I prefer transactional than interaction.
Is that the work of the affordance right there?
That almost synopsis kind of space of, because an affordance is also not a static thing.
It is that relation that you described of the child and the object.
We can't put it in the child or the object.
Or how would you?
Right.
But there are some constancies.
So for example, depending on the object, like I have my glass right here.
I mean, it has some fairly constant properties, and one of it is its width and its weight
and so on.
And I have some somewhat constant properties in terms of my hand, pants, span, and my strength.
But those are all changeable at different timescales.
Yeah.
There's patterns, there's regularities that would change with the consistency most of
the time.
We can say that.
Right.
But there's not a static thing.
Yeah.
And the body changes over certain timescales.
My colleague Karen Adolph of New York University looks at how children's decisions about locomotion
change as their body size changes, as their skills change.
So the world is dynamically changing, but the thing we have to remember is it's different
aspects of the change at different rates.
So the glass on my desk is relatively stable.
My body will be slowly changing, but entropy does win out of the event.
Right.
So when we're trying to understand what's happening, when we're trying to understand
the meaning and how we have meaning and how this happens, this amazing life that we're
living, affordances starts to do some work for us in a way.
And also thinking of it more ecologically in terms of ecological psychology, where we're
not just looking at the brain or just looking inside or just looking outside.
How would you start to think about what that's doing and how that's helping us with this
problem?
Yeah.
Well, let me drag my prop in again.
Yeah.
I have one too.
We can...
Cheers.
Cheers with our water.
Yeah.
And that is because of its properties in relationship to my body, it's meaningful.
It's graspable.
If you will, it has the affordance of being graspable or graspability.
The terms are getting a little clunky, although I guess it's not uncomfortable for German
speakers to have these long, extended words.
In English it gets a little weird, but we can talk about what an object or a feature
affords an individual.
And so some of the work that I did, I dabbled a little bit in design and with some landscape
designers.
And if we want to design a space where people might gather, we want to design a space where
people can sit.
So how high should you make these seats or these ledges or these benches?
Well, it should be relative to the body scaling of the people who are going to sit there.
So in other words, it affords these structures, affords sitting on it.
I'm sure we've all been in places where the things that look like there's...
You could sit on it, but they're too high or too small or someone.
So the property of being...
The affordance of sitableness, if you will, is defined relative to the person who's going
to be doing the sitting.
It's not in the person, it's not in the object, but it takes into account both parts of that
I would say duality, not dualism.
So is it almost a practice of a different kind of noticing or a different kind of coming
at this problem or this project of looking for meaning and building for meaning and creating
spaces that are meaningful?
I'll give you an example.
One of my closest friends here is a philosopher.
And for years, we argued over what affordances were.
And then he and his wife had twins.
And then the twins got old enough to go around the house.
And they started looking for light sockets and cracks and sharp edges.
And he called me and said, okay, now I know what affordances are.
Can I ask, what did he think they were before?
What was the argument?
It's really been a long time, but they just seem to be mysterious.
I mean, if you say to someone, well, there's this thing here, but it's neither in the person
nor in the world.
It's like, well, what are you talking about?
Isn't that because we are kind of born into a dualistic framework?
Not that the dualistic framework is somehow ordained by God or something,
but it's just the way we've built our science and our language,
not without good reason to try to understand it.
But isn't that why it doesn't make sense?
Because we think we have to put it in one of those boxes, right?
Yeah.
It also goes back to the influence of Judeo-Christian thinking,
that there's sort of the world and then there's the mind.
And the world is sort of not necessarily sacred.
We can do things to the world.
We can be poles in it and blow it up.
But the mind is next to God.
So we have this dualism that comes from our religious tradition.
And then Descartes, for really good reasons, tried to solve some problems.
And we've been stuck in that framework for a long time.
So Gibson, I think, on the shoulders of somebody like William James and a few others,
I'll mention John Dewey as well, really have offered a revolution in our thinking,
to think relationally, not dualistically.
But I want to add one thing, and this of course is in James's work,
that we do act in the world over time.
But there are moments when we kind of step back from that action and we reflect on it.
We engage in cognition too.
But it's important to distinguish between perceiving as a process in the course of
perception-action in time and reflection or cognition,
which is kind of stepping out of time a little bit.
The problem historically is we've been stuck only in that second area.
So think about how Descartes even starts his meditations.
He's reflecting about himself.
He's not reflecting on the world.
I think it's almost like such a kind of awe and mysterious experience that we
have the experience of the world and then we can experience our experience of the world.
Which I think is continuous in a way, even with your work,
and we can even understand that reflection as a kind of perception of our own perception
and so forth.
But I won't go down that rabbit hole.
But it is understandable that we get kind of amazed by it.
Yeah.
And one other thing let's remember with Descartes is he was really interested in trying to get to
the topic of certainty and truth.
He wasn't asking about the world.
He was asking about epistemology in those very influential essays.
But things have gotten sort of balled up over time, particularly for psychologists.
Yeah.
There's a lot of assumptions that we all start with as if they're facts without
realizing that we do.
And a lot of this work ends up trying to call that into question, which I think is something
that Gibson does just by offering another way to think about it.
But then that gets cartooned too in the sense of, well, it can't all be direct because yes,
obviously there is something going on inside.
But as you're saying it, the point isn't that there's not something going on inside.
It's how can we, he even says it in one of my favorite quotes, like how can we cut across
this dichotomy of subjective and objective, right?
How can we hold both those at once rather than choose between one or the other?
We do it all the time.
I mean, when we're in the world engaging objects, when we're talking to other people,
we're not, the dialogue is happening between us.
And we're each bringing something to that dialogue, but the dialogue exists relationally.
Now we can step back and after our phone call, we can reflect on what we said,
but that's not perceiving.
I mean, that's an act of reflection or cognition and that's legitimate.
That's not perceiving yourself.
And this is something I get confused about too, like with perception
where everyone puts the limit on it.
I'm thinking about what I said to you.
I feel like I'm still perceiving my own habits or patterns in a way.
Well, yeah, but let's go back to my earlier comments about the medium.
Yeah, I mean, so it's the basis for our sort of existing in a common medium
that enables us to act.
And if we're talking about vision, that medium is reflected light,
then we can talk much more specifically about the character of that.
That's a good point.
In your paper, you say, I think you quote Gibson about these polls of attention,
quote, which is just wonderful, right?
Because that's what you're saying, right?
The poll of attention shifts from so-called subjective to so-called objectives.
Yeah, or that's right.
That's right.
Or I would say from sort of relational engagement to much more inward engagement.
Or relational with self-engagement.
Yeah, so I mean, we know a common complaint in relationships is that
one person says, well, you're really not listening to me.
You're really thinking about what you're going to ask.
You're listening to your own thoughts, not mine.
Yeah, well, that's fine, but that's not dialogue.
Is it real?
Sure.
Is it important?
Sure.
But it's not dialogue.
So we really want to talk about this dynamic exchange that goes on between us.
I'm trying to remember also in that paper when you talk about, because it's wonderful
in the way that you show that relational is an alternative to this dualistic way of thinking.
And I feel like one part of it that was really strong for me is when you're talking about
the continuity.
And this gets into something I want to go into with you too, about how we confuse our
maps for our territories or the maps for the process.
But what I think, what I remember is when you're talking about relationality, you're
talking about the continuity and that everything is ongoing and moving in a process.
But with the dualistic point of view, we always freeze it into little static parts and it's
almost as if something starts and stops.
But all of this is always ongoing in a process.
We never get to have a beginning or end.
Isn't that part of when you're talking about relationality and the difference?
Sure.
But yeah, let me return to like, let's take something simple and that is like perceiving
an object.
So if you walk into a room and there's an object on the table and you don't know what
it is immediately, what do you do?
You walk closer to it, you walk around it, you look from different vantage points.
From an ecological point of view, what you're doing is you're sort of isolating the
specifying information that tells you what that thing is.
I mean, organisms move.
Frankly, organisms didn't begin perceiving, they began moving.
Animacy is the most essential quality of living things, even single-celled organisms.
And then subsequently in evolutionary history, we develop these means to actually cease to
detect things that are maybe at a distance from us.
Visually, auditorily, and also through smell.
But we want to begin with animism, animacy.
We want to begin with action.
And that leads me back to what I said a minute ago.
We want to be good molar behaviorists, not reductionistic behaviorists.
Just look at what an organism is doing.
The problem with behaviorism was they didn't take seriously that we have this subjective
experience, this thing we call consciousness, which gets called a million things.
But behaviorism itself is kind of all of this, right?
I mean, it got rejected with the Chomsky article and all that.
Right.
Yeah.
But just remember, the behaviorism that most people have been familiar with is a
reductionistic one.
Let's go down to the most basic unit of something.
But that's not the kind of behaviorism I'm talking about.
That's what I'm trying to point out.
Because I think some people will hear that and that's what they think.
That's like the opposite of what you're saying.
Now, go out to the neighborhood playground and watch the kids playing on the equipment.
You're a behaviorist.
What are they doing?
And why are they doing what they're doing?
And then if you're looking at them playing in the playground, you instantly see that,
oh, they're engaging affordances.
They're climbing on things and sliding down things.
Yeah.
So just sort of observing the world, which neither philosophers nor psychologists have
been particularly good at, you start to see action and affordances.
They're right there in front of your face.
In fact, you do it all the time.
That's why I brought up this practice of awareness because it's almost like that's
the most important part.
I think we could say that about a lot of science and writing and philosophy.
But there's two open threads here that I really want to explore.
The first, you brought up design.
And I know that this term affordance has become a huge thing in design and architecture.
And gosh, in every field, everyone's using the idea of affordance.
And there's been some other work written about it.
Do you, because in that paper from 1989, you show that it's okay to think of affordance
in a different way so long as you're coming from it from this intentional point of view,
which connecting to what we were saying about Merleau-Ponty is situating it in the body
and understanding the trajectory, so to speak, or the goal that we're assessing.
But how do you feel about this word affordance?
I hear all the time in all fields now in different ways.
Do you feel like that paper and the way you lay out affordance is the way that it's still
being used?
And if not, does it bother you?
There are two points.
But the main thing is, and I don't want to cast aspersions, but unfortunately, decades ago,
someone in computer design decided to apply the concept of affordances to what's generally
called interaction design.
Interaction design means how we engage with computer interfaces.
That was a huge mistake because it's using the term affordances in a very different way.
And that's okay.
You can use words any way you want, but we have to be consistent.
Otherwise, we're completely confused.
One of the things that I've been trying to do over many decades is to say,
here's how we're going to use it in ecological psychology.
And I wish others who would use it in different ways would be much more careful.
And the reason why is not because I'm trying to be territorial about the term.
But if you use a term in lots of different ways, before long, the term has no meaning anymore.
It has no value anymore.
It applies to all these different things.
And then, as a scientific concept, it's useless.
Well, I think it relates to also meaning, this word that I keep bringing up,
and that if we're really trying to understand the world and the meaning,
that's part of what we're trying to do with psychology and philosophy.
And in a practical way, you talked about kids and the places that we grow up.
And that's incredibly important to think about and look at,
and how are we going to structure that?
But once we start using affordance in terms of computer language and stuff,
I don't think that it's necessarily wrong.
But the activity that we were just describing of why this was
an important new direction kind of gets collapsed, doesn't it?
Because we then have forgotten the body, the situatedness, the meaning, all that.
No, that's exactly right.
Exactly right.
Until robotics develops a lot a bit further than it is,
there's no body when we're talking about computer design.
And so to use that word affordances in that concept, it just weakens the term.
It also strengthens it in a weird way in that context that they're using it.
Because I think the reason we like that word so much is exactly because of this powerful
connection to meaning and body and place.
And that's what it's carrying with it.
And so I think what we want to do when we use that sometimes in AI or computer
programming or whatever, these other fields that are different,
is where we want to take some of that inertia into it.
Well, we also want to look current and cutting edge.
That's part of it.
If it's a buzzword, it's not going to have much scientific value.
Science can't advance on buzzwords.
It has to advance with terms that are well-defined.
Define affordances with greater precision today,
because I don't want to go down a sidetrack.
But it can be defined mathematically, at least in some cases it has been.
Well, that kind of goes into something else I want to talk about before.
I just want to say also that I think it is a very important word,
even in this world of robotics computer programming.
Because if we could use it the right way there, it actually could really be very helpful.
I think if we really think about affordance in the way situated towards a goal with a body,
all these things, it actually solves a lot of problems there.
Because then we realize actually there are affordances,
but they're not to the robot or the computer.
It's to the person who's doing the programming or so on or so forth.
You can get to that place of a body and a situation and all of it.
And actually going through that could be really beneficial in the field.
So I think there's even more of a reason to not just say don't use the word,
but learn the history of the word.
Because it could help you actually with what you're trying to describe
and even philosophically to talk about it.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, I'll be patient and see how it all develops.
Let me just say one thing about the paper you mentioned, affordances in the body.
The purpose of that was that back at the time it was written,
there were several people writing about affordances who said,
well affordances might apply to grabbing tools and objects and glasses,
but it has nothing to do with culture.
And that paper is completely to refute that argument,
that we can extend affordances to the cultural domain
and the meanings in the cultural domain
while being consistent with the approach of ecological psychology.
And that's an incredibly important contribution
and one reason that paper has made such a splash.
Also, I really could see that continuing on
in this tradition of philosophy of technology or thinking of AI.
But of course, that would be a whole other discussion.
But just for anyone who might want to follow that,
there's something rich there.
Maybe. I'm going to be skeptical until I see something.
That's good.
So there's two other things.
The idea of wayfinding and navigation and how this relates.
Because we've talked about trying to understand place,
trying to understand the affordances of place
and all of this is how it's making meaning
or how perceptual experience is meaningful.
And you've talked about this as movement.
And so how do we relate this to your work
with something like navigation and wayfinding?
Because it's almost as if we just start to think of
our perceptual experience or even our life
as almost like a path or an exploration
or a following of another path.
How would you put those together?
How did they come together for you?
Yeah. Well, when I use the terms navigation or wayfinding,
I literally mean moving from one place to another place.
Now, we can use wayfinding sort of metaphorically
and talk about my search for meaning in life.
But that's not how I use the term.
I mean, literally, how do we get from here to there?
And again, this goes back to what I said
at the very outside of our discussion.
In environmental psychology, the way in which wayfinding
or navigation was studied was assuming
that we have maps in our head.
In fact, a recent Nobel Prize winner received the award
for his work on saying that the hippocampus in the brain
is a cognitive map.
I don't doubt the findings about the hippocampus,
but I am critical of calling it a cognitive map.
Talking about having maps in your head removes us
from understanding how we find our way in real environments,
how I get from my house to the grocery store three blocks away.
I mean, that's the navigation that I'm interested in.
Now, and from a Gibsonian point of view,
which I didn't stress this earlier,
but it's perception actions, not just perceiving.
It's not just perceiving.
So we perceive by moving through the world.
So if we think about navigation as moving through the world,
what happens is we detect information
as we move through it.
There are features that are revealed as we move through it.
And it's that information that I was most interested in.
This is the work I did early in my career.
But again, it's information that's perceived over time.
It's always over time.
We can talk about perceiving pictures,
but that's a whole different universe.
We're talking about perceiving dynamically over time.
So that's where my work on navigation started.
And Frank, well, I'll leave it at that for now.
Yeah.
No, this is great because I don't think you know this.
I don't think we talked about this,
but I was in a lot of those labs that you're talking about.
And I've had a lot of discussions with those same people
about this subject, even on this channel.
So it's interesting to think about the cognitive map.
And here's something that's really hard to talk about,
but it's really related to your work
and everything we've already been talking about.
I think you would say there is no such thing
as a cognitive map and others.
No, I wouldn't say that.
Well, I wouldn't say that.
And this connects to something I was mentioning earlier.
I told you wayfinding, I would navigate from my house
to the market several blocks away.
But I could sit in my chair and imagine how I can do that.
I don't mind calling that a cognitive map.
In other words, I'm withdrawn from engaging the world
and I can reflect on the world.
And certainly we do that all the time
when we're walking around cities, right?
We're following familiar paths, but let's say
a route that's familiar to you is blocked at the moment.
Then you might start reflecting on,
oh, how else can I get around here?
Well, I don't have any trouble with cognitive maps
used in that second sense.
But to say that cognitive maps
are what drives online ongoing perception action
I think is problematic.
Because a map, as you said in a different context,
is static, it's frozen.
And even GPS maps, they're limited in scope.
So we want to keep the emphasis, as Gibson and others have done,
and James did, on experience as being dynamic and over time.
I mean, the main contribution of William James
in the book that most people might know,
The Principle of Psychology, is the stream of thought.
It rejects the idea that they're frozen bits and pieces
of images in thinking, but that thought goes on.
Actually, that's what he said, mental life goes on.
And you can leap forward decades, and that's Merleau-Ponty.
Same thing.
What Merleau-Ponty does, which James didn't do,
is he includes the body in trying to account for change over time.
But yeah, we can have a cognitive map.
I can sit still and sort of reflect on how I might get someplace.
Yeah, I think I disagree with both sides of this in a way,
and agree with both sides of it, which I guess is fitting with this
trying to hold the paradox of subject and objective.
Because I do think they're cognitive maps, but they're not in our heads.
And I don't even think, there's a confusion that I feel is something
we've been touching on between when we try to create representations externally,
or what you might think of as analytically maps or objects,
languages, documents, things like this, and the ongoing process itself.
Do you see any confusion there between, for example,
I think you've even talked about it, that from day one,
we are thinking about maps in our life.
We're encountering actual maps, whether it's on our phone or the old paper ones,
or even just diagrams and things like that.
So it structures the way that we think about the world.
Of course, in that way, we are mapping,
but we don't have a cognitive map in our head.
Do you see those as two different things?
In some other things I've written, there's work in cultural anthropology,
places where people don't have maps, and they find them quite well.
So a map has great utility, but we don't need a map to find our way.
It's a tool, and it can help us.
But the process, the pattern itself, can be, I think,
studied and understood in the way that you were describing.
We can physically find our way through the world, wayfinding.
From A to B, literally, the body is moving.
But if you think of language in terms of something like a landscape,
a city is basically a collection of regularities
that your body is patterning itself with as it's moving through it.
But when we're in a thought space, or when we're moving through something like a book,
or even memories, isn't there also a similar pattern?
Well, I wouldn't make that leap, because I don't think we know enough about what it...
Well, no, I put it a different way.
I don't think I've thought enough about what it means to move through a book
as opposed to moving through the world.
But I've thought a lot about what it means to move through the world.
And it requires my body.
It's an action.
Yeah.
So I think, again, it's sort of similar to what I was saying earlier about affordances.
We have to be careful with our terms.
So we can say, oh, yeah, I'm navigating through a book.
Well, is that the same thing as what I mean when I say I'm navigating through the city?
I don't think so.
So even though we're using the same terms,
it doesn't mean that they're supported by the same underlying processes.
I think, again, the use of terms is absolutely critical.
I would say if you can separate the way that we're going to try to assess or measure it
from the process itself, the patterns might be in common, even though it's a different thing.
But we have to be very careful not to just take the metaphor
and then put it to all the science that's been done.
It doesn't help anything.
I think it's important, and this is probably one of the things I most learned from Gibson,
to be careful and consistent with the language that we use.
When we use particular language, we should try to be as clear as possible about it.
So let me give you just one example in terms of a book I'm reading now.
So this book I'm reading now has time jumps.
I'm reading it, and now suddenly I'm back 20 years earlier than a minute ago.
It's like, that's not navigation in a terrestrial sense.
So I could say I'm navigating through this book that doesn't have a linear narrative.
Well, then that's something different.
And if I was a psychologist interested in reading, I would like to know how I can do that.
I think it would happen the same way that if someone suddenly changed,
if they could, if you were in a VR city or something and they suddenly changed it to another
city, you would have to re-adjust, realign with the regularities.
I don't think it's different from it.
I think the patterns are very similar, and I actually think this is a way to
do what Gibson wanted and overcome that dichotomy of thinking that something that's in the head
is somehow different than the physical.
They do share similar patterns.
But I agree, we do have to be very careful because if you use certain terminology in a way,
then whatever way everyone's heard that terminology before, they're applying to that.
But also, again, I mean, fundamentally, even though some might not think of me this way,
I am a scientist.
And so I want to say, okay, I want to talk about, okay, empirically, what do we know about this?
Well, there is a very smart ecological psychologist at Brown, Bill Warren,
who works in this very large virtual reality space.
And he's done studies where he has people go through wormholes.
They're in this enclosure and they're walking around and suddenly they
go through a wall and they're at some place completely different.
Now, I'm not going to report on what he found, but I'm saying you can study these things
empirically without saying, oh, they're the same.
I don't know that they're the same.
There have been studies.
There have been studies on the hippocampus and of course it has a very big role in memory
and also in navigation.
And there have been experiments designed where you are literally moving through some kind of a
virtual space or an informational space.
We do still see similar patterns to when you're moving through a physical space.
Now, that doesn't mean that it's the same, but it does provide a bit of a link between
not thinking of what's happening when we're thinking and remembering and having emotion
and what's happening when we're moving from A to B in the physical world and being physical
as completely different, dualistic, right?
There might be a way that they're relational that we just haven't been able to kind of
widen our perspective to see yet.
Well, I'd say part of our problem is, and this is actually a point Wittgenstein makes,
we're trapped with pictures.
We think about things, we try to envision.
So I would say if you want to understand, let's say, wayfinding or navigation, the analogy
should be listening to music because music is this structure that unfolds over time.
And I would say navigation is similarly a structure that changes over time, although
the difference is you move through the environment.
So you used the word memory a minute ago.
So when I'm walking to this familiar store not far from me, as I go, am I sort of relying
on memory?
I don't think so, any more than when I'm listening to a very familiar melody that every step in the
way I have to think about, oh, where's this melody go next?
No, that's not it at all.
It's a relational structure that unfolds over time.
And navigation, I would say, is that as well.
I would say that's already a cognitive act.
I wouldn't separate that action from being and perception and cognition as if they're
all separate things.
So yes, I think there's a difference when we are aware that we're thinking about something.
I'm remembering actively.
There's different kinds of memory.
You remember how to ride a bicycle, but you're not thinking about riding a bicycle.
There's all these different kinds of memory.
And I think when we move through the city, after we've moved through it many times, we're
of course not remembering it in that active sense of remembrance, as if there's a subject.
But our body's engaging in, I would say, active memory.
I wouldn't distinguish those in a dualistic way.
But doesn't that indicate that we need to use the word memory with greater care?
Yeah, it needs to be thought of a lot differently.
So when I'm riding a bicycle, why even bring memory into it?
What I'm employing is a skill that I've developed over a history, and I just sort of engage it.
Even going back to this classic paper written in the 40s by Carl Lashley, one of the famous,
there are certain things that happen too quickly, I think he talks about in the
arpeggio, that can't rely on memory in the traditional sense of sort of reaching back
and pulling out something that occurred before.
It's actually in this paper he wrote called In Search of the Engram, which is a term referred
to memory.
And he basically says in certain circumstances that there is no memory.
It's that the body has developed a pattern of skilled action.
I think using the term memory there just confuses matters.
I think it might confuse, but it's a confusion we need to work through.
I think even to go back to Gibson and the idea of more direct perception.
And there's something like ecological memory and ecological perception.
I think the problem that we don't use those words and really think through it and change
that, that's the hard work of changing this framework and these patterns of dualism that
we're all stuck in, is we need to rethink that.
Cognition and memory aren't things in the head, and they aren't just our thoughts and
images that we have in this kind of way that we are aware of ourselves.
They're very, for me, they're very much the way that the body is in the world.
And only later do we get to this point where we feel like we have memories in the sense
that we attach them to words and images.
And that's a really hard thing to think about.
And it's really radical to start thinking about ecological memory in that sense.
But for me, it seems like the only way we're ever going to really get beyond these dichotomies
that are shaping everything, because they are built in the language.
And if we just don't use the language, then we just stay with them.
Well, I recommend, I mean, folks have thought about this a long time, and we
neglect classic works at an apparel.
So if you go back to the 30s, there's a wonderful book written by Frederick Bartlett,
British psychologist, called Remembering.
Basically, so it's the same thing that you just said, but maybe in different words.
Bartlett.
Yeah, so if you read my work, I almost always start with history.
I think that's where we need to begin, not to stay there, but to sort of build on the
insights of others who have sort of made some progress in some area.
Yeah, I really like that.
I think that's connected to this continuity, right?
That we really understand that everything is continuous and understanding where it's
coming from is absolutely essential to understanding how to use it or what it is.
But we don't really take the time to do that.
But I wanted to understand your biography a little, and we've gotten into all these
big ideas, because can we go back to before you wrote that 1989 paper, and when you discovered
this thing by Gibson, and how did all those dominoes start to fall?
Because I believe you got to know him well, and were you teaching with him or something?
I have all these kind of ideas of how did all that begin?
Yeah, well, I wouldn't say that I knew him well.
I spent about a year at Cornell, and I interacted with him quite a bit there.
In fact, what happened was, so after I finished my graduate work, I was looking around for a job,
and the only job I got was a crummy job I didn't want.
And I thought, well, why not try to spend some time with Gibson?
Because I was just barely learning this stuff.
This is going to relate to navigation.
When I got up to Cornell, in a bunch of circumstances, I'll make the story short.
You don't have to.
Well, it turns out that he was retired at that point, although he had a weekly seminar.
But he was also teaching a course once a week at this other university that was 40 minutes away.
Where Cornell is in the winter is a pretty rugged area.
So he was going to co-teach a course at this other university during the winter months,
and it was an evening course.
And so his wife, who is just an imminent psychologist as he, Eleanor Gibson,
approached me soon after I got there.
And she said, would you mind being his driver to get to this course?
And of course I said, well, yeah, of course I will.
Because in fact, I didn't know much about his work, and I thought, great,
I'm going to have him in a car for two hours every week to talk to him.
And so one of the questions that kept coming up for me in our conversations is,
how are we finding our way from Ithaca, where Cornell is, to this other city, Binghamton?
I mean, how are we even doing this?
And that's kind of where my interest in navigation started.
Oh, I love that.
Did you talk to him about that?
Oh, sure.
Yeah, because at that point, so if those listeners who maybe have read some of Gibson,
will have only probably read his last book, The Ecological Approach of Visual Perception.
When I was there, that book was in manuscript form.
And he had already written a bunch of stuff on this question, which I hadn't seen yet.
So we talked about what he had written about navigation and wayfinding in his yet-
So he was literally working on that as you were having these,
that's quite a weird synchronicity.
Yeah, my whole career is full of luck.
Yeah, no, I saw him in his office and on the bookshelves are all the chapters sort of
stretched the way, and I would read them.
And of course, then I could ask him about them because I was really an novice at the time.
And so my earliest publications, once I got a faculty position, was trying to test the ideas
that were implicit in his writing about navigation and wayfinding.
So the first 10 years of my career was mostly on that topic.
And you are a scientist and you have done a lot of work that's scientific,
but I wonder at that time, how was that considered?
Because now where I am, there's a lot of love for Gibson, right?
Or there's a lot of appreciation, even though there's also a lot of controversy.
But I wonder then, had you just found someone that no one had heard of or was he already
a big player? What was it like in that time period?
Yeah, well, it turns out that's really an interesting question where it leads.
So Gibson published a book in 1950 that made a huge splash for a whole bunch of reasons,
which we don't have the time to, I could do it, but we don't have time to go into.
And then when he wrote his next book, which was published like 16 years later,
he basically disavowed most things he wrote in the first book.
But in the meantime, the psychological community had embraced that first book and thought,
oh, he's fantastic.
Was the first one the senses considered as perceptual?
No, the first one's called The Perception of the Visual World.
Okay. I didn't even know about that one.
When he wrote the senses as considered as perceptual systems, I mean, he didn't completely
reject everything in the first book, but he basically moved away from it.
Was the first one more traditionally?
Exactly.
Yeah. So then the question becomes, well, how does the psychological audience now react to
the second book? And most of them said at the time, and since they bought the first argument,
he was smart once, but he's kind of gone off his rocker now.
And yeah, so for a long time, the second book, which was really the main book,
The Senses Considered, was sort of treated as interesting, but kind of quirky.
And then over the next 50 years, people saw, oh no, wait a minute.
This is really the heart of his ideas.
So if you look at mainstream psychologists, and I can cite some examples, and you see,
and if they cite Gibson, you almost always see that they cite his 1950 book, which she gave up
on. Yeah.
I did not even know that. That was the one that made the difference for me, The Senses Considered.
There's a parallel story to that, and that is during the time that Gibson was at Cornell,
a seasoned faculty member was hired, namely Ulrich Neisser.
And in 1967, Neisser wrote the book on information processing called Cognitive Psychology.
It was like the Bible of information processing.
And then he went to Cornell and started talking to Gibson, and he said, I was completely wrong.
And he wrote a follow-up book. So the same thing happened.
It's like Gibson's work convinced Neisser to move away from most, not all, to be sure,
but most of his earlier ideas. But the audience of psychologists who read this work are really
reluctant to let go of these old ideas, and why? Because they've done hundreds of experiments
based on them. They built an entire career on them. Yeah. So change is slow.
And what is so different about the first book and the second book, if you had to put it in?
Of Gibson's?
Yeah. If you had to say, is it the directness?
No. It's mainly that he, instead of... So earlier on, I talked about ecological optics,
that is to say the information of reflective light. That's what comes up in this...
Optical flow, yeah.
Yeah. In the first book, he's talking about the visual image as largely static.
He's still largely talking about the retinal image. Although that's not completely fair.
He tries to break away from it, but it's mostly still tied to the idea that we have a
projection of information on our retina.
I see. So it's the vision psychology that you're talking about that sticks to that. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And so if listeners know Gibson's work on texture gradients,
which is really what was really very famous work, it comes at... And they're still valid,
but it comes out of that first book. But by the second book, he said, nah, forget about that,
because what I did wrong there is I really didn't talk about the active organism.
He considered perceiving from largely, not completely, but largely a stationary point of
view. But now let's think about individuals, animals moving around in the world. How does
that force us to change our thinking? And that's where the risk proceeds.
Well, it's amazing. And I can understand how going so deeply as he did probably to write
that first book that he would be able to then see it differently. But it's weird how that
happens sometimes that you almost have to completely immerse yourself in what is,
and then you see, oh, actually, I don't know if you've had that experience.
You're absolutely right. Nyser did the same thing. It's really an act of
courage. Because again, imagine you have this great reputation and you decide, no, wait a minute,
that wasn't right. Let me try again. That's really remarkable. And it doesn't happen in
science very often. No, it doesn't. And you've brought up time a lot here. And the time can
be unfair in a way, because all those ideas are important in making a lot of new...
They're starting a lot of new things and have been for a long time. Your work is one example,
right, of all that you've opened up because of that. But over time, he doesn't get to see that.
So in that moment, it is really brave. But it might also just be a matter of clarity,
because if you've really studied deeply and you know what you've studied and you know
what you're presenting, you don't have a choice. There's been a lot of scientists and people who've
had that experience over time where they just are like, okay, nobody's going to understand for a
while, but got to do it. Yeah. Well, these ideas that led to this newer work were clearly gnawing
at him for decades. Let me explain what I mean by that. The jerk transformation is to think about
visual perception as you move through the world. And so in the 1930s, he published a book
basically about how we drive a car. What's the world look like when we're driving a car?
And it's about perceiving over time. During the war, he worked for a division of the Air Force.
And the main question was how do pilots perceive the ground as they're coming in for a landing?
So in other words, these problems of perceiving over time were always there,
but it doesn't really come to fruition until 1966 and then the last book in 1979.
I'm so glad you brought that up. I'd love to read that book about the car. I didn't know about that,
but is it available anymore?
No, it's an article.
It's an article, okay. And I did know about the flight stuff because I think a lot of that,
you can see a lot of that if you look in the books of, he was really, it's not just a thought
experiment. He was trying to understand the way things were happening.
Exactly. And so you give me far too much credit by the way, but I'm hopefully just trying to
I don't think so, Harry. I mean, that paper's made a big difference for a lot of people. And
you know how much I care about this bridging of seeming opposites, and that's definitely a really
good academic example of perspective shifting. So these things matter. It's not just flattery.
I just, I really think they matter over time. It's just sometimes it takes so long for them
to really be visible.
Yeah. Well, I mean, what's gratifying to me is that some of my younger colleagues
are appreciating it now. I don't think my work was given all that much attention for a long time.
So that happens.
Do you feel like you've understood better? I mean, I wanted to ask you, why did you want
to understand how to make place better for children? Why was that so early? Because even
some of your last papers, which I didn't get to talk to, but the ones in the last 10, 15 years
where you do really interesting stuff in different collaborations about how children are in their
environments or how they make them sustainable. I can't remember all the titles now, but you're
still doing it and following through on that. Where did that come from? And do you feel,
how do you feel about that trajectory?
Well, I said at the very beginning, Earth Day occurred when I was just finishing undergraduate
studies and environmental activism was really what people, well, environmental, anti-war,
and women's rights.
But why kids? Because you were a kid still? Why children? Why children?
You just thought that's where it matters most?
Yeah. Because what we've known within psychology for a long time is the early years are formative.
And now the notion of brain plasticity is non-controversial. But back then,
the thought was our kids kind of born and pre-wired to engage the world in certain ways.
And there's a lot of skepticism at the time. And with the skepticism comes the question,
well, do the environments then matter that kids are growing up in?
Is it going to affect how they develop? So that's kind of where I came in.
But again, I was interested in students of the 60s and early 70s is like, well,
how can we change things to make them better? And that went out of fashion for a long time.
But I think it's come back now. So that's kind of where I started.
Now, do you think that affordances are phenomenological and environmental?
I mean, do you think we can change our affordances through kind of attention in
the way that we've been discussing? Or have you seen it happen over all these years?
We can change. Well, we change affordances all the time because we alter the environment.
It's always happening both ways. It changes us and we're changing it.
Yeah. I mean, the concept that many people might be familiar with now, which came up really about
10 years ago, is the idea of niche construction. That organisms alter their habitat to better live
in it. All organisms do that. And so do we. And in doing that, what we do is we change the
available affordances of the environment. Yeah. So do you think in thinking about this problem of
how we find meaning through perceptual experience, just by putting attention on this and understanding
this process that we might, if we try to nest all of this in different ways, it is a different kind
of world and lived experience of the world. At least I think of it like that. Do you connect
to the work you've been doing in these ideas to those, the bigger place where you started
with something like Earth Day and really trying to think of what self and Earth are in a different
way? Is that too sentimental? No. Because what we haven't mentioned at all in this conversation,
which was understandable, is what I've done with most of my time over the past 50 years.
I spent 42 years teaching at an undergraduate college.
The same one since 1976.
Yeah, exactly. And teaching, and I saw teaching undergraduates as not only teaching some basic
things about psychology and so on, but also making them aware of the world we live in.
And hopefully making them more sensitive to the ways in which their environment is changing.
And like 25 years ago, I had to argue with them to convince them that,
yeah, the climate's changing. Here's the data. And there's a lot of resistance to climate change
for reasons I don't have to go into. And now 40 years later, of course, it's changing.
We've known this all along. Yeah, so teaching is crucial. And in my role as a teacher,
I tried to inform my students about what was going on in the world around them.
Yeah. In fact, frankly, that was more important than teaching them psychology.
Because, again, they're undergraduates. Most of them are not going to go on to have careers
in psychology. But they are going to go on to live as citizens in a country and as businesspeople
and whatever. And having an awareness of the dynamic changes in the environment is positive.
So that was really my main commitment. And fortunately, I was able to squeeze everything
else in around the corners. I'm so glad you said that. And I mean,
this is love and philosophy. And to me, that feels like an act of love. I think that Gibson
doing what he had to do and changing course is kind of an act of love too. But so many,
and I've had a lot of discussions with a lot of famous people over my life, and they almost always
end up saying it was one teacher who said one thing that sort of put them on that path.
So, I mean, yes, your papers are very important. They will pass on and on. And you're passing on
the James and the Gibson tradition in a way. But probably the most important acts of love that you
did was that, right? Going to work every day and teaching and being able to kind of transmit that
in little small moments. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't phrase it that way,
but I think that's absolutely accurate. Yeah. I mean, I love teaching. I love being in the
classroom. And even now that I'm not teaching, I'm writing every day. These are acts of love
because that's what I do. Those activities. I mean, I could be doing other activities as
acts of love. I'd be cooking for my family and that would be an act of love, but I'm not a very
good cook. I do these things. Those are my acts of love. Well, I really appreciate it. And it's
meaningful, right? Back to that word meaning and all this perceptual experience. And yeah, I think
it's good to, at times, just call it out for what it is because it matters. And young people seeing
it, it's good to know that as you progress through your career, those are what matter,
those moments. And coming from that place, it might not be teaching, it might be teaching, but
whatever it is that feels like that, it still matters over time and space, I guess.
Yeah. No, I think so. I do have students who I've been in contact with over many decades
and hopefully that had some impact on them. I have the impression that it did.
It did. I was just with you in Spain and I saw for myself.
Thank you.
I've witnessed it firsthand. Well, thank you. I'll let you go. We already talked a bit over time
and it's been kind of an intense talk. So I really appreciate you and I really appreciate
your work. And this has just been great. And yeah.
Thank you. I've had a great time. Take care. I hope we can stay in...
Yeah, me too. I'd love to talk to you again sometime. You've got such a huge body of work.
Thank you.
