Hey everyone, this is the sixth research diary.
Part of it happened before I talked to Bernardo.
Some of it happened after I talked to Bernardo.
I'm not really sure.
I just sort of put it all together into one file
and now I'm not sure what came before or after.
So I'm just gonna post it
as smushed up ramblings about consciousness.
But the main idea is that
I don't think there ever is really a state of unconscious
that we might be unable to access our consciousness,
so to speak, in terms of the meta level,
but that we're always conscious
and there's just many different nested levels of that.
Life is conscious, I guess,
is what it ends up being that I'm saying.
And what we call unconscious is just our one body's
inability to access its own consciousness
at the same time that it's conscious.
So there's a lot of loops and fractals in here
that I'm trying to figure out.
None of it's perfect.
That's the point of these research diaries,
just to talk and see what comes out.
I often surprise myself, so hope you'll be gentle with me,
but I would love to hear what you think about this.
It might be a little controversial,
but here's something I think right now.
I think that consciousness is
from the beginning of life to the end of life.
For some of you, that will sound very simple,
but I don't think a body is ever unconscious.
It's either conscious or it's not alive anymore.
We're confused by using the term unconscious.
When a body is in a coma, for example,
or has been knocked out, it's still a conscious body.
We could talk about the Glasgow scale and all of this,
but as Bernardo and I talk about here,
consciousness isn't necessarily about reportability.
And I would also say that consciousness
isn't necessarily about that body being able to express
the habits and patterns that all others
who associate with that body have come to think of
as its consciousness, whether that's the eyes are open,
it's talking, whether it's moving,
all of those things, including activity in the brain,
are very important, but they don't mean
that the consciousness is either there or not there.
To be looking for it in something like that,
rather than in the whole body as a living being
that is still living, which is to say it's,
it has an energy that, a pattern that is keeping it
as that energy and pattern in a dynamical systems sense.
Life is conscious from its beginning,
which I would even say there's not necessarily beginnings
and ends in that sense, but if we just say
that life is conscious and there's no unconscious,
there's not a opposite, there's not a dichotomy here
that we can cut, we can't cut this,
we can't cut consciousness.
But saying that does not mean that, at least to me,
it doesn't mean that we have to think of everything
as built of consciousness.
It doesn't seem to follow either.
It's more like the process, we are describing the process
of coming into further awareness of life,
life coming into full awareness,
fuller awareness of life as consciousness.
That doesn't mean that what's becoming more aware of itself
is built of consciousness.
It doesn't need to be about it being about that,
made of that.
It's the same way we can say the body is alive,
but it's not made up of some little particles called life.
It's altogether life and then we can look
at the different parts, but you can always look
at those parts from many different angles.
So there's no one kind of part.
It's this ongoing way making, it's this ongoing process
to think about Whitehead and then when we wanna understand
it, we break it down into all these little parts
and we call this sort of pattern of how things come
to know themselves as conscious.
And there's not an opposite of that.
There's not the opposite of that.
There could be less of that, I guess,
but it's not an opposite.
I've started thinking that thinking is a kind of way
that we maintain balance that comes from Mark Solm's work
where we start with feeling
and I'm adding a little something onto this.
This isn't totally Mark, but he shows that feeling
is like the raw feeling is a place to start
when we're looking for consciousness.
And if we think of cognition as kind of the way
we're finding our way as conscious beings,
then we could understand that this feeling is a kind
of balance that we use to navigate.
So the intelligence is navigating based
on these kind of signals coming in from the raw feeling,
which relates to what Bernardo says here
about this dashboard, the dashboard not being the plane
that's moving through what the dashboard is moving
that plane through, so to speak.
So it's very interesting to think of it in that sense
and put this idea of homeostasis together
with what Bernardo's talking about here
and separate consciousness and intelligence
and understand that when we use those words,
we're assessing different things.
In this conversation with Bernardo,
which he explains all these in very different ways
than I have here, but I think very connected ways,
I start with this article he wrote for Scientific America
where the studies that he cites
or scientists are basically saying
that children become conscious at the age of five.
And Bernardo and I both agree
that that's a very silly way of talking about it.
However, I don't mean that the scientists are silly.
I mean, that's the way we've gotten used
to talking about consciousness, as if it's reportability
or as if it's a conscious body's awareness
of itself as a conscious body.
And I think this matters, thinking about all these terms
and getting to what we really care about
and what it really means, because I think we do this
with other things in the world, with other creatures,
with other beings.
We do it to ourselves and others
where we have certain assumptions about beginnings and ends
rather than understanding things as nested and continuous
and not this binary, turn it off, turn it on.
It's either conscious or unconscious.
And I really think it has to do
with the way we think about the world.
And it bleeds into the way we socialize,
the way we have our politics, the wars that get fought.
I really see it all as very connected
to the way we think in binary terms
about something like consciousness.
So my feeling that I'm trying to understand
and find a way to express and articulate
is that there is no opposite to consciousness.
There is no unconscious.
There is consciousness.
And for the body, the body itself is conscious.
You don't have a body that is not conscious.
If you're gonna call it a living body, it's conscious.
Now, what that consciousness is, what that experiencing is,
whether it's just two different cells
experiencing each other or whether it's some kind
of nested level of another organization of that movement,
understanding itself as movement
and being able to report about it,
those are very different
and they need to be understood as different,
but they're not discontinuous.
So there's a lot of implications in there
that I would have to defend and talk about.
For example, why is the tree outside my window not conscious?
Well, I would say that consciousness is a term
we've given to the experience we have
of what it is to be living.
And we can't give that to other creatures necessarily,
but what we can do is understand that they're living
and that means the parts of them that are living
are having experience without knowing they have experience
or possibly with knowing they have experience,
but it's an experiencing of the world.
Being a tree is an experiencing of the world.
Now, if you wanna call that conscious, I think you can,
but you gotta understand it's tree consciousness,
it's not human consciousness,
it's nothing like our experience
of this continuum of consciousness.
Or if it is, we don't know how to assess that
until we can build technologies that help us understand
what it feels like to be a tree,
then maybe we can start to understand it
if there's any way to do that.
But this confusion of consciousness
with what it's like to be something,
it's a beautiful paper, what it's like to be about,
it's a beautiful idea,
but I think it's also that consciousness is the being.
You don't need to know what it's like
or all of that is added with language,
with experience and so on.
But livingness itself for me is consciousness,
livingness, and by livingness I mean
that patterns are holding together over time and space
as those patterns in a dynamical relation
such that you can never measure exactly
what those parts are of those patterns,
the way you can, for example, in my computer.
I can measure the parts of my computer
and they're gonna be the same pretty much today
and tomorrow and every other day.
You can't do that with a human body.
All you can do is assess patterns
of that living dynamical system.
And though we confuse those measurements
and assessments of those living patterns
with the patterns, the processes,
they're not those, you know.
There is a difference, it's just common sense.
There is a difference between the parts of my computer
and the parts of some living system.
That we haven't been able to articulate very well is true
and that all of matter is somehow more connected
to this livingness than we understand is also true.
But we can make distinctions,
and people have made distinctions.
We don't define life, but we do understand
that there are different patterns
that for the sake of trying to understand,
for example, what some sort of illness is
or something like that, then we can just kind of accept
a certain idea of what life is as a pattern.
So there would be a lot more to say about all of this,
of course, and part of this research channel
is exploring all these questions.
So I'm just presenting you my ideas and research
as they are right now, today, in this moment.
They might be completely different tomorrow,
probably not, but here's the real crux of it, right?
Here's what I care about.
Consciousness and living are ways we're trying to understand
this blooming, buzzing, amazing, wondrous world
that we're in, and it really feels important
that we understand those aren't either or conditions,
that we can now hold some nuance and understand
that this isn't a conscious or unconscious discussion anymore.
So here's my discussion with Bernardo,
who is, by the way, such a wonderful thinker,
so sharp, such a good person to talk to.
No wonder everyone just loves watching and listening to him
talk, no matter how much you agree or disagree
with what he says.
He's just such a good thinker and so clear
and has such a wide range of experience.
And also just, I found him very warm.
It was a very warm conversation, not judgmental,
and yet very sharp and clear and not holding back
in terms of speaking the truth.
So lots of gratitude to Bernardo and to you for being here.
Also, at some point, we talk about this story
from his childhood when he found this book by Jung,
or actually it was Lao Tzu, the Ai Qing.
So at some point in the conversation,
I should just mention we talk about when he was a little boy
and he found the Ai Qing, this book,
and it had a preface by Jung.
Also, for those of you who interact with me often,
on here or through the other philosophical kind of channels,
as I'm building this philosophy,
I'm always wondering about the difference
between consciousness and cognition,
or I'm seeing the difference
between consciousness and intelligence.
Intelligence is probably a better word.
And Bernardo and I talk about that here.
It's very illuminating and I like it very much
that he also sees intelligence
as not having to do necessarily with cognition.
And I like it very much that he also distinguishes
between intelligence and consciousness.
Another one of those kind of radical,
yet obvious distinctions that are so hard to make
and so important.
And that was how he discovered Carl Jung.
I don't really unpack it very well in the conversation,
so I just wanted to mention it,
that that's what we're talking about there,
this beautiful little book that he found when he was a kid.
He goes more into it,
but we're talking about when he was a kid
when he found this book, the Ai Qing.
And it was his introduction to Carl Jung
who played a very big role in his life and still does.
Thanks for being here.
Send you a lot of love.
And thanks for listening to my radical consciousness rant
this morning.
