Doing what you're told is not always the best idea.
It made the right choices on the basis of what you're being asked to do at each
point, as long as those choices are contextualized with an overall direction
of travel, but not too worried about the particular choice at hand, then you
do quite naturally flow along.
So I think that for me, flow in the service of reaching a conclusion is
just a description of existence.
So it would look like things are measuring things.
It would look like things are observing things.
And crucially, it's not that we're just passive ingestants and assimilators
of the flow of sensory input.
We can now act upon the world to sample and direct that flow.
So you've now got this interesting circular perception action cycle, the
circular causality to the inside and the outside, where I'm trying to make
sense through a process of inference.
If I can do that gracefully for a long period of time, I am basically in
tune with my environment, with my world, keeping your mind open and finding
the simplest explanation, that's the best way to reach an understanding
or explanation for the world.
It's too easy to mistake the model for the reality and you think you're
fighting about the reality, but you're fighting about the model.
These would not be issues if it was only me on Mars.
I wouldn't need a theory of mind, but as soon as it's something like me, like
you, I don't need a theory of mind because we're not talking about one
particular state of being, the world is always moving and as you say, it's
not about finding the perfect state of being, it's finding the best fit to a
constantly changing world and it's always constantly changing because you're
changing it for me and I'm changing it for you, so as soon as we put two things
like us together, we guarantee that we're going to be learning from each
other and constantly changing, we're always chasing away uncertainty, always
chasing away surprise, always chasing away epistemic entropy, always on the moon.
So this is what I meant by flow, flowing on this attracting set or attracting
manifold where that manifold or that attracting set is all consistent with
the kind of thing that I am and it's incredibly itinerant, technically space
filling, that has low volume in the sense there's only a very small number of all
the states I could be in that are consistent with me living and being alive.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy, Beyond Dichotomy, where we try to look
past traditional divides and divisions and notice the pattern that connects.
Today is a holiday episode or even Carl called it the birthday episode because
this has been one year since I've been putting these conversations online and
it's also the end of the year, 2025 is almost here, it's holiday season, so this
is holiday flow with Carl because this word flow, as you'll hear, is very
important in this conversation, comes up from the beginning and goes through to
the end and connects some of the terms that we're using, also this tricky way
that a lot of these terms are everyday terms, but mean something a bit different
in the mathematics, in the neuroscience and the way that Carl uses them in his
work, words like energy, value, entropy, belief, connection, surprise, flow.
We talk about all of those from different perspectives here and I try to think about
them in a way that can be understood from whatever side you might be coming to,
whether you're thinking of those in terms of mathematics or just in everyday life.
Carl Friston is maybe the most famous neuroscientist in the world, that's how
he's often described, and we talk about that and why that is as it is, some of
the inventions that he's come up with over his life, but in the YouTube world or
the podcast world, he's most known for this idea of active inference or free
energy principle, which is a first principles account of sentient behavior, I
guess is the short definition of it.
He's trying to understand what sentient behavior is and how we can go to the
beginning of it, so to speak, although we talk here about maybe not thinking of
this in a linear way, but what connects life and sentient behavior and how can we
understand that?
As you know, this podcast is a lot about patterns that connect and I actually see
a lot of the math, which is very difficult by the way, and we don't talk
about math here too much.
Certainly we don't talk about it in any way that you need to understand math to
listen, but his work, Carl's work, and active inference and the free energy
principle are very mathematical, but I see this as a sort of maths of how we
might notice the patterns that connect at different multi-scaled areas of
behavior or cognition or life, depending on how you want to use those different
words, and by that, I mean that it's a way we can externally represent these
processes and activities so that we can see the patterns that connect them and
what they have in common.
What's different about life and non-life, for example, or how we connect something
like the way we move through the world to the way that we think through the world.
I try to bring in some of those ideas here and ask him about them.
As you'll hear, we get to some really interesting places because there's
actually a lot of paradox being held in his work and in the math that he's doing.
There's this kind of math called Bayesian statistics, which I think within itself is
able to hold paradox and part of how we can now maybe have mathematical models
that do this, that help us understand the patterns that connect.
So we talk about that here, he explains in a way that I think is very
understandable, this almost contradiction at the heart of the free energy principle
and active inference and a lot of his ideas, which is that we're both minimizing
and maximizing energy or entropy.
I'm going to let you listen to him and to the conversation to understand that, but
I just want to note it here that it's one of those patterns that I'm talking about
and that he explains very well, even though you might have to listen to it a few times
or read some of his other papers before it starts to really fully open.
But even if you don't want to read any of these hard papers or think about
these difficult issues, you can listen to this conversation, not needing
to know all of this stuff, because what we talk about is what that model is
showing and it's this idea of flow of how does one stay in the sweet spot,
which is to say, stay alive and that is through this minimizing and maximizing
of energy and entropy at the same time and at multiple scales.
And that has a lot to do with how we think about the body, what we think of
his life, that's why this can seem like a theory of everything, almost like you
just can't handle to think about it because it's so big, but in this
conversation, we walk through these ideas in a way that's very understandable.
There's so much more here than I could really get to.
For example, he mentions Jeffrey Anton and Peter Diane and Jerry Adelman.
All of those are figures I would love to have talked for an hour with Carl about
because there's a lot of history.
I'm going to link to some things that you could read if you want to
know more about that history.
We do touch on quite a lot of it here.
I think one of the most interesting parts for me is when we talk about what
philosophers will recognize as a common problem or issue that is often talked
about in terms of what is alive or not alive.
Why isn't a thermostat or a Watts governor or some sort of machine that's
functioning in an organized way, not able to be called life.
In my work, I link it to affordances in the thesis I'm writing.
Affordances are the way we can distinguish these things and solve
some of these bigger problems.
I bring that up here with Carl.
He seems to agree with that, or it seems to fit very well with his work, even
though it takes a bit of time for us, Carl and I, to become clear about exactly
what these words are meaning as we're using them.
He also says at some point that inference can be exchanged with computation or
measurement, the word itself, because I push him a little bit on the idea of
unconscious inference, which is an important word in his work.
And it's a term that could also mean unconscious conclusion, for example.
And Carl says that inference could be exchanged with computation or measurement
or any of these words.
And this points to another theme that we've talked about a lot here on the show,
which is what's the difference between the model and the process that's being
modeled, especially when we are the process doing the modeling of our own process.
This can become very meta, confused, hard to understand.
How am I as a person able to model my own patterns or habits to myself?
And within that entanglement, what's the model and what's not the model?
And all of this has important repercussions in real life because it starts to matter
how we think about what the brain is, what the body is, if it's a machine, if
it's not, what's objective, what's subjective, which one of those sides
should be taken seriously.
All of these are very important themes for holding paradox.
And we talk about those here in a very particular way.
There's a lot of answers here to a lot of big questions.
If one is willing to be patient and try to understand where Carl is coming from
and understand this line of questioning about how I'm trying to understand what
the space is holding binaries.
We also talk about listening and Carl says that the secret to success
is doing what you're told.
That's another thread that runs through this conversation.
That's very interesting.
And that will become a little bit like holding the paradox by the end because
being told what to do as Carl eventually unpacks is actually being able to listen
to what other people are saying to you relative to where you are, to your
perspective. This conversation connects to the last one with affordances with
Harry Haft and to the one coming next, which is with Evan Thompson, where we
discuss in a very pointed way a lot of the ideas that I raise here with Carl
about subjective and objective and the difference between the process and the
science that's modeling or measuring that process.
But I just want to say from the beginning, these are hard subjects and a lot of
people are trying to figure them out in the best way possible.
Carl has done so much work on so many levels.
You'll hear about a lot of it here, but there's even so much more.
He's really given a lot in all sorts of fields and disciplines.
He's dedicated his life to trying to articulate what I think of as the pattern
that connects the work or the writing about the free energy principle can get
criticized for what I was just saying, that it's taking the model for the
territory, which, by the way, Carl is definitely not doing.
He's always saying this is just a model of the process, but because our
language is so tied up with these binaries, it can be very hard to even
talk about it without lapsing, as he says, back into that language.
And so it does get very confusing, but Carl himself is clear about it.
And some of the things I push him on here are just to clarify that and to
make it understood for myself and for listeners, because there's a lot of
insight here that can be a gift if we are able to understand exactly what
these terms are doing, the work they're doing, and understand it as a way that
we can see how these different patterns of life and cognition and consciousness
connect at many different scales within our own lives, within our own bodies,
but also within the wider ecological world.
So thanks for being here and I wish you a very beautiful holiday season
wherever you may be.
And if it's not a holiday season for you, I wish you a wonderful couple of
weeks until I see you or hear you or you hear me or see me again.
Thanks for all that you gave this year.
Thanks for becoming part of this endeavor and I send you lots of love and warm
greetings. Hi, Carl.
We already said hello, but thank you so much for being on Love and Philosophy
today. Thank you very much for having me.
To get started, I thought I'd ask, what's been on your mind over all these years?
You're humble and you often say, no, I'm not.
But many people have told me or say that you're the most successful scientist of
our times and so on.
And you've worked on a lot of different things.
But before we get into that, I wonder if there's been any one problem or idea
that stands out for you as something you had at the beginning of your career that
you still have?
That's a nice question to start with.
I think the secret of success, and certainly my success, is to do what you're
told. So the very fact that I have got involved in so many things, it's because
most of my work is in response to collaborations or interactions, usually
with sort of younger people, with students to whom I am responsible.
And they go off in very, very many different directions and one has to
follow to a certain extent.
Has there been one overriding ambition or question?
Yeah, there certainly has.
I started my career, or I designed my career really, or made the choices that
enabled me to study what arrogantly is probably the most interesting thing in
the universe, which is me, or at least my brain.
So from a very early age, I was looking forward to a time in life where I could
just focus scientifically, well, on many levels, on how I work or how one's brain
work. And of course, that necessarily entails an understanding of how other
people's brains work.
So that had implications in terms of my journey, specifically in terms of doing
both mathematics and physics to formalize that research and that understanding, but
at the same time, also going into medicine and psychiatry and qualifying as
a psychiatrist.
So in later life, I was able to combine these dual routes to self understanding
and probably more importantly, other understanding.
I'm glad you brought up those different roads that you've met or have been part
of your life. But as you were talking to two things came up, I was wondering if
you ever say no to things, because I know a lot of people you help and work with.
So one wonders how you can possibly do it all.
You seem to say yes, and somehow you're able to do it.
Connected to that, I seem to remember that's how you got into psychiatry in a
way. Someone told you that you needed to have all of that in order to pursue the
more physics or mathematics based interests that you had.
Was it that also a matter of doing what someone wanted from you?
Well, you're doing what you're told.
Yeah, doing what you're told.
Yes, it's nice you heard that story, which is absolutely true.
Yes. So I was in my late teens deciding what kind of A levels of baccalaureate
and then what kind of course I'd like to do at university.
There were two funny stories.
One funny story was that this was a time that computers were being invented and used.
And one of the computers was deployed to try and predict the perfect career for
schoolchildren. And I was a guinea pig.
And I remember actually being televised by the local television station,
putting in all my preferences for the perfect life into this computer and then
waiting as about 15 years of age, 16 years of age.
I love it.
And but it was in those days, there was no email.
You had to sort of print out things on cards and send them to Liverpool University and
wait for the response. So a week later, the envelope arrived.
My perfect career, having spated my enthusiasm for nature working outside.
But I also liked physics and engineering and electrical things.
So my perfect career apparently should have been a television aerial erector, which.
What is that?
Sorry, a television aerial erector.
I've never heard of such a thing.
Well, yes, nowadays with sky, with dishes and cable, you wouldn't need them.
In those days, you had to have an aerial on the top of your house in order to receive
the radio waves to make like an antenna, an antenna.
Yes, a television antenna.
Yeah.
Well, I took this to my career advisor and said, well, actually, what I'd really like
to do is the mathematics or the physics of psychology.
And he said, oh, you want to be a psychologist, you have to be a doctor first.
And what he thought, what he meant was he thought I wanted to be a psychiatrist as
opposed to a psychologist.
And of course, in the UK, you have to become a doctor before you become a psychiatrist.
So neither of us knew the difference between psychology and psychiatry.
So I dutifully applied to do medicine and then went to university to do medicine and
then discovered afterwards that that wasn't quite how the mathematics or the physics.
So I was able to put that into my early undergraduate training by mixing and matching courses.
Yes.
So you're absolutely right.
Doing what you're told is not always the best idea if what you're being told is not
quite what you had in mind.
In this case, though, maybe, I mean, considering where you are now, something good happened.
Yeah.
It was very important to me.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
The quest for understanding others themselves clearly was made much more poignant by the
fact that I ended up trying to learn about, diagnose, treat, help people with very psychiatric
conditions and particularly schizophrenia.
I wonder where, when, if there's a memory of the mathematics becoming such a fascinating
puzzle for you.
Also the psychological, I've heard you talk something about maybe you wanted to do psychological
mathematics or mathematical psychology, but that's not, I mean, that's becoming a more
normal thing to put those together.
But I don't think back in the days when you were being told to become an antenna, a rector,
those were really commonly put together.
Maybe I'm wrong.
But I wonder if you remember trying to put those together already early on.
Yes.
Yes, I mean, very explicitly, you know, I applied to a university, Cambridge University
in the UK specifically because they allowed you to do and still do a natural sciences
trade post that allowed you to do a mixture of psychology and physics.
So I was able to study quantum physics and probability theory at the same time as studying
psychology in service of acquiring a medical degree.
That decision I think was probably much simplified, but now looking back, I think it was in deference
to the dual interests of my parents.
So my mother loved psychology and she used to get all the popular psychology books, thinking
laterally and all the books that one would read in the 1960s to gain insights into yourself.
I had to read all those.
My father was an engineer and he had a passion for understanding things mathematically in
terms of the physics and made me read again an instance of doing, as you're told, reading
all Seraphim Reddington's space, time and gravitation.
So there were two of these two feats.
So it was quite natural for me to try and relate one to the other and to build a career
that allowed you to do that.
And you're absolutely right.
Now that is almost the norm, isn't it, if you think about computational neuroscience,
theoretical neurobiology or indeed nowadays machine learning, artificial intelligence
research to make a difference practically in the 21st century, you have to be at least
have some fluency with computer science and with programming, with data science and the
underlying maths of that.
And of course, the most interesting thing to apply that to is other people and other
users.
Yes, exactly.
There's computational everything now, psychiatry, neuropsychiatry.
But you mentioned schizophrenia and that's an important part of your early world coming
into the neuroscience.
Was it a residency?
I'm not sure what it was, but I feel you spent some years living with patients, people
who have what we call schizophrenia.
Is that correct?
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, it was exactly a residency.
It was a training program in psychiatry, a long program lasting for many years before
came a member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists in the UK.
And two of those years involved partaking or being part of a therapeutic community for
people with chronic schizophrenia.
That's very strong for me to try to imagine being in that environment for so long.
Would you say that influenced all that was to come or was it just a sort of interlude?
I'm wondering when you're in that environment with people who are operating or living in
a way that's different from the so-called norm, whatever that might be, if that influenced
the way you think of, you thought of things like energy and entropy and the way they can
be different for different people in different circumstances, because later on you would
deal with all of that in different ways.
If I think of the time, what I recall was the de-skilling that is required to be open
to understanding and living with people who in this instance had chronic psychotic disorders.
So that really requires you to pull down and to de-reify everything you thought you knew
in order to be receptive to a different perspective and a different set of experiences.
So in fact, the formalization or the naturalization of the way that people made sense of things
and made decisions that I was dealing with as a young psychiatrist came after the event,
after many, many years.
What needed to be understood was the gift of that kind of early clinical experience.
At the time you were not thinking about free energy or entropy, you were trying to understand
why this person was distressed or enjoying your neologisms and their natural thinking.
But then as time went on and you got more and more into biological psychiatry and neuropharmacology
and the bi-physical mechanisms that underwrote this kind of sentience and decision-making,
you started to apply what you had learned as a student in terms of modeling and the physics,
both in application like MRI physics and neuroimaging, but also in terms of
inference and modeling that inherits from a knowledge of probability theory and statistics.
So you wrote this paper with Chris Fritz that's pretty much as it was and still is a different
notion of how to deal with something like schizophrenia, the disconnection hypothesis.
In there I think you talk about value and belief or I read somewhere maybe that was part of what
inspired that hypothesis that the disconnection hypothesis that cells aren't connecting properly,
you can explain it better than me, might be maybe in the prefrontal and temporal lobe, have to do
with some of the manifestations of schizophrenia. But I feel like that was already connected to
words like belief and value and so on. Is that right or was that later too?
No, that's absolutely right and you phrased it very nicely. So in getting into research I was
luckily, I did as I was told, I was focusing on brain imaging by people like Peter Little,
who was at that time one of the young, good and great schizophrenia researchers who had seen the
potential of brain imaging and the people in charge of assembling an expert team to
deploy brain imaging to understand schizophrenia, included people from Chris Fritz who was at that
time at North Lake Park. That was the scene setting in the UK at the inception of modern
human brain mapping. But I did a sabbatical with Jerry Edelman at the Neurosciences Institute at
Rockefeller and subsequently Scripps Institute in California. And our focus at that time,
and I say our, including people like Reid Montague and Judith Snowley, Olaf Sponsie,
and some key young men that Edelman was mentoring, was on value-dependent learning. So I think that's
where the value gets it. And you're absolutely right, to understand how we wire ourselves,
to understand the fundamentals of how we make associations and how those associations are
installed in terms of synaptic connections requires a very mechanistic understanding of
when and where you should consolidate those synaptic connections. So it was a natural step
then to think, well, if people who have positive or negative symptoms of schizophrenia in some way
are suffering from a failure of this kind of associative plasticity, this what subsequently
now could be regarded as a kind of synaptopathy, a pathology of synaptic connections, then this
would be a natural explanation for the disintegration of the psyche described by people like Loyola
a century previously. So what that pointed to was a failure of function integration or a failure
of connectivity in the sense that the connection, the connectivity dictates the coordination of
neuronal networks, neural activity that underwrites our sense making and the way we behave.
So on return to England and analyzing the brain imaging data from schizophrenia,
we were looking for evidence of this pernicious kind of disconnections, disintegration,
not of the sort that you get with a stroke or a neurodegenerative disease where, well certainly
sort of, for example, leukodystrophies where you might get a disconnection due to a cutting
of the wires, more a functional disconnection that rested upon a failure of synaptic integration
at the sort of molecular level and more specifically the failure of to modulate appropriately,
contextualize when and where and how you should consolidate this connection or modulate this
connection. So the value here was a rather generic notion of value, the kind of value that you find
in utility theory and economics or reward in behavioral reinforcement learning. From Jerry
Edelman's point of view, it was even more generic. It's just basically adapted fitness. How fit is
this path of connections in order to ensure the assistance or longevity of these neuronal groups
in response to this sensory input? And so he read value very much as a theoretical biologist might
read adaptive fitness, simply how is it that certain connections and certain
assemblies, neuronal groups come into existence in the same spirit? And how is it that phenotypes
such as you and me come into existence on an evolutionary timescale and then look at the same
maths to try and explain things in terms of this value-dependent or fitness-dependent
plasticity?
I'm trying to imagine the time period, because it feels like to me, was this the beginning of
something like fMRI, which was that was like the 90s, right? When that first
became okay. So this was really in the moment of the first time a lot of this was happening.
And at what you just described, was that an application of psychology to brain imaging?
Something like, I think it's called Schwarz theory of value, or these, it makes me think of circular
causality and loops, because there's all these old ways of thinking in psychology. There's sort
of these loops and circles of usually binary sort of categorizations of what's called value,
and values are considered to be beliefs and so on. So is that a jump? Was it literally being
applied to the mathematics and the mechanics at that time in those early years, or was it already
removed from those sources?
No, no, I think there was an intimate and deep link. And you're absolutely right. This early work
was coincided with the inception of things like functional magnetic resonance imaging. In fact,
the very early, the empirical evidence for the disconnection hypothesis in schizophrenia
actually came from positron emission tomography, which was, had been going for about half a decade
before fMRI started to become available routinely in the early 90s. So slightly before fMRI
were the first evidence, not just from our group, but a number of groups, who for the first time
could image the entire brain. That's important, because if you want to make a comment about or
infer a failure of dynamic coordination or functional integration that involves all of
the brain, you have to be able to measure all of the brain at the same time. So brain imaging was
very important in being able to do that. It was the first time ever that people had a window on
the function integration over all of the brain and were able to make comments about the coupling
between brain areas, the functional connectivity as it's currently known, because you were able to
measure that at the same time. The maths in terms of the beliefs and the value. So you could certainly
read it from a sort of psychological perspective, but you could also read it from the point of view
of behavioral psychology in terms of reward learning. And so the kind of value that Jerry
Edelman was talking about and that we were talking about transpired to be easily translated in terms
of reward, for example. It's subsequently transpired that that's not the complete story,
but certainly you could talk very comfortably with people in behavioral psychology, reinforcement
learning and the early machine learning and computational or neural network people could
be working on similar, what was the right objective function in order to learn the right
weights in a neural as opposed to a neuronal network. I think the notion of value that you are
referring to and the circle of causality came to the fore a little bit later in my life in terms
of understanding the more generic principles of the self-organizing brain. And those, I think,
were inspired by work on predictive coding and certainly the work of my next door neighbor
was Jeffrey Hinton, who was, you know, at that time he'd come from the Americans and was working
next door in Queens Square, the Gatsby Competition Neuroscience Unit. So his work was inspirational
along with his younger colleague, Peter Diane, in terms of taking Helmholtzian ideas about the
unconscious inference and also the mechanics of how an artifact in a neural network, for example,
would comply with those basic principles of modeling and understanding that could be read
in terms of a Helmholtzian notion of unconscious inference. And at that point, I think the kind
of value that you're talking about became center stage in terms of what is valuable to me,
what are my prior preferences, how would I write that down in terms of a physical principle of
least action, which is just a biology principle, and how would I demonstrate and reach out to
cognitive neuroscience and psychology more generally and the philosophy of mind and psychology.
AMT – It's fascinating. I think a lot about dichotomies and this beyond dichotomy and binaries
and of course in everything that we've already brought up, there's a lot of binary built in,
whether it's zero one or whether it's these models that are usually either or or versus,
I think that Schwarz model, if I remember correctly, is something versus something always
in psychology. And I'm wondering if it was sort of co-creating, you know, the technology and the
way that we approach mind-body or, I mean, there's all these dual, not dualisms, but just
binaries of the way that we come to understand the body and the brain and all the cognition and,
you know, we seem to have used binaries to progress up to this point. And it's interesting to see how
the technology and the ideas were sort of co-evolving, what was influencing what at that
time. It's very interesting that you were with Hinton and you also brought up unconscious
inference, which I want to ask you about. But first, I should just say, I remember once,
I think the first time I was with you in the same room or something was in Berlin at the
Technical University when you came. And that was a while ago, maybe 2019. And I think I remember
someone saying, here's Carl Friston, basically every image you see of the brain depends on him.
Or you're looking at his work or something, because of the software you invented, which I can't
remember all of it. I know there's a lot like VBM and SPM and the dynamical.
Okay. But the point for people who are listening, in case they don't know,
they only know that all this other stuff you're famous for, you actually have
invented, or I guess that's the word, invented a lot of software or
programs that have really become so important to the way we image the brain. You brought up
this amazing moment of being able to actually look at the brain. As you were describing it,
I was thinking of the first time we could take a picture of the earth from the moon or something,
this kind of moment where things change, where you get a different perspective and you can see
in a whole way. I wonder if you felt that in the community at that time of a perspective shift.
And then I wonder why you wanted to make this new software that has become so important to
everyone who's looking at that bigger perspective in a as general as possible way. Maybe you could
walk me through that part of this part of your journey.
Right. That's a good question. I have to say, because I was new to the game, for me, it wasn't
a drop the mic moment. For me, this seemed to be the natural way to study the brain, to basically
image the brain in action. Let me come back to answering that question, but just briefly
for your listeners, just explain the nature of that software and its importance at that time.
So we have lots and lots of data. This was the first instance of big data before the human
genome. This was the first time that people had to deal with very large time series with thousands,
millions of pixel elements or volume elements called voxels that constituted a brain image,
not just at any one point in time, but a sequence of these things that could last for minutes,
if not hours. So to handle that, you basically have to solve a relatively difficult statistical
problem, which is inferring where your interventions during these successive acquisitions
of brain images were causing a difference in brain activity and neuronal response of
neurophysiological or hemodynamic response based upon the blood flow changes.
The difficulty was that there was a certain slowness imposed by the brain imaging, which
meant that you had to adjust for an account for that statistically. So basically what we did was
invent a statistical procedure that effectively gave you X-rays of brain activation.
When people point to these heat maps of brain responses, they are almost universally images
of statistics. They're not images of activation, they're the images of how significant is that
activation, understanding carefully all the correlations and all the confounds that could
have caused that. So that was the statistical parametric mapping.
Just to stop you for a second, for people who are listening, so almost everyone in some science
magazine or just anywhere on media, social media, you see these images now, right? I almost sometimes
think we need this little caption underneath like, this is not a pipe, this is not a brain,
because those images are almost the way we think of brains now, as our brains with like little
parts that are lighted up. But we're basically looking at your work in a way, right?
Well, yeah, I think that's slightly.
It's a little grandiose, but that's what it is. Like everyone has seen it probably,
even if you've never studied neuroscience.
But you've said something very important there about understanding what you are looking at in
terms of lots of little activations, lots of little bits of the brain lighting up. Of course,
that's not the complete story. And perhaps I'm kindly perhaps in a playful way, people used to
refer to this as cartography or neocartography, map making in terms of, you know, this is the
part of the brain, the city that does color, this is the part that does sound, this is a part that
does edges, this is a part that does mouth, you know, just building little maps of the brain.
Of course, that's not an understanding of the functional architecture of the brain.
It does to a certain extent in the sense that you can now confirm the principle of function
segregation, by which I mean that the brain is organized according to a principle where
different functions are anatomically segregated, specialized in anatomically segregated regions.
And that's basically what you're looking at with these little heat maps.
The other side of the coin, though, is a functional integration.
It's the coordination that we were talking about before, the connectivity.
So these dual principles of functional specialization and functional integration,
you can even say functional differentiation or functional integration, were part of the
journey of developing the right kind of maths and software in order for people to answer questions
about not just where in the brain their favorite cognitive process or their favorite decision
making or their favorite sexual synthesis was occurring, but how that processing was distributed
and coordinated in terms of the coupling between the two, how it was integrated in terms of the
coupling. And that's where the dynamic cause of modeling came in. So that was the next wave.
It's moving on from cartography to connectivity. And that, I'll repeat, reflects this sort of
distinction between specialization and integration as these dual principles
of functional brain functional brain architectures.
And then there was VVM.
No, VVM is just an application of the same statistical procedures as statistical
parametric mapping, not to functional images that are acquired over time,
but structural images of anatomy that are acquired over different people.
So that allows you to pick out if there has been, say, a particular deficit in the anatomical
structure in this brain region when I compare a whole bunch of people who are neurotypical
with, say, people who have Alzheimer's disease. And you can track that longitudinally as well.
Voxel-based morphometry is just an application of SVM to structural data.
So the bright line really is the move from these whole brain analysis to the connectivity
and the dynamics and the cause and modeling. What causes what to come back to your circular
causality, which is important for the brain because there are no, well, with the exception
of some corticobasal ganglia connections, there are no connections in the brain that are not
recurrent to everything. All of some organization is inherently circular.
But to come back to your, well, did people realize that this was a moonshot moment?
There were people. So there were people, for example, people like Semizeki, who was one of
the UK's great and good in terms of understanding functional anatomy. But all of his life and all of
his intellectual forefathers could only have very limited views of what, how the brain was put
together, either through neuropsychology, looking at the lesion deficit model in the sense that if
I lesion this little part of the brain, what function is lost. Or using electrophysiology
just to measure one little part of the brain at a time, or indeed possibly even one neuron,
a neural population at a time. So no one had actually looked at the entire brain in action
in a context sensitive way previously. So I think for neuroanatomists and neurophysiologists,
who had spent their lives either doing neuropsychology or neuroanatomy, or doing
neurophysiology in animal models, that this was a remarkable moment. I mean, there was a degree of,
not physics only, but some imaging envy from these people who couldn't actually get access to it.
So it wasn't all joy and back-slapping. Because, you know, what I do remember quite acutely
is the monkey electrophysiologists got very cross with the young Turks that were doing all this
brain imaging, simply because they could acquire their data in one week, take a week to analyze
the data, and then write a paper. And it would always get into nature because it was such an
exciting new technology. Whereas the poor monkey electrophysiologists would spend two years training
their monkey, acquiring the data carefully in a crafted way for six months, spend a year arguing
with the viewers before they get their paper published. And they just could not understand
why you could short circuit all of this hard work. And crucially, of course, brain imaging was
attracting all the talent. All the young PhD students now wanted to do brain imaging. So there
was a lot of tension in that paradigm shift that basically took cognitive science into the area
of cognitive neuroscience. I think you could really say that brain imaging of this kind,
neuroimaging of this kind, sort of made cognitive science into a neurobiological science field
because now you have an empirical measurement of the cognitive mechanics that people have been
studying up until that time. And I didn't know that. Remember, I came from psychiatry
and theoretical neurobiology, and I had no experience with monkey electrophysiology or
neuropsychology. So for me, it was just quite, just the thing to do.
You just fit sort of perfectly in the time where that's what you learned as your skill set, right?
Very, very lucky. But again, you disrupt upon doing what you're told this thing needs to be done.
I'm not sure I believe you always just do what you're told, but I mean, was it really? Or maybe
I don't think you meditate or anything, but there's a kind of meditative sense to you and
your work that you do sort of stay in a flow. Has that just been natural for you since those
early years that you kind of found a way to flow with life? I know I'm simplifying it, but
is that kind of what you mean by doing what you're told? Or was it really just?
Yes, I think that would be a nice way of describing it. So you just have to make
listen to the right people, make the right choices on the basis of what you're being asked to do.
At each point, as long as those choices are contextualized with an overall direction of
travel, but not too worried about the particular choice at hand, then you do quite naturally
flow along. Absolutely. It's a very nice way of describing it.
And there's something about also getting a perspective and an overview because you have
to choose which person you're going to listen to, because a lot of people will be telling you what
to do or could be telling you what to do. Yes. Well, as you get older, there are more people
who want to tell you what to do. Oh, really? As you get older?
Oh, yes. Yes. Because you get more famous and more people still have to think that you should
be doing that. When you're younger, you're just grateful for the opportunity to do something.
And so it wasn't quite as difficult to make those choices as it would be nowadays.
So this is one part of why you're so famous and everyone wants to tell you what to do is because
you created these amazing software things that now everyone uses in your, I think your double
in the H index and quoted more than anyone a lot because of that, because everybody's using it.
But you mentioned this unconscious inference from Himmelt and that moves into another thing
that you're famous for, which is this active inference, free energy principle. There's a lot
of connections there, but I want to just, this word bothers me because I wonder about Himmelt.
I know German, but I sound terrible saying it. Sorry, everyone. But as I understand that,
that's an unconscious conclusion or statement or something like this. So why is it translated
as inference? Because this gets to some of the confusion I have personally about, for example,
the image of the brain with the brain itself or life flowing along in a way with metacognition,
life knowing that it's flowing along. Could you just maybe tell me how you came across Himmelt
and what this word means for you, the unconscious inference?
Right. Yeah. Well, again, an excellent question, which has so many different
answers that present themselves to give some foreground, the points you're making. First of
all, inference is read here in a very generic sense. And it's just read in the sense of,
indeed, reaching a conclusion on the basis of some evidence. It just so happens that in
Helmholtz's unconscious inference, the evidence at hand is his sensory input.
But the notion of inference here is just basically an explanation predicated upon
evidence. What is the thing that has the attribute of evidence? Well, it's a conclusion,
it's a hypothesis, it's a model. So that conclusion of alternative conclusions or
hypotheses that has the greatest evidence is the one that you normally commit to. And that committing
is a process, and it's a process that can be described as inference. But it's also a process
that can be described in terms of dynamics and physics. So you could argue that everything
is or can be read as or described as a process of inference. It looks as if it is measuring
something or observing something. So I'm quite happy, happy, treating synonymously,
inference, measurement, observation, computation, all of these things are just different words for
the same underlying process that entails some optimization of the evidence for your modeling of
either your data and your dynamic causal modeling, for example, or of your sensorium.
And notice, because it's a process, it is a flow. It is literally a flow. And indeed,
the free energy principle or the classical physics derivation of the free energy principle
starts with a flow equation. It just says, if the world can be written down, or if some universe
can be written down in terms of the way that my states or any state in the universe flows as a
function of where you are in state space, that's it. That's what the starting point of the free
energy principle. And all you're saying is that this particular flow blows a gradient or in a
direction that maximizes the evidence for an implicit model. But then you have to get into
the game of a model of what? Well, the model of everything that's causing my sensory inputs or
my data. And then you have to carefully define the boundary that defines the sensory inputs
from the world out there, from the thing that's doing the sense making. So for me-
The Markov blanket sort of. Absolutely. That is exactly the Markov blanket or the boundary
that separates you from everything else. And the universe impresses itself very much in the spirit
of Helmholtz's version of sensations impressing themselves on your sensory veil, on your sensory
epithelia. That would just be the sensory sector of your Markov boundary or your Markov blanket.
And then that induces a flow on the inside. And that flow is inevitably, or necessarily
under the free energy principle, you can describe it as a principle because it's maximizing
the basic model evidence for the underlying or the implicit generative model of what's going on.
So I think that, for me, flow in the service of regional conclusion
is just a description of existence. So it would look like things are measuring things. It would
look like things are observing things. And crucially, just to bring in your circuit of
causality again, of course, it's not that we're just passive, sessile,
ingestants, and assimilators of the flow of sensory input. We can now act upon the world
to sample and direct that flow. So you've now got this interesting circular perception action
cycle, the circular causality on the inside and the outside, where I'm trying to make sense
through a process of inference of the data that I am myself creating through action.
And if I can do that gracefully for a long period of time, I am basically in tune with my
environment, with my world. I have this adaptive fitness in the sense of Edelman's value, this
generic notion of value to come back to our earlier conversation.
Yeah, and that's actually a good description of what I was trying to describe as what you meant
by doing what people told you to do. But Carl, this part is really hard for me, and I hope it's
okay. Time is flying by, but I really hope we can dig into this just a minute because I find it so
confusing and also so inspiring that what you just said, that you start with that flow that is the
first equation. And I feel like what a lot of your work with the free energy principle and active
inference does is give a model to that ongoing process that can't ever be fully modeled.
And it does it in a way such that the model itself can continue to change and evolve because the
process has to continue to change and evolve, which is a very different kind of math and a
very different kind of statistics, and I think related to why Bayesian statistics is involved.
But just this unconscious inference versus unconscious conclusion, I wonder what you think.
For me, it seems like what Himholz was talking about or what you even were just describing is
that life process that can't be separated, it's not inferring in the way, at least not in the
everyday use of that term in the sense that something is setting against itself in making
a decision. It feels more like that flow or that alignment such that, for example, my body comes in
and every single thing that it's encountering, it has to not be molded by, but in a sense be
molded by, fit to, I guess would be a word some people use, fitting to the world and the brain
part of that, a very big part of that. And then out of that same continuity and that same flow,
we can begin to recognize the ways that we've aligned and start to make something like inferences.
That's how it seems for me. So then when I don't hear those things distinguished,
maybe they don't need to be distinguished or maybe I just misunderstand it, but does that
make sense to you at all? No, it does absolutely not. I think we certainly need to be distinguished.
So let me just be very clear about the way that people like me use the word inference.
So notice that unconscious inference immediately tells you this is not about a propositional,
declarative, subjective, explicit act. It's not a mental act at all.
Because of the unconscious.
Exactly. So I think what you're saying is that if we now want to have
conclusions and inferring things in a propositional way that I could actually articulate,
not just to something else, but to myself, then you'd certainly need to have now a meta-inference,
a meta-cognition that's looking at your unconscious, very low-level processes.
What kind of thermostat could be accused of having? You could argue that a thermostat is
an instance, a very, very simple one, but it is an instance of unconscious inference in the sense
that it has a prior Bayesian belief. And again, I'm using belief here, not in the vernacular.
It's just a description of a Bayesian probability distribution. But you could argue that the
thermostat has a Bayesian belief that the temperature of this room should be at a fixed
set point. And everything that it does, or the way that it acts upon the environment,
is to make that belief come true. So it's basically doing active inference. It's just inferring
what the cause of its thermoreceptors is. And if it deviates from its prior Bayesian belief,
it will act upon the world to realize its priority. At no point would you say that the
thermostat is thinking or has any awareness or is making decisions or reaching any conclusions.
I think you then need a layer on top of a myriad of coupled thermostats. For you and me, of course,
these would be autonomic reflexes and motor reflexes, truly embodied the brain and the
body perspective. And you'll be looking at that. And you may have to do that several times before
you've got to this is not a pipe. To know that you are perceiving, to know that you are engaging
in unconscious inference consciously requires an enormously elaborate kind of generative model.
Interestingly, from the point of view of writing down the kind of models that you need to be able
to do this kind of better cognition and have self-awareness, they have a hierarchical depth.
So you're now very much in the same architectural space as deep learning. So the deep learning
just says you've got hierarchical depth. I think that's what you're talking about.
And it's really, you mentioned a couple of times, the way that we understand the world
very often can be cast in terms of a dichotomy or a binary kind of representational state space.
I think that's very insightful. I would read that as basically curving nature at its joints in order
to understand it. And certainly that's been my experience in computational modeling,
that's been a move away from these continuous flow-like generative models
at the periphery near our sensations as we get deeper and deeper and deeper into these models.
They'll become very categorical. For example, words. There's no sense in which a particular
word, say definite article, has any continuous representation. It's just what it is,
as opposed to another word. So I think that the way that we carve nature at its joints
as in store in these generative models does speak to this simple binary categorization
at some point that we could articulate and actually talk to ourselves about and
and communicate not just with other people, but also with ourselves.
That's a very, very deep and abstract kind of inference, which now may encroach upon
conscious inference and awareness and experience in the way that I've carved my world at its joints.
And my world is largely all about me and my body and my interactions with other things that have
bodies like me. I infer minds like me. So I often get told off as talking about some beliefs.
In my world, a belief is just a probability distribution. So you talk quite freely about
Bayesian belief updating. So a thermostat can do Bayesian belief updating. Of course,
it's a very trivial kind, but it does it. So the Bayesian aspect means that it is not the vernacular
kind of belief. So I'm assuming when you talk about conclusion, you actually meant a conclusion
that I was aware of, that I'm committed to this as opposed to that. And that would require a very
special kind of artifact or phenotype or system. I would imagine insects or even some small
mammals, it would require something like your speech, as it did by communication language,
for example. Yeah, thank you. There's so many things I want to say in that. I think maybe the
thermostat is something that could help me unpack this. I think what I meant by conclusion wasn't,
again, I know you said like languages can be distinguished, but even that were coming from
a perspective. And oftentimes we use the same words in different ways. And that's part of what
gets so confusing here and why I'm looking deeply into this word inference and conclusion. But I
really meant more something kind of at one with itself, like it's closed together or something,
but that doesn't necessarily mean static. But let me think about the thermostat because
this is a big philosophical problem. There's all kinds of people writing about whether,
can we apply certain things to thermostats, consciousness, and so on. But
I think it's very different, that flow that we started with and what the equations are talking
about being, it's dynamic and it has its own trajectory. You're often talking about things
referring back to their own past, like sampling their own, going back to their own habits or
patterns in a way. This dynamic flow is very hard to talk about, but that is itself already a
trajectory that's always changing, but that we can sort of go back to and revisit. I mean,
that's what memory is in a way. And I don't think a thermostat has that, that continuity
or it doesn't have affordances that apply only to its own trajectory was how I would say it. It's
almost a distinction between living and non-living, right? So the affordances of the thermostat are
our affordances and they apply to our ongoing trajectory. So I guess what I'm saying is exactly
that's the difference for me that the thermostat is going to just be doing what it's doing
mechanically and it's built on a binary way that we've understood ourselves. And so we can create
sort of a little model or representation of what a body does in the thermostat to help control
the room. And that sort of seems the direction of that technology in relation to the flow for me.
But what I'm talking about is like actual life and how we are a bit like life becoming aware of
itself as life. And I think your work helps us understand that it's putting a kind of
mathematics on letting us glimpse at that process. But I often hear it described more like the way
was describing the thermostat, which confuses me because it seems, I feel like we can see beyond
the binaries a bit, even though they've been so helpful. And this might be a way to do that,
but we keep trying to fit everything back into those binaries.
I think that was an excellent deconstruction of a key distinction between the thermostat and you
and me. And I think that everything rests upon what you said in relation to where is the
importance. So if you wanted, and I am flattered and pleased that you think that the free energy
principle might afford a mathematical image of the distinction between life as we know it,
as if it's about things like you and me, that is not a characteristic of the thermostat.
I think the bright line between thermostats or what's governors or viruses and the kind of life
that you're talking about, I say prions, not viruses, but viruses that are alive,
is all rests upon this notion of affordance. So just think what affordance is an attribute of.
It is an attribute of what I can do. And as soon as you say I and do, you've brought two really big
things to the table that the thermostat doesn't have. First of all, the thermostat has no notion
of itself. And crucially, it doesn't know what it's doing. Whereas to have affordance, you have to
have a generative model that can generate the consequences of your own action. And if those
consequences are apt for the kind of thing that you are and conform to your preferences that define
that attracting set you're talking about, you're returning to time and time again to these
characteristic states that constitute the preferred states of being on the technically
the attracting states that define the kind of thing that you are. If you can roll out into the
future and evaluate the consequences of this action or that action, then you can evaluate
the affordance. So now the game is to try and, if you like, mathematicalize that. How would you
write that down in terms of the principle of least action? And it's actually quite simple.
And you could argue that people like Richard Feynman were doing this during his PhD thesis
many decades ago. So all you need to do is to under your model of the consequences of your
action in the future, just roll out and measure the value. For me, that would be the free energy
you would expect if you committed to this course of action in the future. And then you add up
all the values, and that can be cast as a path integral. And the addition of all the energies
is known as an action in physics. And then you find the path of least action. And so the path
of least action into the future under this plan or that plan, the things that I do,
now describes the best kinds of action. And then you can simulate that. And now you have,
I think, a much more expressive kind of physics that does not apply to a thermostat, but would
apply to you if you make choices about the things that you could do in the world. You could respond
to affordances, and not just affordances of the kind, oh, I can sit in that chair.
We're talking about a much more generic notion of affordance, which is that which minimizes
your uncertainty about the world, which can also be read as an epistemic affordance,
which basically makes us curious creatures. So I think that's the difference between a thermostat
and a large language model, and you and me, is that we have epistemic affordances built into
our beliefs about the kind of thing that we are. And then we just select the path of least action,
but the path of least expected free energy to commit to, because that's the kind of thing that
we do. We end up watching television shows, reading books, doing podcasts, asking questions
of each other, simply because that's the kind of thing we are. These are the attracting paths,
these are the attracting states. And notice that in so doing now, we've again got another
bright line between the thermostat and you and me, because we're not talking about one particular
state and being. We're talking about a very itinerant, attracting set that is constantly evolving,
and we're always chasing away uncertainty, always chasing away unexpected surprise, always chasing
away epistemic entropy, always on the move. The world is always moving. And as you say,
it's not about finding the perfect state of being, it's finding the best fit to a constantly changing
world. And it's always constantly changing, because you're changing it for me, and I'm changing it for
you. So as soon as we put two things like us together, we guarantee that we're going to be
learning from each other and constantly changing. The thermostat, on the other hand, has an
attracting set, which is technically a fixed point attractor. So all roads lead to one point. It's
too hot, it'll cool things down. It's too cold, it'll heat things up. That's not the kind of
attracting set that characterizes life, and certainly not you and me. So the attracting
set that we're talking about is enormously space filling. I can be in many, many different states
and still be me, but I have a lawful flow from one of these attracting states to another one.
So this is what I meant by flow. Flowing on this attracting set, or since one attracting manifold,
where that manifold or that attracting set is all consistent with the kind of thing that I am.
And it's incredibly itinerant, technically space filling, that has low volume, in the sense there's
only a very small number of all the states I could be in that are consistent with me living
and being alive. So I gotta come back to your notion of flow, because mathematically this is
just a flow on an attracting set, and those flows trace our paths of least action. And the action
is the expected free energy or uncertainty or surprise. You can write it another way,
and instead of trying to minimize the expected energy, you're trying to maximize
the expected evidence for your model of the world that dictates the direction of flow on this
manifold. So on that view, life would really be defined in terms of the space filling attracting
set. As soon as you have something that's not a point attracted like a thermostat, what that
tells you immediately isn't going to be this, you know, you were quite explicit about
returning to various states of being. And what would that look like? Well, it would look like
very complicated oscillations. So for example, at every scale, so it could be the kind of
oscillations that Yuri Blisaki, my friend Yuri loves to talk about, you know, in terms of
fast gamma oscillations, or other kinds of rhythms in the brain. But also at different
scales and different parts of me, for example, my cardiac cycle has exact and itinerant
quasi-periodic orbit. You can go beyond that, you can go right through to fluctuations
over the month, over the year, and indeed, at an evolutionary time scale, this reproduction itself
is this life cycle. So wherever you look, there's this characteristic dynamic that speaks to cycles
of rhythms and oscillations that are not part of the thermostats attracting set, which is just
sitting at one point. Basically, if you do have a point attractor, that means you're dead,
and that basically means you have attained an equilibrium steady state, where you're now subject
to the laws of physics laws and you start to dissipate and decay as your free energy minimizes.
So just keeping yourself away from this fixed point attractor in the flow, literally, all the time,
on this attracting set is exactly what the free energy principle is trying to describe.
Yes, and I think that's why affordance is so helpful here, or why it even opens up affordance
in a new way. I think of J.J. Gibson talking about wanting to overcome subject-object dichotomy,
just to get back to that theme of dichotomy and binary and how I see this as pushing out of that.
Because to have an affordance requires this looping relationship, depending on from wherever you're
going to try to measure it, there's always going to be... And we keep talking about circles,
and that's another thing that bothers me a bit, because a circle seems to always come back exactly
to where it started. But we're sort of coming back to where we started, but it's a new place always.
It's more of a spiral. I mean, we're never coming back exactly to where we were, but the regularities
and the pattern is enough such that it's the same sort of place that we're sampling. Does that make
sense? No, absolutely. Technically, that's what I would describe in terms of stochastic chaos.
When I'm writing carefully for an informed reader, I will say to the neighborhood of where you once
were, you never ever... Man stepped in the same river twice, but you can be in the same locale.
So these attracting sets are not circles, and they're not points if you were dead.
They are regimes, and so you have to be in the neighborhood, and you're always being
pushed off this attracting set by random fluctuations in the physics notion of the
fear engine principle. But I'll draw back through this flow, since flow just keeps you close to...
Every day, you'll go through the same routine, but you'll never be in exactly the same state
twice, but you've been pretty close. Even if everything changes, it could be the regularities
are similar. There were some dimensions that are replicated, absolutely. And that's an important
point that many of these dimensions of these state spaces are very forgiving. I can be me
in Melbourne, and I can be me in London, but I can only be me between 36.2 and 37.8 degrees
centigrade. Some of the things that characterize me, and indeed sometimes one talks about
a characteristic set of states that characterize a particular entity, for example, me,
as being the members of this attracting set. Some of them are very, very precise,
but some of them are very forgiving. So depending upon what attribute you're looking at,
things could be vastly different. But from another perspective, yeah, you're exactly
this temperature, or you're having your evening meal at eight o'clock PM, just like you were
yesterday. There are these sweet spots, but I think that that reminds me of when you were
talking about measurement, and that requires that we understand we're always measuring from a
particular point or perspective. So if we're going to measure from the cell, or we're going
to measure from the whole human body, or we're going to measure from, then those parameters are
going to look a bit different too, which opens up this fracticality or something that I wanted to
talk to you about in terms of getting through the binary. But to get into that, the free energy
principle basically states, you could say it better, but systems change so as to decrease
their free energy. Some people say to avoid entropy. There's confusion here for me between
free energy and the entropy of the free energy, or how free energy and entropy might be different.
Maybe you could help me, or we could unpack that just a minute, just to link it to that
fracticality I'm talking about. It seems to me from different perspectives, what's free energy,
or what's entropy, or those parameters are also shifting. Like maybe some system's entropy is
another's energy, or vice versa, but I wonder what you think about that.
Yes, I think that's absolutely right. Well, you said three key things there. First of all,
the fractional dimension, the fractality of these things. I tend not to use that because
fractal has a very specific meaning in the context of
chaotic attractors and the dimensionality. I've said before that the attracting sets
of things like you and me are space filling, but with low measure. Effectively, the fractal
measures the dimensionality of the actual space that is actually occupiable by any given
particle or person. What I tend to prefer is scale-free or scale-invariant. I think that's
what you're talking about. You can apply the free energy principle at all scales, all the way down
and all the way up. You can apply it to a single cell, and indeed it's been applied to
reorganization. You can also apply it to entire behavior of the embodied brain. You could even
apply it in principle as people have them to communities and exchanging beliefs or emails,
modeling the extended beliefs and emails and messages. You can apply it to many,
many different scales. Of course, each scale provides the context of the scale below.
I can't have a free energy minimizing almost sort of thermostat-like single cell unless I have a
particular organ or organelle. I can't have an organ unless I've got a body, and I can't have a
body unless I've got a family, and I can't have a family as an institution. I can't have an
institution unless I've got a country. I can't have a country unless I've got a biosphere. I
can't have a biosphere, and so on and so forth. At every level, the way in which you measure things
or describe things should, in principle, conform to the free energy principle. There's always a
description of this in terms of some kind of inference. It can be really elemental like a
thermostat or the blue band around the sun. Notice, again, the circular aspect, the rhythm
of the heavenly bodies at very large scales, or it could be much more intricate and space-filling
and itinerant of the kind that we talked about that would apply to our scale of, say, from
multiple cells, multicellular organization through to, say, a body. I think that scale
invariance is vitally important. You should always remember there's always a scale above
that contextualizes the scale, both in space and time, that you're applying the free energy
principle to, and there's always a scale below. There's also a microscopic scale below that is,
if you like, feeding the key order parameters or macroscopic variables that you're dealing with
in terms of applying the free energy principle. I think that was an important point. Remind me,
Wells, you said about three things which are really quite important.
Yeah, there were too many things in there. I was talking about entropy and energy and what's
different from free energy and the entropy of the free energy, or if one system's entropy can be
another system's energy. That's right. That was the final thing.
You're on some fairly heuristic thermodynamic explanation or thermodynamic account of
variation for engine minimization. That is absolutely true. I would require free energy
in order to do my belief updating my inference, even if I was a thermostat. There are some physics
principles that say how that works. Indeed, Chris Fields, a colleague and friend of mine,
who has pursued a quantum theoretic formulation for energy principle has a very explicit set of
arguments about the thermodynamics of this, often read in terms of that we are offloading
energy into the environment in order to maintain our self-organization and lots of different ways
of articulating that. However, you don't need to get into the thermodynamics, I think, to answer
the question you're asking, which I think is quite crucial, which is going to get a bit technical,
but I think it's quite important to understand it. Entropy is just a description of a probability
distribution, a little bit like the mean of something or the variance of something.
There is no one entropy. Whenever there's a probability distribution, there is an entropy.
So you have to say the entropy of what? The entropy that you're trying to minimize
when you're invoking the free energy principle as a simple explanation or description of things
that resist the second law of thermodynamics, should it apply. Then we're talking about the
entropy of the Markov boundary states or the sensory states. So what we're saying
is that certain things in virtue of maintaining themselves on their attracting manifold or within
their attracting set or within their characteristic states, certain things that have this generalized
homeostasis have a very low dispersion to the sensory states that they express,
and that has a low entropy. So the entropy, the sensory entropy, is just the average of the
certain self-information or the surprise and all the free energy. So the free energy scores
in information theory and the self-information, often summarized in terms of surprise or surprise
and you want to keep that small. The entropy of the sensory entropy
is the average of the free energy. So if you keep the free energy small all the time,
basically avoid surprising sensory samples from the world, then you are going to minimize your
sensory entropy. That's the entropy that has been minimized and that means that you
don't dissipate your sensory states. Those observable states on your Markov blanket
do not dissipate. You don't dissolve into the environment. You maintain your self-organization
through minimizing the average self-information of the sensory states. They meet the sensory
entropy. Now there's another entropy which is actually maximized. So remember,
free energy is equal to energy, total energy, minus entropy. So if I want to minimize my
variational free energy, I now want to maximize my variational entropy. What is the variational
entropy? It's the entropy of my Bayesian beliefs about the causes of my sensory input.
So you've got this completely opposite yin-yang. You want to explain things that minimize their
sensory entropy, the entropy over time of real deterministic sensory inputs, and they're actually
from the world as well, but everything that constitutes the Markov blanket. And you do that
by maximizing the entropy of your beliefs. And this is very, very confusing to people,
but it's a shame because once you realize it's important to maximize the entropy of
your Bayesian beliefs, the internal or the, if you like, representational entropy, you can now see
that the free energy principle is dual to something which is very important to physics,
which is James's maximum entropy principle. So maximum entropy, there is a maximum entropy
principle which talks about not the thing that is being measured, but the inferences of that
measurement. So if you want to infer how long something is, if you're measuring something,
then you want a belief about the cause of your measurement in the outside world that is as
non-committal as possible to keep your options open. And this is very closely related to things
like Occam's principle, finding the simplest explanation possible, but no simpler, finding
an accurate explanation that is minimally complex. And that's why you need to maximize the entropy
that is put together with the energy or the log likelihood to constitute the variation
free energy. So it can be very confusing, but it actually works very, very beautifully.
Once you realize that there's no one entropy, you either talk about the entropy of your sensory
exchanges with the world, or you can talk about the entropy of your inferred beliefs, Bayesian
beliefs encoded by your internal states. And one, you have to try to maximize in order to minimize
the other one. Does that help?
Wonderful. I love that because I'm always talking about trying to hold the paradox in a way,
because I feel like that's where you start to get exactly what you just did. And by hold the paradox,
I don't mean we squish together the parts or try to resolve them or reconcile them or that the
paradox is bad, but that you just open the space for it in the way you just did describing that.
And then there's a kind of another view that becomes possible. And again, that relates to
this idea I'm trying to push a little bit of how to get unstuck from certain binary ways of
being in the world. This gets to bigger issues because a lot of this science and philosophy that
we're talking about reverbiates through these very same processes we're talking about into
all other areas of life. So when we're discussing these, I think we're also discussing that at a
different level. It's why I brought up fractals. And I'm very interested that you don't like that
word. And I also use multi-scale or scale-free, and maybe that's a better way of describing it.
But I think people are attracted to the idea of fractal for the reason I just brought up that we
can start to understand that there are similar patterns maybe at these different scales.
Which is what I think, again, correct me, but something like the maths that you're providing
show the patterns that connect at these different scales. I don't know
if you would agree with that, how you would see that, or if what you just said is an example of
how there might be another way of understanding how these different kinds of systems can look
different from different places. I guess another way of asking this question, is there only one
correct model? Or can there be many different models depending where we've set all of our
experimental parameters and so forth? Right. Yes, yes and yes.
Don't worry about using fractal. It's just technically you get this
similar patterns at different scales within the definition of scale invariance. And you're
absolutely right. What the free energy principle is committed to is that the pattern of self-organisation
read in terms of the dynamics or the flow on a Lagrangian or in this instance the free energy
is conserved exactly at each level. You have to renormalise the variables and the like,
but the actual pattern of the flow is identical in its functional form. So that's exactly what
defines the scale invariance and certainly an application of things like the renormalisation
group to the free energy principle or applying the free energy principle in the context of the
renormalisation group. So the spirit of fractal is exactly what underwrites this application.
The spirit of fractal, that's a better way of saying it more than like a Mandelbrot set or
something. It's the spirit of what fractal means. I think you're talking about self-similarity and
I think that's exactly right. So forgive me when I said I do use the word fractal, it's just that
I read that as fractional dimension, whereas I think what you mean is this fundamental aspect
which is this self-similarity of forming multi-scale perspectives on the same thing at different
levels of analysis or different scales of analysis, which is one way of I think sort of breaking.
I now understand more clearly what you meant by binary. You mean a sort of commitment to just
it's either like this or it's not and of course that's exactly what you're trying to avoid
with the view of the free energy principle as a maximum entropy principle or a constrained
maximum entropy principle. So I use the phrase before keeping your options open. So as you try
to form a belief about what's out there or an explanation about what could have caught us because
the sensory trajectory, you're trying to do it in a way that keeps your options open and
there could be lots of possible explanations. So you're not committing to one. If you commit
to one particular binary hypothesis or explanation for these data, then you are basically
limiting yourself in a very dangerous way because that particular explanation will not generalize.
So you see this practically in machine learning, for example, where you have a very brutal
explanation, too many parameters, you maximize the accuracy, but you haven't done so in a way
that keeps your options open by minimizing the complexity. So I think the non-binary,
where we're reading binary now is a very discreet unitary explanation for things that doesn't have
much riddle room. That's exactly the wrong way to do things. You need to maximize the entropy and
thereby minimize the free energy and maximize effectively the evidence in the data for your
particular model of what's going on. So I think there is a very comfortable argument you could
certainly make there from first principles, including non-disciplinary principles, but
James's maximum entry principle, that you could then relate back to Ockham's principle. Keeping
your mind open and finding the simplest explanation, that's the way that things
generalize and that's the best way to reach an understanding or explanation for the world.
The final point you made about the dangers of being binary.
I think you addressed it, or I don't even remember my own thing now, but I can't,
unless you remember it. But there's something you just opened up there too.
That was beautiful and thank you. And I want to think about hierarchies a little bit. Are
you still okay for just a little while? Yes, of course. Okay. So the hierarchies,
it's obviously a very important word in your work and in all of this. And
I want to talk about it in two ways. One, how the difference between the model
and the brain or the ongoing flow and process. I keep bringing it up, but first, this fracticality,
that's the spirit of fracticality or multi-scale competency. I think that's Levin or these
different ways we're trying to open up beyond the binary. And the math is opening up. I think
Bayesian statistics opens it up because it implies the subjectivity that people often accuse it of,
because you can set your priors and that's going to account for these different perspectives.
In a way that we've been talking about, but to make it a little more grounded,
when you're talking about something like hierarchy, you often talk about the low road
or the high road or open or closed or there's the way we understand it is right now through
these kind of binaries. Although most usually I feel like the answer is that it's open and closed.
It's low and high. It's just that we're using these ways to talk about it. So I wonder if that
sounds true to you. I wonder when you're really thinking about the brain itself and its hierarchical
composition, if you see it as something more along the lines of this nested multi-scale,
not necessarily linear from high to low, maybe it could be from left to right and in all directions
in a more fractal or multi-scale sense. If that's more akin to what you're meaning by hierarchy,
because I think it often gets taken as almost like in a class system or something, it steps up
the ladder. And I think that's also a confusion, at least it feels like one sometimes to me.
Right. Well, again, that's absolutely right. So in virtue of the spirit of fractality and
the self-similarity out there that we now have to make sense of and in fact implicitly model,
that immediately tells you that the apt good models of the data generated by this multi-scale
self-similar world must itself have a self-similar structure. And that's what I mean by a hierarchy.
So it literally means there is a depth to the cause and explanations you bring to the table
that is not binary in the sense, and that was your third point, in the sense that there are
multiple levels of hierarchical abstraction. So you can, and each level constrains the other.
So there's no one privileged level that in your head, you literally have cortical hierarchies
that represent the same kinds of things, but different levels of abstraction and
course grading over different time courses. So there's no one privileged level of explanation,
there's no one privileged conclusion. It depends upon which part of the brain you're looking at.
In terms of the structure of these things, I often think of this not in terms of a ladder,
a subsumption hierarchy, but much more in terms of a series of concentric spheres.
So for me, what's on the outside is basically our sensory epithelia and our actuators.
And then as we get further and further in, monosynaptic neural connection by neural
connection, you get further and further and further and you get deeper and deeper and deeper into
inner layers. And then what that creates is now a view of the brain, for example, where
this surface like, yeah, like a big onion. So in the same way that an onion has a layered
structure, it has a deep concentric structure, one can also envisage certainly the connectivity
of the brain conforming to the same kind of architecture. And as you get deeper and deeper,
things in the center can see much more of the range of the surface. So if I have this
third of the onion was auditory and this third was interoceptive, then at some point there's going
to be a deep representation, you can see both. Now these become now a modal representations that
basically explain causes of my sensations in both an auditory and an interoceptive modality.
And what also tends to happen in the mechanics of this is that your belief structures,
the latent states, sometimes called hidden states that are represented by neuronal dynamics
cover more extended periods of time. Again, in a self-similar way, in the way that you zoom out
in the mountain broke set, you're also zooming out in time in the flow, which means that as you get
deeper and deeper and deeper, you are representing things that can be read as the context that lasts
longer than the content at the level below or the more superficial levels as you get right out,
very fast reflexes of the periphery. So that's what I mean by hierarchy. I'm talking about a
very particular sparsity structure, sparse causal structure that defines a hierarchy in the sense
that you only have connections or circular causality between adjacent or adjacent levels
of hierarchy, but it's a concentric one. As a certain closure, it probably is a heteroarchy,
so it probably isn't a nice orderly onion. Maybe a broccoli. A broccoli made of broccolis.
I mean, I love the onion thing, but it even feels too constraining for me because it seems so neat
and that you have these layers and it's just, but it's more like there's, or I see it more as there's
many onions within onions and depending on, like you don't see all the other onions, you think
you're in one onion, but if you kind of went to a different perspective, you'd be in a whole other
onion and all those layers are sort of overlapping in different ways. Does that make sense?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, there's a little literature out there in terms of Markov blankets,
of Markov blankets, and you have bags of onions and then bags and bags of onions and it goes on
forever. Yeah, absolutely. It has to go on forever because of this self-similarity. So it has to go
on to the biggest and add to the smallest, but of course there is no biggest and there is no
smallest. Because that depends on your position, right? So there can be infinite kinds of big,
bigger or smaller, depending where you're going to shift your position of measurement, which
I think this is really like a hard paradox to hold because we have trouble getting out of the
position we're in to understand that, but maybe that's what technology helps us do and math
in a way. Yes, absolutely. Well, yeah, what comes to mind when you said that sort of the use of
microscopes and telescopes try and reach up into larger scales and reach down into smaller scales.
And of course you could have mathematical microscopes if you're clever. But I think
something, you know, you talk about holding the paradox before. I think you have to hold the
fact that you cannot see beyond just too many scales above simply because you don't last long
enough. So remember, unlike the Mandelbrot set, there is also self-similarity in time.
Things last for shorter periods of time at any particular scale rather than scale above,
which means me as an observer of the universe cannot last long enough to observe one slow or
one part of the scale above. Furthermore, when I look down, things change. They don't exist for
long enough to be measurable. And if you think about what that means at a very small scale,
something cannot be actually measured because it doesn't last long enough to be measured.
That's quantum physics. So now all we can talk about is the probability distribution of things.
If I were able to measure it, but now I can just talk about the bag or the probability distribution
of a measurement because it's changed so quickly, I can never actually measure it.
So there are limits on the depth that you can look down over scales, even using
technological extensions such as microscopes. At some point you can't do it. So we're all coming
back to dissolving the binary perspective and celebrating the perspectival or relational aspect
of the way that we make sense of the universe. We are just tied to our scale and we can't see
many more scales above or below and that we can only sense make and exist within that particular
scale or your one or two scales above below. I think people think it's six in the sense that
you can't fold a piece of paper more than six times. I think I'm sure all these scales.
Yeah, but that's from our scale. So it's very hard to hold that that there might not even be
necessarily this huge conflict, for example, between these different kinds of physics and
systems. It might just be that we're positioning ourselves in places where those different maths
are going to work from those positions and not from others. And we could hold that paradox in
a way. That's what I meant by does it only have to be one model that fits to everything
because the more we learn how to put ourselves in different positions, maybe we're going to have to
learn to hold the idea that different models work in those different positions, which is also very
hard. Well, I mean, a lovely example of that is the difference between, say, general relativity
and quantum mechanics. I mean, general relativity is about big things. Quantum mechanics is about
very, very small things. I think scale really matters because of this temporal dilation or
you get with this renormalization perspective. So it could be the same kind of thing, but they are
very, very different models. And yet they're completely consistent. They can be held together
just because you could only apply it at the scales above and you apply the quantum mechanics at the
scales below. I don't want to do quantum information theory. There are quantum information
theory is actually also scale free, but quantum mechanics of small particles where random
fluctuations dominate, that's limited to very, very small things.
This gets to the other, sorry.
No, I was going to say, if you were talking to Mike Levin, his way of articulating,
things only get interesting when you move from one cell or one molecule to multiple cells or
macromolecules. When you're building up to a higher scale, some things start to get interesting.
I think Mike and I have had some conversations, maybe three already, about different ways of
thinking about scales in the biological sense. It definitely applies and I think it also touches on
this difference that I've been trying to get at between the models and the process or the flow
and how those get confused because there's a lot of fighting about classical mechanics versus
quantum versus this versus that. It's hard to understand how they can be held in a space that
we haven't explored yet. Also, I think part of the confusion can be, at least from my point of view,
that it's too easy to mistake the model for the reality and you think you're fighting about the
reality, but you're fighting about the model. Sometimes I feel this in the literature around
free energy and I wonder if it's, for example, when you say something like that you're using
hierarchical, no, I think you say the brain uses hierarchical models. Correct me, but
it maybe uses them in different contexts. The brain is talked about as if the brain is using
the model. For me, that's a little bit confusing because I feel like from our position, we've
understood that the brain is working in a certain way and we've modeled it, which
can be different from the brain using a model. Although the brain could perhaps be using a model,
for example, in corollary discharge or efferent copies or something like that. Maybe that's the
kind of way in which the body is using its own model, but I feel like these are different
things and they get confused or maybe I'm just confusing them.
Yeah, I think that that confusion is prevalent in the philosophy literature or certainly the
philosophy that likes to shout about the free energy principle and sometimes I take it in terms
of the math territory fallacy and the fallacy of the math territory fallacy.
Well, the math, you're definitely not saying that, but I can understand how it easily
sounds like that. Do you know?
Yes, I do. Sometimes I give up and sometimes I lapse, but often when I hear people write down
the brain uses a generative model, I delete that and say the brain entails a generative model,
but that generative model is just implicit. It's just a mathematical construct that allows you to
understand the flow, literally the gradient flow on the variation of free energy.
Yeah, you say it all the time. I've noticed you say describe it as a model or something like this,
but it gets collapsed together, I think.
Yes, it can do. Well, it's entertaining if somebody doesn't shout at me or tell me to do something
that I can't do. I think it's useful just to remind people that you'll never quite know what
the brain is doing unless you break it, unless you do some invasive physiology, in which case
it's not the brain anymore. So all you can do is infer and describe what you can see of me
in terms it looks as if I am doing belief updating under a generative model and therefore it looks as
if my brain and all the neural message passing entails a generative model and I can try and
reverse what kind of generative model would best explain my behavior. Indeed, that's quite a
practical application of the entry principle when it comes to things like psychiatry and reverse
engineering, the generative model that would have been used if I wanted to explain this behavior
in light of these data. So I think it's a useful construct when it comes to simulation explanation
because you'll never know because you can't, whatever's going on behind my Markov blanket
is private to me. By definition, it's conditionally independent of anybody observing me.
It's not a wise question, but it is a vex philosophical question.
I know it must be annoying for you, but I think it has repercussions all the way up and into the
side and in all directions in terms of the way humans treat one another and the way we treat
the world around us because when we confuse our models in the processes that they're modeling,
something strange happens in terms of the way we think about
perspective. What I hear you saying is that we always need to understand we're modeling from
a perspective and we're modeling a part of a process, but that gets lost completely and that
seems like the important part, that situatedness, which is why I'm just trying to bring it back up
to bring the situatedness back into it.
One important aspect of that situatedness is the fact that I spent most of my life inferring
things about other people. So I think that's something which often gets lost because once
you recognize that your lived world is basically generated by other things like you, so you spend
most of your generated modeling trying to predict, understand other things like you
and then perspective taking, empathy, attribution of agency, the theory of mind,
all of these things now become really important attributes of good generative models for a
community of conspecifics that live together. These would not be issues if it was only me on Mars,
I wouldn't need a theory of mind, but as soon as it's something like me, like you,
I now need a theory of mind. Of course, then the as-if-ness now becomes, from my point of view,
quite a useful hypothesis or fantasy that provides a simple explanation for the way that you behave.
I think you're conscious, I think that you are inferring, I think you are, and I might be like
you, so perhaps I am conscious, I'll let you get to these sort of meta levels.
KS It reminds me of the connection and to try to bring it to love a little bit because this is love
and philosophy. I wonder about when you're, the disconnection hypothesis that we started with
way early in your career with the schizophrenia patients and the cells were not connecting,
maybe they were connecting in a different way. I wonder if this happens on larger levels than
what you were just talking about because we're trying to understand each other all the time
as ways of understanding ourselves and all this is very much entangled and I wonder if there's
also ways we get disconnected, so to speak, in this fractal way we were talking or if that's
too metaphorical and too going too far out or if you see that maybe there is some similarity,
self-similarity to these sorts of things. JS No, I think there absolutely isn't. Indeed,
there are simulations, baby step simulations, but certainly it's a great field applying the
pre-energy principle of specifically active influence in a ethological or social neuroscience
context. Indeed, there are funded programs by the EU to apply these ideas to look at voting
behaviour, population voting behaviour. There are some very nice simulations already out there
that exactly lead to what you were talking about, which is the segregation into in-grips and out-grips
that rests upon, effectively, me inferring whether you are like me or not. If I can infer that you
are like me, then you now, interactions with you acquire an epistemic affordance and then
we can consolidate our beliefs, but if I infer you're not like me, then I am not going to
associate interactions or communication with you with any epistemic affordance and I'm going to,
effectively, at the same time as basically dehumanizing you because I now do not see you
as the same kind of thing as me, therefore you are not human. Not only that, but I will not listen
to you. I will, or I will trade everything you say as fake news. So these are completely Bayes
optimal processes of inference at a societal or interpersonal level beyond the dyadic and
can be applied to some information and you can simulate the different conditions, but all,
as you say, rests upon the fact that you are taking a particular perspective and also
taking the other person's perspective if and only if they share with you the same implicit
generative model. So if there's a shared generative model, a shared narrative, a shared set of
conclusion, and I can infer, sorry, if I can infer that there is a shared narrative that you are
sufficiently like me to share the same kind of generative model, then we can talk and you are
part of my group. If not, then you are not part of me and that can lead to
the kind of segregation you might see in some of the actual diffusion systems where you get this
sort of separation, segregation, which again I say is completely Bayes optimal and slightly
paradoxical in the sense that you think that our job is to be mutually predictable, therefore we
should all share the same hymn sheet so we can all predict ourselves. That's not what happens when
you bring the symmetry, unless if you took everything away apart from all human beings
and made them speak the same language, then you might get that kind of relatively unstable group
dynamic, but in the absence of that, then that kind of segregation is going to be an emerging
property. Yeah, it's almost like learning a new rhythm. We've touched on it with the holding the
paradox and the way you've described things which are quite difficult and challenging for one to be
able to understand, but I do feel this is a case in which working it out mathematically and working
it out in these difficult situations that are very practical in terms of bodily and brain dynamics,
I do think there's a pattern there in the way we were talking about regularities and
that is not exactly the same parts, but the process and the patterns maybe can help us
understand how to not do that segregation or to understand that certain ways we're going to be
segregated from others, but if we move our position, those regularities are going to align
differently and there are going to be ways in which we do connect with just about anyone if we
could figure out how to do that fractal dance, which I think is really quite difficult, but I
wonder if that rings true for you or if you've found in your own life that living in that state
of flow is a matter of being able to understand how to shift perspective in that way a little bit.
Yeah, I think it comes back to doing what you're told. To do what you're told means you have to
hear people. To hear people means that you are not invoking, if I get a mathematical kind of
sensory attenuation and I use the word sensory attenuation because of your observation that
what can apply the maths and the mechanics of computational psychiatry to societal interactions
and I think that the ability to ignore the ability to evaluate the epistemic affordance
of interactions with that kind of person as very, very small means I'm going to ignore them.
Effectively, I'm going to attenuate any truthiness or precision in relation to their exchanges,
their posts, their messages, their ideology. So that basically means I don't hear them.
If I don't hear them, you can't do what you're told. So I think you're absolutely right. Being
in the flow in the more poetic sense really does require you to suspend sensory attenuation
and to listen and to both to listen and to also evaluate the precision of what you're hearing
and then there will be an opportunity to re-evaluate your prior conviction that this
person is or is not human, for example, thinking about the current pit crises and wars and that.
Exactly. That's a very, very beautiful way to think about it and it makes me
wonder if that's been your way of being in love. Of course, we could all mean different
things by love, but when you were talking, I was thinking about presence and awareness
that it takes to listen. There's a kind of stance where you
step out of your narrative or yourself, but more into your full body, which means you're
you are immersed in all that you think is not you. That flow that we talked about or
that place that you're in, it is a bit sentimental to say, but you do need something
of motivation to go through a life doing the science that you've been doing. It's a lot of
hard work and what you just described, that's a way of, for me, that seems like letting the energy
refresh or it shows me how maybe you were, when you're in that flow, it aids, it helps
that process, right? Yes. Again, for me, I have some respect
for you as well. I know no other way, but it was nice to use the word motivation because the
motivation is just the affordances and the affordances are largely epistemic. That's just
curiosity and to be curious means you have to be able to hear, to listen.
To listen can be an act of love. To listen and to act, to perceive and to act in that way,
I think, can also be an act of love in the most banal sense, but the most important sense.
Carl, I really appreciate your work and your perspective and everything that you do.
It's going to be a new year when I'm publishing this. Is there anything you're looking forward to
or anything you want to minimize, any surprise you want to minimize? What's your feeling about
the coming year? I'm afraid, yes, my New Year's resolution will be to not like any more New Year
resolutions. As you get older, you just want to, as you say, minimize your surprise and carry on
and keep calm. That sounds good. Well, I wish you the best. Again, thank you very much. Is there
anything that you want to make sure gets said? I think we've said all the important things.
Thanks for spending this time. My pleasure. I enjoyed speaking with you.
Happy Christmas, Happy New Year, and be well.
