It's not just that living things can do cognition with other substrates.
It's that living things must do cognition.
That if a living thing is not doing information, integration,
and collective action to use Mike's words, it isn't a thing.
It isn't a living thing if it's not doing that.
So that's the sense in which I'm talking about a cognition first story.
It's a story that includes the vibration in the geometry of the string as a whole from the beginning.
Hey, Richard. Good to see you.
Hello.
Likewise.
So it's another kind of research conversation.
This one framed a bit by this new theory that you're working out, which is very exciting.
I don't know how much you're actually ready to share with everyone yet,
but it's actually thinking about, well, I'll let you explain it a little bit, the music theory.
Yeah.
Yeah, it is difficult to know where to start.
Maybe you could even say how you, where you came upon it.
Are you musical?
Do you play music?
No.
Yeah, I don't either.
So it's mysterious to me.
No, I, there's a lot that we pretend that we understand about how evolution works.
And, um, uh, I'm interested in understanding it better than that pretense.
The, the pretend story is that we know how it all works.
It's all by random variation and selection on the genes and that phenotypes and organisms
and the behavior of organisms are all controlled by the genes.
But there's a bunch of biological, um, phenomena, which aren't very well accommodated in that
view of things.
And there are some grander, more sort of philosophical puzzles about evolution writ large that can't
be answered that way.
Um, and I've been very much inspired by Mike Levin's, um, work and conversations with him about
the role of development in agency and the role of development in evolution, um, and seeing
if there is a way of developing a theory of living things that is, that has room for top
down causation has room for agency and better explains the things which are anomalous.
Um, and the, let's see if I can do a quick version of the whole narrative arc in one go, um, the theory
that I'm developing, uh, describes living things as nested cycles or oscillations, um, that operate
at different physical scales and different temporal scales and that, um, you know, the slow oscillations
control the large macro scale physical organizations and the fast oscillations control the small
and the top down and bottom up causal connections between the large and the small and the fast and the slow
operates through resonance through harmonic relationships of those frequencies.
So an oscillation, an oscillation with frequency 2f fits inside an oscillation with frequency f as an octave relation.
And those harmonic relations give a way for small scales to interact with large scales and large scales to interact with small scales in a way, which is symmetric that you have a resonance or a phase locking between different physical scales.
Um, which would suggest that the causal flow is neither exclusively from small to large, a bottom up way of seeing things nor exclusively from top to bottom, top down way, um, sort of anti reductionist way of thinking about things, but, uh, in fact, the sort of swinging back and forth between the two.
Um, and that living things are physical dynamical systems with dynamics at multiple physical scales and multiple temples scales that swing back and forth between top down and bottom up causes.
Um, and, um, um, a way to, um, a way to formally link to a way to make that all formal instead of it just being a sort of, uh, well, it is quite hand wavy, but a way, a way to move from, uh, uh, what currently a hand wavy way of describing things to a more formal way of describing things is, is through that sort of, uh, logic of musical resonance.
of, uh, what frequencies resonate with one another and connected, are connected with one another and what frequencies aren't.
So that's the sort of territory I've been thinking about.
Okay.
So you say swing back and forth.
This is something I wanted to dig in a little bit and ask you about, because these are some issues that I've also been trying to understand how to articulate.
When you say swing back and forth, it sounds like something stops and starts and stops and starts.
But you also kind of mean it's ongoing.
Yeah.
It's not one or the other.
It's not this binary.
It's on, it's off.
It's on, it's off.
Yeah.
Is it power measuring the music, even though the music is doing a lot of things all the time?
So you can see a pendulum as swinging back and forth that appears to sort of momentarily stop at either extreme and then reverse and go back again.
Um, but you can also see a pendulum as an ongoing cyclic exchange between kinetic and potential energy that it's, it's just in a cycle in phase space.
It's just going round and round.
It's a nice smooth orbit.
There's no, there's no corners to its trajectory, right?
In, in that two dimensional space, it only looks like there's corners in it because you sort of collapse it into a one dimensional projection where you just look at its position in space.
Um, so there you have, have a, a swinging back and forth left to right, but you also have a swinging back and forth between potential, all the energies in the potential, all the energies in the kinetic, all the energies in the potential, right?
You have that swinging back and forth.
Um, and, and, uh, this swinging back and forth, there's another kind of swinging back and forth between the, um, small, fast timescales and the long, slow timescales, um, that I think is characteristic of organic systems.
Uh, that there's a, there's a slow timescale that's organizing the fast timescale, but the fast timescale is creating the material substrate that enables the swinging of the slow timescale.
And that sort of going back and forth in biology, it's the going back and forth between genotype and phenotype.
It's the going back and forth between the genotype, which has the potential to be an organism, but isn't.
And the organism, which has the, which is the information in action, but not, not in a form that you can copy it has to go back to the copyable state where it's sort of inert, the genotype.
Uh, so there's a swinging back and forth between the information is distributed in the collection of cells of the adult phenotype and the information is concentrated into the one cell of the germline.
Um, there's that swinging back and forth and swinging back and forth between the, uh, active and passive is sort of the genotype is just an inert thing that you can treat like data and just copy it with DNA polymerase.
Or it's an active thing.
It's in the middle of a dynamical process of creating proteins, which create all of the details of the organism.
Um, so, you know, there's, um, you know, basically I'm just reaching for a, everything is a cycle.
Everything is a swinging back and forth and everything that looks like it has corners on it is really just an orbit in a higher dimensional space.
And how does that matter for the position, which is assessing it?
So I guess what I'm trying to get at is you talk a lot about nestedness and scale, and this is very interesting when we think of it musically, how, I mean, it opens up a way to understand it.
Um, mathematically you do this right in, in the, in the videos, but I'm trying, you know, it's different, right?
This what's swinging back and forth and the swinging back and forth itself is different according to where we're assessing it.
Right.
Or is it, I don't know.
Is that part of this nestedness and scaling that you, that you see or.
Yeah.
So if I, um, I don't know whether, whether it's the right time to go into the, into the sort of the physical details of the resonance and how it works and stuff.
But I guess that's where I'm at in understanding it.
So that's, that's, it might not be the best way to do it, but that's where I'm at at the moment.
So if you have something that's oscillating, uh, how can it influence anything else?
The way in which one oscillation influences something else is that the something else needs to be the same natural frequency as the thing that's oscillating.
If it's the same natural frequency, then each time the source oscillates, it gives a little bit of energy to the receiver and the receiver starts to swing as well.
It transfers energy from the source to the receiver, but that is also a swing which overshoots.
And then over time you have all of the energy in the receiver and not in the source.
And they're like, Oh, wait a minute. So now what's going to happen?
Now the energy is going to go back from the thing that was previously the receiver becomes the source and the energy goes back to the other pendulum.
So if you have two pendulums on a shared string and you swing one of them, the other one is stationary.
The energy moves from the swinging one to the stationary one and the originally swinging one becomes still.
And then, well, then you've got the mirror image of the situation that you started with and it swings back again.
So there's a, instead of transferring, instead of the oscillation from left to right or the oscillation from kinetic to potential,
you have a, an oscillation from pendulum one to pendulum two that's, that's going back and forth as well.
Uh, so there's a fundamental symmetry between the observer and the observed that the observer can only observe something by being the same natural frequency as it.
So that it can be influenced by it.
Uh, but by, by being influenced by it, it takes energy out of the thing that it's observing and then becomes the thing that can be observed, right?
It's like the energy is transferred into the observer and the observer becomes the agent rather than the passive observer.
Now that's can be, you can get the separation to be, um, asymmetric, but still a swing.
If the observer isn't the same natural frequency as the original oscillation, but something harmonic to it, for example, being twice the frequency.
So if the natural frequency of the observer was half the frequency of the observed, then they will also resonate.
But there'll be two swings of this one for every one swing of that one.
And that will also transfer energy, but it transfers, um, in a way that for any particular duration of time, it looks like there's more of it going this way than that way.
Don't, um, those, you know, changes in frequency, when you think of them as being physically connected with changes in physical scale that the, you know, large things produce low notes.
They have low natural frequencies and small things have high notes, high natural frequencies.
Um, then this, the swinging back and forth, instead of just swinging back and forth between pendulum one and pendulum two, it's swinging back and forth between top down control and bottom up control.
Um, and it needs to be a swinging back and forth that kind in order for it to be an ongoing process in order for not to just be something that happens.
Once and then is over because there needs to be some sort of conservation, you know, instead of there's no, we started with a conservation of, of translation.
But if you go to the left, you have to go to the right.
And then there was a conservation of, uh, uh, energy that if you go up in potential energy, then you have to go down in potential energy and vice versa with the kinetic energy.
And then there was a conservation in the, whether it's in pendulum one or in pendulum two, it has to be somewhere that it goes back and forth.
It's not just a one way flow.
And then it's over because it's a cycle.
It goes back and forth between the observer and the observed.
And when it goes back and forth between small scales and large scales, both organizational scales and temporal scales.
And that's when you have something that looks like, um, uh, it's an agent that can do stuff versus it's a machine that was constructed by its parts as though the parts were the agents and that going back and forth between top down and bottom up.
And that's, that's what we recognize is, you know, there's a living thing, right?
There's a, there's an agent, there's a, uh, an agential autonomous system.
It's still, it's still just a, a conservation of causal flow or something between one scale and another.
Uh, and it, because it's conserved, it means it can be ongoing, but we see it as a, as a pulsing of agency, as it were a pulsing of top down control.
Um, which has to be compensated by a pulsing of bottom up control.
Um, but you know, as observers from the top scale, the top scale is the one that looks interesting.
My, my agency to your agency.
Yeah.
Gosh, there's so much.
I mean, even this agency, I mean, as you were talking, I was thinking of the pendulum kind of, if I could try to think of it musically, it reminded me of when I'm a kid and my, at my grandmother's computer.
Uh, computer, my grandmother's keyboard piano, like real piano.
Just pressing.
The other kind of keyboard.
Yeah.
The real, a real old piano keyboard and pressing like one note and then another, just back and forth.
Ding, ding, ding, ding.
You know, like there's, it's almost like a pendulum kind of oscillation in terms of like, this one sounded good with this one.
Going over back and forth or something like this.
Uh, and, and, and with the pendulum, right?
The there's, I'm the agent, I'm putting something into the system and then it's kind of doing something with what I've put into it in a way.
Um, I find it hard to get out of that kind of me in the middle or, or the agent giving the system, giving the pendulum the energy and then watching it or me doing something with the notes or something.
It's, it's hard because, you know, maybe you could tell me even like, um, how you see this idea of the song and music.
Is it metaphorical for you?
Is it literal?
Because how does it fit with something like if Dennis Nobles idea of music of life, where instead of the previous idea of genetics, we think of genes almost like a music script.
I don't know if I'm doing him justice, but, and so you could read the script many ways.
The script is just a script, unless you have the instruments and someone playing it.
It's, it's a great way to start to think about genes as not the primary actors in a sense, you know?
So I wonder if you're, you're introducing music into this notion of agency and, and cognition, which we're going to talk about in a second, because that's really the key here in a way for me.
Um, are you doing it metaphorically or are you really trying to create sort of a mathematical way of really thinking of this as like, um, yeah, music that we can, we can notice the patterns, the pattern and the behavior is the same.
And if we can notice the pattern in a, in a musical framework, then we're actually going to learn something, you know, deeper or different.
How do you see all that?
Maybe it'll help me.
So there's a lot of different metaphorical levels to play with.
And I think that my sort of overall position is there's no such thing as just an analogy.
Like when you, when you notice the similarity between things that can be a shallow similarity or a deep similarity, but it's still a true similarity, right?
That's interesting.
There's still, you know, there's, um, the, the question is what's the extent to which the analogy holds? Is it deep?
And, you know, when you say, when you recognize that, wow, this goes really deep, when you look at it really deep, it's actually, it is the same mechanism.
It's not just an analogy, but all you're really doing when you say that is this mechanism is isomorphic to that mechanism.
You know, it's, it's still, you know, you know, even when you say, you know, this number six is equal to that number six, you're, well, they're not right.
Because you held them apart for a moment so that you could measure this one.
And then you measured that one and they weren't literally the same.
Right.
Um, but, um, I'm going to have to move rooms a second.
No problem.
There was something about the pattern that was similar, I guess.
Sorry about that.
I just need to change rooms.
No problem.
Um,
Um, the, uh,
Oh, good.
I like this room.
The love room.
That's my favorite.
Um, so I forgot.
I lost my train of thought.
Sorry.
Um, so I guess w what we're trying to talk about is metaphor and analogy and how that's not
that's not, that's not just a dismissal.
Actually, you were saying it.
It's an expression of something that's isomorphic that we're not connecting directly.
You were saying like two different kind of patterns or two, two different numbers.
They're not the same thing, but of course, you know, we can, we can think of them, uh, as
part of the same pattern.
You, if you measure the, the width of the table and the length of the table, and it
turns out that they were both six.
It's like, oh, they're the same.
It's like, well, they're not the same.
Cause one of them's the length of the table and one of them's the width of the table.
So yeah, but they're the same in the terms of the number of centimeters across or the
number of feet across.
It's like, yeah, but that's only a particular aspect of them.
That's the same.
Then, you know, their measurement is the same.
So you're recognizing the, what's similar about them at the same time as holding what's
different about them.
It's a, it's maybe a bit too philosophical.
Uh, I think it's helpful because metaphors is, is used so much, but also dismissed so much.
So yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, there are, there are philosophers and cognitive scientists who, you know, take
that all very seriously, you know, that the, um, what is, how does it go metaphors to metaphors
we think with, right.
That everything.
Yes.
Every thought we have.
Laker.
Is a, is an analogy or a metaphor that makes a connection with something else we've thought
that isn't literally the same, but by recognizing the similarity, it enables us to draw connections
and drawing connections is exactly what the job of thinking is.
Mm-hmm.
Which to me connects to the nestedness that you express via something like music or scale.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so the, uh, let's, let's try it from Dennis's point of view and where, where I agree and diverge
from that.
Okay.
I'm very much inspired by Dennis Noble's writing on this.
So, and he is in part responding in contrast to a Dawkins-esque way of viewing things.
You know, the genes are in control.
Mm-hmm.
Everything is reduced to the benefits of individual genes.
And we are just the lumbering robots.
And Dennis in contrast suggests, no, the organisms are orchestrating the activity of the genes.
And Dawkins isn't, well, no, that's just wrong.
The genes are orchestrating the behavior of the organism.
And Dennis says, no, no, no, that's not right.
Because whether a gene is active, being expressed or not is determined by the context in which
it's in.
The gene doesn't control that.
The context of the gene controls whether the gene is active or not.
Yeah.
But the context of the gene is other genes, right?
Yeah, it is, but in a complicated way, right?
There are, you know, I don't really like the word, but emergent collective consequences
of the, all of the components of the organism, which create the context that orchestrate whether
a particular gene is active or not.
I want to interrupt you, but is that the same as top down and bottom up in the way that you
were talking about it earlier?
Well, that's, so that's the thing that's so uncomfortable about it, right?
Yeah.
So Dennis's suggestion sounds like he's advocating for top down causation, as though there's a
higher level agent of some kind that's deciding which genes to turn on.
Like me doing the thing on the piano or playing the music or putting the pendulum in action.
Yeah.
Instead of saying, you know, my neurons made me do it, or the chemical transmitters in the
synapses of my neurons made me do it, or the molecules in the chemical transmitters made
me do it, you know, as though they were the things that did it.
No, I did it.
And I made my neurons fire in order to make that happen.
And then that made my, the chemical transmitters transmit in order to do it.
It's like, no, the prime mover was me, not the prime mover was the molecules.
Yeah.
Wow.
Mm-hmm .
So that's generally not very well received in like all science, right?
Yeah.
Well.
So that, you know, reductionist science is the business of taking things apart so that you
can look at the component parts and, you know, to be fair, the relationships between the
parts and that by, by so doing, you will understand the whole, except every single time we do that,
we totally don't understand the whole at all.
No.
We just understand the parts and we list the relationships between them.
Yeah.
And the thing that we really wanted to understand isn't there anymore.
We say, so, you know, we do this with, we do this with, you know, we want to understand the nature of the universe and why it's there and what it's for and what its meaning is.
And we turn that up.
Well, you know, they're just masses and gravity and things orbiting around one another.
There isn't anything to see here.
And we do this same thing with, you know, what's an organism?
Well, an organism is just cells and the cells are just full of molecules and the molecules are just bumping into each other.
And it's just, it's just biology.
There isn't anything to see here.
Right.
There's no such thing as life.
There's no such thing as spirit.
Yeah.
And the same thing with mind.
It's like, oh, how does that work?
Oh, well, there's neurons and there's axons and there's connections between them and there's electricity.
There isn't anything to see here.
There's no such thing as mind.
Right.
And the thing that we wanted to explain in all of those cases falls between through our fingers.
Right.
We didn't explain the thing that we really wanted to explain.
It's the reductionist science just says it just isn't there.
Right.
There's nothing there to talk about.
Right.
The tricky thing is that in so doing, we also do make some kind of innovations, technological or otherwise, because just by looking at it in this way, we've started to understand it a little bit.
So then it seems like, oh, it must be right that it's as you just said, because we've created these kind of new ways of interacting with the world.
But we still haven't actually done, as you're saying, what we set out to do.
But somehow it doesn't matter anymore because we've somehow understood the process a little or what you might say, the song or the pattern.
We've kind of understood it a bit.
But in a very mechanical way, it's not a bad thing.
Yeah.
You're also saying that.
So what's the musical analogy of the same problem is that you take a piece of music and you ask the question, what's the meaning of this piece of music?
What is it?
And you say, well, you know, it's this note followed by that note.
And you say, well, what's that note?
Well, it's, you know, it's just an oscillation that moves, vibrates the airwaves.
Or what's this note?
Well, that's just an oscillation that moves the airwaves.
And why did that note follow that note as well?
No particular reason.
But I can tell you what the interval is, if you like, you know, as though, you know, you're just describing the parts and their relations.
Yeah, exactly.
That's great.
That helps you understand the music and even to maybe make new music or become a musician.
But the whole point is the music, right?
That isn't explainable.
I mean, otherwise, it doesn't matter.
I mean, it's this kind of it's the most important thing is, is the thing that we're not explaining.
And in fact, we're perpetuating even maybe evolving, you might say, by our are trying to explain it.
So the the music metaphor in terms of the genes and the organism, an in between position is something like, well, what if the genes were to specify the instruments?
But not the music, right?
So somehow the music, I don't know where that is, some sort of ethereal thing that's orchestrating which instruments get played at which time and which notes they play.
And the genes are necessary in order to code for the hardware.
Mike Levin might say that, you know, you can't use this protein if you don't have that protein.
But whether you're going to use it and how you're going to use it, when you're going to use it, that's orchestrated by the activity of the whole cell or potentially the whole organism.
But then the next worry is, OK, but who's doing the orchestrating then?
Right. You know, this has to be it has to be the parts themselves that are somehow orchestrating themselves, doesn't it?
Because where else could it be? Right. You know, wherever this orchestration comes from, it must be made of stuff.
It must have parts. Let's list those as well.
So that's the doctrine of gene, selfish gene. Yeah. It's like, you know, it's just just from that it has to be somewhere.
And the only place it can be is the genes. So that must be in the genes, too.
Yeah. It can't be the case that the musical score is sort of written down somewhere else and that there's a conductor that comes out of nowhere and tells the genes what to play and when to play it.
Right. And so how do we how do we sort of get out of that sort of trap of wanting to have a materialist explanation, a materialist understanding of the stuff that we're looking at, but also wanting to understand it holistically.
So, you know, some attempts have been things like, well, you know, it's self-organization or it's emergent or something like that, which is fine so long as it goes.
There's definitely self-organized principles in physical, in physical complex systems and properties can definitely emerge at the system level that don't belong to any of the parts individually or their sum.
But somehow it's missing the feeling of cause from above. It's missing the feeling of the whole telling the parts what to do.
Yeah.
They change their behavior at a different scale or.
Yeah. So there's there's a there's an analogy here or is it with, you know, how do you explain the reason that a guitar string plays a particular note?
And if you look, if you look closely at what's going on, well, you need to know.
You need to know that the the molecules of steel in the string are being physically pulled to a particular position by the molecules of steel either side.
Right. You know, if these two are going up, then the one in the middle has to go up. Right.
That they are. There are physical forces between the particles in the string that cause them to move the way that they do.
That's why the molecules move the way they do. That's why the string is moving the way that it is.
Yeah. OK. But how come they're going up and down at that particular frequency and not some other frequency?
It's like, well, that's because, you know, all the ones next to it are going up at that time and all the ones next to them are going up at that time.
And so and then they, you know, they reach their limit of their tensile potential energy and then they push back again and they go in the other direction.
Yeah. But why that frequency? Well, yeah, that's also to do with the length of the string.
Right. It's not just the the tiny molecules of steel which are controlling what's happening in this system.
The length of the string, the geometry of the string is also involved. How is it involved?
Well, when one molecule pushes another molecule, pushes another molecule, pushes another molecule and we have a wave of energy traveling along this string,
it gets to the end of the string and reflects back and it meets itself, as it were, traveling in the opposite direction.
And in so doing, that creates a kink in the string that strings don't like.
And that causes the kink causes the waves to move in the third dimension to change their phase around one another in order to resolve.
And the resolution of those collisions between waves and themselves reflecting back and forth in the geometry of the string is controlled by at least two things.
The speed of the wave in the string and the length of the string.
The relationship between those two things controls whether the wave meets itself in phase or out of phase.
If it's in phase, it just builds up. If it's out of phase, it cancels out or causes a kink that needs it to resolve.
So the macro scale geometry of the physical system is involved as well as the micro scale particulate nature of one thing bumping next to another.
Wonderful. What's that sort of multi scale?
Yeah. So it isn't it isn't sufficient to just say, you know, the molecules made the string play a G.
Right. Right. The the the macro scale geometry of the string made the molecules play a G.
Right. Is is equally valid.
So that is that like saying we can't just say the genes made an eye.
That it was also where it was placed in the system or how how I'm thinking of like planarians or, you know, your discussions with Mike.
Yeah. You know, where I wasn't for a minute. I wasn't sure whether you meant an eye or an eye.
Oh, wow. I guess it could be either in a weird way. If we think about the eye or a leg or a self.
Yeah. Well, so, you know, if you if you put an undifferentiated cell into the tissue of a developing organ.
It will become a cell that's appropriate for the context in which you put it in despite the genes it has.
Right. Its genes don't determine whether it changes into a liver cell or a skin cell or a part of an eye.
Exactly. I was thinking that's maybe the length of the string and all these things you're thinking about has changed.
Yeah. So I think of the morphology of an organism is like a complex vibration.
Some of those vibrations will be resonating in relatively short scales, organizing tissues like, you know, the hair follicles on your skin of little repetitions of hair follicles all the way along.
And other oscillations will be whole body oscillations like the head to tail oscillation that makes the head end of an organism different from the tail end of an organism or the extremities of a limb different from the shoulder of a limb.
And then there are other scales like making the inside of your arm different from the outside of your arm.
Right. The outside has the skin on it and the inside has the bone in it.
And those those organizational scales are different physical scales that have that are controlled by vibrations in different kinds of substrates.
So those might be gene expression vibrations.
They might be morphogen wave excitations in tissues.
They might be electrical connections between individual cells that are neighboring or between cells that are far apart if they have a neural connection or indeed physical vibrations.
If we know when in the bones, perhaps, and those different scales of vibration are controlling the different frequencies of vibration, controlling different physical scales, organizing different physical scales.
And also all connected with each other, right?
We can't have we can't have the higher physical scales being disconnected from the lower physical scales.
They're all.
No, but you could have the same notes or the same notes with completely different harmonies.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So you can.
The different kinds of communication that we are familiar with in music, right?
So first of all, there's the simple connection between, you know, this thing has the same natural frequency of that thing.
Meaning those two notes are the same.
They sound nice together, but a bit boring.
Then there's, you know, these two notes are different from each other.
They're not the same frequency, but they sort of sound like they're sort of similar.
How did that happen?
Oh, they're an octave apart.
One of them is twice the frequency of the other.
Right.
The pattern is the other intervals, which are, you know, the sort of the nice, neat ratios of things.
And then there's this thing of like, but now I can play this tune in an octave higher.
So all of the relationships between the notes are the same, but all of the frequencies were different.
So is it the same or is it different?
It's like there's none of the notes are the same, but the ratios of the notes are the same.
The changes in the intervals between them are the same.
Yep.
And then there's the, you know, the changing of phrase that, you know, Bach makes a little phrase go up and then go down.
And then a little bit later, he makes it go down and then go up.
And then, you know, turns all of these symmetries inside out that are, you know, the, oh, it's, it's different, but it's also sort of the same, right?
It's this conservation of the going, the swinging back and forth between the sameness of things and the differentness of things.
Right.
All of these different scales that.
Makes me think of Philip Glass.
It's a good pendulum.
Yeah.
Pendulum music.
So the, so the, the musical analogy, let's call it that for now is deep.
I think at the very least, if it's an, if it's an analogy, it's a deep one.
Yeah.
Uh, so it might not be music in the sense that you can listen to it with your ears, but it's music in the sense that.
Uh, it connects together similarities and differences at different scales and different intervals.
It's music in the sense that it moves you, uh, not just emotionally, but physically, right?
The way that you move is through the resonance of the dynamics that are happening in your brain with the dynamics that are happening in your muscle cells.
Right.
Those are resonance connections, I think.
Uh, and it's music in the sense that it's about, you know, sort of call and response between a subject and the object and the swinging back and forth between that, that I was talking about as well.
Um, those are real physical forces, not just metaphors, right?
Resonance actually moves things.
Um, and that resonance can move from one substrate to another, right?
Like you can, like, like you can move a tune from, uh, an air column vibration to a string vibration or to a metal bar vibration.
As you move from one instrument to the other, you can move a song from a thought space from the electrical dynamics in your head to a physical space, to a behavior that you're doing.
We do fingers on the keys.
And there's a going back and forth between that, right?
That why am I thinking about playing those two notes over and over again?
Because I'm hearing those two notes.
Why am I hearing those two notes?
Because my fingers were pressing the keys.
Why was I pressing those keys?
Because my brain made me do it.
And you sort of, there's a, there's a cycle back and forth between the desire or intention to keep playing them and the hearing of them from the, from your own actions.
So you're creating a cycle at that causal level.
Yeah.
You're getting all these feedback loops, which aren't really loops.
They're more like spirals because every, every time it's going to be a little different.
I think we, yeah, but that's another conversation, but that's exciting because I think, um, this is messy again.
I'll just talk, but a lot of things are coming to mind, right?
The same when I was watching your videos, it, it, it helps to think about, we can, you said, you, you know, you have the thought and then your hands are also doing it, but you're also kind of saying that's a continuous process.
And then what we're doing is sort of, you know, I'm going to do it.
It's just a continuous process in the sense that you and Levin and I've all been talking about in different ways of thinking about cognition first, in a sense that the, the navigation or the way making or the movement is already cognitive.
it's almost like redefining that as cognitive it's not that we're saying mind that's mind it's
more like from the beginning before you call it cognitive the movement is already doing what you
think of as mind on a different level so as you're explaining all that it's it's it's music
can be really helpful to like think about tracing the the path of how different things have
um navigated or made their way uh in terms of these kind of notes or harmonies or and how the
different patterns connect and overlap it made me think of uh jacob van oak school have you read his
stuff at all he also has this kind of musical theory of meaning which i haven't thought about in a long
time um he's the one that a lot of people attribute niche construction stuff like that to way back you
know more i'll send you some stuff i'll have to think about it but uh yeah i think his idea was
this kind of harmony like the whole world is kind of a harmony um it's very holistic in a way but
also that and it gets to what you were saying what i'm trying to say from each perspective within that
harmony there's going to be a different kind of music even though there's like kind of one ongoing
large music so i don't know how have you thought about that kind of i know you think a lot about
part and whole and and so on but does does that yes one of the things that one of the things that
interests me most is um what does this all mean for what's the prime mover right what does this all
mean for what am i supposed to do with my life right yeah where's the meaning you know what's
what's the point of it all right and the you know the point of it all from a natural selection point
of view is to survive and reproduce you know you could do that if you like we're to a certain extent
we're compelled to do it you almost can't help but do it i mean reproduction is you know in so many
forms we think of it sexually but we're always reproducing you know when you write a text you're
reproducing uh-huh but the but what's but what's the point in that right you know there's you know
that that that might explain the the biological um necessities and impulses but it still doesn't
explain what the point of it was and there's this assumption that there's a striving for improvement
uh striving for um adaptive increase which would do what which would make things reproduce faster
which would make things survive better yeah um and it's like and where where do you think that's
gonna lead right it's like it's like it's not that's not going anywhere it's only it's only a linear thing
too that there's some place to get to and that way of thinking about meaning is painful yeah so that that
whole thing of of you know life is some sort of optimization against an objective function that
you're trying to maximize music has a like all the arts has a suggestion that uh i don't think that's it
right i don't think we're trying to uh optimize against some objective function here and when you
think about uh harmonies and the ways in which notes interact um the idea that you're trying to
optimize it becomes immediately ludicrous it's like okay let's what am i trying to do i'm trying to
make the best note it's like that doesn't make any sense i'm trying to make the best harmony what does
that mean well the two notes that harmonize the best well well there's the octave that harmonizes
pretty well it's a strong resonance but you know what unison is better why don't we just do that
right and we just all play the same note that's the perfect harmony isn't it oh i think we've missed
the point somehow you know so this notion that when you when there aren't when there's nothing when
there's no notes at all sort of anything is possible but also there's a sort of there's
a sort of every potentiality is there but nothing is actually there and then you lay down the first note
and it's like well now something is actually there but the space of potentialities has actually been
reduced that the the number of notes that go with the the number of second notes that go with that first
note is less than the number of all possible notes but as you lay down the second note then now that
makes suggestions about what the third note is i'm calling to way making yeah yeah i'm getting it thanks
for calling that out by the way i didn't say thank you a long time ago you're welcome it's yes it fits well
with my thinking that then that's it's a each step is creating uh inviting a particular distribution of
the next step absolutely and the um you know what's the point of that it's like what it there you know
there isn't right it's just it's just a dance it's just a piece of music it's just
uh creative process which is uh creating spaces which invite reactions and reactions which create
spaces and it's a going back and forth between those things which isn't going anywhere and isn't
it beautiful not i won't tell me which way to go and i'll go there the most right you know that's
that's not what life is about or it's making way but it's not going somewhere it's not there's not
i think even the question itself of what the point is a linear question that you just you know we need
to ask a different question in a way and when you were talking about it reminds me of like okay why
do we even create music in the first place it's not to optimize anything although it gets stuck in
these uh algorithms of social media or of just our language the algorithm of our language exactly
asking questions like what's the point where you start to kind of optimize your life somehow with your
creation and then we get confused and i think we get quite unhappy but um i think what you're doing
is trying to open it up again so that it's like actually if you have to say there's a point when
you really write a piece of music the point is that you're having an experience that you want to
make way through and somehow you want to connect it with the ones around you or the the world around
you because you need a way to deal with that emotion right i mean it comes down to those very intimate
intense important kind of things that you don't need to ask what the point is
yeah i'm just i'm compelled to do it yeah yeah so maybe that's more what music is really i don't know
what do you know what do you so that that whole artistic um non-objective uh implication of the
of the using the metaphor of music is also important to me i i i don't want to turn um
um a better theory that explains biological evolution into a more effective optimization
algorithm it's like oh there was a dump there was a dumb optimization algorithm variation and selection
and now i've got a better optimization algorithm so yeah that is you know it's not it's it's just um
you know processes which create the space for their own existence
uh but also in so doing create their own demise and then go around again and that that dance of um
creating spaces moving into the space moving into the space creates the reflection of the space back
again and moving back that dance um is a is a dynamic which creates something from nothing and that's
that's what's interesting about living systems not how well they optimize their the exploitation of
their current niche right it's the it's the construction of the niche into which they step
and in so doing change the niche into which they are creating a niche that's the reflection of the one
that they just left that that dance of stepping in and stepping out the swinging back and forth is the
thing that's creative about life if you if you were to sort of when you take that sort of optimization
stance as though you're saying well all other things being equal this is the best way to go
right and the arrogance is to assume that in your going that way everything else will stay equal
of course it won't i mean you know every every thing that aligns like has a song you know it's gonna
yeah the notes that that the thing the thing that you the way that you perceived everything to be right
now wasn't stationary anyway it's like it was always in flux it was always in motion it was only there
because of its reflection to you and you were only there because of your mirroring it and in any movement
that you do necessarily has uh um a consequence in in changing what it is you're moving into
and i my hope is that in understanding that that's what it is that the the fallacy of um you know the
greed in control that has got the western world in its grips yeah or is it the other way
around would be alleviated i guess as you show back and forth
yeah your hope is to shift that a bit then or help people see past it beyond the dichotomy
yeah and if as soon as you ask the question um
uh what's what's a person supposed to do what's that what's a self supposed to do what's the what's
the objective of a self it's like well once you've defined a self and you ask what are its interests
it's the answer has to be well whatever it is that maximizes those interests
yeah by making the cut between the self and the non-self uh you've already set up a situation where
the only answer can be self-interest if instead you think about it as well the the self is not
separate from the non-self the self is a mirror image of the non-self they are a reflection of each other
um like then uh the self trying to get control of dominate hold on to grasping risk and aversion
that that notion is like but that but so doing would um imbalance the um the reflection between the self and
the non-self in such a way that the self would cease to exist your it's the it's the resonant
relationship between the self and the non-self that's the thing you can't separate the self from
the non-self no and you don't only have one self i mean it's like you don't only have one song even if
you have the whole universe as a harmony in some kind of sense there's always you i guess that's what gets
back to what i was trying to say at the beginning depending where you're going to kind of look
as you just said too once you've decided on a self what you've done is set the trajectory or you've
taken that first note in the way you explained before so that now within that song or trajectory
which is only one possibility of many ongoing other ones then yeah you've set some parameters
in terms of what the next step can be and so on but there could you know overlapping using that
same note or millions of other possible songs and trajectories so there's something about that
limiting linear thing where we think oh that's the self that's the song that's the trajectory we have
to get to the right end um yeah that's like very very limited and i guess you're opening up that space
which is really a space kind of like this word on the on the wall back there and some of the work
you've done you know relative to that there's something about just the spaciousness of realization
of that there's more harmonies than the one you're working on at the moment or more songs than the one
you're working on at the moment um does that relate yeah should i say more about how i think this word
connects with induction music resonance and harmony yeah please so my working definition of love is deeply
vulnerable mutual knowing and say what i mean by that so in order for one thing to know another thing
to be affected by it it has to resonate with it um if two things are completely different frequencies
they just can't see each other right this one they're oscillating with a similar behavior or pattern
is that kind of there to say yeah so if i have a if if i have the same natural frequency as you
then your movements will affect me and vice versa if we have frequencies which are different
then you can move as much as you like and i just don't resonate to that i just i'm just not affected
by it you might not even sense it at all or you might yeah you're just you might just go in the other
direction just to avoid that yeah it's just you you just we just don't connect there's no it's just
invisible now um that uh that relationship if we are the same frequency we are the same natural frequency
has to be reciprocal it has to be mutual that in knowing you in being able to be sensitive to you
by being tuned into your frequency that enables me to read you but it also enables me to be read it
also enables me to change you and you to change me right and so knowing another deeply is the same as
being vulnerable it's the same as in order in if i really if i really know you deeply i'm making myself
available to be changed by you in the same way as you're making yourself potentially vulnerable to be
changed by me yeah so obviously you want that if that um similarity is superficial like there's a
you know there's a resonance but it's a weak one um you know then that's that's not deep but if
there's if there's a richness to the combination of natural frequencies in your song with the combination
of natural frequencies in my song and i am able to tune those in that's a deep resonance it's vulnerable
in the sense that it um makes me available to be transformed by that relationship
and it's mutual in the sense that it's bi-directional that's so i mean it i mean i'm that's
i'm needing to make quite direct connections between
oscillations natural frequencies harmony music and love that's beautiful and it makes a lot of sense
to me and um even on a like dynamical system systems integration level where you're changing i mean
everything is sort of influencing and changing everything else depending on of course the
proximity of the oscillation or the path you know you could think of it in different ways trajectory
and it's true too about the kind of books we read and i mean i think about it in terms of way making
right like you're it's not only the physical body but it also can be through symbolic things like books
or or films where people have expressed themselves in these way ways that you then kind of oscillate with
those and they change you you go hear a lecture and it changes you forever whether you like it or not
in a way so there's this vulnerability that's so at the heart of almost like all of our actions in a
way um i think we both have to go but i wondered like as you were talking how do you connect that
back to these discussions we are all having about cognition you know this thing i'm talking about
beyond dichotomy through love and philosophy and this these can be really hard right to think about
about this space that we just opened which i think has a lot of truth in it and then trying to understand
some what does that relate with the first order like starting with cognition or movement or what are
your thoughts uh so i'm a i'm a big fan of getting cognition out of the head so the basal cognition
way of viewing living things is that cognition is a thing that can happen in in biological substrates
that are not just neurons right you don't need a brain to be doing cognition no you just need to be
what do you need exactly you need to be able to do some kind of information integration and some kind
of information distribution something like that but there are all sorts of different substrates that
potentially could do that right so instead of having neurons sending electrical connections to
one another you could have non-neural cells sending chemical connections to one another or genes sending
protein transcription factors to one another they're all capable in principle of doing the same kind of
information integration um so first of all let's get cognition out of the head so it's some kind of
body in an encounter i have trouble with processing information because yeah it sounds already in the
head yeah so the information versus physical causes uh that sort of split of well it's only information if
you have somebody to read the information like they were you made a split between agent and information
programming data i think that you can you can do that okay with resonance right so if i resonate to a
particular piece of music because uh but the music that was on the piano was vibrations that were in the
strings that moved to vibrations that were in the air that moved to electrical vibrations that were in the
the nerves coming from my ear that moved to now now it's in that sort of common currency that the brain deals
with of electrical uh movements can resonate with all sorts of other ideas and other feelings which then
connect with other things which are in the body and the the in holding the resonant oscillation in a different
substrate for a while it's both information and it's a cause like it's information because right now
it's holding on to the energy rather than giving it to something else uh but it's also a cause in so
much as well if there is something else that resonates with it the energy can be transferred back again
so you can you can turn it from from you know doing macro scale work in the world to doing
little teeny tiny vibrations which are not really doing anything right now but they're just sort of
spinning around and then you can get that energy back out to do macro scale work in the world again
and that's so from the person who's assessing this thing it's information but it doesn't necessarily
have to be for the process as it's happening yeah yeah you know it's um i mean it can be more immediate
it doesn't yeah yeah so uh right so we've got cognition out of the head and into the body
then we want to connect it's not just that living things can do cognition with other substrates
it's that living things must do cognition that if a living thing is not doing information
integration and collective action to use mike's words it isn't a thing it isn't a living thing if
it's not doing exactly that connects to what's the difference like developmental biology is cognition in a way
yeah so if you have a pond of an ecological community of single cell bacteria
that isn't doing information integration and collective action it isn't an organism it's just a
pond full of single cell bacteria in an ecology and to the extent that they do
do information integration and collective action it is an organism that being able to do cognitive work
is the same thing as being more than the sum of the parts you're not a thing unless you're doing
cognitive work having being a living thing that is that is greater than the sum of the living things
which you are composed means you are doing cognition they're they're the same thing that's an important
point yeah and then the when you think about that which which came first the part or the holes which
came first the molecules on the guitar string or the length of the guitar string now you have that that
back and forth between what what came first then was was this collection of cells and organism
because the cognition made it so or was the cognition happening because the cells made it so right that's
just the same back and forth again that the the information integration and collective action was the
thing to organize the cells into an organism and the organism was the thing that was doing the
information integration and collective action that's a they are co-supporting co-creating swinging back
and forth between looking at the parts and looking at the whole um so the in that that's the sense in
which i'm talking about a cognition first story it's a story that includes the um the vibration in the
geometry of the string as a whole from the beginning it's like that the geometry of the string is not just
something which which um organized the vibrations of the molecules but it's almost as though it made
the molecules right in the if you get you don't want to get too metaphysical too quickly but that the
the reason that the molecules have the springiness that they do and the connection that they do is
because they were organized by the geometry of the whole yeah and you don't even have to get metaphysical
if you just understand that what we're talking about is a kind of assessment of this ongoing process
from a particular scale or nested point of view so you could also just like you could
hear many different songs that have the same note on it you know but you can only hear probably one
at a time depending on where you're gonna listen from it's similar with this process that you've
just described that there's always going to be many different ways of looking at that process and assessing it just
um depending on what you're trying to trying to assess it's gonna kind of align or harmonize or
whatever in a different way but when you describe all that it makes me think okay well love is like
entropy or the vulnerability of that that there isn't actually a closed loop even though we talk
about loops that it's always a kind of spiral there's always this moment of you you know you're never
going to come back exactly to where you started the first time even though coming back you've you've grown or
you've evolved um so i don't know is love like the entropy the vulnerability and that like that
whole system plus yeah i mean i think that if you could hold everything else constant then it would
just be a loop it would eventually just go around again and you'd get back to exactly the same place
and nothing would have changed yeah but we can't do that because it isn't closed because because there is a
connection between the self and the non-self by the time you've gone around that loop the non-self has
changed and it the you know the interaction between one uh song and another right when one when one song
meets another when one living organism meets another whether they're the same species or not uh
uh is um throws up different intervals between them it's like you know it's it's almost as though
if you imagine if you imagine two messages on the same carrier wave then if i know the carrier wave i can
see the message but if there isn't really any difference between the carrier wave and the message they're all
part of the same thing and what i see of you is the difference between our two songs and what you see
of me is the difference between our two songs but from the other side right and if you look at the two
of us from outside well whatever is outside is is not that by definition and what what the outside sees
is the difference between it and those two songs right however the next the next level of organization is a
is a is a um if that if that level of organization on the outside nudges one of those songs it will nudge
the other uh but and that creates a sort of a reaction between the two of them so that they're not
um that they're momentarily uh out of equilibrium as it were um but that that disequilibrium is going to
flow through the system and either come back to the same point or it's going to have spread some
influence a little bit further and we recurse outwards again to another level of organization
um so it's that integration as you were saying that you change each other uh yeah can't avoid it
yeah i i have to go to class but um thank you for uh yeah i feel very inspired you're very welcome
again more to talk think about and um yeah once i maybe we we can talk more about the actual
theory that you've laid out when you're ready because i know you're i don't think i'm allowed
to share your videos yet but if i am let me know yeah i think i'm going to do some more work on them
and do another version before i make them public but it's it was a sort of a useful stage of i've been
trying to get my thoughts down on paper for such a long time and it was so hard that i decided to do
it in as a recording which seemed to work better but it's still a work in progress well it's it's
interesting and you're on to something they're illuminating thank you it's uh that's been a very
stimulating conversation thank you yeah for me too and um i guess we won't talk before the holidays so
uh
um
