Hello everyone, welcome back to Love and Philosophy.
This episode is with Michaela Massimi.
She is a philosopher who wrote one of my favorite books, Perspectival Realism.
She has also written many wonderful papers about perspectivism that are very important
for my research and that relate to navigability and waymaking.
There are other words for this idea of perspectival realism, perspectivism, epistemological pluralism
is close and connected, also realist metaphysics.
Honestly, there's a whole history of situated knowledges and different terms that relate
to this idea of what I would say is a path through a landscape that is unique to each
person making their way through that landscape.
In any case, in this episode, we talk about it from a perspective of philosophy of science
and how these ideas relate to rethinking the dichotomy of realism and anti-realism or the
problem of the plurality of models and how maybe that might not be a problem, it might
be okay to have many different models.
How might we be realist and pluralist?
How might we believe there's a real world out there, but there might not need to be
only one correct model to describe it?
Many different models could be possibly helping us to understand that world, but at the same
time, those models have to be rigorous.
They have to be able to withstand criticism and observation of their parts.
So it's not just saying any model is correct, but it might also not be saying that only
one model is correct.
We talk about this in depth here, also discussing how to think of the connection between, for
example, physics and philosophy, which are both very important to Michaela and her work.
In her book, she also mentions a lot of writers such as Borges and Calvino, especially Italio
Calvino.
There are many quotes in her book from him, and I love that because I also love Borges
and I also love Calvino, especially Calvino's book Invisible Cities.
So just to get us started, here's a few quotes from that.
Memory is redundant.
It repeats signs so that the city can begin to exist.
The traveler's path changes according to the route he has followed.
We take delight not in a city's seven or seventy wonders, but in the answer it gives
to a question of yours.
And maybe one from Borges, too.
Let's see.
I thought of a labyrinth of labyrinths, of one sinuous, spreading labyrinth that would
encompass the past and the future and in some way involve the stars.
So the books of both Borges and Calvino are really good exercises in what Michaela and
I talk about here philosophically.
She also brings up forking, F-O-R-K-I-N-G paths, the Garden of Forking Paths, is by Borges.
And this idea of forking paths, always moving away from each other but cross again in this
kind of Escher-like landscape where direction isn't binary, Borges, Calvino, Escher, these
are written or visual examples of what we are trying to talk about here philosophically.
I really find this a very important issue in philosophy of science and I love what people
like Gary, who is a big inspiration for Michaela and others, are doing.
It also extends back, for those of you who love Nietzsche or Plato or Wittgenstein, Kant,
there are traces, very deep traces and important paths that lead from their work to this work.
And we discussed that a little bit here.
We think about landscapes and gardens and all the many paths and ways we might be making
our way through those in terms of knowledge base.
So I just love this conversation.
I love her book.
I know I already said that but I really do.
And I hope that you will check it out and even if it doesn't all make sense because
sometimes it's a little annoying all these words like essentialism and realism and so
on.
It's an amazing exercise if you want to learn critical thinking to try to unravel all of
this.
But I think also you can just listen to it in a big picture sort of way.
You can go crazy with the philosophy of this.
I'll put some links if you really want to look into it.
But the overall big picture important issue for me here is we're all trying to understand
the world and we're all creating different models and artworks and different creations
towards trying to understand that.
And sometimes we confuse those models, whether they're scientific or what have you, for the
reality.
How do we unravel that strange tension, especially once we realize that language itself might
be some sort of a model?
And why does this matter in normal everyday life?
I think it matters because we often associate one another's worldviews with whatever particular
model or music or organization, etc. that we've identified ourselves with.
And it can be helpful to realize none of us are any one of those things that we've identified
ourselves with.
And the people that we're talking to and trying to understand, we also can't identify them
completely with any one of those models or representations or whatever you want to call
it there.
These are all difficult issues philosophically, but Michaela impacts them very well in her
writing and I think we had a really lively and beautiful conversation about these big
issues.
So thank you for being here.
If you want to help love and philosophy in any way, we would be very happy to have your
support.
There's lots of ways to do it.
Please join the YouTube or join the Substack or whatever way you can be creative.
I'm glad you're here and I hope wherever you are today, something good is happening.
Some kind of new insight is coming.
Some exciting, motivating swirl of energy comes through your life and you feel connected
to what's around you.
All right, here we go.
Hi, Michaela.
Thank you so much for being here today.
Hi, Andrea.
Thank you very much for having me.
It's great to see you and talk to you.
I want to talk about perspectival realism, your book mostly today.
And one word that's big or important in that book is community.
So to start, I want to think about that word and how you found your community in terms
of philosophy.
I was trying to imagine when you were a kid, if you were reading a lot of science books
or because you seem to know so many science stories, and then also how the philosophy
came in, the philosophy community, how you got into that, how you found that.
Yeah, I know.
Thank you.
Wow.
So how do I find my own community?
I went to a start, my birth starts from the beginning.
how I got interested in philosophy.
So I, as you can tell from my accent, I'm born and bred Italian, and the great thing
about Italian system is that philosophy is actually taught as a compulsory subject in
most senior school streams.
So I encountered philosophy pretty early on at the age of 14, 15, when I was in my first
or second year senior school.
And I still remember the moment, I remember my teacher, I remember when we were studying
Plato and the theory of knowing as reminiscence, and I just, I remember I was completely amazed
and enthused by the subject.
And then I started reading by myself during the summer holiday, I remember suggestions
by my high school teacher about Plato's dialogues and other small things that she suggested
about Pascal and others.
And so I just developed my own interest in philosophy, but I've always been interested
also in science, so I used to, I used to read again during my summer holiday, kind of popular
science books, mostly on physics, cosmology, just very simple ones, you know, but so when
I had to choose what to do at the age of 19 in Italy, I was really torn because I really
wanted to do physics.
But then I knew inside myself that really my passion was for philosophy and I just couldn't
let it go.
So I decided that I was going to do for a degree in philosophy, and that doesn't mean
that I met my community.
At that point, I met some important mentors that have been inspiring for, I think, some
of the work that I've been doing all along.
So had you met Kant, Immanuel Kant?
Yeah, actually, true, some of those mentors.
So my teacher of philosophy of science in the in-room La Sapienza, where I graduated,
somehow had a kind of Kantian, neo-Kantian upbringing.
So the name of Kant would appear and obviously Kant would be everywhere in the Italian curriculum,
you know, theoretical philosophy, there would be Kant, practical philosophy, there would
be Kant, aesthetics, there would be Kant, absolutely everywhere.
Fascinating to me that you have so much philosophy in Italy, so different from the way it is
in America.
Yeah, I think the Italian curriculum, especially at the time, so it's a pre-reform, I think
that reform it seems, but back in the day, 1993-1997, was still very much, very much
historical in the kind of curriculum and so Kant was really pretty much everywhere.
There's an odor, so the sort of odor that we studied was Play-Doh, Aristotle, we got
Descartes.
I don't even think we got to Kant in secondary school.
So yeah, the encounter with Kant was later, but it wasn't really until I graduated and
in fact until after my PhD that I went back to Kant, because my PhD I was doing pretty
much history of physics and history and philosophy of physics on the arithmetic theory, but I've
always had an interest in Kant and Kant's philosophy of nature, so it was really after
my PhD that during the year when I went back to Kant that I discovered this whole trend
of philosophers of science that had a Kantian kind of interest and were working in the Kantian
tradition, thinking of Michael Friedman, for example, has been a very influential figure
in his kind of Kantian take applied to the history of physics.
So you already loved science and physics when you were really young, but you felt more
like you just wanted to understand the ideas of it or something, because yeah, you did
your PhD combining both of them, and of course they've always been connected.
We separated them and now that maybe they're coming back together, was that important for
you too, finding a way of holding those things?
I mean, physics itself, as I think of it, is doing that, sort of holding the philosophical
and the scientific in a special way.
What I loved about physics was the big idea, the big concept, the questioning of reality,
which is not necessarily what actual working physicists have to do on any basis.
There is a lot more kind of practical aspects involved into physics, and what fascinated
me about physics were really the big questions.
So my kind of laurea dissertation, which is what you did at the end of your four-year
degree in Italy, was on the Bohr-Einstein debate on the concept of physical reality
in 1935, the Einstein-Botoski-Rosen and the Bohr-Kovenegen interpretation.
And again, I found this absolute gem, because it's one of those debates, which is really
deeply philosophical about what is physical reality, how do we define an element of physical
reality, where do we draw the line between the observer and reality, and so that's what
really fascinated me, and I think that, you know, going back to your question about finding
the community, I thought, yes, so this is where I see myself going, this is what I
want to study, that kind of questioning, yeah, profound philosophical questions, I think
some of the best sciences, no matter if it's physics or biology or else, typically do going
down to the very foundations of questions about knowledge and reality.
So I found my community a bit, yeah, in that way, but then, as I said, I went back to come,
but I continued to work in that area with the philosophy of the physical sciences and
developed a more historical interest in Kantian New-Kantianism, but I think for a long time,
I was really trying to find some kind of a chemedown platform where I could address the
sort of Kantian questions about how is knowledge possible, and engage with questions about,
you know, reality as science portrays science, reality, and it really took me a long time
to get to Giri respectivism, because I couldn't really see what was the genuine question that
was really interesting from a philosophical point of view, I didn't want to fall back
into some kind of outdated, that quote on me about, I don't know, the categories of
the understanding and reality of the phenomenon, the norm, and I thought that all that really
didn't find necessarily a character part in contemporary science.
And then I encountered Ron Giri's book, and I thought, okay, this is an interesting way
of addressing the sort of questions that I've always been interested in about the nature
of physical reality really, and the role of us human being in understanding that physical
reality without necessarily falling back into some sort of platitudes of, okay, the object
and the subjects, or the code to me.
He really tries to get past that.
I think he talks about dyads, and I don't know if it's in that book, or in papers, or
in subject-object, but the reason I raised Kant, and the reason I'm also trying to figure
out how you found the community in philosophy and physics is because exactly that question
you raised, how is knowledge possible?
I feel like with your work, you're opening a different space we just met, but you do
know that I'm kind of obsessed with this getting beyond the dichotomy without rejecting it,
the either or, and I'm trying to see in your own life, if that was a question that's posed
when you came into this environment, did you feel like you had to choose between philosophy
and science, or this kind of mental exploration and physical exploration in this question
of how is knowledge possible to get closer to your work?
Is the world real?
Are we going to talk about realism, or are we going to talk about anti-realism?
Did you feel those pressures to choose your side early on, or were you always trying
to open up the space, maybe just opening it up naturally?
Yeah, no, absolutely.
It was a constant struggle to overcome, you know, dichotomous choices, you are there,
especially the Italian system where I grew up, that didn't really allow any combination
of physics and philosophy, so in the UK where I now live, it's obviously possible to combine
the two, so there are degrees that specialize in philosophy and physics, but that was impossible
in Italy at the time.
Definitely, in the Italian system, I grew up, it was impossible, so it was a very stark
choice, either you do humanities, and you do 19 exams, philosophy, and all the philosophy,
or you do physics.
And I remember I started kind of subverting a little bit shorter by going to physics and
auditing classes, but I could not take them for credit, which I always regret, because
I think, you know, would have had a much better education if I were allowed to actually sit
those classes and do the coursework, like the others.
Couldn't use it for credit, but you just went anyway, and they wouldn't let you put it on
the list.
I remember just going, because I was interested, and I took some classes with Marcello Cini
at the time, I was in the physics in La Fabianza, but just really auditing, just sitting in
the class, and I remember, yeah, when I was preparing my dissertation, spending a lot
of time in the basement, a very dusty basement of the physics department in the campus,
the main campus, university campus in Rome.
Was that where all those Boer-Einstein documents were?
Yeah!
So it was one of those archives where you need to turn, and yeah, I remember it was
really spooky, I was the only one there, there was no one around, there was just books covered
in dust.
Because obviously, at the time, it died, right, and now you go online, you click and one click,
you get the EPR paper on your computer, but at the time it was not digitized, so you had
to go down in the basement, yeah, which was exciting, so it was part of the field of kind
of, yeah, slightly subverting the issue, the dichotomy.
Early on, you were pushing into kind of that new space.
I don't know if you would agree with this, but your book, Perspectival Realism, feels
to me like it is opening the space of dichotomy.
The way you put it together assumes a space around things that were once considered choices
you had to make in the way that you've kind of described the way the Italian system was.
That's how I see it.
No, absolutely.
So when later on, you're in my PhD or in my postdoc here, and I kind of started delving
into the bit of realism in science, it was very clear, there was this other, they called
me, you either are a scientific realist or you are an anti-realist, and obviously there
are different nuances and families of realist and anti-realist, but there is really this
gap in between.
And so then the big problem was you can't really be a realist about science if you take
seriously pluralism.
So at the time, really the background, I also think the background of Giri's book is really
pluralism, sensitive pluralism.
And there was this flurry of scholarly work that's been influential for me on sensitive
pluralism, where philosophers were discovering the importance of plurality of method, plurality
of explanatory modes, plurality of approaches and so forth.
But all that debate about pluralism was very often presented in the light of varieties
of anti-realism.
So I said, yeah, if you're really a pluralist, then you can't be a realist, because to be
a realist about science, there is one way and one way only in which theories are the
true or false, obviously, and the best theories of mature science are approximately true and
past theories that have been rejected were false.
So there was no middle way of kind of understanding what it means.
So a way of overcoming that dichotomy was really through the situated knowledge thesis,
something that came from the feminist literature, feminist philosophy of science, standpoint
theory in epistemology.
So I thought probably a better way of asking the question about how to be a realist about
science, but also give you credit to the fact that it is a pluralist enterprise is not by
starting with the question of, look, there is this plurality of models and they make
contradictory or incompatible assertions about the target system, how can you be a
realist about that?
One of them must be true, the others must be false, or what is even the purpose of them
and all this plurality of models.
So in a way, the problem of inconsistent model was what got me into this debate in philosophy
of science, but I thought the way of overcoming that dichotomy was by stressing the situated
knowledge thesis, the idea that if we start with the human standpoint that our knowledge
is situated, it's the product of communities, they have a story of culture and situated
natural real people at real time that live in a particular culture and have access to
particular resources and so forth.
Then the question about realism is not a question of how we map the model into reality and why
say that we have this plurality of models here, just for reality there, but the problem
is how do we model reality from our situated vantage point so that we can understand the
comprehend and produce the epistemic feat of science that we have produced over centuries
and millennia.
So that became the project of the book.
I love that.
I noticed the terms coming from feminine studies and so on, even like the intersectionality,
but it's interesting to make that connection.
In the book, one thing I really love is you call attention to that we often start with
the models and say that they're incompatible, therefore you must be anti-realist.
If there's so many different ways of getting there, if there's so many different models,
it must be that we can't even ask the question of the target system, which after you read
your book and you kind of look at it in a different way, it makes not a lot of sense,
right?
If you go back to lived experience and you go back to the phenomena and so on, then you
can see how these different models might build up from different experiences.
You talk about paths and gardens and landscapes and that's something I'm in common with me
interested in.
As I was reading your book, I was thinking, well, it's almost like saying, okay, there's
many different paths to the fountain and the garden.
You speak of gardens a lot.
So there must be no fountain, which is actually weird.
When you flip the script the way you did, it becomes almost the opposite.
If there's many paths to the fountain, the fountain is probably there.
At some point they will appear.
This meandering path is kind of fun, actually we find it precisely because all those paths
at some point intersect.
Exactly.
I think you nicely summed up the book.
I think one of the problems is that the traditional debate of realism and anti-realism for many
decades has always been rearsed in the form of this sort of God's eye view on you're
from nowhere.
Here is science and here is reality.
How do the two talk to one another?
Is there a way of showing that your models or parts of your model mapping to parts of
the target system?
And then obviously the problem with just the model is what if you have many models for
the same target system?
So some of the literature start the way from nuclear physics and models of the nucleus.
Why do we represent the nucleus in different ways?
Sometimes it's just a collection of nucleons that are in terms made of quarks according
to hyperchromodynamics.
But if we want to study say nuclear fission, we use a different model, we use the liquid
draw model.
So we represent the nucleus as a squeegee bubble of incompressible nuclear fluid.
And if we want to study other phenomena like standard nuclear synthesis, then we use another
family of model, the cluster model.
So philosophers start wondering why is it that we have this plurality and what can we
really say about the nature of the nucleus if we have this plurality of model?
So as I said, it took me a long time to figure out what was the problem really with these
impacts that people were describing, why is it that pluralism should land us with a selling
to some kind of anti-realist view?
And what is the value of the pluralism, pluralism not as a problem, pluralism not as a stumbling
block.
So pluralism is actually a bonus of what scientific inquiry is.
And so not some kind of, I don't know, kind of collateral damage of scientific inquiry
that you have all these communities that come up with their model and somehow, okay, we
need to make sense of it.
But actually as the typical example of why those communities work as well as they do
by producing the plurality of models.
And so the question for me became the question of exactly, going back to the Kant question,
how is knowledge possible?
How is it possible for human beings like us that are historically and culturally situated,
how is it possible for communities working, quanto a chromodynamics as opposed to stellar
nucleosynthesis or any other area, to produce knowledge through their modeling practices
that is reliable knowledge that doesn't have to be pitted against one another by such a
part of the fabric of knowing that those communities, many plural communities, produce
over time without necessarily having to pick and choose and what was wrong or what is the
best model?
What is the model?
And what is the other value of the others if they're not the model?
So that became, yeah, so that became the motivation behind the book and I'll tend to tell a story
the scientific practice and looking really at modeling as the practice of what perspective
does.
So a perspective is, in my language, really the historically culturally situated practice
of a community.
But what the practice does is to model reality, to produce what I call perceptual modeling.
And the modeling doesn't just include the models, it includes inferences that we make
from the data to the phenomena via the models, via sometimes experiential practices and know-how
that is not necessarily relying on any sophisticated models who have a very kind of general stake
on what is the scientific practice and what are the systemic communities, communities
capable of knowledge.
But once you pose the question in that way, then reality, we encounter reality in a reliable
way, precisely by going back to what you were saying, I use this metaphor again, from
Borges, walking in the garden of walking path, by making inferences that we learn how to
refine and improve and make more and more sophisticated over time so that we know that
we're never lost, you know, we're wandering at the same time, you have to go through that
of inferences and, you know, producing modeling that eventually give us that knowledge of
reality.
Reality is not there or is it plain for us to discover and it's not a matter of us stepping
back as if we had a God's view and say, here's the model, here's reality, we're always in
the model, we're part of the whole, we're part of the modeling practice.
Yeah, exactly.
And it changes as we know it, that's a basic thing of physics too, right?
But I guess it's really hard to hold all of this.
I mean, I can't understand how, even in my own life or when I study, that you just want
something definite and because the thing is, it's not just one garden, right, or it's not
just one city.
I mean, this is very Borges like too, but it's almost like a matrix of many overlapping
multidimensional gardens and matrices.
And so even though all of that is connected in the way you say and changing each other,
it becomes hard to talk about it.
Once you understand that it's there, you almost go into metaphysics or you almost lose this
robustness and reliability, which are important words in your book.
And I think one way that you could counteract this or open up a new path is you're kind
of telling us a different story of what a model is, but you're not just stopping there.
I think this is how you develop the idea of the blueprint maybe, right?
So yeah, kind of zooming in into the detail of how this is done in the book and the kind
of positive view apart from, okay, going beyond the dichotomy between realism and surrealism
or pluralism and realism.
Then the question is, how do we know that we are making reliable inferences from within
our situated knowledge?
How do we know that we're not subject to hallucination or a function or whatever we produce is just
a figment of our imagination and maybe doesn't really exist or, you know, that's the threat
of anti-realism that keeps on coming back as soon as you, again, put the human standpoint
to center stage, even through the feminist idea of situated knowledge thesis.
But that question keeps on coming back, but how do you know that it's reliable?
How do you know that you're not, you know, ending up in some form of idealism or I don't
know, constructivism or whatever you want to call it.
You talk about stable events and I think about regularities and it's almost like we're trying
to figure out how we're talking about the same regularities.
Yeah.
So there are two components in the book.
So in the first part of the book, I try to explain any kind of epistemology.
So how do we come to know the world in a reliable way because that's the idea of inferential
blueprints.
What is the model?
How do we use those models to make those reliable inferences?
And in the second part of the book, I address the metaphysical questions about what is reality
going to look like once we take that step, assuming we're willing to take that first
step of situated knowledge thesis.
And so the idea of inferential blueprints is really kind of going back to the metaphor
of perspectivism.
What does it mean to draw in perspective?
So back to the history of art, it means to be able to represent on a two-dimensional
a three-dimensional space, means we are able to skillfully arrange planes and angles so
that we can give the impression of a space that opens up in front of us, even if it's
just a flat canvas.
And so that got me thinking about what is so special about modeling is exactly that
we encounter reality through those exact techniques of opening up a space of reality,
which doesn't mean that the space is not real, the space is real, but it's a space that we
have to open up for ourselves by using those small dots as inferential blueprints.
And so the idea that really, and something that I want to stress is that very often people
think, oh, well, respect our drawing is just an example of us as human spectator of nature.
So it kind of reiterated the code, I mean, there's us spectators and nature, but no,
because actually the image of the inferential blueprint is patterned on a perspectival
technique in architecture.
So the example I gave is building a house, you need a blueprint, which was this technique
used before xerography became common.
What you have in a blueprint is effectively a collaboration of engineer and architect
and carpenter and mason that they are able to use the blueprint as a way of exchanging
instructions about how tall the door should be, what the relation between the height of
the door and the height of the windows and so forth.
So I see models as having that role of allowing different communities of people, doesn't matter
whether they are, I don't know, nuclear physicists as opposed to chemists or biologists to come
together and exchange that information in a way that the inferences that we make ultimately
are reliable, are inferences that we can trust upon and that lead us to what I call more
than a robust phenomenon.
So the second part of the book is the part where I try to spell out exactly what it means
to be a realist once you take this step and how it looks like.
So I introduce the king of terms like more than a robust phenomenon, stable events and
so forth.
I'm not sure I want to go into it.
The reason I brought it up here is because something I want to ask you about or get your
advice about or ask you to unpack more is, okay, so realism is connected to truth and
representation broadly.
And then you're showing us a different idea of the model and what you just described about
the blueprint.
I love it in the book that you go into architecture.
So in the way I was clumsily talking about all these paths leading to the fountain, blueprints,
that's a better example because you have to build the house.
And it's almost like a, I want to say third space, somehow the model or the representation,
are those different?
I don't know.
I would like to know what you think is the space where everyone can meet somehow.
The blueprint becomes a place where we can, when you're building a house, you need many
different kinds of people with different kinds of skills, but then you have this place where
you can all meet and talk about it in a way.
And I guess what the reason I brought up the stable events and regularities is because
there is this real thing going on that we're all seeing from these different perspectives
and the model gives us a place to what?
I don't know how you would say it, meet, discuss, all of that together.
Yeah, exactly.
So that the modeling, so the perspective on modeling is the wider practice of making inferences
about those phenomena.
The models are some of the key tools that we use in that perspective on modeling.
But I insist it's not, modeling is broader than models because it's not just about the
models.
We can have a perspective on modeling or reality using experiential know-how or local communities
that don't have a model, don't use models as we understand the concept of modeling,
the way I was just explaining before with the other models of the nucleus, for example.
So the model, going back to the kind of more parodied example from nuclear physics.
So the model is really the place where, as you rightly said, different communities, doesn't
matter if they're working on nuclear physics or quantum chromodynamics or whatever, meet
and they can exchange information, make inferences, that's why they're called the inferential
blueprint.
So it's the place where the inference takes place, it's the inferential space where we
come to encounter reality.
And we do that because we have a very sophisticated way of using those models as a way of imagining
or conceiving what the object might look like within the constraints given by some laws
of nature or rule-like dependencies.
So the imagining is not totally unconstrained and it's not totally free-floated.
It's actually constrained by the practice that includes obviously background knowledge
on whatever the rule-like dependence in the community happens to know.
But then there is a point where the rubber hits the road, so it's how that imagining
and conceiving about a certain target system proves reliable or not.
So this is where stable events come in place.
So if you ask me about where is the realism in our story, I mean, we have to tell a story
of realism from within, from the situated vantage point of particular communities and
they're encountering each other within the space of models as inferential blueprints.
How do I ever know that the inference I'm making are trustworthy, are reliable, are
actually telling me something about what the nucleus is or whatever the object I'm studying
is.
And so this is where the stable events come in.
So I'm a realist in the sense that I believe that the world is made of events that are
stable in the sense that they have some kind of inbuilt low-likeness in the way in which
an electric charge is repelled by a magnetic field.
That for me is a stable event in nature.
It's there and will be there even if J. J. Tomsol never existed.
So whatever model J. J. Tomsol or any other scientist that come up with to explain reality,
there is a point where the rubber hits the road, which is the point where those stable
events effectively can constrain the space of the inferences that we make and then guide
us very often down different paths.
So as I said, this process is never a process of convergence.
It's never a process of one-to-one mapping, but it's a process of tagging, finding our
way through, yeah, a bogus kind of inferential working path where we have to make inferences
about what is the size of this object that we are observing as being deflected by a magnetic
field that seems like the same size of an hydrogen ion or is actually smaller than an
hydrogen ion.
So we rely on, you know, like dependencies to make those kind of inferences.
And that's what stable events do, they kind of constrain the space of possibility that
we explore through models that inferential bloated.
And that's that flipping the script part that I really love is the stable events are there
before we've named them.
In a way, it's weird because we use language and it's kind of this representation and model
within itself.
I don't know if you would agree with that.
You talk a lot about language in one of the examples as you're building the positivist
case for perspectivalism.
And by the way, for everyone listening, I do want to say that you spend many, many chapters
going into, for example, that positive case and talking about the atom climate change
language really building it up with a lot of great nerdy examples.
So there's a lot of substance here for everyone to go and look at.
But since we can't talk about all of that, I guess the thing I'm trying to get at is
you start with that.
What I've thought of as regularities, stable events, things that whatever you're going
to call them or however you're going to model them, they're their phenomena, right?
And maybe this is a moment to kind of get into natural kinds a little bit.
And also this confusion that we often have, which is connected to what we were talking
about earlier of assuming that we then, you say it in a great way, something about like
we have to determine the essential properties of the target system.
That becomes, that's a metaphysical kind of thing that gets confused somehow, right?
But how are you shifting this idea of natural kinds maybe, or maybe you can just even correct
me a little bit in what I'm talking about there about thinking more of these regularities
first or these stable events and those being like a natural kind, which we continually
figure out through this representational practice, which isn't determining essential properties
of that target system.
Yeah, no, thank you.
It's a lot.
You've been summing up like five, six, how much?
Yeah, and it's really, yeah, there's a lot.
You really make the case very deeply in a philosophical way, which you have to do because
it's so much assumption just around a word.
It could easily be like, oh, this is just essentialism, which you definitely show it
isn't over three chapters.
But yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah, I'll try to, I'll try to be brief in the answer, but I got through that five
chapters.
So your book is there for people to really dig in for everyone that wants to, yes, kind
of going back just to make things probably more kind of tangible with the example of
the problem and consistent model.
So one of the, one of the problems with the realist literature very often has been that
the world comes pre-packaged with not four kinds.
So there is an electron, there are, you know, atomic nuclei, piper, lemons, you name it,
the natural kind, water and so forth.
And the idea is that the aim of science is to tell us the true story about this card,
the joints of nature by identifying correctly what are the essential properties of those
objects.
So that's the way in which the debate in philosophy of science for many decades have proceeded.
Some kind of, you know, debate on realities about theories, theories being true or false,
going hand in hand with the metaphysics of nature that just buys into the picture that
the world comes pre-packaged with those natural currents and certain kinds and kind constituting
properties, essential property of a kind.
So to be an electron is to be a particle, the head, spin one half, a negative electric
charge.
Those are all essential.
Now if you take that picture, it's very difficult to be a pluralist of science because then
you get a plurality of models, as we were just saying before, that seems to attribute
very different essential properties to the same target system.
So according to the liquid draw model, the nucleus has the essential property of being
a drop of incompressible nuclear fluid.
But according to the quantum thermodynamics model, the nucleus is a bunch of quarks.
So those seem to be very different metaphysical feature, very different essential property.
How can we be realist about that?
So my way of turning the script and kind of say, okay, there's something not quite right
in this way of answering the question is to show that, well, again, if we take this view
from within, and so from within our practice of modeling reality, and we take models as
inferential blueprints, the purpose of the model is not to attribute essential properties
to the target system.
In fact, we don't even know that there are those essential properties to start with.
So that's an assumption that we start with.
The purpose of the model is to be exploratory, is to allow us to ask questions about what
could be the case, what is possible about the objects that we're trying to study.
So that's my take on anti-essentialism and anti-foundationalism in the sense that really
the whole way in which the debate on realism was originally posed and the dichotomy with
pluralism started because we were making some pretty strong assumptions about the nature
of physical reality.
Once you make the strong assumption, then obviously pluralism becomes some kind of weird
stumbling block to explain why the model is a representation of reality.
So in a way of bypassing all that and coming up with a different story of how to be a realist
while also being a pluralist about science, I came to articulate this view as I said,
this different chapter.
So I'll be brief, but there are three main elements in this metaphysics of reality that
I explore in the book.
So there are stable events, there are modally robust phenomena, and then there are natural
kinds with a human face or an incurrentialist view of natural kinds.
I'd say very briefly what each of those elements are.
So the stable event is the simplest kind of realist commitment to the, as a perspective
of a realist I have, as I was saying before, I believe that an electric charge would be
repelled by a magnetic field, okay, that's part of the fabric of nature.
Of course I need an instrument, I need a cathode ray tube, but to even know that there
is such a stable event, to be able to explain it.
So in a way we're always within our perspectival modeling, but there's a sense in which that
reality is there and it will be there even if we don't have a cathode ray, it's not
a cathode ray that creates some kind of figment of the imagination about the electric charge
being repelled.
If you think about like AMBER or however they used to do it, was it with AMBER and LASPER?
They attract pieces of paper, right?
Just have that experience without having understood it, named it, and all this.
But if you want to do that, you need to develop these models, right?
That's right.
So if you want to have an understanding of what goes on, once you see that the AMBER
attracts pieces of paper, then obviously it becomes exceedingly complicated because you
need to come up with a theory that tells you what was on the subatomic level, and obviously
it's a fascinating story.
How Thomson had his own kind of partially false view, partially true view of what the
electron was, but somehow, you know, he was the one that discovered the electron, got
the Nobel Prize for it because he was able to measure with precision this kind of stable
qualu-like event in nature, how there is a mass to charge ratio that tends to remain
fairly stable.
So this is the simple level of stable events.
And there's a level of what I call the more robust phenomena.
This is the Kantian bit, if you like, in the metaphysics, because it's the idea that really
our knowledge is knowledge of phenomena and I can't, but these phenomena are effectively
stable events, okay, that we have been able to infer and reign fair over and over again
using different models, different techniques.
So in your example, it's the fountain that we meet at the center of the garden.
There's a point where all these paths somehow intersect and inter-fine and you encounter
realities of where they intersect.
What we encounter is what I call the more robust phenomena.
There can be sometimes incredibly complex things like global warming, so it's one of
the case studies I discussed in chapter 4a of the book, or the stability of particular
isotopes.
So at the level of phenomena, we're not talking about things, we're talking about phenomena
like stability of particular kind of atoms, or we're talking about exactly global warming
in the sense of how do we measure the sensitivity to greenhouse gases in the mean global surface
temperature of the planet and so forth.
And then there's a final level, which is now short kinds with the human face, which I borrowed
from Pattenham, I had this 1990 book, Realism Over the Humored Face.
So I developed a view of natural kind as an inferentialist view.
And I have to say there have been a lot of natural kind that's been dwindling and I shared
the sentiment that there's good reason why it's been kind of dwindling over time.
The fact of the matter is that we use terms in our language every day.
We talk about water, we talk about electron, we talk about atoms, global warming and climate
and those are natural kind terms, terms that in philosophical language refer to the joints
of nature.
Then the question is, what can we as philosophers say about those joints of nature?
So for me, the story about essentialism had already gone out of the window in chapter
three of the book, because as I said, that was the main stumbling block to my whole question
about how to be a realist and a pluralist about science.
And I thought the only way of being a realist and pluralist is just by getting rid of essentialism
and getting rid of this idea that the model represent by attributing essential properties
to the outer system.
So the question then is, okay, what becomes a natural kind?
What is an electron if you are a perspectival realist?
And so the story I tell is that, well, natural kinds are just concept, sort of concept, concept
that we use to sort phenomena into grouping that are open-ended, revisable and are grouping
of phenomena.
So the level of reality is the level of the stable event and the phenomena across stable
event that have been inferred and we inferred, but that's all there is really.
So we hang on to the categories of natural kinds because they are part of our natural
languages.
theories of the electron, theories of water and so forth.
But if you ask the metaphysical question, what is there, I would just say what we have
are open-ended grouping or restoring identified phenomena.
Then obviously we can change or revise as we discover new phenomena.
But again, the grouping is not kind of random, the grouping is the outcome of this working
in the garden of inferential fucking path.
So the fact that we have arrived at this grouping is just because of how this particular community
historically and related their discovery of particular phenomena with others, not because
there is some sort of predefined catalog of what are the phenomena, they are part of a
natural kind.
So because there is a predefined set of nonsense sense of condition or kind constitutive essential
properties and so forth, there's a very kind of, it's an inferentially small level view
of what kinds are and really it's a kind of just concept that are useful only to the extent
that they're useful, but can also obviously trade on power structure and sometimes hide
some power structures in how we cluster some of those phenomena and so forth.
I think there's so much really important stuff in here for science, for philosophy, but also
for life and what we're doing here.
What's the big picture?
What are we really trying to do with science and philosophy?
But how do I get into that?
It's interesting because as you were talking, I'm thinking, I don't know how you would feel
about this, it's too big of a question, but language itself almost seems like it's telling
us that we have these stable events and regularities, right?
Otherwise you wouldn't have the term that people understood because it's a little model
of that stable phenomena in a way.
We're trying to find the formula or the essential properties or the one thing that's going to
tell us the answer and what you're doing, there's a whole lineage that you're combining,
is open that up and say, okay, instead of saying what's the formula, one formula or
the one recipe of essential properties, let's look at, let's hold those things together.
Maybe there's many different ones.
Let's open the space for exploration and then you open new possibility and this becomes
really important in terms of what we're trying to do with science and if we're not exploring
and we're not finding possibilities, if we're just trying to find the one formula, this
develops us into a certain mindset.
I know I'm getting abstract, but it feels very important to me and I think it does lead
into the last part of the book with the multiculturalism and cosmopolitanism because if we think there's
only one way to get to the fountain, then if you didn't take that way, you must be wrong
or you just aren't heard.
You're not part of science or you're not part of philosophy.
I think what you're trying to do, you can correct me, is, okay, let's stop talking about
winners and losers and all these things and step back, hold it all, try to understand
how there might be more things to explore and therefore we also find more potential.
I don't know.
That's a lot.
No, no.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So no, that's exactly right.
So there are two really, you know, as explained at the beginning of the book, really, there
are two main motivations behind the book.
historical because I do history of philosophy of science, so it has always struck me as
a bit weird as well, this story about realism, that there's a winning in history, it's due
or take history as some kind of, as I said, collateral damage about the successes and
the winners.
So, and then there's a bunch of theories, there are a bunch of losers, but if you're
the history of science and you look back and delve into the history as I, as I did when
going back to the beginning of our interviews, right, I was keen to go down the archive in
physics and kind of go down this dusty basement to look at the book.
You discover that, you know, that the history is not done by winners and losers.
The history is done by communities that got it partially right, partially wrong, had their
own view, speculations, imaginations about what the reality was going to be like, but
in a way that the fabric of how we produce scientific knowledge is immensely diverse.
So we don't tell the story about the diversity of the, of the public very often, we tend
to tell the story that becomes some sort of ex post facto, a geography of the winner.
So now we know, and now we know that this was the real story and all the others were
false, but obviously ex post facto, we can always say that, but once you are situated,
you are from within, you don't have any privilege view of knowing where this garden of forking
path is going to lead us.
So I've always found very strange that kind of lack of historical sensitivity in the debate
about realism.
And in addition to that, I always found it very striking that exactly the lack of historical
sensitivity tend to go hand in hand with the lack of sensitivity to multiculturalism
and science in the sense of recognizing that science is not just the product of one community
at one time, the dominant community in the dominant socio-cultural economic setting,
the one that got it right, but in a way something that humankind does over time, over and over
again.
So shifting emphasis on reliability and the reliability of the practices and the reliability
of making those inferences.
I wanted to create a space where scientific perspective as situated practices were not
just understood in the kind of classic way in which we understand, I don't know, climate
science, nuclear physics or whatever, but could allow the space for a local communities
repository of knowledge that may be lived experience, experiential knowledge, experiential
know-how, but not necessarily codified in curriculum, but still part of a perspectival
modeling, an important part of how we come to know the world in a reliable way.
And so this is the theme that I kind of tease out very briefly in the last part of the book
and something of which I hope to work more as we speak in the book is the idea of how
the situated knowledge thesis really forces us to reassess questions about who produces
knowledge and who ought to benefit from scientific knowledge.
So Judges and Obligations in Science, which is the other big theme at the end of the book.
And it seems to me that as soon as we open up the space for recognizing a plurality of
ways of knowing and the fact that really the reliable knowledge is not the prerogative
of one particular community at a particular historical time, then we need to open a much
bigger conversation about how do we make sure that the benefit of scientific knowledge and
the benefit of technology and innovations are really shared widely.
And obviously that's a huge topic that goes well with your science.
That I simply briefly kind of touch at the end of the book because it's the question
as I said, not just one's knowledge, but really how to think about access and benefit sharing
when it comes to that kind of knowledge, what you're taking into account today is the product
of a myriad of communities of different historical cultural time.
And so it latches on to questions about the right to science that I've been working on
more recently, as Esti said, they are participating in science, something that, you know, it's
a human right, it's enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights.
We all have the right to benefit from scientific progress and the stark reality of how, you
know, we're seeing that during the COVID pandemic with the vaccine nationalism and how very
often the way science is done through patents and trade secrets and the natural property
right actually poses barrier and clear delimitation to sharing that knowledge as knowledge that
belongs to, you know, just the rich and wealthy developed country, but it's a product of humankind
and large.
So that's all those things, but it's at the very end of the book.
And as I said, it's something that I'm working on now.
It's very rich.
And as you're talking, I think something we haven't made really clear that you do make
really clear in the book is that this isn't like saying that there are many ways to the
same place, like many paths to the same fountain and there's a matrices of gardens and so on
doesn't mean that it's not saying everything is meaningless, anything goes relativism.
You're building in the book a case for the opposite of that, right?
I want to make that sure that's clear.
Yes, please.
But that said, I think when we start to talk about all of this, but it can be very hard
to not collapse into the kind of relativism or go the other way and hold on to, well,
my community must be right or my science must be right.
We talked about at the beginning how you had to choose between philosophy and science
and academia itself is still kind of built where you need to become part of a community
and publish and so on and so forth in order to succeed or make a living.
Maybe it's changing a little bit.
But do you see what I mean?
There's a kind of tension that scales up to where we need to choose between relativism
or constructivism or instrumentalism and then make our career in that, which I think can
or scale up into the topics you began to unpack a bit with multiculturalism and cosmopolitanism.
So I guess what I'm asking is, do you think this practicing what we've been talking about,
do you think that could be even has it been helpful in your own life or do you see a way
in which that could be helpful in terms of the way we do science and philosophy and life
or?
Yeah, it's a difficult question, right?
So in a way, I guess the way of what philosophers can do in this space where you're really kind
of addressing why there are issues that are more structural, they're more systemic, they're
more embedded into reality, is really to highlight where the point of tensions are.
So I don't know whether this answers your question, but to me, what was important was
to show exactly that there was another way of thinking about those issues that didn't
necessarily have to fall back into relativism or constructivism.
So I had this exchange with my very good colleague, Martin Cusci, just actually a few months ago,
they were visiting Edinburgh.
Martin has been a scholar of relativism, so we had this exchange about very discussing
the extent to which perspectivism is different or not different, as you might probably argue
before, from a form of relativism.
So in my mind, it was important to not fall back into that dichotomy of, again, realism,
anti-realism, relativism as a form of anti-realism.
Ultimately, I wanted to show that exactly all that dichotomy is based on a series of
assumptions that we make about the natural reality, about classifying and grouping things,
that we don't need to take that face value, that it's just possible to actually question
all that.
And that's the beauty of philosophy.
Does it mean form the world, change the world?
No, but it's important if our world, our work gets taken out of the philosophy and people
that actually are engaged more directly in addressing some of those tensions, or other
people that work in human rights law, for example, on the right to science, or people
that work on ocean governance when it comes to the remote of sharing into the biodiversity
without cutting off or subjecting local coastal communities to injustices.
So what you're asking is the broader questions of what difference can philosophy make, and
that really depends to some extent on what other practitioners in other fields think
of philosophy or how they may even be aware of philosophical work or relate or see that
as resonant with some of the work that gets done in this area, where questions about local
knowledge becomes more and more important as part of the governance and policy and practice
of how we have a more diverse participatory way of thinking about science and enjoying
the benefit of scientific progress.
Doesn't matter if we're talking about biodiversity or we're talking about food systems or any
other area.
Yeah, the book is wonderfully written, I should say, too, making it sound like it's so nerdy,
but it is in a great way, but it's also very easy to read.
There's a practice to the book that helps us take steps back.
It's actually very delightful to be able to have a practice by which you can explore and
see more possibility.
And I think a lot of philosophy has tried to do that.
I'm getting into my own focus in here of holding the paradox doesn't mean there isn't differences,
but that practice of it does something really wonderful.
And I think it's happening in a lot of different ways.
You talk about art in the book a lot, which we haven't mentioned yet, so I just got to
mention it.
In terms of perspective, it's another way of showing there's different perspectives
and how that opens up possibility.
But I also bring it up because Calvino is in the book a lot.
Writing is a way to do this too.
Borges Calvino shows us these different paths to similar places, whereby the place itself
opens up into different possibility and so on.
So I'm talking a lot, like you can tell me whatever you're thinking, but I do want to
get into kind of just to end what that's meant to you, because the book too has a lot of
quotes from that book you just raised, Invisible Cities by Calvino.
What comes to mind when I say that?
So Calvino is one of the authors that I loved reading when I was growing up as a teenager
in Italy, so I read a lot of Calvino.
And Invisible City is one of those.
And I don't know whether, I don't know, I started thinking that a bit like in Calvino,
right, the cities are not, the reality of the city is not a given.
It's a process of coming to imagine and conceive the existence of this incredible city.
They have very funny architecture and structural features, but they're really cities seen
through the lenses of the emotions and feelings of the inhabitants.
So a city is not just a bunch of buildings and squares and streets.
A city is the piercing tensions of some of the feelings of the people that leave the
city.
And I think this is the beauty of Calvino's short story about Invisible City, where there's
this imagining of possible cities and then asking the questions whether those cities
are even real, whether they exist or not, or they just exist in the imagination of the
main character, Marco Polo.
And so that became a bit of a kind of meta, meta, this book, because it was a bit like
going back to this idea that we use situated practices, including models, to model reality.
And then we ask the question of whether what we are modeling is real or not.
So we use the stable events, we use the rule of dependence as a way of testing whether
our inferences are real or not.
But the reality is not given to us in a single play.
is constructed in a way through this network of human emotions and human imagination.
And so in a way, I thought it was a nice meta narrative to the story about presentable modeling
and how we encounter reality not as a given on a silver plate from the word go, but as
the outcome of those inferences.
And so that's why I wanted to use some of the passages from the Invisible City.
It's wonderful.
I was going to experiment in phenomenological framing devices, showing how many ways we
can experience a city and that it's not about holding on to the model or the story or magic
realism.
But I think it's not just magic realism, it's really, yeah, it's this unique way of
copying or talking about reality, but really, from a deeply humor point of view, like really
from pizza down.
Yeah, that local knowledge, I think you call it maybe local knowledge and universal knowledge
coming from a sort of smaller town.
And a lot of those people there, your mom, for example, or I come from a small town too
in the States.
And I think of my grandmother who has this incredible knowledge, but it wouldn't necessarily
be called science wouldn't really call it knowledge.
And it seems to have something to do with the fact that in her life, she had to understand
a lot of different perspectives and be able to negotiate them in a way.
Yeah, as I say in the, I think I said this in the chapter one of the book, in a way there's
a kind of biographical element in the book and that, you know, the reason why I got interested
in in a way, perspectivism and then this much broader notion of what is a perspective,
including varieties of local knowledge is precisely because I wanted to counter this
idea that science or scientific knowledge is this well-defined thing that we tend to
associate with scientists, people that are well-educated and so forth and have a sense
in which participatory element to the fact that in a way scientific knowledge is the
product of humankind at large.
So you don't need to have a PhD in botany to understand sometimes phenomena about topical
culture.
So I mentioned my grandfather at the start of the book and that, you know, cultivated
only trees, but also had bees and so forth, but he was uneducated, he was illiterate.
So you know, coming from a family, I was my first gen, so my parents didn't have a first
degree and my grandparents finished school pretty much at the level of a primary school.
But as I said, the other biographical element there is the fact that I see a lot of reliable
knowledge in that kind of local community where I grew up, if not anything in the form
of very specific phenomena, like I know, and it's reliable in the sense that you need to
know what the pollination peak is for a plant, obviously the local farmers will know what
that is fairly reliably.
And so I wanted that to be part of the story of yes, how we come to know the world in a
reliable way.
And again, without falling back on the god way between what the STL scholar would say,
you know, certified knowledge versus experiential knowledge or, you know, science versus peasants,
basically.
Yeah.
And show that the peasants may be repository of knowledge.
So both of us have left our little small communities in our pursuit of knowledge and philosophy
and so on.
We've explored in many different possibilities.
And that's attention too, for me.
I don't know if it is for you.
I think I remember in the book, you do say something about it being hard that you're
not spending more time with your mom or something.
I brought up community at the beginning and it does feel like that's been a very important
part for you.
There's these layers in the beginning of the book of family, community that's important
and also your academic community.
A lot of people that you had learned from or that had changed your direction in different
ways were passing away around the time you were putting this book out or do you feel
the sense of kind of continuance?
I also know you wrote the book in the time of COVID and maybe even had a son.
You have a philosopher husband, which haven't even brought up.
There's a lot of layers here that feel connected, but what does that bring up for you?
Well, it brings up life, right?
Yeah.
The real life, right?
The realism.
The real life.
You know, writing a book is not just the sort of things you do in your library tower.
It's actually part of this daily fabric where, yeah, you're dealing on the phone with, you
know, your mom in COVID lockdown on the other side, obviously, of the English channel and
you know, you're a whole schooling your son for long periods of time while trying to get
on with your work.
You have, yeah, you have your local community, obviously to whom I owe a lot, but I don't
get to see very often.
You've got lots of a community that you get to see a lot on Zoom and then there's a life
in between.
So yeah, the book kind of unwittingly became slightly, yeah, probably there's more about
me than I thought myself when I was writing, but I think that's, I mean, that's inevitable,
right?
Your real life when you're writing the book isn't actually different from the book.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then writing the book becomes really, you know, it's your daily life, a very sustained
period of time.
Definitely was this one.
I went through several, yeah, it was a very long process of writing and rewriting and,
you know, changing it and so forth, but yeah, it took sort of your life because you can't
really have a dichotomy between, you know, Miguela the philosopher and Miguela the daughter,
the wife, the mother, you know, all the other rules that we have.
So this is like great answer to your question.
No, it is because it speaks to that scale and it's something I'm interested in because
we can see our own selves in this.
When you went down into those dusty archives to find the stuff from Boren Einstein, a lot
of that stuff is personal, philosophical, scientific.
And from where we sit now, from this perspective, you can see how much those inner personal
philosophical scientific struggles that were all of that at once have changed our potentials
and what we can explore now.
I guess I bring it up not to be too, you know, whatever, praising you too much, but I think
this book is important.
There's a lot of things going on like this in different parts where we're trying to,
we're trying to open up some spaces in places that were traditionally maybe choices.
And so I guess just in that continuity, I wanted to place it in there and just say thanks
and hope you keep going.
I'm sure you will with this.
So much Andrea.
Thank you so much.
And yeah, just to say that, you know, those personal threads and, you know, what keep
me going on at any basis is the reason why I love doing philosophy.
It's not because it's some sort of alien field, but it's because of the things that
we care.
I think it probably applies to all of us, the things that we care, the thing that matters
to us about this level that we get into particular topic, into particular area of research.
And so, yeah, we think there is always a kind of somewhat of biographical element to this
senior in there, but just because it's what, it's what got us there in the first instance
in terms of interest and in terms of, yeah, just keep going on at any basis in terms of,
you know, it's hard work for philosophies and writing a book, writing a book in the
time of pandemic and isolation.
It's a lot of willing exercise there.
But yeah, there was this wonderful community of people that, you know, were willing to
part of drafts and provide feedback and comments in Zoom, actually.
So the first thing I started doing, because I finished the first draft just when we were
entering the lockdown, and so, no, obviously, no way for long that was going to last.
I remember reaching out to colleagues and say, I got the first draft, would anyone be
willing to?
I think just because everyone's desperate to, you know, get to see other people on Zoom
at the time.
That was good timing, it was in March of 2020, and yeah, it's a wonderful group of people
that, yeah, read the chromatic comments and obviously that changed the book quite a bit.
You're very generous in the book, naming people that have helped you, and I think that's very
important and it's great you do it, and also I'm glad you said what you just said too about
this all being connected and mattering, because I think a lot of young people often feel like
they have to do it alone or choose a side and we can help each other and yeah, you know,
I reach out to people because people, you know, they'll be surprised when people are
willing to actually, if you found them on a good day, that they're not in the gramp
chain, they don't have any Zoom fatigue, then they'll be willing to read and provide feedback
and comments.
And then you grow the community together, so that's what's happened to me since I wrote
this book that, you know, I developed very good kind of friendship with colleagues up
until the point we're just colleagues, but then I discovered that you're kind of a fellow
traveler on a very similar part of the path about topics that, again, matter and we both
care for, so yeah, so you create your own community, your macro niche ecosystem, and
you don't have to choose between the personal and like, I mean, we didn't get into the
epistemology versus metaphysics or something like that, but I think a lot of people can
cling on to metaphysics because you want to explore the personal and understand all these
really important everyday feelings and things and what I love about the book is you show
that you can be really robust and you can be really hard on yourself in the way that
we have to be as philosophers and scientists and it is hard work, but you're doing it connected
to your personal feelings and desires and goals, right? I think it would be great if
we had more of that because people, it's there, right? It can be.
Absolutely, yes. Well, thank you for bringing all this up.
Well, thank you and thank you for your time.
Is there anything we didn't talk about that you want to make sure we say?
Oh, no, it's been very extensive and I thank you so much for, yeah, first of all, putting
part in me and second before, yeah, engaging with my name in my book with, yeah, so much
detail and care and attention, so it's no great reward knowing that the book is bad.
It's very important and I still have a lot I want to go through and think about more,
so it's definitely one of those books that's very meaningful for me and I'm not just saying
that, it's really true. So thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Very good.
Yeah, I'm going to stop recording, but.
