yeah, if you're having a hard day today, or if these seem like problems that aren't connected
to your problems in life, or your joys and delights in life, because a lot of this conversation is
actually very joyful. well, i just extend my love to you, and i mean that not in a sticky sentimental
way, but really as trying to open my pathway so that it meets yours in a way that's helpful.
so maybe there's something in here that that helps. i hope so. all right.
is there anything you want to know before we like jump in, or anything you want to talk about today
that's on your mind? let's jump in. okay, let's jump in. so let's start with consciousness. all
right. i found this scientific american article of yours. like a dozen. well, this one in particular,
it was talking about how people often use consciousness in the wrong way, or a misguided
way, or they assume meta-consciousness, rather than consciousness. and this one in particular
that was about children, about babies, and studies that are done which say they become conscious at
the age of five or something. which is absurd, if you understand. yeah, it sounds absurd. but it's
not absurd to a lot of people. and i know this word is potent, difficult, but it is something i
think about a lot of the way we use it, and we all hear it differently, or have different interpretations
of it. but especially this article, when a child is born, is it already consciousness? i mean can we
go ahead and say any life that's moving or making way, experiencing maybe in your terms, is already
consciousness in some sense? would you agree with that? just to get it started in this?
i mean to think that the newborn does not experience that when a newborn cries immediately
after being born, he's crying completely unconsciously, that there is no experience,
it's just a mechanism in there, producing the sound of crying in order to get help of some form.
i think that that's preposterous in this day and age. i think we are better than that now. maybe the
cart could think that in the 17th century, but not human beings in the 21st century, not educated
human beings. of course experience is there. i believe experience is the experience in the sense
of a private conscious point of view, a phenomenal point of view, that is private to the organism.
i think every organism has such a conscious point of view. their experiences may be incredibly
simple. the experiences of an amoeba, a paramecium, may be incredibly simple, of an archaea, may be
simple, but i think there is experience every time you see life. why do i think that? well,
because we metabolize and we know we experience. we know that other higher animals that metabolize
experience. we have plenty of indirect evidence for that in case of cetaceans, dolphins, or in
the case of pachyderms like elephants, other primates. so even observing life under a microscope,
you can see unicellular organisms running away from threats, chasing food. amoeba can build
little vases, houses for themselves, out of mud particles at the bottom of the puddle where they
live. there's plenty of evidence that everything that metabolizes has a private conscious point
of view from the get-go, from the start. i absolutely agree, but why would you think that
in these studies, these are studies in the blog post which i'll link to, a lot of the scientists
they wouldn't say that it's not a human or they're not trying to be cruel or something, but
they really are sort of associating it with, i guess, what you would call meta-consciousness where
it's almost like the observer can understand that the thing being observed knows that it's somehow
a subject almost. yeah, so i don't think there's maliciousness in people making claims that
children become conscious at age five because there is confusion around the term consciousness.
what do we mean by it? and that confusion goes back to the inception of depth psychology at the
end of the 19th century. Freud and Jung already talked about the unconscious as a psychic space.
well, if it's not conscious, in what way is it psychic? well, it is phenomenally conscious.
in other words, it's constituted of experiences, but it is not meta-conscious. what is meta-consciousness?
meta-consciousness is the explicit awareness of one's own consciousness. it is to know that
one has an experience. one can have an experience without meta-consciousness. for instance, we are
always conscious of our breathing, but we only become meta-conscious of it if i bring your
attention to it. then you start explicitly knowing that you're experiencing the inflation of your
ribcage and air flowing through your nostrils and so on. and since the beginning we have had this
confusion, it takes of course a while for an infant to become explicitly aware of its own
consciousness. in other words, to know that it is having an experience, but it is experiencing from
the get-go. and we mistake this a lot, especially in neuroscience, because the report paradigm,
there is now, for the past almost 10 years, there is a no-report paradigm that is evolving.
so that may help things a bit, but for the longest time in neuroscience,
investigation of consciousness was based on subjective reports. in other words, you would
measure brain activity in a subject and then you would ask the subject, what are you experiencing?
now of course the subject can only report on the contents of meta-consciousness. it can only
report on the experiences that it knows it is having. and therefore we conflate the two.
we think that consciousness is reportability. no, no, no, that is meta-consciousness. you need to
re-represent, metacognitively, an experience in order to be able to report that. you report
the re-representation, not the original experience. Jonathan Schooler already elaborated on this in
2002 in one of his seminal papers, this distinction between consciousness and
metaconsciousness, which is experimentally observed, by the way. yeah, this gets kind of messy to try
to really unpack, but you brought up phenomenal consciousness, which i'm pretty sure you attribute
to block in the normal way that he uses it. which, just like experience, we can say, so to speak.
phenomenal consciousness is that whose excitations are experiences. right, but for me this gets very
confusing, especially when someone like a scientist is writing about it, about a subject, because
phenomenal consciousness can often be used in dialogue or in papers to already mean something
like re-representation or representation. it's almost like, because here's the thing, right,
the baby, what comes into the world, it is experience. it's not necessarily having experience.
i mean, because already when we use that kind of language, we've set something against itself. do
you know what i mean? so there's almost, for me, a difficulty in that it's already sort of what you
might call dissociation or something, this kind of nestedness of the way that we have to speak
about it, and we can't always catch ourselves, if you know what i mean. so have you, do you know,
does that make sense? i just find this is even trickier than it seems, even after we've impacted
in the way you have. of course, people will tell themselves that if they can't report their
experiences to themselves, then they are not having those experiences. well, in fact, they may be
having. in that block's terminology, what we call meta-consciousness would be phenomenal consciousness
plus access consciousness together. when we have those two things together, then that's what we mean
by meta-consciousness in neuroscience of consciousness. in philosophy, phenomenal
consciousness does not require re-representation, does not require the explicit
awareness that you are having an experience. you know, my friend Christoph Koch has a different
opinion on what i'm about to say, but i still hold on to my own opinion. i think at least some cases
of blind sight, it's when an individual acts as though he's seeing, like if you throw a ball at
the individual, he or she will catch that ball. but he will report to you that i couldn't see
the ball, it's just that my hand moved and it happened to catch the ball. i think at least some
of those cases of blind sightness reflect this distinction between consciousness and
meta-consciousness. the subject is conscious of seeing the ball. he or she is experiencing the ball,
but that experience is not re-represented. so if you ask the subject, the subject will tell you,
no, i didn't see anything. yeah, that makes me think of Gans again, those left brain,
right brain kind of studies when the corpus callosum was severed. and yeah, that would be a whole other
subject. it also makes me think of seeing without eyes. i just had another talk somewhere else about
with Alex Gomez-Marin or Marin Gomez. i always get it confused, right?
yeah, and we were talking about that. so yeah, i guess i just feel like even that can get confusing
because the body is itself already sort of sensing. and so are we going to talk about any body that
sensing is already experiencing? and so let's think about it like this. would you think that,
let's go to the child coming into the world. that's why i wanted to start it like this.
as we agree the body comes in, it's sensing. is that a kind of consciousness for you?
just the body sensing already? because i really want to get to what you wrote about Jung too,
and the unconscious. it's very hard for me to understand how something can be unconscious.
is it still mental but it's just unconscious for that subject or these kinds of things? so
you can see where i'm sort of trying to get to. okay, let's start very quickly just to clarify
the terminology. you could define sensing as not necessarily entailing experience. so a camera
senses something but it's not experiencing what it's sensing. if you define sensing that way,
no. sensing does not necessarily come with experience. but a child, i think, doesn't just
sense. a child experiences what is sensed even though the child may not metacognize that
experience. a child may not be able to tell itself i am experiencing this right now. sorry to stop
you but what's the difference there? because i feel like i'm missing. what's the difference between
the child is the sensing right? it's the body. it's sensing. it doesn't have a sense of self
like a subject or even if we don't know if it does, let's assume it. it's building that right
through sensing. i'm glad you made that point about sensing because often in circles with like
computer people who are in engineering and stuff, they use sensors in a completely different way and
it can get very confusing. so i definitely mean how the any body, an embodied creature,
is experiencing the world through that body. i'm not talking about
experiencing perceptual content without perceptual organs. i'm not talking about that. i think that's
theoretically a lot more complicated if it happens at all. from the point of view of the reporting ego,
the absence of metacognition, the absence of re-representation is identical to the absence
of experience because the reporting ego operates at a metacognitive level. whatever is not
re-represented does not reach that level. so from the point of view of the reporting ego,
it might as well never have happened. for instance, for the past two minutes you have been
experiencing your breathing. but from the point of view of your reporting ego, you cannot tell the
difference because that experience of breathing was not being re-represented. so you might as
well not have breathed the past two minutes. yet we know that you did, right? you would have passed
that. well, maybe not. i could hold my breath for four and a half minutes once. no way. i definitely
couldn't. so you can assume i've been breathing. once upon a time, 20 years ago, when i was very much
into diving. oh yeah, i was a diver too. but still, no way. you can talk about that. it's a part of
my life that i missed. oh, i would love to talk about that. i missed that experience of being
underwater. anyway, but yeah. so you have to have an ego? sorry. so there has to be an ego to be
conscious? the reporting ego. a reporting ego to be conscious? i thought you don't... the reporting
ego. the reporting ego cannot tell the difference between the absence of experience and the absence
of re-representation of the experience. okay, i agree with that. but the child or the body that's
come into the world doesn't necessarily have a sense like an ego yet. but it's still experienced
and it's still conscious, right? well, according to the research you quoted in the very beginning,
five years on, they have a reporting ego. right, but that's the whole point. until five years,
they don't. but they're still conscious, which is what you kind of make a case for. so for me,
that means that the consciousness is like... you can't really dissociate it from the body. once you
start with calling it a subject or it calling itself a subject, you're starting that process.
but just even if we start in the womb wherever you want to start, the body's encounter, which
i'm saying is sensory through what all parts, all senses, you can choose one. the eyes, the nose,
whatever. the skin, proprioception. that sensing for me feels like, or whatever we want to call it,
experience and consciousness. that's not the only type of experience. you can also have experience
without intentional content. experience that is purely endogenous. but just to finally answer
your previous question, the reporting ego cannot see a difference between unconsciousness and
experience that is not re-represented. but obviously there is. in one case, something is being
experienced. in the other case, it's not. you were experiencing your breathing for the prior two
minutes. it's different than if you were... if there were no experience of breathing at all.
now, how can we gain... we know this objectively in cases like blindsight and other cases that
you see in the no-report paradigm in neuroscience, which sort of began in 2015 with Tushiya.
you can see these cases where there is this dissociation between experience, raw experience,
and reportability. but to gain direct first-person insight into it, one has to pay attention to one's
own inner life. for instance, to me, many years ago, there was a moment I realized
that I knew something that I didn't know I knew. not only that, I had known it for years before.
can you unpack it a little more? can you tell me what? because I know what you mean.
now it touches with the life of somebody else. I don't mind telling you everything about my life.
no, I understand. I wouldn't want to do that either. you just recognized that you'd been
operating with that knowledge. yeah. or, okay, this I can talk directly about. I can go for a
couple of days in pain without knowing that I am in pain. and then when my attention finally falls
onto the pain and I re-represent it, then retroactively I know, oh, I have been having
this experience for the past couple of days. but during those days, I didn't know I had it.
another experience you can have in dreams, we know this from a study by Jennifer Vint and others
years ago, 2007. dreams tend to be a lot less metacognitive than waking life. in dreams,
we tend to experience without knowing that we are experiencing. and that's precisely the reason
why absurd things can happen in dreams without alarming us. it's because we're experiencing
absurd things, but we're not telling ourselves that we're experiencing them, so it doesn't
trigger that rational processing. wait, wait a moment, how can this be happening? so these
are ways in which you can satisfy yourself from a first-person point of view, that there can be
such a thing as experience in the absence of reportability or metaconsciousness. it reminds
me of sometimes when you're walking down the street, of course you're seeing everything,
but you're not aware that you're seeing it. do you know what I mean? like it just reminds me the
other day someone asked me where something was, and I had no idea, I knew where it was, but once
I asked the question, I'd somehow seen that, even though I didn't know I'd seen it. if you commute a
lot by car, if you drive frequently to work or back home, sometimes you arrive in your garage
and you realize you don't remember how you got there. you don't remember to drive at all.
were you unconscious during the drive? of course not, you were conscious, but you're not
cognitive of the experience of driving because you're mulling your problems or you were thinking
about something else. it doesn't mean that you are unconscious of your driving, only means that you
didn't re-represent it. and by the way, memory formation has a lot to do with re-representation.
things that we don't re-represent, we don't remember, we don't form memory pathways to lead
us back to that. yeah, this is so fascinating. I'm glad you brought that example up because I think
that's a great example. and the thing, maybe this can unpack what I'm confused about or what I'm
trying to bring up here, because in that, when we all know that feeling of driving or even walking
and you're so, so to speak, lost in thought, you really don't remember it. but then you do come back
online. so you kind of can say, yeah, I was there, obviously, because I moved from point A to point B
and here I am and so on. but that was still consciousness, obviously. well, I guess what
I'm saying is we start that way. in that state, we don't have all this kind of language attached
to our habits and thought and images and so on, probably, because we've just kind of entered. but
for me, that's a similar state. it's still consciousness. so is that different for you,
the baby being born? no, it's experience. it's consciousness. it's not meta-consciousness.
the difference is that you come back online and you know that A and B are connected from where
you started to where you are and the baby's kind of still developing how to come back online or
how to come online at all. the meta-consciousness is coming online. yeah. and would you say that's
kind of dissociation in your use of that term? consciousness dissociating from itself? no,
because for the case of an infant, there was never an association to begin with.
consciousness, right? and then your mom and dad tell you your name and you start to realize, oh,
I'm... you start to see that other people see you as a subject and then you see yourself as a subject.
to me, that feels a lot like dissociation before there was something... like you don't need the
subject to know it was a subject for the dissociation to occur, which I feel like you
prove in other ways or you lay out very well in other sense, but maybe I'm confusing this nestedness.
phenomenologically, I understand why you are tempted to use the word dissociation. technically,
I wouldn't use it because it doesn't refer to the same mechanisms that we allude to when we talk of
dissociation. for instance, under IIT, dissociation has to do with the exclusion principle of
integrated information theory and it's not related to what you said, but
phenomenologically, I understand the temptation. well, it's still the same regularities if you
want to think mathematically, right? the body is still the same regularities when it comes into
the world. of course, they're changing like over time and growing and so on, but there's a pattern
of regularity that's still the same that then becomes aware of itself. so that pattern of
regularity to me is sort of dissociated from itself in order to become aware of itself.
this is very Hegelian sounding now. okay, I understand what you mean. yes, yes, because
I think when the infant is not meta-conscious, there is no dissociation. it's just the infant
being the infant experiencing the world without re-representing its own experiences, without
recognizing itself as a subject distinct from its experiences. the infant is in what Freud called
oceanic consciousness. right, pure consciousness even or some kind of... there's a form of regularity
to it, but yeah. yeah, there is a quality to that and then when you start developing
meta-consciousness, you start to... it's like you created the mechanism of attention
and evolutionarily, that's a very precious resource. what you place your attention on
mobilizes a lot of cognitive resources. so that has to be used sparingly and what happens is that
when you're paying attention to something, everything that is not in your field of attention
sort of falls away out of meta-cognition and meta-cognition has a glow. it has a psychic
strength. it obfuscates everything else that is not being meta-cognized. like if you are...
if you're... if you tend to ruminate a lot, so you place your attention to your thoughts
in your default mode network. it's beautiful to say it has a glow because it is like that. it's
almost kind of... it's almost like heightening itself or something. yeah, it's like the sun
in the noon sky. it has a glow that obfuscates the other stars. the other stars are still there.
their photons are still impinging on your retina. that impingement is still creating electromagnetic
impulses that will go to your visual cortex, to V1. but you are not explicitly aware of the stars
because the glow of the sun obfuscates everything else. the same with the field of attention, the
field of meta-cognition. it obfuscates everything else. it's a very precious evolutionary resource.
so it has to be used sparingly because of that and as a consequence there is a lot of stuff going on
in our minds that we cannot be meta-conscious of because it would take our eyes off the ball
of survival, if you know what I mean. oh yeah, it would be overwhelming. yeah, yeah. so that's
the reason why there's a lot more going on in our phenomenal consciousness than the reporting ego
will ever know. yeah, it's like this blooming buzzing confusion thing, right? you're just sort of
totally immersed in it and I think when we do psychedelics or something we get a little
hint of that again, of that we haven't patterned our regularity so we're just
whoa and it is kind of too much. you can't really go shopping like that at the grocery store because
you get completely amazed by the broccoli or something, you know. it doesn't work for normal
lives. if you look at the mechanism of action of psychedelics, what is the main feature that
you observe in the brain of a person under a psychedelic drug? lots of things happen but the
main most obvious measurable thing is a reduction in brain activity, especially in the default mode
network, which has to do with this looping mechanisms of attention. that activity is repressed.
so you have a solar eclipse and suddenly you can see the stars at noon but the stars were always
there. yeah exactly. it's beautiful. it's an incredible kind of thing to contemplate but
speaking of that, I would like to know when you started to contemplate it. when did you
as a child begin to, I won't say dissociate from yourself because that doesn't sound right,
but in the sense that I just meant start to become aware of yourself as a subject.
become meta-conscious, I guess. yeah, I think I was around nine years old.
I remember it clearly because it was a major moment, a major development in my life, an anomaly
for six months or so. the thought would come to me like, oh wow, I am not the world. I am not
the houses, the trees, the other people. I'm not that. I am here and that stuff is there. I am not
that. and I experienced this thought as an amazing thing. uncanny, incredible. like very exciting.
well, it's like I couldn't believe it but it had to be true. almost like you were seeing some kind
of alien creature or something. worse than that. I would get a cold shiver going down on my spine,
a very physical feeling. like you feel that electric vibration that traverses your spine
downwards. and for a period of six months or so, every time I would have the thought, I would feel
this electric thing. like an uncanny, amazing stuff. I know exactly what you mean. I habituated
and it became normal. do you have any idea what could have started that? I know it's almost
impossible but you don't remember. for me, I remember it was my brother being brought home
from the hospital that I started to realize. I guess because it changes the family dynamics.
I just remember him, the way it looked, the light kind of on him. they put him on the floor in his
little like, whatever you call these little things, you carry babies around him. and he was
just sitting there in the light and it was just kind of this weird moment of like, oh, that's not
me. and it felt like what you described. how old were you? almost too much. now he's three. he's
three years younger than me. but I don't know if I felt it much more after that. next time I remember
it, I'm like six or something. but that moment, I remember very well. it happened very early for
you. it was too much. young had it at nine. he wrote about it in his biography. sorry, young had
it at 11. I had it at nine. it's a very uncanny realization. if you ask me what brought it about,
I think it was just culture. you're absorbed into the culture and you start believing the cultural
narratives. and the cultural narratives tell you the absurdity that you're separate from the world,
which is of course absurd under any metaphysics. idealism, physicalism, dualism, maybe not. but
under any monism, it is absurd. but the whole culture operates under this absurdity, that we
are separate from the world. I totally know it's absurd, but do you think it does some kind of work
for us? because what we're talking about now is also really important in our lives in terms of,
at least to me, that moment was scary and it's kind of been awful in a way to wake up to the
fact that you've been told who you are and then you kind of have to figure out what that story
was that everyone told you and then figure out if you really want to be that story, like this whole
thing. but at the same time, all of that was the reason I could now look back at that story and
change it. do you know what I mean? and also be kind of present and aware and in the world in a
particular way. there's an obvious evolutionary advantage for our identifying ourselves as a
subject apart from the world. because if we didn't, we wouldn't care for our survival.
if we are the tiger that is coming to eat us and the tiger is hungry, well, the tiger's got to eat
and off we go. so it's evolutionarily advantageous and it's no wonder that the culture evolved
around this evolutionary advantage. is it true? no. unless you are a dualist, it cannot be true.
it's just not true. it's useful but it's a convenient fiction. but don't you think there's
something to that too that it's very hard to really grasp that in the same way we were talking
about earlier of we can't really sense all there is in the world because it's too overwhelming?
I think there's something about that realization that can be really difficult, right? in both
ways. it can be difficult because you want to believe the story that you've kind of created
of yourself or that you're different from everyone else. but it can also be different because
it just sort of throws into question all other things that you've assumed to be true.
in terms of an example. well, I guess I'm thinking more about people who would hold very tightly to
a scientific worldview like materialism. because you want to know the truth and you want to know
there's definite separations between things and it can be very unsettling to try to think of that
differently if you've learned that paradigm, right? it can feel this is why people get so angry
about it, right? and they call it all kinds of names and stuff because the language itself has
already separated those things to the point where it's even hard to talk about without getting
someone angry if they've built their worldview on that separation. does that make sense?
there is of course the psychological dynamics underlying the development of physical
which is very easy to understand. the psychological payoff of physicalism is clear. it's
historically visible and it's present today for the same reasons. but it comes at a price as you're
saying. so we have this payoff as you were saying. we have a payoff. I think the payoff goes beyond
just getting used to it. I think the payoff has to do with dealing with death because if you're
physicalist when you're dead then there is there is nobody there to experience what happens
afterwards. and the fear of what people will experience after they die is what allowed,
for instance, an institution without an army like the catholic church to completely control
the continent of europe for a thousand years. so that has been the single greatest fear of humankind
what will i experience after i'm dead. and that greatest fear in history is off the table with
physicalism. that reminds me too of that shiver feeling, right? because that's part of it too
when you start to realize you're not the world as you realized as a little kid. you kind of soon
have to realize you come to an end. you come to an end and things you love come to an end. and
that's the price we pay. the price we pay is nihilism. so it's the absence of meaning.
this is a secondhand quote but i was giving an interview the other day and the host
quoted Yuval Harari as saying life has no meaning. all it can give you is drugs and video games.
so that's a respected historian. he's not a neuroscientist. he's not a philosopher. so he
doesn't know what he's talking about. he's repeating the mantra of the mainstream. so he deserves
forgiveness for that. he's not an expert in the field. but the mantra he repeated reflects the
psychological price we pay. but the gain overcomes that price or at least historically since middle
of the 19th century the gain has been stronger than the price we pay. that dynamics is changing
now because we now take the gain for granted. we no longer realize that our absence of
fear about what will happen after we are dead. we fear the process of death. we don't fear what
will happen after. that is not a given. that is actually derived from a certain metaphysical
position called physicalism which is entirely untenable. it's the greatest bullshit ever to be
taken seriously by any rational culture in the history of the planet. but we take it for granted.
so we think it's banked. it's in the pocket already. and now the problem we have to deal with
is nihilism. it's the demeaning crisis as John Vervecki put it. yeah this is really powerful
because i mean first of all we need to go back because there was a time when you did buy into
all this right or not even buy into all of it but you were sort of materialist and physicalist and
so on. by inertia because everybody around me was and i was not really paying much attention to
metaphysics. i wanted to do physics and now my first job was at CERN and i was much preoccupied
with the Higgs boson and SUSE supersymmetry. i didn't have cycles left in my process or to
worry about metaphysics but i never was a physicalist thinkingly in the sense that i never
affirmed physicalism out of a conclusion that i arrived at myself through my own thinking process.
the moment i started explicitly thinking about that it became rather quickly clear to me that
physicalism is entirely untenable. so i want to think about so i think of you as already like
a little philosopher in a way because i know the story about you finding Jung because you tell it
the i-ching which already you were being drawn to the i-ching and then of course you had what the
i-ching was yeah but you noticed it we were just talking about the glow of meta consciousness so
obviously there were zillions of books there or not there were probably a lot of other opportunities
and you focused on that one and then Jung did the preface and you focused on that so
to me that sounds like a little bit of a person who's a little philosophically inclined and i know
there's reasons for that and maybe we can go into it like for why you that book in that time period
but what's interesting to me is i saw these really cool computers that you're making these like
i can't remember all their names but they're so cool like retro weird
um microprocessors that kind of are wiring themselves and they just look wonderful
and so i read like one of your blogs on there and it says that when you were a kid you really
wanted to build a computer right so i really want to understand that unpack that part of you a bit
because for me coming out of philosophy and neuroscience and so on you know there's this
computational mind and everything's a computer and it sounds like you would have been in that mindset
of okay i want to if you're trying to understand the world but you're obviously really drawn to
computers and you wanted to create a computer so and you were philosophically inclined so i'm trying
to you know those were were you assuming maybe if you understood how to make a computer you would
understand intelligence in a way oh definitely i actually didn't change my mind about that yet
okay i think intelligence is an objectively measurable property it's about how cleverly
you can manipulate data in order to solve a problem that does not require the presence of
a private conscious point of view accompanying those computations that we refer to as intelligence
that's wonderful i mean i want you to keep going but that's exactly what i was hoping to
try to unstick intelligence cognition and consciousness mind these also get kind of
lumped together but first please like the computer is a is a is a strange word because it seems to
require awareness intelligence i think it's it's better you can decouple it from awareness
completely i agree yeah but so why so you wanted to build a computer and can you like
was that disappointing in some way or was it wonderful and then you just decided oh now i'm
going to kind of start thinking about philosophy or i know you went back and got your philosophy
degree it's super cool that you did that and you i saw that you put your um defense online which
is just really cool that you did that uh just as someone who went back to school a little bit later
i think it gives people like it's it's a good gift that you're giving um yeah but so what happened
like why why couldn't you figure it out with the computer or are you still figuring it out with the
computer the intelligence part well i have a workbench here behind me yes yeah looks great
where i design and restore computers i restore old computers and design brand new computers
so cool and it's just i guess it what you're kind of an anomaly for me in a way because
i don't often come in contact with people who are so much connected to the computers and also
so would start analytic idealism like to me that's holding you know it's wrong it's not it's not true
it's not holding um opposites in any way because as you know mind and matter and all these
in intelligence but it's it's kind of something very deep to already understand early on right
you see a seeming contradiction there a dichotomy at least the world would be telling you so yeah
i'm not going to attempt to give you a neat story that brings it all together
no it wouldn't be true probably so i don't have that neat story of myself i i harbor contradictions
within myself and this is one of them i i love to play with the purely mechanistic aspect of a
computer because a computer is entirely reliable in the sense that it's predictable if you know
what you're doing the computer will do what you wanted to do unless you made a mistake if it's
not doing what you wanted it to do you made a mistake there is a clarity to that that that i
love and i think you are right the the quality the the feeling tone associated with designing
incredibly complicated mechanisms seems to be dichotomous with the feeling and the tone of
contemplating the great metaphysical questions if if that is a dichotomy i harbor that's a
dichotomy and i shall make no attempt to i actually don't think it's a dichotomy because
dichotomy you know is cutting things apart and i actually think we've cut it apart in a way that
like in a way similar to the way materialism and these other things have sort of cut things
apart in order to understand them and the way that you just described the computer i guess
what i'm trying to connect there is because all this for me is more like a paradox that you can
hold and and even learn something from and then you realize it's not a paradox kind of in a in
a wider sense it's not something that you can cut in half because then it's not the thing anymore
so it's not a dichotomy it's beyond it but i guess what i'm trying to get at is you were
literally modeling things right you you were working in some of the best places that were
modeling things as scientists and you were creating trying to create computers that's like
what i really think of as representation of modeling to understand and there's a kind of
control and an agency that is very attractive and would for me be a reason why we might end
up with that quote that you just gave like if you take that too seriously and that becomes
the only way you can know truth or know what's real if you can model it then you end up with
everything is material in that way do you know what i mean
not necessarily i think the the problem there is that we mistake our models for reality
we mistake our theoretical entities which are convenient fictions we mistake them for the
ontological structure of the world and there is nothing in science that requires that and
all that is required in science is that you develop convenient fictions in terms of which
you can make correct predictions about what nature will do next the convenient fictions
themselves do not need to be true and they have never been true for instance
there was a time in the middle ages when scientists were trying to account for well
that's pre-scientific thought proto-scientific thought they were trying to account for
electrostatic attraction why would amber be pulled into a rod of sorry why would shaft
be pulled into a rod of amber if you rubbed that rod of amber so they hypothesized that there is
this elastic invisible substance called the fluvium which is like a sticky like chewing gum
gum gum connecting the shaft to the rod of amber and and then when you release the shaft it just
gets the elastic pulls the shaft back to the rod never mind the fact that it this couldn't at all
account for electrostatic repulsion only for attraction and that we could never measure
this effluvium directly we only could measure its effect later on we kept on playing the same game
when faraday came around and he proposed electromagnetic fields here again was something
that was only known in so far as its effects the field is a modeling tool we never
we never grab the field all we can do is measure its effects like just like we could measure shaft
going flying to a rod of amber and and then we replaced those the electromagnetic fields of
faraday well we still have one but now we have 17 quantum fields and we can only know about their
existence because of their effects we have no direct access to the fields themselves in other
words all this stuff are convenient fictions newton postulated this invisible force that acted at the
distance between celestial bodies and brought them together called gravity an invisible force
acting instantaneously at the distance the french loved of newton for 50 years because they thought
invisible forces acting at the distance it's magical stuff and sure enough around came einstein
and said bullshit there are no such invisible forces what there is is the invisible fabric of
space time that bends and twists and now with loop quantum gravity no no no no it's not that
there is some other convenient fiction so we have always created convenient fictions that help us
predict what nature will do next and these convenient fictions have never been true in
and of themselves they are just modeling tools you become a physicalist when you mistake a
convenient fiction for a truth that's the error you make or even a model for the thing being modeled
which is something i think happens a lot right which is what i was actually trying to get to
i'm it's wonderful that you went there because it's exactly that confusion of map and territory or
the model with what we're trying to model that i think has become very hard to see
for a lot of people does that make sense to you absolutely i think this this permeates society at
all levels not only in science it permeates for instance our political views we have a model of
what's going on and we take that model for reality and we act accordingly even at geopolitical levels
for instance the arguably the greatest evildoer in the world today are our present ages hitler
uh vladimir vladimirovich putin he engages in mystical thinking that's very easy to see
based on his pronouncements the way he talks about history the way he talks about mother
russia today and the future of of the slavic peoples he is taken over by mystical thinking
he takes the for instance the entity russia he takes it to be a real entity that is somehow
separate from its people and that's why he can throw the russian people to the front lines as
cannon fodder and have them all killed because that's for the benefit of this other entity
russia that somehow is separate from its people of course there is no such entity russia exists
only in so far as there are russian people and russian lands but i think this is this is not
the common perception right in any country i mean i think it really connects to that the way that
we almost assume dualism in a way somebody i just criticized i will praise now you've already
wrote a book about it years ago our entire mode of cooperating with other human beings is based
on taking fictions for fact for instance we believe money has value all right paper if you
burn it it will give you a cup of calories it will hardly warm you up at best you can clean
yourself with it you can't eat it you can't drink it it will not protect you from the elements
it's absolutely valueless and yet we all go for money because we establish this convenient fiction
that money has value and therefore we trade it we believe in that fiction otherwise why would you
give a perfectly good car to somebody in exchange for a pile of paper nobody would do that everybody
has to believe the fiction otherwise it wouldn't work everybody has to believe in the fictions of
nation states i'm not saying that we shouldn't we should operationally believe these fictions
but if we believe them ultimately and now we are making a mistake because now it's like taking a
metaphor way beyond its applicability operationally there has to be the state of the netherlands
okay i don't want that operational belief to disappear otherwise we will be in trouble here
as dutch people we live in a country in which if we just strike the entire country for a couple
of weeks half the country is underwater so we can't do that right we have to believe in the
fiction of the dutch nation state but if we ultimately believe in nation states in money
and many other or the the theoretical entities of science now we are fooling ourselves and it's
never a good thing to fool ourselves i think what you just said is kind of the most important thing
we might all need to learn in a way and it seems very hard to learn it that and what i mean is that
we can model things and we can name things and we can do all the structure and scaffolding
via representation external representation i mean not like in our brain
and that's very important but it's not real in the sense of it's a process like it's just
our way of understanding a process right right and look if people listening to this realize they make
this mistake well at least you are in very good company because a lot of people with the letters
phd suffix in their names make this mistake especially science communicators they make this
mistake a lot they are not even scientists they are not doing science they're only talking about
it so they miss out on the subtleties and nuances that practice practical scientists are confronting
every day people who are actually doing doing science they they hit upon you know they hit
with their noses against the limitations of their modeling they realize that you can only
stretch a model so far but even then don't you sometimes take it for literal without meaning to
i'm thinking of in neuroscience labs and we look at these pictures of brains with little
things lighting up in them there's a way in which sometimes we really take them as brains
you know like it's almost like this is not a pipe that picture we need to see like this is not a
brain because you just like there's some kind of it's really nuanced and hard not to do this as
what i mean in daily life it's i think it's even at the root of like a lot of meditative practices
or the reason we did to take psychedelics some of us who would you know like when you're really
trying to explore mine because i think it becomes very hard not to confuse map and territory i guess
is what i'm saying because it's so nested and so rich richly interwoven it's the unique thing
about humans is the ability to create a map and then mistake it for the territory
there is one thing that is worse than at least if we are consistent we make less mistakes even if we
believe in something that is not true but we are consistent in that belief we make less mistakes
the problem is that often we are not even consistent in a false belief for instance
it's becoming mainstream in neuroscience now the understanding that the reality we think we perceive
is a modulated hallucination it is something concocted by the brain as an as an entity separate
from the mind which is itself already absurd i think the brain is what the mind looks like
it's not what produces the mind but let's let's at least be consistent in that mistake the brain
is an entity that produces the mind and it's also producing the hallucination that we call the world
you know this comes from ideas um give you one example of a person who talks about it frequently
is a new set he talks about it frequently reality being a controlled hallucination it's a construction
of the brain being you i guess is the book right that sort of makes that argument in a way maybe
who did you say anil sath this book i think it's called like being you that's it's like
i just what you're saying really resonates with me because i think it's become i've seen like
younger kids of my friends starting to sort of take this view of oh it's all a hallucination
and it's very connected to that nihilistic kind of sense too and it's very sexy though in a way
if you go all the way you make less mistakes because the mistake then people make is to take
the brain away from that reality that is that is hallucinated is to to say the brain is not
a hallucination everything else is a hallucination of the brain but the brain is not well why the
brain is an object just like everything else it's something that appears to perception so if you
maintain that the reality we perceive is a hallucination it's concocted by something
then the brain is part of that hallucination the brain too is being concocted by something so if
you persist in your error consistently eventually you realize what you did the problem is that we
are not even consistent in that error and and and that's when when things really become is that i
took you away but that yeah so that you were saying like that's how we start taking the map
for the territory or confusing the two in a way right that makes sense to me that we
yeah physicalism is a prime example of this yeah so what is it i guess like to try to go back to you
i had this kind of narrative i'm just realizing that maybe you were working as
a computer in this world cern and all this you know very um successful i think you started
businesses and i i know you were really really successful you still are you're still doing it
which is kind of the realization i'm having now because i know you have this ai thing now but
i'd kind of imagined you'd just gotten sick of it or something and decided okay like i'm just
going to throw materialism away and go get my phd and become a philosopher but of course i know that
it wasn't like that you were already a philosopher in a way because you were writing these articles
like the scientific american one that i brought up so i guess what i'm trying to get at is like how
did all this come together and did you reject materialism was there a moment where you did kind
of knowledge by um acquaintance of idealism or i mean was there a moment where it became very
clear to you that this story that we've been expressing in different ways was harmful or
it needed a counterbalance well just just let me first just address i think a suggestion that you
made maybe you don't even without intending the fact that i'm starting another company now an
ai company it doesn't mean that i'm back to materialism or physicalism no not at all that's
that's what i'm saying i was making this distinction as if those worlds were to you already
were holding all these things together right like over time but i was sort of putting them in as if
you chose one like suddenly you realized okay no materialism now it's idealism is the way or
something yeah oh okay that happened my physicalism has not been a part of my life for many years now
it's a it's a fiction that is lost it's a time in my right but it doesn't mean computers haven't
been is what i'm saying it's not whether it's physical or ideal or anything else this thing
we experience and we call computers still exist and they are still as cool as they were before
maybe yeah and you're still making them and making stuff out of them and yeah exactly i just it's one
of those things like you brought up a minute ago where you i didn't know i was thinking that till
just now and then i realized oh look for an idealist the world that doesn't cease to exist
is just that the idealist accounts for that world in a different way a more sane way but the world's
still there and i'm still alive and i'm still up to having fun yeah but for people listening i'm
sort of assuming they know but so we've been talking about this materialist point of view
and of course you've started a kind of revolutions i guess around like metaphysical idealism right
because not too long ago it was just like oh yeah everything is monist everything is physicalist
everything is materialist you don't talk about consciousness you don't talk about like you would
basically i'm talking in the scientific circles right yeah and and now that's changed a lot for
a lot of different reasons but um so just for people listening they probably already know but
you know that's what i'm trying to bring up here is this obviously you weren't satisfied with
materialism and i'm trying to understand kind of why yeah well um when that did that begin to happen
when i was at cern um i wasn't you know the early team the first team that started working
on what would become the experiments of the lhc the atlas the cms and a couple of
couple of other smaller experiments i was in the atlas team and um we were doing the triggers
were you getting shivers then like i mean was it cool sometimes to just think like okay i'm here
in this world when this is happening exactly this moment it's such a wave you're just right
at the right moment yeah it blew my mind that my first job was my dream job yeah i i was i was
having i was really in for a ride at cern i was when i landed there and it was i finished my
my work experience stage i finished it there and then i started as a as a no i was officially
working for cern i was 22 oh my god yeah so no wonder you hardly could were old enough to
have thought much about materialism yeah no i was having too much fun you know working on that and
what we were doing we're doing the data acquisition system or the calorimeter one of the detectors in
the atlas experiment and we needed to have a computer system that was intelligent enough
to look at the data coming in and within 25 nanoseconds make a decision is this potentially
new physics is this the higgs boson or is this old physics because we had to throw away 98 percent
of the data it's the thing produces terabytes per second so you can't store everything and even if
you could offline analysis would take lifetimes so you have to very quickly decide what you want
to keep and what you want to throw away and we developed a system based on our understanding
of physics but in parallel i developed with some partners in crime i developed a neural network an
artificial neural network of course it was the first option that was selected because at the time
ai was considered a black box but we knew that the neural network performed just as well just as well
as the physicists understanding of the data and that was not commonly thought at that moment at
all right well people knew neural networks could do a lot but you know we didn't have computers fast
enough to really bring us beyond just three layers so feature extraction and we'd had to do by we had
to do by hand now we have deep learning so you do nothing by hand right as multiple layers it's a
different time i feel like that was the time when people thought it was limited or kind of had done
its thing or something or was this just before that the main issue we had at the time was one
scalability it was we didn't have computers that were fast enough and two it was considered a black
box we didn't have the visualization tools we have today that show you know the cuts in the
hyperdimensional space where the thing is being evaluated so you see what the neural network is
doing you see how it is quote thinking at the time we didn't have that so we knew it worked but it
didn't know how and therefore people felt and we can't use this because we don't know how this
shit works now it sounds like today it's back to that it's just gone accelerated to another level
there is reason to that because it's not enough for you to know that it works in the instances
you've given it to him to the system if you don't know how it works then you cannot know that the
moment you show it something new that it will still work because you don't know how it's doing
what it's doing so we adopted the traditional approach based on our physics understanding of
what's going on um you know decay physics based on quantum field theory the standard model that's
what we went with but it planted the thought in my head i couldn't make a computer that was as
good as a physicist in telling me whether it's a higgs boson there or not what would it take to make
it conscious now and of course that question is itself based on a physicalist premise which is
consciousness is something created out of material arrangements and i knocked my head against that
wall for a couple of years and i realized that whatever i did it will only change structure and
function and it would give me no more and no less reason to think that the thing suddenly became
conscious and i realized that i was facing that dilemma because i i made some mistaken assumption
at some point and i traced my steps back and i got to the point where where i understood that
the mistaken assumption was that consciousness consciousness is something that is created out
of material arrangements even the theory that that is the case arises within consciousness
consciousness is the only given of nature the only pre theoretical given everything that is not
in consciousness is an abstraction it's not an empirical given like consciousness itself
and when i realized that and then my physicalism was off the table and and then i experienced an
ontological vacuum like my story in terms of which to relate to reality was gone i needed another one
it's a very uncomfortable so i'm sorry to stop you but this is really interesting because when
you say that you it's not like you're reading materialist philosophy or were you because you
said earlier you didn't really think of yourself as a physicalist was it more that you thought you
could build out of materials something like consciousness yeah so really what you were
trying to build was something like intelligence and the way you described it earlier i had succeeded
in building intelligence okay and you weren't thinking of it like that or were you yeah well
i wanted to know can i add consciousness to this intelligence that and what was that what would be
the extra thing that you were adding with the consciousness that's the thing i tried to find
for years and i realized that whatever i hypothesized it would be only about structure
and function and never about consciousness consciousness either is a miracle or it has
to precede all this and i'm not much for miracles so i went with consciousness precedes all this
and then you need a metaphysics to account for the fact that there obviously is an external world
beyond my consciousness clearly a world that doesn't care whether i like it or not a world
that doesn't care about my morning affirmations or whatever you practice you have to influence
the world how do we account for that well that you account by understanding that consciousness
as an as an ontological type is not only inside your head only under materialism or physicalism
is consciousness inside your head under idealism is if consciousness is fundamental then it's your
head that is in consciousness but you have to account for the fact that your personal
consciousness doesn't know what's happening in china right now and can't change the world
merely by an act of volition so that's why i pursued the path of an objective form of idealism
under which there is an external world but that external world too is made of mental states
akin to mine but they are not mine they are out there just like my thoughts from your point of
view my thoughts are mental states but they are not in your mind they are external and objective
from your point of view but they are subjective essentially from their own point of view same
thing for an external world under idealism so i built this new story for myself but i didn't
what was what was the moment of crisis though i still don't really understand like because it
wasn't just that you couldn't build a conscious computer was it because you said you had to
rethink your whole worldview so was it what was the real crisis there the crisis was that in
understanding that physicalism didn't hold any water because i pursued the literature as well
and i realized that the literature in physicalism is basically a set of promises it's so no matter
how many models you make you're never gonna no you're not understand consciousness consciousness
because consciousness is there to begin with you know what you have to find is what are the
boundaries of the dissociative processes within consciousness because clearly i am one i can't
read your thoughts presumably you can't read mine so i'm dissociated from you so finding the
boundaries of the dissociation is the next challenge and we have no reason to think that
the silicon computer represents those boundaries we do have reason to think that metabolism
represents those boundaries so living beings have private dissociated conscious points of view
of their own computers don't that was the ultimate conclusion but it took me years
to get there engaging with the literature i read the physicalist literature i read the literature
and subjective idealism barkley's idealism which i thought was entirely dissatisfying unsatisfying
but you like schopenhauer but obviously not hagel huh i think hagel was a wise man but a
dysfunctionally arrogant man to the point of making himself impossible to understand
unless you already know in advance what he's trying to say and then you recognize that then
you recognize what he's trying to say but if you don't know it in advance hagel is not going to
help you i think i mean we won't go on a tangent about hagel but i think he if you separate the
man from the work which i know we can't do fully but um but i think there's a practice like when
you're reading it you kind of get this understanding i think of of the kind of thing he's trying to
describe so for me there's a kind of a way in which you can get it before you get it reading
him but i i know your i see your point and schopenhauer is you know definitely going
towards idealism in a very different way that i know you do he's a flat out idealist an objective
idealist not killing him just like me i'm also an objective idealist yeah so but you were already
reading jung right i mean so we've reached this moment where you i mean of course we're a cartoon
and it's a little bit of a cartoon but you've kind of realized materialism is wrong and so
there must be idealism and it must you know and then it's going to you're going to work it out
in your new phd into analytical idealism but i published many books before i decided yeah and
many papers and second but i'm just i'm just that's why i said it's a cartoon because of course like
your whole life goes into this right but it's also not true that you were just kind of a materialist
because like we didn't explain it but i i brought up the i-ching that you found when you were what
12 or 14 14 14 in the bookshop and there was a preface by jung and i want to know what about
that preface caught your attention because young to me feels very much closer to the
realizations you were having later um i don't know if that's true or not but relative to there
must be something that's not material oh jung is flat out an idealist but that's something you
understand after you read his entire collected works maybe a couple of times so that that
realization came much later in my life when i was 14 i just read his preface to the itching
and i didn't know what the itching was it had a nice cover with lots of these hexagrams
it's funny i'm imagining it right with like i'm imagining it green with like gold little
sparkles on it or something i have no idea why it's very weird blue with yellow hexagrams
but it was a particular edition there are so many too bad you don't still have it or do you
no i do have it oh wow that's amazing it's not here here are the books i actually use
i no longer use or stashed somewhere else that's wonderful you still have it though that's like a
continuity through time that's very cool yeah anyway okay so why how did you because i can't
imagine it i mean i also liked jung very young and i don't really know why i did but i wonder
if you remember what about it yeah i remember exactly what caught me um i realized that that
book was an oracle a means to do divination to predict the future and um and that to me was
absolutely ridiculous that's a beautiful thing what you just said i don't know what you mean
at all though how did you realize it's an oracle you just flip the pages and i think but his
preface or the itching you just open the book anywhere you want and you find a hexagram a
description of it and what it might mean for the current configuration of time and what it might
mean for the future configurations of time under the itching time has qualities it's not a neutral
arrow each moment in time has a certain quality and favors certain events and this and this favor
other events so it's an oracle and it was clear to me very quickly just by you know flipping the
pages this is a bloody oracle um and i thought that was ridiculous oracles are ridiculous right
then i read the preface and jung gives a rationalist hypothesis for why we shouldn't
just laugh at oracles it may not be the what we think it is you know it we sort of
regard oracles as something flatter and less sophisticated than how jung understands an oracle
to be but it was it was a rationalist account based on the notion of synchronicity and what he
basically says is that there are two orthogonal organizing principles in nature one is causality
and okay that one has nothing to do with oracles but the other one is synchronicity
in which things that are similar in meaning tend to occur together and i realized this is
an empirical question this is not logically fallacious it may be untrue but it's an empirical
question it's something that can be tested and with that that disclaimer in place his account
is a rationalist account so here's a guy who just gave me a plausible rationalist account
of a bloody oracle by oracle i know what you mean but is it also kind of like was it associated
with sort of spirituality and wooish kind of no no can't take it true or just no there is nothing
what was it about an oracle that you didn't trust till you read that i guess that just couldn't
happen or well the story that time has qualities that different moments in time favor different
things it was something i couldn't take seriously until i read the preface and i don't know why
i decided to read the preface because very quickly just by flipping the page i thought
what the hell is this and then there was this preface and i thought my god it's possible to
give a rationalist account which may be untrue but it is a rational it's not illogical it's a
rational account of a hypothesis that may give some substance to it and by the way it can be
empirically verified so that sort of made me realize that jung was a source
of insights that opened doors in my mind it sounds like what you you've done what you just described
what you've attempted to do maybe i heard you say it or maybe i'm projecting or something else but
what you just described was he kind of laid out a way that people you in this situation could
logically coherently with robustness understand something that had seemed like you needed to just
be dismissed right exactly which is kind of what you do with analytic ideals well i i think that
up until 14 you lay out the idea that the whole world can be mined which is something a lot of
people have dismissed and you do it very rigorously with all yes yes it made me understand that
we have to look for our hidden unexamined assumptions every time we dismiss something
on on a logical basis if we dismiss something purely because it seems illogical
you immediately have to subject that conclusion to criticism by hunting for all the assumptions
you are unknowingly making and which base that conclusion so that's what jung taught me very
early that we have to try to examine our hidden assumptions that's that's so powerful i'm sorry
so powerful in the context of everything we've been talking about right because taking this
nihilistic or materialist worldview seriously that has become not a means to understand the
world like a model of the world but rather the state of the world i think kind of comes out of
what you were talking about the fear of death and the fear of all these things that we're not
supposed to explore not only death but also that that what we were talking about before too that
there might be so much we don't see and understand around us because we can't handle it yet you know
so to speak um you know we live in our own fictions we mistake our fictions for reality
certainly in physicalism but in everything else as well and hunting for unexamined assumptions is
very difficult because they are precisely the things that you tend to not look at that you
tend to take for granted you don't even know you're making those assumptions physicalism is
riddled with unexamined assumptions and it's not only a psychological dynamic that physicalism
became mainstream it's changing now it's not going to be mainstream for much longer i don't think
even in my lifetime it will remain mainstream because something that is illogical and empirically
untenable just cannot survive for very long it's just that our lives are very short but it doesn't
survive many centuries there are other reasons why physicalism became mainstream and look what
i'm about to say is not a conspiracy theory i'm not saying there is a cabal that knowingly enforces
the fallacy of physicalism no but it was a game of social dominance and also that propelled
physicalism forward because since the 17th century the the the elites that eventually became the
towards the end of the 18th century they vied for social dominance against the clergy the church
which had been the dominant social group for a thousand years before well more than a thousand
years all the way deep into scholasticism and then this new sort of scholarly commercial class
that became the bourgeoisie in the beginning of the industrial revolution they started vying for
dominance against the church and in the beginning the church was more powerful they burned
Bruno at the stake they could kill one another but around the time of the july revolution in 1830 or
so the the what was now really the bourgeoisie was in a position of advantage against the church
and how do you apply the coup de grâce how do you win the war is by pulling the carpet from pulling
the rug from under the church from under the feet of the clergy and the way to do that is to say what
the church busies itself with which is psyche a greek word that means mind but also means spirit
or something religious metaphysically distinct from the physical is to is to say i love how you
work that out with young in your book on young by the way the psyche i won't go into it now but
it could be a whole other yeah yeah good so but by that point
species and psyche were already in the early 19th century they were equivalent good to um
is on wreck good to his own record saying that you got to be an idiot to not recognize that
everything in nature must have a physical side and a mental side psyche and a disease inside
so they were at equivalent so the bourgeoisie were no longer losing but they wanted to win
and how do you win by saying psyche derives from thesis so psyche is secondary matter is primary
so what the church busies itself with mind spirit that's secondary they are busy themselves with
derivative stuff and we the scientific scholarly bourgeoisie embodied by people like darvin
even go to himself was a bourgeois one letter he was the son of a financially independent lawyer
and he was ennobled by um by the duke of weimar but he was not an aristocrat by birth um they
by by pushing by by paddling this notion that psyche was secondary and matter was primary
they completely won the the war over social and cultural dominance and over the clergy
and by before the 19th century it was over that the dominance was clear it was very clear to
nichia who chronicled that that period while living through it and painlessly proclaimed
that god is dead and the basis for all of our morals would have to be revised and people would
have to find a new meaning in life not based in transcendence anymore because god is dead is the
famous quote yes yeah yeah i mean this is i'm putting it probably through a hegelian lens now
that i've brought up hegel but it sounds very hegelian to me in a way or or i'm trying to kind
of um rationalize it or understand it because it sounds you know you could think of that and
it's been told in a lot of historical tales of the church just had too much power because all
the mystery all the death all the kind of wonder was in control of the church and most people
couldn't read and so they just had a monopoly on that part of the world which in a way gave
people a way to still partake in that part of the world because they could just be told
what it was and how to do it but then you so then you know you need almost not need but i can
understand like that that then scientists people who are looking into matter or building machines
to try to better understand things would almost need to take that power away in a sense because
what they're really looking at is that stuff even if they don't say that's what they're looking at
this is usually how it happens in history you know if you're a student of history you see
this happening again and again the movement starts based on a very noble cause the church
is reserving for itself a power it doesn't deserve doesn't intrinsically shouldn't have
because the priesthood made themselves necessary intermediaries between the people and the answers
to the great questions the people couldn't have a direct relationship with divinity so they sort
of grabbed that power and a movement a resistance movement against it started which is noble we
should applaud it but as it so often happens in history the people who won from the church
instead of giving that part of the people kept that power for themselves and psychologically
that has to do with fluid compensation you know seeing yourself as distinct from the masses sort
of gives you meaning and validation and that's what the scientific elites did and today it's
still going on it's not science that has usurped that power it's scientism scientism is not practiced
by scientists who are living away in the laboratory every day to find cures for diseases and make sense
of foundations of physics no these are not scientists in the sense of scientism they are
scientists in the sense of practicing science science people scientism is promoted by the
priesthood of so-called science spokespeople think of richard dawkins brian cox new degrasse tyson
many of these people are not really doing science some of them have never done science
cannot say that about richard but they promote a philosophy a metaphysics
that is loosely based on science as a methodology but which goes way beyond the reach that the
scientific method allows you to go in making assertions about reality and they also tell you
what it's all about and if my previous interviewer alex from sceptical if he's correct
uval harari is is falling for that he's doing the same thing he's telling you there is no meaning
all i can give you is video games and drugs okay they are the new priests you know it's a
the winning party usurps that power for themselves that's not science that's scientism it's
metaphysics i agree and do you think it comes almost well i mean i brought up alex before
because we talked on philosophy babel which i think you you know that show but and he just
wrote this article about it kind of what you're talking about i don't know if you've seen it about
the panzai scheme of science or something oh i i saw it come i haven't read it yeah because
this is a discussion has been going on for a long time yeah well i won't i won't go go into that but
i guess what like what i was going to say is sometimes you start as a scientist as i'm i'm
thinking to try to put myself in the position of norai for example people start coming to you and
they need the answer all the time and you've kind of the way you've gotten the answer is this
materialist way um and it almost becomes that you have to defend it if you're not
able to hold the paradox in the way we've been trying to do you know then you almost start
defending it to the point where you almost put yourself in a corner to where you can't possibly
say oh actually all this other stuff does matter after all do you know what i mean like there's
some weird inertia that people get stuffed into these places there are more hidden discussions
than the public gets to see but um look the these science the representatives of the church of
scientism which is a metaphysics the metaphysics of physicalism it's only very loosely coupled to
science these guys they are not um they are as much the deceived as the deceiver in other words
they are being honest they it's not like they they know something else is true but they keep
paddling something they know isn't true no they believe this shit they are regurgitating uh every
day in the airwaves they truly believe that and at some point their very sense of identity
becomes sort of enmeshed with that and then you can't pull back anymore psychologically it becomes
impossible to pull back even when you are in a private discussion in which there are several
participants and there is a consensus emerging and the data seems to be very clear and unambiguous
and and you're backed into a corner and if you were really an objective
thinker you would say well okay i have to admit that the weight of the discussion now
seems to be shifting to something else no no no they double down they triple down
they quadruple down they would die saying that um it's just human psychology there's nothing to
to do with the reason and evidence it's just psychology it's emotion yeah and it's hard stuff
i mean the ego you know once i once you get you make your way your name through something
you do start feeling like you have to defend it and it takes a really big person to be able to
see that in themselves and like admit it and recognize it i mean some of the best
philosophers and scientists do this but it's i think can be really hard but
so we've kind of set up we know what's wrong with materialism what is idealism
you're the world that you've opened which is like you know not i won't say it's the polarity of this
but it's it's it's showing this is not the only way we have to go what is what is it giving us
or even what does it give you or what did it give you back then in that moment when you started
this shift well i didn't become an idealist because it gave me something in the sense it
made me feel better i didn't i'm too committed to truth for that i think
physicalism is bleak but if reason and evidence points to it then we should bite that bullet
the world is bleak and that's all there is to it no i came to i didn't really mean it gave it to you
like made you feel good i don't think gifts always make us feel good but i see what you're saying
it didn't make me feel good at all on a contrary day i still have a hard time
reconciling myself with the implications of idealism yeah i don't think what you're doing
is easy you know coming up with this defending this saying yeah people think idealism is great
it makes life so much more positive that's not how i experience it it makes life meaningful
but it's a tough pill to swallow if you really understand the implications
idealism was the one narrative that survived my own criticism regarding the empirical evidence
we have like obviously there is an external world that doesn't depend on me
and more detailed empirical evidence from foundations of physics neuroscience of consciousness
and a rational derivation line which physicalism doesn't have physicalism has some
jumps in which you're basically appealing to miracles or to unknowns or to magic like
emergentism in physicalism like 10 euros are not conscious a hundred are not a thousand are not
but there is some point in which you you had one year and boom there is enough complexity and now
it's all conscious that's an appeal to magic it's giving a label to an unknown waving a flag saying
emergentism which has no semantic ground in other words it means nothing you're just talking through
your eyes if you forgive me my my my imagery um and and people are not doing that because they
want to deceive they they drink their own snake oil well you make a really good they make a really
good argument and the argument itself to them feels like it's justified it so yeah it's not
you that because the argument as seems good right from that logical point of view that
Aristotelian kind of logical sense then you can feel good about it so it doesn't matter that it
doesn't make any sense in real life from the conclusion and if there is an argument line
that needs to that conclusion it doesn't matter how many miracles there are entailed in that
thought line it must be true because it leads to the conclusion that we know right should be true
right so you're in this weird circle of proving what you stated or something I did a question
yeah circular reason idealism gave me a derivation line that requires no miraculous steps
and that's that's suddenly soothed my my eagerness for it for some narrative that made sense some
model that made sense that may ultimately proven to be wrong but based on everything we know now
and based on the most objective and sincere reasoning we can deploy does survive and does
seem to account for the data that's what it gave me
do you think I mean because I guess I don't know if you want to say it better than me but
we could summarize analytic idealism that everything is mental or then
yeah how would you you will do better than me but like yeah everything is mental in other
words everything is experiential but not everything is your personal experience
the entirety of nature is constituted of experiential states but not your experiential
states alone there is a world out there beyond you and me a world that we inhabit a world that
will still be there after we are no longer around as these pockets of dissociated mental states that
we are while we are living beings but that world that would survive us that will survive us is
also constituted of mental states the mental states that constitute the world appear to us
as we colloquially refer to as matter physical stuff in other words the contents of perception
under idealism under analytic idealism which is my formulation of it perception is like an
airplane's dashboard imagine that you're flying an airplane that has no windows all you have are
the dials on the dashboard you can still fly safely it's flying by instruments pilots are
qualified to do that every day the dashboard gives you accurate information about the world
but it isn't the world it's a representation of the world that doesn't even look like the world
dashboard indications don't look like the storm outside the lightning the shape of the horizon
the shapes of the clouds but you can fly safely through the dashboard alone so under analytic
idealism what we call the physical world the contents of perception are dashboard indications
physicality is not the world as it is in itself it's a representation thereof a representation
that we associated complexes of the mind of nature create ourselves and which are then modulated by
the real external states of the world which are experiential states so the world is not physical
physicality is our cognitive representation of the world and we cannot access the real
states of the world directly because we are dissociated from it that's what life is life
biology metabolism is what a dissociative process in this one field of subjectivity that nature is
looks like when represented on a dashboard a brain is part of what our true experiential
inner states look like when they are represented on a dashboard that's so mind consciousness
experience can we say these are interchangeable in a sense as the primitive it's depend depends
on how you words they're just words yeah what i'm getting at is we were talking about modeling and
we were talking about you know do you think of language as a model do you think that there's
other ways to perhaps say what you're expressing without necessarily these same terms or do you
are you seeing these kind of terms like mind consciousness as kind of like how do you how do
you deal with that yeah the possibility that language is already a model and so are you are
you giving us a kind of way to get there that is only one way or is it the way
a conceptual model uses language and it certainly does that when it needs to be communicated it may
even use language as we are formulating it within ourselves but there are multiple ways of talking
about a model in language multiple linguistic avenues for trying to express a model some of
them are metaphorical some of them are allegorical some of them are literal some of them are
mythopoetic so no i don't elevate language to the level of an ultimate truth i think it's an
operational convenience it's just one we fall for a lot of times we mistake language for the thing
we are trying to express so i think analytic idealism there are many ways in which it can be
formulated i propose a few but i'm sure others can propose other ways to expand on the exact same
model so young for example wasn't talking about analytic idealism in these kinds of terms and
as you show in your book he's using very different terms i mean we didn't get into
how something can be unconscious but this is like really interesting to me but you know there's
all kinds of ways we can turn this around and um in a way young is expressing it in a different
way like you kind of show that in the book so i guess what i'm trying to open up is that
sometimes it feels like we have to choose between all these isms you know rather than like we were
talking about before these isms are ways of trying to talk about or model or express what can't
necessarily ever be completely 100 modeled or expressed and i just wonder if that feels
comfortable to you if you think of it like that or because you could easily get stuck in a corner
two where you have to defend you know these particulars but even though you're pointing
past the particulars yeah no i'm comfortable switching language if if i find myself in a
place where i'm not getting my ideas across properly i'm very comfortable with switching
the language i mean different books of mine talk about the same thing in completely different ways
so i i use a lot of metaphors i guess sometimes i've used metaphors in some books in others like
the idea of the world or my latest which is coming out in october called analytic idealism
in a nutshell i try to be as direct as possible with as little symbolic content as possible
so now i'm very flexible about this what i want people to get is what i mean behind what i say
yeah the way to do that is to say what i mean in as many different ways as i possibly can
so people can distill what is common behind all of those different linguistic approaches
and that's hard too because you get called to task by all the people who want to latch on to
one thing or the other but maybe that's interesting too but because you do even your book sometimes
you're talking to the people who have the knowledge of reference or conceptual knowledge
relative to a certain form of academia where you write papers in a certain way there's a
couple of your books that are like basically like papers and then other ones which are speaking
more the way jung did and that's kind of holding the paradox yeah it's not they're not dichotomies
i guess like for me that's a service you're giving to show because i talk about holding
the paradox a lot of like being able to open the space and not to not smush the things together
or dissolve them necessarily but they don't need to be you know you're they're two different ways
of describing the process yeah i think you know i deliberately try to avoid the neologisms as
much as possible creating new words and unfortunately this is very common in philosophy and science
as well and then you get sort of stuck with that word creation of yours i deliberately avoid that
and what i try to do instead is to say the same thing is as in as many different ways as possible
because i want people to see past what i'm saying and discern what i mean that's my way of dealing
with this difficulty but at the end of the day andrea people bring themselves to bear when they
absorb a message and whatever baggage they have with them they will bring it to bear in their
understanding of the message that this is unavoidable it's unavoidable to me when i
am on the receiving end it's part of our respective journeys i just do the best i can but beyond that
you know we are all responsible yeah well that's exactly what i was sort of getting at because the
way i think of all of this whatever we're doing this encountering living philosophizing is we are
trying to find a way to understand that perspectivalism of each of us are kind of on a journey as you said
there's a certain path and no matter how shared the landscape is we've seen different things on
the path and we're going to understand whatever this process is and that we're trying to understand
we're probably both going to understand it a little different way and and that's okay i mean
even though we're sharing similar regularities but i guess that gets to do you still do you think
of things in linear like beginning and end or do you see all this is nested in a way or or like how
do you think of the kind of all of this because the dissociation for example can sound like still
like we're putting two things against each other but i feel like it's more they're connected and
they're nested and like i was describing at the beginning about consciousness we nest out of
ourselves into meta consciousness and to me that can also be kind of this so yeah how do you see
that linear mindset or look even in psychiatry dissociation is not considered a fundamental split
you can have a dissociated patient that gets cured his dissociation is resolved and he realizes that
all of his dissociated complexes were actually him or her this happens in psychiatry all the
time dissociative identity disorder is a very common condition different degrees but very
common you talk to any practicing psychiatrist and he would tell you it happens a couple of times a
week in their practice so no dissociation does not mean a fundamental separation it's it's a
cognitive thing it's an appearance it's a form of illusion i think nature is one field of
subjectivity if we eventually get to a unified field theory in which we collapse the 17 quantum
fields plus something standing for gravity into one field i would interpret that as that one field
is this field of subjectivity and the variety and the diversity of the states of nature are just
different patterns of excitation of this one field so even dissociation is a configuration
a local configuration taken on by a segment of this one field it's never a fundamental
separation between us and this one field that nature is yeah i mean i have to bring up love
because it's love and philosophy and i guess i'm trying to kind of get towards that in a way that's
not sentimental because or that is sentimental in the right in the way that's authentic because
if we can think of it as nested and and get away from this beginning and end kind of thing and
we can even bring up this idea of consciousness and in the way we were talking about at the beginning
and that um what you were saying about it's crazy that we think we're all separate or you said it in
a different way but it is all it's it's all when we say it's all one sometimes it sounds like it
has a beginning and end but it's all some kind of ongoing process that we're trying to understand
and it seems to me that in a way these dissociations were you being one of them
and me being another and all the other people my dog here and there's all these beings which
could be thought of as trying to somehow not even trying but part of this process of dissociation
in the way that you mean it and i don't mean it in an unhealthy way though i think it can become
unhealthy right i mean there's a point where it could but anything can become unhealthy it's a
matter of degree look i if my experience because i live analytic idealism now it's not just
something i talk about i have been living it for years now um my life is informed but it's my
reality it's the best narrative i have and i live accordingly so i i embody my own philosophy i'm
not just writing papers i don't have to defend any academic position so what does that do what does
that do in your life that's a really strong thing i want to understand it yes so i can tell you what
it does to me it doesn't make me want to hold hands with everybody and sing the kumbaya
no if i were in ukraine i would i i would have taken up arms right now
um if somebody threatens my girlfriend their boobier response which is not holding hand
singing the kumbaya right so that did not change what it did to me is it heightened
my sense of empathy to a point that is sometimes difficult to bear um it's the recognition that
the subjectivity behind the eyes of someone else is the same subjectivity that is behind your eyes
is that recognition so it becomes very easy to to use a colloquial expression to slide into
somebody else's shoes if you allow yourself to do it and sometimes you're pulled into it
like when major events happen like october 7th in israel or like the bombardment of gaza
or or the the war in ukraine you sort of i feel dragged into somebody else's shoes and it can
become dysfunctional so it's um because i never had this before i i didn't evolve coping mechanisms
for dealing with empathy it's not something that afflicted me in my earlier years so i'm having to
evolve that very quickly now as an adult to be able to deal with it um another thing it does for me
is the greatest fear of mankind is back because now i know that the subjectivity behind my eyes
will experience my death and what happens afterwards bernardo castro this particular
narrative self this particular dissociated complex will dissolve um but the subjectivity behind the
storyteller that convinces itself it is bernardo castro that subjectivity stays so death is a
unfathomable transitioning my state of consciousness because look psychedelics only
reduce brain activity and not even by a major amount and it's it's very measurable it's significant
but not major and you can go through ego dissolution and you can have terrible experiences
just by a reduction of brain metabolism imagine when brain metabolism ceases so that fear is back
in my life that fear of how is it going to be how is it going to feel what will be that state
and luckily i have had enough psychedelic experiences i live in the netherlands so
i could do that responsibly as an adult a few years ago i have had enough experiences to know
that after the pain of ego dissolution there is a space of profound peace untouched peace
um so i hope that's where it's going to go but i cannot know because my brain metabolism
never stopped completely it only ever got reduced by psychedelic use so that is back
um another thing that has happened to me a lot is the crisis of meaning has disappeared from my life
and now i am like fish in the water i don't talk about meaning like fish don't talk about water
i mean i talk about it because i have to communicate to other people but i don't
talk to myself about meaning questions about meaning don't arise in my mind anymore it's
surrounded by it every second of my existence every breath i take is sort of percolated with
meaning it's saturated with it nature is looking at itself through my eyes and that's the meaning
of my existence whatever happens and it's always there so that's great you know i am not touched by
depression by on we you know existential despair do you feel closer to nature or to people that
you're with has it changed your relationships with nature and with other humans your girlfriend your
the people around you i am um more appreciative of differences between people
i'm a lot i'm a lot less judgmental of people not entirely judgment free i judge putting you bet
i judge him through and through um but i don't i no longer have any impetus or energy to judge
people gratuitously like judge best judgment on my neighbors or best judgment on people who think
differently or act differently best judgment in regarding how they dress what car they drive
how loud they speak what topics of conversation they choose i don't have any energy in me to pass
judgment about that i just experience it the diversity of this subjectivity is something to
be experienced and registered that's all i do i don't have energy for judgment anymore is that
because you've been able to surrender to something like or is it because of clarity or what would you
say is it not people in spiritual circles people talk about surrender a lot as if it were something
you could do uh yeah i don't know why that word came out but i i guess it felt like when you were
talking that you it's not that you gave up because that's the not and it's not that you won it's not
it's like you see clearly but there's a kind of flow or something you know yeah to say to see
clearly it's already kind of a judgment
so you're just present yeah great i mean i pass judgment if i have to if and i if i am in a
position to do so like i have direct reports so i have to judge their performance i'm in a position
to do that i have to so i do that objectively as much as i can but i will not pass judgment on an
acquaintance that came to my place and behaved in a certain way or dressed in a certain way or
run too much it's like that so you don't need to judge somebody to know who you are right so it's
yeah if i'm not in a position to have to judge the energy of judgment doesn't arise i don't know
it's not like i surrendered it's not like i gave up it was not a choice i made it doesn't happen
it just doesn't happen anymore i don't bother it's like i feel like yawning it's like why
why am i going to bother to do this like a waste of energy it's always an energy it's like i feel
no which is true that's why i say so clearly because sometimes judging isn't i mean there's
a difference between just this is the way you see things and you state it versus like it needing to
be referenced back to some egoic kind of thing that you know i don't know whether it's more or
less clear yeah it's just how it is how it has become for me i used to judge people
um the most difficult thing to deal with for me at least since the war in ukraine begun is
is heightened empathy that's very difficult it's a very present thing that struggled with daily
i'm becoming better at it i'm finding rooms in the palace of my mind where i can sort of
put those things there and close the door for a little while i visit those rooms because if
i don't visit them i lose my humanity so i cannot do that i cannot abstract from away from human
suffering but i can i found a place for it i'm finding a place for it and this is evolving in me
before that the most difficult thing to deal with was this the fear of the major change in the state
of consciousness that is coming for all of us called the death the death is not a fear i had
before now when you're dead you're dead you're not going to be there you didn't have it before
no i didn't have it before no well i thought i mean i'm maybe i shouldn't bring it up but i just
remember that you had a really hard problem a really hard experience with it when you were
really young like when you were reading the yung and the aiching because you were really close to
your dad right and he passed away so for me it's i'm wondering like did am i just connecting that
through some wrong way or because that age i remember being that age and i remember things
that happened to me at that age and it's philosophical or i don't know it's yeah
or is it just too much to try to connect those things i have i probably have answered this
question both in the positive and in the negative in the past i don't know you don't even have i
mean i can also just edit it all out i just it's connected for me you know to try to understand it
relative to why all this matters yeah because yeah i can tell you this before my father
my father died i already had metaphysical questions popping in my head
it seems as long as i can remember i have always i never got a religious education my mother is a
catholic but she never sent me to sunday school never forced me to attend mass meaning i didn't
remember that stuff i hated church when i was a kid i saw her pray a couple of times and i thought
that's curious i didn't dismiss it i just thought curious curious behavior that humanity is capable
of this that that was my thought as a kid we're very neutral and impartial as kids something that
the adults in us should learn yeah that's kind of what i meant by surrender by the way that neutrality
that's the right word but anyway my father's death didn't create metaphysical questions in
my mind because i already had them you see what i mean the main thing it did it forced me to
contemplate my own life but what do i do now what is this about now how do i survive this
where do i have to go what do i have to do you know that that was the main
struggle for me and probably it heightened the metaphysical questions because you always wonder
is my father does my father still exist somewhere yeah and what where did he go and and your own
death i was wondering because i'll just be really honest with you i was around the same age the
first time a family member died and i wrote it was the first time i ever wrote anything and i kind
of wrote this little kind of poem about like how do we how does something hurt you so much when you
can't see it or reach out and touch it or something it was some kind of rhymey thing and
i don't know for me those those same questions have structured my
bigger questions in a way when i look back and i'm sure you could i could link it to a million
other things not just that but this fear of death thing is comes up a lot you know and and it's
like in all of us and in all these things we've been talking about it's kind of sitting there
in a way making us wonder what's the meaning of life or what are we doing and how do we deal with
this fear and so yeah i don't know for me it's still something hard to get a grip on what i
notice from talking to people is that people tend to associate their fear of death with the fear of
oblivion like they're going to cease to exist and that leads to a cognitive dissonance why
because deep inside they know that's not true and we all know the intuitive roots of our being
because you're connected with reality right within a parachute here we arose out of reality so we are
part of reality in those intuitive roots that connect connect us to reality in the very low
down they are not here in the canopy of airy thoughts there we know we don't cease to exist
and therefore because culturally we believe we do it leads to a cognitive dissonance between what
we feel deep inside and what we believe rationally and that cognitive dissonance i think is partly
what accounts for this this recoil that people have about death like it's a kind of i'm gonna die
no no this cannot be because if i die the world dies the world ends and of course that's true
if you were to really cease to exist as subjectivity then everything would cease
to exist meaning it's not going to be like that and and but the fear of annihilation
that i don't have so i i am not i don't struggle with trying to make my life count because i'm
going to be annihilated at the end of it no that i don't have i don't have it's not like this where
you need to live forever or be yeah the reason i bring it the reason i'm what i'm connecting it
to is when you i said surrender but it's this kind of neutrality and i was asking like what does
idealism do for you and i mean it even in a wider sense for kind of helping or count i don't know
what words to use this materialist kind of track we've been on it seems like this offers a way to
relax back into or it's not it's not comfortable but some kind of neutrality relative to these
questions in a way that helps i mean you don't need to fear death right but you then you said
you still are afraid of death so of course it's a major transition in my state of consciousness
and i don't know how it's going to feel you bet i fear it it's an unknown if you're like going
on a roller coaster kind of fear or well that's more predictable yeah it's more predictable than
this i mean we have these people who who have these near-death experiences right i think even
if you discard the majority of it you are left with the set that is impossible to dismiss by
and large they seem to be positive but not unanimously so there are people who have a
negative and these and of course they tell it already dressed in the conceptual dictionary of
their own culture so if they saw a reassuring presence the indian would say it's christian
the christian would say it was jesus so you have to pierce through all that symbolism that becomes
that they dress the the story with based on their own cultural dictionary because that's all they
have to communicate whatever they can communicate but underneath all that i don't think there is
unanimity that it's good so it seems that it can go either way so you you better have anxiety about
an unknown that i know is coming so you think you might suffer or something i guess i'm just
because for me i fear other people's deaths or i don't worry about my death or have i don't have
a sense of fear about that i used to but it like some when people are troubled in my life and i
know you know there's it really worries me in the way that you were talking about the empathy with
like i can't if i watch the news too much i won't be able to function really well right now because
it's just you know so those kind of things i still feel even knowing the world is consciousness in a
way and even feeling like the people who have died is still feeling present with them and being able
to kind of understand what that is in a way that's not that's kind of neutral that's peaceful for me
but thinking of other people hurting and stuff still is very hard i don't know for me too other
people hurting yes other people going through the transition we call death the transition estate of
consciousness no that's because it it's nature right one could argue suffering is part of nature
but my my my empathy makes it bothersome for me to deal with it wow that's interesting so it really
is that subjective personal to only you kind of mystery right that you don't know what in the
world it's gonna be yeah there is a famous poem and a rage rage against the dying of the light
no that i don't i don't have any because that that's raging against the prospect of annihilation and i
i there is nothing in me that believes in annihilation anymore even if i try to you know
it i can't i can't anymore you know but is some of that just because you've done so much and
accomplished so much and did you already feel that it's what analytic idealism informs me
off and i really gave it a 20 year long thought you know it's not a conclusion i arrived at lightly
and i i dug into every discipline that is even remotely relevant to this i educated myself in
multiple fields um so i can't do more homework than that to arrive at an informed conclusion
maybe that's what's so neutral or or that whatever we're trying to describe that you feel now that
seems to me almost like a time the time spent with it and all of that i mean you know that comes
look what i could tell you is i am in perfect peace with the fact that bernardo castrupo will
die okay but i am anxious about how that will feel like because you don't control it you can't
understand it or control no you know yeah the best model we had the best safe model we have
phenomenological model of of the end of metabolism is the reduction of brain metabolism caused by
psychedelics and those experiences can be wonderful but they can be very difficult too
and we do not have a clear understanding of the causative factors the the the endogenous
psychic causative factors that lead it make it go one way or the other so because we don't have
that understanding i don't have that understanding so i don't know how it will go so look i don't
think i'm going to be annihilated you may say it's presumptuous of you to say you are sure
but i am as sure as a human being can be that i'm not going to be annihilated and if others are in
doubt it's their journey you know it's their own i have my own journey my reality is i'm not going
to be annihilated so i'm not raging against the dying of the light because it's not going to die
but it can become an ugly light and i don't know how it's going to be so i'm anxious about about
it in the sense that that you would be anxious going to a foreign land without knowing what to
expect without having any idea what's going to happen that that kind of anxiety you know you're
going to experience it you just don't know how it's going to be but there are other things that
oppress the lives of most humans today especially in the affluent west which which have to do with
annoying lack of meaning the meaning crisis you know depression nihilism that is gone i didn't
even notice it disappearing from my life one day that makes so much sense to me because you've
re it's like you've let yourself be what you are connected and you know once we can do that
and i don't mean it and i mean it in a really really it's not easy and it's not like you just
do it and then it's so but it's such a different way of being in the world that you can't even
really explain it you know there well i i tried to do that yeah you try to explain it in many ways
but i shouldn't be talking about it yet according to my publisher but yeah i tried to i wanted to
read it for some reason i thought it was going to be out earlier but yeah it's coming out very soon
there is a book coming out now which is a summary of analytic idealism it's analytic idealism in a
nutshell in a short book straight to the point yeah end of october oh okay straight to the point
no bullshit no no divagations no and just that what what analytic idealism with a little brain
in a nutshell on the cover yeah but there is a book that will come out next year it's in production
already it's called the diamond and the soul of the west oh wow so i'm going to say some things
now that i discuss at length in that book um one of the biggest changes for me was the acceptance
of the impersonal in me because you see as an analytic idealist i i understand that i am a
dissociated process in the mind of nature which is one mind so it's fundamentally an impersonal mind
that creates because in everything that can happen in nature eventually does so life did
happen in nature what is life well it's a dissociation that arises in the mind of nature
it could arise so eventually it does because that's how nature works you wait long enough
everything that can happen will happen so that's what i am what that means is that the personal
in me is is the product of the beginning of that dissociative process
but the medium on which it happens is the same medium that was there in the beginning of all
things if such a thing ever happened um it's completely impersonal it's the sum total of
existence so i i intellectually now accept the existence and even the preponderance
of the impersonal in me of those mental processes that arise in me that are not bernardo castrop's
they are the stream the flow of the totality of nature as it expresses itself through me therefore
i will have using schopenhauer's word i will have the will to certain things that have nothing to
do with bernardo castro's personal agenda and we all experience that we say well i really need to
do this but i don't know why i just know that i must pursue this path no that's the impersonal
in you i as an analytical as an analytical idealist i now give myself intellectual permission to
acknowledge the existence of the this impersonal flow as it flows through me and expresses itself
through me and that changes the way you live a lot because now you understand that your life
has never been is not and will never be about you not anymore than the life of the apple tree
is about one apple blossom right it would be a very neurotic apple blossom one who thought
it's about me no it's about the apple tree and you are just part of that impersonal thing
so i understand bernardo castro to be the apple blossom in other words it's about nature and what
nature is trying to achieve through me it's not about me therefore i do not have the responsibility
to make myself happy which is the most overwhelming task that the cultural ethos
invests us with one it's impossible there are way too many variables at play for you to be
able to control them so you cannot make yourself happy you may find yourself happy because of
grace and circumstance but it's not something that you can force in nature and parting with
that needs to make myself happy it's like removing a ton of weight from my shoulder
um i know that yeah is that um that that's not surrender but i think that's what i was
trying to get at with that word it's i like what you said about lifting the weight off but
is it it sounds like it's something you decide right like an army decides it's time to surrender
it's almost like yielding or aligning or it's it's like you it's not an action of me
it happens to me but you're kind of letting life flow through you without needing to
filter it through bernardo the narrative you could say that so i i pay attention to
my impersonal inner compass where is nature wanting to go through me and my job is to accept
that and then use my intellectual abilities to make it more viable or to facilitate that process
so i the metaphor i use in the book i the way i live life now is as a driver who didn't choose
the destination i am given the destination by the impersonal but i'm trusted with navigating the
terrain and therefore i do it with the curiosity of someone who doesn't know where he is going but
will find out and he's trusted with navigating it so which is fun i love that especially after
the story you told about driving and not knowing you're driving because that's the opposite right
it's being fully aware and present that you're driving but not needing to know where you're
going to go i don't choose the direction choosing the direction just chosen a completely different
direction for me now with that's very peaceful in a way i can feel it i don't know how to put
words on it but i can feel it and i already kept you way over time but i have to ask like last
thing is how does that does that relate to love at all or how do you see that word relative to
this is it does it turn you like is it a word you don't use or i bring it up because it makes
people uncomfortable and well now it's i you know we all have our prejudices i'm no exception to
this i have a prejudice against sentimentalism it's something that makes me strange very quickly
me too but i don't think that word is that so that's why i that's why i try to make this
uncomfortable space because yeah i know what you mean so i'll try to navigate that without
falling for the same trap love is a fact of nature just as fear is and hate is and suffering is so
if we accept that all these things are inherent in the potentialities of nature then yes love
exists what i see a lot of people do especially people in the spiritual circle and and and look
i'm not an enlightened being and they may be i'm sure enlightened beings exist i know of at least
one that monk who set himself on fire during the vietnam war and stayed in a meditation position
for the 20 minutes it must have taken for him to actually die didn't move a muscle completely
yeah no changing his facial expression that's enlightenment all right that's the you don't do
that if you're just fooling yourself that you are enlightened that's mastery of one's own mind
that's a direct connection to what is really true so it exists beyond that i don't know who
is enlightened but some people who claim or are perceived as being enlightened will tell you that
love is more fundamental than fear than hate and all the rest i don't know that from personal
experience and there is no analytic line of thinking that i can think of that would lead
you to that conclusion every piece of evidence i know and every piece of reasoning i trust
would bring me to the conclusion that love is as true as all the other things so it's as true as
hate it's as true as fear it is true it's just not more true than than the other stuff so this
love exists in my life you bet it you bet um we we get confused sometimes about it we mix up
love with infatuation we mix up love with dependency so but but now i'm turning 50 and
i think i have earned enough maturity now to know what is true love and it's there it is there in
my life anxiety is there and even hate i could tell you today i hate Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin
i wish that guy wasn't born and at the same time there is a bigger voice in me saying that's silly
if he wasn't born somebody else would have been born and do something like that maybe not the same
thing but something like that was going to happen was bound to happen because it can happen and if
it can it will it would have another name another face different circumstances maybe a different
part of the world but it was going to happen and yes it's true and yet i can't help but look at
that guy's face and feel like laser beams are coming out of my eye of my eyes if you know what
i mean yeah i do i think we all know in some situation or another like that and i think it's
important to feel it and be able to express it and um i won't argue with you about love being
different from that but when i listen to you or when i read you or when i think about all that
you've done and all that you do in terms of all these kind of conversations you have with people
writing all the books and stuff from my definition of love which is
i don't i won't try to put it in words but it feels like that's there you know it doesn't
feel like um hate is there or i know you've said fear is there but it doesn't feel like
love feels different to me as being able to connected with that flow that i was talking
about of life kind of going through to me it feels almost more like that's kind of when you're all
the other stuff is out of the way somehow which doesn't make all the other stuff less real or
not important but just looking at your life from the outside it seems like that would be more of
extreme and the other things would be more like lenses or obstacles or something but that's yeah
okay and i mean even love like philosophy and too like i don't mean love in a sentimental
infatuation i mean as a motivating movement i identify with people in the world i feel very
human yeah that's what i mean even when you just described your hate right that's coming from
yes a very deep identification yeah i prize it very much and one danger that people playing
the social role i play go through and i'm subject to that danger is people want to kick you upstairs
if you know what i mean like name you and label you or they put you on a pedestal they elevate
you and therefore they make you non-human yeah that's what i was trying to get out earlier of
how easily you can get trapped by your own accomplishments well i you know i not you but
one myself no no i'm past that well you've sort of built that into your system but i haven't been
that silly for a few years now no that's good i'm not going to fall for that trap i'm not going to
believe myself to be something more than human i know too much the shit and the skeletons in my
cabinets to to to entertain that fantasy no i don't think but i think we are all
nobody's immune to that but i think i am as partially immune as one can get at this point
i know too much of my own shit but others do that and others kick you upstairs and this is not a
criticism to them they are not doing this maliciously actually they think they're honoring you they think
they're doing something positive towards you but i feel robbed of my humanity when people
do that so my humanity is my greatest treasure i'm going to defend it with tooth and claw
you know it if you try to dehumanize me in any way like making me better than human or lesser than
i'm going to resist that and
that has brought me to a place of contentment i'm not going to use the word word happiness
especially because in the u.s what people understand for the word happiness is very
different than what we understand in europe in europe i could use the words happiness and
contentment as equivalents in the u.s it they aren't in the u.s happiness is something somehow
more effusing more effervescent than contentment well for the european happiness is just contentment
so i i i achieved a blended i didn't achieve i didn't do anything i landed in a point
of contentment and in my life because of my humanity my my having achieved a warm respectful
relationship with my own humanity which i treasure a lot and and that and that may be what you mean
by by surrender there is an involuntary letting go associated with that letting go that's better
yeah you're human you are in a human journey that's it that's just nature so that's just
journey let's just go through this without trying to wrestle control of the reins of my journey from
the hands of nature and control everything and assert my personhood my uniqueness as if we were
ubermensch as if we were superhuman like nichet tried and failed for a reason because there isn't
a better man to try that and even that man no and he tried so with such heart and it's totally
understandable that's the last that he left for us that's his sacrifice so i am i am free from
the temptation of trying to control life in the world i did try it i tried it for over two decades
with the illusion that it could be achieved and then i realized it can't and then i fell into
into hell for over 10 years and now i am reconciled with my humanity with my role as just
a blossom in the apple tree you know that controls nothing but has its role to play
just like me i don't control anything i have my role to play and i'm in peace with it and
let's see what's going to happen next so maybe that's what you call surrender but it's not
an act i i i didn't one day wake up and say okay today i'm going to surrender no it happened to me
i find myself in this space yeah it's still to know what it's almost like a recognition to
you know like similar to what you described when you had the feeling that you're not the world
you know but the opposite like you realize you are the world but what you thought was the world is
something different now because you've made this whole journey through all these stuff and you
persisted and when you're talking i was also thinking something i remember reading or hearing
you say about the the heart being the no the intellect is the bouncer of the heart no yeah
yeah and that would be a whole other conversation to open that up but in a way you kind of could
turn that around too there's kind of a way like that there's no bouncer anymore right but you
don't need a bouncer anymore i think it's there it's just that it's a very open-minded bouncer
yeah i guess that's what i mean because you say it as if the bouncer is bad right because we pretend
like we use our intellect to to say how we think we should feel instead of looking at how we feel
but you kind of had to confront how you feel and now you use the intellect to keep yourself
in check or something i don't know i am i wouldn't wouldn't underestimate the power my intellect
still has in my life and it's just that my intellect arrived at a place where it can give
me permission for a lot of stuff but it is still the bouncer and when do i know that when i am
exposed for instance i am i run essential foundation now so i have i'm basically the curator of
what we publish what we promote and what we stay away from and because essential foundation now
has gotten some momentum a lot of people want their voices to be amplified by us
so i mean that in the position of a sort of a bit of a gatekeeper of course
other people digest stuff for me but it comes to a point where i say okay this we are going to run
with and this we are not so i am regularly exposed to stuff that i take a quick look at and i think
bullshit woo woo nonsense scam you know now we are not running with this crap
now this is nonsensical and and that judgment call is often really intellectual and sometimes
it flirts with prejudice because um look i'm human right and i'm in peace with being human
and part of being human is that you're prejudiced well you have a path right like we were talking
about i mean you've come to where you are through certain references even if you have learned the
knowledge through acquisition or however you put it i mean you can't like just do away with the
fact that you know read all these books and know all these things and so on it's gonna why do i
want to become the ubermensch and be completely unprejudiced i think what counts in my favor is
that i recognize my prejudice and i try to deal with it in a healthy way as opposed to being
completely overcome by it but i still so even if i eventually get a hold of it and act in a
non-prejudiced way i feel the prejudice emerge within me at first required in requiring the
intellect to go there and say hey wait a moment this if you if you say the same thing in words
that you like better you may actually be open to this you just don't like the particular words the
particular avenue in which this is being being brought forth or the motivations people have you
know i tell you one big trigger for me um that triggers my prejudice very quickly is when people
defend a point of view about what is true because they think it's ethical or because they think it
makes them feel good there there was a person once i shall not name the person but there was
a discussion about metaphysics and this person said i don't like idealism because um it's
totalitarian it's one mind this is too totalitarian it's it affects my political
sensitivities i think it should be a democracy and i'm like what does truth care about your damn
political sensitivities about what makes you warm and fuzzy and what gives you a code shiver is this
a bloody argument to make to defend the story that really triggers me and it happened to me
the other day a very respectable academic who i hold in sincere high regard and was having we
were having a private discussion there were three of us and and this academic lead into the notion
of we should promote this because it's conducive to better social harmony we should promote this as
true because it's conducive to more social harmony oh that triggered me it's like why
should i believe something to be true just because it triggers social harmony if the truth is terrible
and conducive to anarchy and war then that's it that's what the truth is
so it so this can happen even when the person's story is entirely reasonable
and we should promote it but it's presented to me as we should promote it because it's good for
people it it triggers me so i can understand that because it kind of is almost a sign that the person
hasn't thought through it in a kind of deep way because it almost sounds like you know you just
role play like you take on a role of if it's social harmony is a good thing we've been taught and so
therefore if i fit this into that role yeah yeah i see that there is even an argument to do that
and and yeah yeah yeah and it's niches argument no i think it is in the gay science or the joyful
wisdom because the word gay now has been associated with something else but in in the joyful wisdom
um the joy for wisdom sounds good i think it is there that nicha says why are we all obsessed
with what is true why does it matter what is true we should adopt a narrative that makes life good
not what is true we can never know what is true and it doesn't matter because
what matters is what effect it will have in life so we we simply should adopt
a narrative conducive to whatever it is that we consider good he makes that argument and it is
a very compelling argument the problem for me is that i am too instinctively committed to what is
true i do not have in me the ability to adopt a narrative and pretend that it is true just because
it's good in some way i i cannot make myself believe it actually it will create the opposite
reaction in me even if it is believable because i'm forcing myself to believe it because it's good
something in me will require and say no for that reason i will reject it even if it is plausible
and so i yeah i i have yeah i really understand there's two two things like one of those could
just be the the philosopher in you right that you need to always question and stuff that that always
criticizing whatever it is not just like there's a good and we go along with it but i think deeper
than that it's it's kind of the way you've been living your life in this nestedness that i was
talking about i was saying like dissociation but these many many nested levels of consciousness
right where you you can't you can't just go along with something like that because
it would numb that whole process like it's not it's no longer the pattern that even works right
it's a totally different rhythm but the conclusion andrea is and to go back to how
we started this discussion is the intellect is still strong in me not in the sense that
it's a clever intellect but in the sense that it it has a lot of decision power for me it's
very influential so despite all this despite my being in a very different place in life than i
was 20 years ago today and despite my openness which is there i am much more open to alternatives
that before i wouldn't take seriously despite all that the intellect still the bouncer of my heart
it's just that it's a more sensitive and open-minded bouncer now but it can still
shut the door and it will shut the door every now and then it's just no no here we are not going
yeah because this is just nonsense we are not we are not approaching this yeah i think that's
probably a healthy thing especially as i've expressed that i think you've opened your heart
quite a lot right and to be able to do that you need some bouncers but for now i just want to
say thank you for i've kept you an hour and a half or i don't even know what time it is but
longer a lot longer and i could keep going because i didn't even look at half of my questions but
mostly i just want to say thank you for your time and for what you're doing and that you are in
open to this whole process right and sharing all this and all the ways different ways
thanks for the opportunity it was a nice talk and it was and good night i guess i can stop this
