There we go.
Okay.
Hello, Fred.
Again.
I'm alive.
You're alive.
We're both alive.
That's reason for celebration.
We were before the button as well.
What?
We were before, yeah.
We were before the button was pressed to record
and we are now still alive.
That's good.
But now we're being recorded.
Now we're being recorded.
So this is leaving trace.
Conversations don't often leave demonstrable traces.
Yeah, well, this one's leaving all kinds of traces.
And what kind of spaces,
over what kinds of times and spaces, we don't know.
But can you hold up your hand again?
You have a dot on your hand.
Two of them.
Yeah, can you tell me about that?
It always intrigues me.
It makes me, when I see that,
I can feel it in my own palm, you know?
You can.
Yeah, I feel it in my palm.
Yeah, well, you're in the Christian sphere.
You know about stigmata.
I know, yes, of course.
I grew up with quite a, shall we say, education
and all of that.
Maybe that's why I feel it.
I used to have these dreams when I was a little kid
about hiding with Jesus when he was trying to get away.
Oh, right.
He was trying to get away.
He was admitted.
Yeah, I know.
But in my dream, he was trying to get away
because he didn't want to be crucified.
Yeah, well, I could understand that.
That's what I would do, definitely.
So I was hiding with him.
You may know, I've been troubling the way we talk
about vision and seeing.
Yes, I know.
I've been trying to watch some of those.
And I think about this an awful lot.
And I'm aware of a great deal of lacunae of things
that our discourse about the visual manifestation
or the manifestation of the light permits.
So I experiment with these.
I see with my hands.
I see perfectly well with my hands.
Now, nobody can make sense of that.
So those are eyes, are you saying?
Those are points of seeing?
I mean, most people think they see like this, right?
Yeah.
Oh, the little brain is back.
Hello, Mr. Brain.
The brain with the googly eyes on it.
Most people think of themselves.
And this is not my image of myself.
But in India, when people go to a temple,
they go to not to see the God, but to be seen by the God.
They have an elaborated discourse
in which the reciprocity of your encounter
with the visual manifestation is clear.
Now, we like to say, I see as if I had something inside me.
But there's a hell of a lot here that I see,
but that is not inside me.
I assure you, I just do this and there's the sky
and there's the clouds, you know, there's all kinds of things.
So they have a word darshan,
which I find is lacking from our vocabulary.
It has to do with this recognition or being seen,
the other aspect.
Like we have intramissive theories of vision.
Yeah.
As if something was going in
and we know about extramissive theories of vision
and those of us in the 4E world sort of think
there's something wrong with both of those.
Yeah.
So when I was going to India,
I was going to study temples,
visit temples, add it to Indian spirituality.
Was this related to the joint speech when you went
or was this before?
Well, joint speech led me to this kind of thing, let's say.
I don't know what I'm gonna find,
but I'm going over to India, I'm going.
I was all planned for a big six-week temple tour
and I was going to a six-week temple,
which I didn't get to,
I had to abandon ship after 48 hours in India
and fly home in an emergency.
But on my second day,
there was one temple I'd been looking at in Bangalore
and it was very mysterious to me.
There was all kinds of gods on the outside.
It was in the middle of a city street.
It's filthy.
There's big piles of rubbish outside from the worship,
which generates measurements of worship.
And there was a heavy traffic going in
and I don't know who the gods are
and I'm not gonna go in there as a tourist.
But I really, really wanted to see what was inside
and I was sitting there on the end of my second day.
I was looking in Google Earth
at the photos of the inside of the temple
and I really wanted to go into the temple,
but I didn't know how to go into the temple.
In the evening, I draw eyes on here,
blue, red rays coming out.
The only luxury I'd taken with me to India was my markers.
I drew my eyes on the hand.
I went over to the worshipers like this
and they almost carried me into the temple.
What?
They came out, fed me, drummed for me,
were hugging me, we went inside.
I was completely within here.
We were worshiping and crying together
and they were astonished that I saw them
the way that I saw them.
And the only word I could use for it was Darshan.
I see you as you see me, if you like.
And they said, you don't see that we're poor?
And so I said, no.
And it was mind-breaking, boggling.
I went over there for temple experience.
This was a goddess worshiping cult,
which is very much of my sympathies, a tantric cult.
There was still sacrifice there.
It was not inside the Brahminical Order.
I was right not to go in as a tourist,
but I was right to do this.
My intuitions were correct.
So these tattoos, tiny little ones,
but they're enormously effective for me in thinking,
imaginatively thinking with my hands
and impregnating how I see and I'm seen
and how I hang in the world.
That's very strong.
Yeah, well, we all have strong imaginations.
Yeah, because we often use seeing and vision.
We think of, I mean, there's this kind of eye,
this focus on the eyes in terms of like,
because it can seem like that's our main source
of sensory data, because we forget
the whole body's doing the seeing, I guess.
But it gets confusing when we talk about seeing and vision.
I think you're entangling that a little bit in your videos,
but I haven't watched them all yet,
but that's interesting to think about it like that.
And you have this reminder in the middle of your hands
and your palms, which are such a, yeah.
There's a confusion between these two.
Yeah, exactly.
We actually have two eyeballs,
which don't make sense of our integrated seeing as a whole.
I know the neuroscientists tried to bind together
the two streams and so on.
But there's a confusion here,
because the capital letter I,
that is the assertion of oneself as an independent entity,
is just as much a problem as the consideration
that one is a detached observer of the world.
They're confused.
There's lots of issues that hang around our symbolism
and our language that are not well represented in print.
It's no accident that those two words are confused
and that they sound the same.
No, that's true.
And that, yeah, the vision means so much
in so many different, what do we say, disciplines,
languages, walks of life, vision quests,
and all of these kinds of things
where you don't have to be able to have two eyes.
But yeah, my friend, I have a good friend,
and she has a son who's probably half my age.
And he's at the age where he's thinking
about philosophy and stuff a lot.
And he's been really into a lot of these people
who say everything is a hallucination.
Yeah, Anil Seth kick it.
Anil Seth, I think there's, yeah, it's Anil Seth,
but it's, it gets picked up all over the place.
Yeah, with other people too.
Yeah, the words controlled hallucination
are sometimes used.
Controlled hallucination.
I think that's more what Anil Seth says, right?
But it gets taken as that reality is a hallucination.
I think if you probably Googled that on YouTube,
there'd be 5,000 videos.
I haven't done that, but in any case,
he's a young teenager going into whatever.
And it bothered me, but I don't know why
it bothered me so much that at that age
where he's an adult going into manhood,
gonna study in school and all the stuff
that he was thinking of everything in life
as a hallucination or something.
And maybe it's just, I mean, when I was that age,
I was probably reading all kinds of crazy existential stuff
that was not that far away from that.
But why does it bother me so much?
And also having studied neuroscience,
and like you've said, there's something to it.
It's not that we're hallucinating.
I think that's what bothered me.
There's a nuance there that is incredibly important.
There's a nuance there that's missing.
You're dead, right?
And I teach now, I say in public,
anal sex should not be doing this.
We should not be exposing people
who are not prepared for it to this kind of language.
It's entirely misleading.
And it could be profoundly unsettling
for someone at the wrong moment.
It also suggests that there's such a thing
as veridical perception in which you're not having,
that you're not real in some sense.
You are perfectly real.
A discussion of cups and tables can come afterwards
and dreams and ambitions.
There's nothing at all wrong with your reality of your life.
Your articulation of it, your engagement with it,
your description of it, those, good luck.
That's what we call poetry and living.
But to go around simply saying without any caution,
your experience is unreal is a profoundly stupid thing to do.
I don't like it.
Yeah, it does get taken as if there is no reality.
You're not real.
Nothing, it's easy to go into nothing matters.
It's all just hallucination anyway.
And I don't think anal sex means that, of course,
but if you don't have all the study from neuroscience
and you're not, I understand why that gets attention
because it's like a matrix, right?
I think you even say that in one of your videos
about time and space or something about,
I understand why that gets our attention
because, and there's even something good
about thinking of that our own perception
and perspective is not complete, like not whole.
We need others to complete that perception,
but it is our body and it is real and there is a real world
and like debating all of these things can become,
I don't know, it just seems dangerous
at this moment in time.
I think it's a very bad message.
And I think it's, I sense a certain glibness
and superiority in the message,
as if the scientists understood the world better
than the person that they're talking to.
Anal sex interestingly is a Buddhist.
Thomas Metzinger talks the same language.
He's also a Buddhist.
A lot of these people who've got over the idea,
who've got over a Christian delusion
of an autonomous self-controlled individual
who've encountered a way of thinking
in which the self is not a stable entity
are all too happy to go out like smarmy ass tech bros
and get a rise out of people by telling them
the wonderful thing that they've realized.
Good for you, Anal Seth.
It took you a lot of studying a lot
and it didn't knock you for a wobbler.
You were prepared for it.
There are things you can find out
that will knock you for a wobbler.
And there are those same things
if encountered under different conditions,
set and setting would be illuminating and helpful.
That's a good way to say it.
It is enlightening.
And I do see the connection to Buddhism.
I don't know if you've studied Buddhism,
probably you have,
but I have definitely done a lot of that sitting
and going into meditation and finding the non-self
and thinking about that, reading it.
Tantra too.
In all the traditions, there is something like this,
but you're right.
There's a discipline and there's time
and there's usually teachers and helpers.
And it's kind of when you're just confronted with it
as if it's science,
as science, that science has found out
that everything is a hallucination,
which again, I don't think either of them is saying that,
but it comes off that way
or that's kind of the sound bite that easily gets attention,
then you're right.
It could be incredibly dangerous and destructive
in the same way that actually meditation can be
for some people, right?
If you experience that moment of non-self
and you're not kind of prepared for it
or in the right moment or with certain drugs
that are used these days for the same thing,
and you need a certain kind of gentle care preparation
for it.
I had a cognitive science student
who was a very experienced meditator
and very deep in the Buddhist world
and she did a thesis on the adverse effects of meditation,
which I very, very rarely talked about.
Yeah, there's quite a lot of it.
I've seen that research.
It can be, yeah.
And there's no one right way to meditate.
The whole, they're just completely misunderstood.
But these days I find myself pushing back against any idea
that there's a Western thought and Eastern thought,
that the traditions have something and then there's science.
Science at its worst is another bloody religion.
Science at its best-
Say that again, science at its worst is a religion.
Is that what you said?
Is another religion, yeah.
That's a strong statement.
At its worst, that's an important point too,
but it might be more like pseudoscience, right?
At its worst.
Ah, no, pseudoscience, hang on.
That's part of the vocabulary here.
Yeah, well, I mean, that's hard for me
to think of science as a religion.
Differentiated means of acquiring competence
in specific domains, we're never tempted to say science is.
You know, we can't talk about science as a truth.
Bad science is better, right?
Bad science, not pseudoscience.
Yeah, or misunderstood science.
Those people who have done the best neuroscience
are profoundly humbled, epistemically humbled,
but their work is turned into a travesty
of self-description, narcissistic projection,
and the illusion is awakened
that these neuroscientists know what's going on.
Know what's going on.
To inquire into things deeply,
especially when it comes to the brain,
is to be ever more ignorant, and that's good.
I don't mean ignorance in a bad sense.
No.
I agree with you, and I mean,
this is about beyond dichotomy.
A lot of the things I try to deal with,
these things really mean a lot to me,
and that's why I push on the words a bit,
because I know different people see it in different ways,
and depending on where you're coming from,
what you think of as science and religion.
I mean, a lot of people could just get turned off
just hearing, but hearing a statement like that,
but there's something about the deeper you go
into trying to learn something,
the more you realize you don't learn, which is right.
Shyvite beads, cutly rosary beads.
What are those?
Those look familiar.
Yeah, there's a rosary beads, and a crucifix,
and shyvite, and waving them over the brain
to keep superstition awake.
We don't like superstition around here.
Thank you.
So you're getting rid of the superstition.
That's good.
Yeah, yeah, I'm Pope, so I can do that.
Do you think of yourself as spiritual,
religious, like scientific?
I mean, do you just not name yourself any kind of adjective?
I definitely don't name myself,
but when this kind of talk comes up,
I tend to open my eyes wide and say,
I am wildly religious, entirely psychotic,
and very happy that way.
I don't label myself as an ism or an ist.
I engage in practices that make it quite clear
that our discourse around experience and consciousness
are miserable, and alert me to the fact
that there's so many rumors,
mainly from the interaction among the various
dharmic schools, that you can't ignore
that we have potential.
The potential for human experience is vast.
Whether the word human is correct there is difficult word,
because all words come from somewhere,
and we're in the humanist sphere here.
You can't get rid of that word without causing anxiety.
But if you define it or class it,
put category boundaries around it,
you'll get in trouble.
Yeah, I'm an ecstatic.
And if you've never swallowed the cosmos whole,
you haven't lived.
As William Blake would have said.
I love William Blake so much.
And that also gets to this whole getting past
kind of dichotomous thinking or.
And the hallucination question is particularly troubling
because it suggests there's a correct way
to perceive the world.
Yeah, it does both at the same time.
It suggests there's a correct way
and suggests you don't actually have an access.
Correctly and you don't have it.
Recognizing that the cosmos, the manifestation
is far bigger than you could ever comprehend.
And yet you're in it.
And yet you're in it.
You're allowed to partake in this.
But you're not allowed to dictate its form
and you're not swallowing it whole
and you won't exhaust it with representation.
Well, what's so wonderful about all of these things
that we're talking about.
Because, I mean, we're talking about these
almost like they're trouble,
but of course you're also saying you're wildly ecstatic.
And I've also, I mean, this is like the motivation
for a lot of beautiful art and connection and life,
all these things we're talking about.
And there's a reason for that.
And there's something to all this
because actually we don't see and perceive everything
that is there because we can't handle it.
But there are different states
or different connections you can make
or different ways of learning
or just different conversations.
I mean, there's all kinds of ways you start to get a glimpse
of what more there is.
But to do that and not discount what is,
to hold the space where everything is a little bit,
like you can never, nothing is ever static
and nothing is ever exactly as you perceive it.
And yet your perception is very much real
and worthy and there, and there's a real world.
It's hard to talk about both.
Everything you've said would come as,
would be so pedestrian and obvious
to anyone with the slightest artistic or poetic sensibility.
It's only people who get trapped
by a particular kind of positivist academic
explaining discourse that begin to have doubts about that.
No person in their rational mind
and their wellbeing, if they're doing well,
would even begin to suggest that there's a correct way
to perceive the world.
I'm not sure about that, friend.
I think a lot of people fight about that
in political situations,
that's what the fight is about.
But we're fighting.
Yeah.
And we have opinions.
But people think they see the world the right way
and there's one way to see it that's right.
I mean, I don't-
They talk that way.
They might not really believe that,
but they'll definitely make a lot of,
they'll fight about it.
But they're not talking about the kind of things
that cognitive science
and a much narrower framework are talking about.
No, no, no.
The world or perceive-
But it's connected.
Well, unfortunately, yeah, they're connected
and I don't know how to deal with that.
Disentangle at all.
Yeah.
Also in science,
when you come at it with the science hat or,
when you're doing science,
you are engaging in a particular activity that to be,
to achieve its aim,
we can talk about whether those aims are right or whatever,
but you do have a process, the method,
and you do need to test things over and over
and you do need a lot of,
and that does lend itself in a bit
to bracketing some of the experiences
that can't easily fit into that, I guess you would say.
It doesn't mean you don't still believe in them, but-
I'm gonna pull you up on that.
Now I've done a bit of science.
And some of the science-
Yeah, you're a cognitive scientist.
I'm self-advertising.
But some of the science I've done has been very much
what you suggested and it has been
in the interest of stabilizing observations,
observing correctly,
observing in a way that can inform discussion
and required, like I stared for six months at blinks,
I just did nothing but annotate blinks for six months.
Some of the science I've done has been done
by being ignorant and going out in the world
and drowning in it.
I've studied the world to learn from the world,
not to dictate it or to master it or to conquer it,
but to be open to it.
So I'm doing science when I'm walking along
the beach whistling a tune.
I'm doing science when I'm out of my brain,
ecstatic in my temple.
I am doing science because I'm inquiring into things
in the most general way.
Some of what that involves
is a kind of methodological rigor,
but people have this idea of science
as if it was a single skill or a single art
or as if randomized controlled trials or experiments even
were the hallmark of science.
They're not.
Experiments are a madness of science.
Randomized controlled trials are a particular way
of going in agriculture and perhaps medicine.
Science is looking into things.
It's gotta be much bigger than all that.
I'm afraid it's our inquiry,
but there's no scientific method
and it doesn't necessarily mean the epistemic virtue
of not interfering with your data,
making sure everything's completely controlled
and the spreadsheets are in order.
That's useful for some kinds of work.
Yeah, it's not the only virtue.
No, but these are different ways.
So do you think of your work as phenomenological
kind of science or qualitative or quantitative?
I know you wouldn't wanna use any of these labels
for people who aren't in the aesthetic
in the way that you are.
And we try to bridge all of these things.
How did you get to this kind of spot?
Because what you just described,
what does work when you have,
it depends where you've set your parameters
and what landscape you're kind of trying to assess, right?
But if you're doing something like trying to understand
a particular kind of brain disorder
via some particular kind of chemical
or something like that, that's a different process too.
So maybe you could help me understand
how you got to where you got.
And if you think none of these,
there's no difference between third person, first person,
science, phenomenology, I don't know, all these words,
qualitative, quantitative, how do you see all that?
I'm very reluctant to cast any autobiographical shadow
over this discussion,
mainly because my autobiographies are relevant
and I just had a particular set of experiences.
And so I don't,
I'm not in a position to tell anyone else
how to address a question,
but talking together is a good way of unpacking some things.
You spoke of a first person and a third person perspective.
Right now we're in the vocative.
We're always in the vocative.
All life is lived in the vocative,
both first and third person accounts
are optical metaphors that are slightly stretched too far
and ignore darshan, this relationality in our being.
I don't like the, well,
I mean, phenomenology has been very important.
I learned from Husserl and, you know,
I learned from all these guys,
Melaponte and loads more besides.
I don't like reading them though.
And one reason I've backed out a little bit,
and this is nobody else's problem but mine,
is I have reached the limits
when it comes to describing experience
as if experience and consciousness
or living in the now could be equated.
Have you met the blind spot, the book, The Blind Spot?
Can you say more?
Isn't there a couple of books called The Blind Spot?
Oh, no, no, I haven't.
Yeah, that's the one I've seen of the, yeah.
Evan Thompson with two physicists.
What they do is they correctly position theoretical physics
with its plane as the queen of some kind of sciences
and with a particular kind of grasp on reality.
And they point to what they call the blind spot,
which is experience,
which is the grounding for all investigation,
including that of physicists.
Now, that's a very good way to approach this question.
It doesn't assume that you can simply leave,
it doesn't disrespect physics,
but it says, if you like,
physics provides us with one view
of non-negotiable conditions of being,
and that leaves everything still to play for
because it hasn't touched experience.
The physicalism can become a religion.
So I love this book.
I'm reacting to it in my videos as well.
I think it's a really good way to do it
because what it does is the sciences are balkanized.
They split, fractured, and developed
all these separate disciplines,
became involved with technology,
stupidly became involved with technology
so that now you can call yourself a science
if all you're doing is engineering, frankly,
if you're just making doodads or making bombs,
you're still a scientist.
Science fractured like this.
So it's not any kind of an arena of truth,
but by getting each of those domains
has competence in the domain under certain assumptions
that certain terms are just taken for granted,
and that certain methods are treated as valid.
So each domain is sociologically constructed,
historically constructed, and limited.
By eliminating all of those
and leaving just theoretical physics
and embodied cognitive science,
we have a wonderful confrontation,
which I think we can all explore.
I think Evan Thompson has done us a solid.
He's come out with another banger of a book,
but I don't know if anyone's gonna listen to it.
I'm really, really, really pleased with his talk.
Well, he's wonderful at holding the paradox
in exactly the way I think about why I'm not a Buddhist.
But also when I think of mind and life
and a lot in that book,
closer to Varela and thinking about phenomenology
and thinking about how do we do science
from the first person in a way that you kind of described,
I mean, there's still kind of these distinctions,
but I think the thing is they're never real,
the distinctions, but they have,
I don't know that I agree with you that we've now,
first of all, I don't know that I agree
that I would say engineers aren't doing science.
Some of them definitely are,
and there's no one person that fits as just an engineer.
It all depends on what you're doing.
But also when we look back to where philosophy
and science began, all the stuff was very mixed up.
So we do make distinctions
in order to kind of understand these things,
but I'm not sure there ever are actually really
these fine line distinctions.
But what seems to me that's happened
is we've gotten confused about those distinctions
and those models and those third person things
and these words that we're talking about
as if that's the truth rather than
that there isn't actually ever a way
to really distill anything that's dynamic in the process.
We seem to have lost that somehow.
Yeah, and if you look at the work of actual scientists
doing actual scientific work,
it doesn't fit any of what we're talking about
because it's messy and it combines qualitative
and quantitative and it draws on everything it can.
Absolutely, and their own backgrounds often.
It's got thinking in there and it's got politics in there
and it's got funding in there
and it's got education in there.
Yeah, it's all in there.
Real scientists do this messy business.
Cognitive science is a joke,
but my brother's a soil scientist.
Oh, soil, S-O-I-L.
Yeah, soil.
Now there you've got chemistry and physics and agriculture
and archeology and cultural studies and climate.
You've got-
Yeah, yeah, such a convergence.
Finger in all those pies.
That's what science is really like.
It's a bunch of tools that we use in the domain
to get some competence in.
Yeah, I agree.
So are you pushing back a little on that?
Because you have a lot of experience in cognitive science.
You've done a lot of things.
You've come up with kind of new ideas in cognitive science,
but you also talk about it as if it's kind of not worthy
of being called what it is.
So is it because like when you're talking
about the technology and engineering,
do you mean more like,
okay, you can think about computation as the brain
and then you can kind of study that
and that somehow is like too abstracted in some way
that bothers you or what is it?
Like where-
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I mean, if you go back to the 19th century
when science suddenly started producing results
for the consumer and for industry
and started contributing to the industrialization process,
as it goes on today with every new Apple release,
but scientists are busy developing bombs
and scientists are busy.
Science doesn't distinguish
between technological development, ethical progress,
boons and curses for mankind.
Science is not a kind of an oracle
that can make those distinctions.
But you're saying that's what annoys you?
Because like I think of all the examples
from the Second World War
where scientists were sort of supposedly sort of co-opted
to help one side or the other try to win the war.
And also now you have consultants, right?
Scientists are like consultants for companies
and that's gotten very blurry with all the things.
Yeah, so is that what you mean?
That kind of, that there's, yeah.
Again, there's no-
Is it a moral, ethical, value-based
kind of thing, bother, concern?
Well, in my university, for example,
there's a kind of an ideology
which informs all public pronouncements.
And the Irish government rose in as well.
It sees a particular virtuous sphere of activity
which it called STEM,
which means science, technology, engineering,
and mathematics.
Now there's not a single human value in there.
I consider that morally bankrupt.
And I teach in my university that STEM is morally bankrupt,
that if you do this without connection to human values,
you are just as capable of producing an atomic bomb
as a vaccine and STEM is bankrupt.
But that's, I live in a world
that's totally informed by STEM.
I mean, what you gonna do?
You can at least-
Yes, I mean, your job is sort of informed by that.
So it's weird because when you say that,
I push, just yesterday, I can't even,
I was talking to some women about STEM.
There's these, always you hear about
how women don't go into STEM
and someone was kind of pushing back on that.
50% of women went into STEM or STEM was 50% women, yeah.
That would be better, is that what you said?
No, that's not what I'm saying.
Oh, no, I didn't hear what you said.
I was trying to hear what you said.
But it is confusing because those,
like there's a reason why those sort of scientists
are respected.
I'm not saying it's a good reason or a bad reason
or anything, but there's,
the world has become this kind of STEM world
in terms of what, on all these different levels,
in terms of the people we respect
and kind of hold up as icons in a way.
And then also in terms of what we spend our money on
or in terms of who we think
is gonna solve the climate problem or, you know.
If you look at what Einstein wrote,
Einstein was not a STEM researcher.
Einstein was very clear where ethics and human values lay.
But people think he's a STEM researcher today.
So that's the confusion.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, the thing is STEM is an ideology
that drives the economy.
It's of great economic value.
And that generates an enormous political power.
It's no accident that the first departments to get called
when the economic policy is not going too well
are those which just deal in human values.
I'm not gonna sing the songs of every researcher
in every squirrely little humanist department.
Some of them are, I'm sure they're looking at the crazy shit.
So are some of the scientists.
But you see what I mean?
The blind spot complains about the absence
of human experience in the results delivered by physics.
It's forgotten that it came from human experience.
So that's the blind spot,
what you just described in a way.
It's kind of pervasive.
Yeah, it's funny too,
because when you hear stories of Einstein
or when people are talking about him,
it's almost always for those human or values
or something that he said that resonates with you
as if in the same way art resonates.
When he gets into the weeds with Bergson,
you see he wasn't even very good at it.
Like Bergson was better than him at it.
The time-space stuff, yeah.
But I even mean, just when you hear him quoted,
it's often spiritual or inspiring quotes from him.
It's not only that he did give us a kind of language
for understanding the world differently
with your mathematics, which he did too.
He hangs up on posters in Geralt's rooms,
for God's sake, for his tongue.
Yeah, no, that's what I mean.
It's a very much not a, it's a very lived, alive,
artful connection that people have with him,
even if it's just an assumption or something like that.
But I think it does become kind of the poster
for why you might want your kids to go into STEM,
because it's respected and that's where the future is.
It's very interesting to me
that the Einstein-Bergson debate,
which raged for more than 10 years,
forms a very central part of the argument in the blind spot.
And it's always been central for me as well.
And I'm speaking about it a little bit
in my videos now as well.
I don't think the page is dead.
Precisely because the Dure is mixed up
with the idea of lived experiences,
mixed up with this crazy idea.
Who came up with this?
Of the present.
Yeah, right.
Well, that makes me think of what you talk about
with Von Uxgel too, and the continuous and the discreet
and these kinds of confusions.
It's similar.
I think, isn't it just hard to understand?
Isn't that again, a way in which we want it
to be one way or the other rather than holding the space
for it to be assessed as one way or the other
rather than ever be one way or the other?
I don't know what we want,
but I do know that the manner in which we talk
is all mixed up with the ideas we have about,
among other things, time and space.
Oh yeah.
And those ideas don't belong only to physicists,
they belong to embodied beings.
Physicists have no notion of now,
there's no now in physics whatsoever.
And space and time have a particular characteristic
in relativity theory.
Don't ask me about quantum theory,
I know nothing about it.
Or an embodied being, time and space are qualities,
they're different and they're centered in the body
and in presentism.
And there's no way we can,
there's no easy way to solve this,
but it is possible to recognize how
two hasty assumptions that we know
what the temporalities and spatialities are
that we're talking about.
If we're not aware of the difficulties
in talking about time and space that concern us,
then we tend just to flatten the world
into a representation again,
because in a representation of the world,
you don't have these problems.
That's a snapshot or a picture or a diagram.
Yeah.
But we think the representation is the process.
Like we don't make the distinctions so much.
They'll keep a map all the time.
That's our specialty, that's what we do best.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's what we,
I really like that Thompson wrote it with physicists,
for example, instead of,
so that already helps to get into that interstitial,
processual place of,
we're not ever gonna just say it's one way or the other.
This is us trying to figure it out.
And it had been Evan Thompson, they did a good job.
First of all, they have respective competences,
and the competent person wrote each chapter.
So they will actually enumerate all the current
interpretations of the dual-slit experiments
and the relationship between relativity
and quantum physics, for example.
And I couldn't be arsed doing that,
because for me, that's a problem physicists have.
But he's got physicists,
and he writes the phenomenological
and cognition chapters, which is very good.
That's wonderful.
It reminds me of what you were saying too,
about the embodied.
There's something connected in all this,
with what we were talking about,
with the hallucination in a way too,
and this time and space that it's,
I think there's a quote you,
I've heard you say a few times about,
when there's no body, there's no time.
Is that von Ockel too, maybe?
But-
Oh, I think I say time arises
in the interaction of the living.
That's my point of view.
So again, it's-
It's in the interaction of the living.
Yeah, and that doesn't have a single scale.
Yeah, yeah, so-
It's not integrable.
When I was writing my master
about the hippocampus and space and time in that way,
I did really deep dives into all the things
with Einstein and Bergson, for example,
but also all the many,
there's a lot of debates about space and time
over the years.
And it began to seem to me,
and I can't remember the man's name right now,
which I need to look back,
but there was one scholar who had kind of suggested this,
and then I sort of went with it,
but those are all confusions in the same way
that what you were talking about with representation,
that the lived-ness of the process of space and time
wouldn't even necessarily need to be called space and time.
But if you're gonna need that third space,
that system three, I might call it,
that representational space, which is very important
because it's how we share things, connect, communicate,
and so on, then you have to assess it
from a certain point of view
that needs to be called something like space
or something like time.
But it's so hard to think about that
and not, okay, it must be absolute,
or it must be relative, or it must be discrete,
or it must be continuous.
Depending on what you're trying to figure out,
it might be better to think of it in all those ways.
Recall the way that the fabric of world history
was altered when you pushed the record button?
Yeah.
There's now a trace of this conversation,
which otherwise was ephemeral.
It's pretty much the same conversation,
and it's still having effects,
but some of them are part of that form
of the representational, they're capturable.
That doesn't mean that it's...
Yeah, that's an important representation.
I would say it's not, it wasn't ephemeral, though.
It just would have been less,
it would have been between you and I,
because we're already using representations to talk.
So we would have both had traces of this in our own life,
and it would change,
but now it's kind of putting it out there in a different way.
But yes, I see your point, it's right.
Now it's represented in a third system space
that is different.
And that changes space and time in a weird way.
It doesn't actually, you just click the button
and there's a recording, which maybe you'll look at it,
maybe someone will look at it,
maybe they won't look at it.
The world carries on in this orbit,
and nothing giant happens when you click that button.
But the way that we talk about this conversation
is some part of it are in some sense represented,
or inscribed, inscribed,
and those inscriptions can be read.
I think I'm coming around to the idea that we leave traces,
we inscribe in a very general sense,
possibly even in the sense in which genes and proteins
and so on are talked about,
and that the imminence of the past and the present
has to be a function of those traces of all kinds,
and I don't mean just physical traces.
Well, I think of them as ways.
They're ways we make, not only ways that are ours,
that we take.
Bergson and these guys made a wonderful point
that the topic of memory belongs to the durée
and not to the representations,
and that for me is wonderful
because I've never known how to come with the topic of memory
because memory is caught up in your own idea of who you are,
what your autobiography is,
what kind of film reel you think you have going in your head,
and God knows what,
a totally insufficient way of describing the manner
in which the past is imminent and the present.
So consigning it to the durée means now
if someone asks me about memory,
I'll just say, well, what's your philosophy of time?
What are we talking about?
Yeah.
I mean, you can't take...
The weird thing with memory,
I mean, I've written about this a lot and studied it a lot too,
is that there's all kinds of memory that is studied,
and all those words are inadequate at the same time,
but it's not dissimilar from the way we try to understand,
the way we try to communicate in a representational space
about something like space and time.
Memory, it's just that we've tagged the representations to it usually,
so that either there's some...
In our human way, there's memory that isn't tagged to representations,
but we've tagged it to images, we've tagged it to words,
so it feels to us like this very different experience
when we're thinking of something like episodic memory for humans,
that it feels special,
but the process itself is not that much different
from all the other development that the body goes through.
It's just that because we have this incredibly pronounced
representational space, and by that I mean the shared space
of something like language and something like visuals
in all the many different ways that that comes,
then we are also constantly kind of taking that back in,
and it becomes part of our own patterning.
So when we turn our attention to our own patterns,
it feels very special because we feel like we're doing something
like what we do at night when we dream, and we are,
but it's not much different from what we do
to be able to walk across the street,
and remember how to get to the refrigerator
and move our bodies in certain ways and stuff like that.
It's just now we have these tags of images and words to it,
and yeah, that's not the memory, that's not the time,
that's not the space, but that's how we communicate about it.
In our language, we're forced to construct simpler pictures
because only fairly simple pictures can be communicated.
You're familiar, I presume, with the Extended Mind paper,
Thomas and Clark, and you remember Otto and Anna,
and the way, it was a very good example to use
because the Extended Mind thesis was suggesting to people
that your mind can leak out of the head.
In my experience, it's terribly troubling
for people with a psychological training
and not so for those who don't
because I'm not so sure about the mind thing anyway,
and you remember Otto and Anna and the way the memory worked.
The notebook and all this, yeah.
Well, as it happened yesterday,
I was going to the Museum of Modern Art myself.
In New York?
No, not in New York, in Portland.
Oh, okay.
I was like, wow, that was a quick trip.
And I was driving up the motorway on my way there,
and I realized, oh, this is Otto and Anna.
I wonder how I'd know where to get
to the Museum of Modern Art,
and I realized I didn't have a goddamn clue.
I was confident that I could get there,
but I couldn't actually remember the way.
I just knew I'd get there,
but it was troubling me all the way up.
So on my way, I stopped off at my brother's.
I was going to meet my brother there.
I thought he wouldn't have left,
so I went in, because he would know the way.
And he had already gone up to the museum,
so I met his wife who gave me directions
that just made my head spin.
And so all I did was get back in the car
and carry on confidently,
and I got there in no trouble, as I knew I would.
And it turns out that as much,
like I'm Anna in this story,
but it's not that much too simple a story about Anna there.
Exactly, that's a bit of what I was trying to say.
There's these nestedness,
you have a whole lot of memory
before you ever have language or image tagged to it.
And most of the body's memory doesn't,
I think of it as ecological memory,
or there's all kind of,
and I don't mean that in the way most people say ecological,
but I mean, memory is not,
most of it is not tagged to language or image
in this kind of auto sense where auto,
I mean, he was writing in his notebook
kind of how to get places,
or people can think of it as signs that show you kind of,
I mean, I'm thinking of the Museum of Modern Art,
or you need to go to the 53rd street in New York
or whatever, like that's a kind of memory
that's at a particular nested scale
of this representational way that,
or when you write it in your notebook.
And the point of that paper that's most important
is that if you don't have that certain,
you're actually debilitating what we think of as mind
or mental stuff for certain people.
And so it's very important
that there's kind of access to that.
There's a whole lot of other stuff in that paper,
but for me, that feels important.
But, you know, your body has that without,
you know, your body remembers.
We all know that.
You're a Hegel scholar.
You know that there's no one way to talk of memory
or imminence or past or history.
Or anything, yeah.
And we can do so in, we have to,
in order to talk sense at all,
we have to constrain this discourse somehow.
So memory, I'm particularly uncomfortable with memory
precisely because it's so caught up
in these questions of time and imminence.
And so I can't discuss memory in the abstract.
I can, you know, episodic memory, yeah, that's useful.
Yes, yes.
In cognitive science,
we're always tasked with these two things.
On the one hand, people are drawn to cognitive science
because they want to know about themselves
and how they work and what it is to be alive
and what's experienced.
But the discussion inevitably comes down to
how do we do this?
How do we achieve the daily goals?
How do we meet our plans?
How do we not fall down?
Are we in cognitive decline or ascent?
Are we cognitively failing or succeeding?
And so cognitive science becomes behavioral science.
And there's every reason for behavioral science
as long as you don't confuse it
with the spiritual end of things.
That is the, what are the existential end of things,
the being alive bit.
But chalk of cognition just gets derailed quickly
into this practical moment.
Yeah, but Brian, I wasn't being abstract at all.
I was being very like,
I mean, there's semantic and episodic memory.
That's just titles we've given to certain things,
but they're real, you can study them.
And that's not abstract.
And I don't think it's abstract that
we're born into the world and we remember,
I mean, that the body aligns with what it's moving through
and that that's also a kind of memory.
I mean, it's also a studied kind of memory.
So like riding a bike or, you know, all these different,
like that doesn't feel abstract to me.
So I'm not sure, like, what do you mean by I can't,
you can't talk about memory in the abstract?
Because there's vastly more of the past imminent to me now.
Indeed, the entire past is imminent.
And talk of memory is already an apportioning
of some parts of that to my own personal narrative,
my own beliefs about what I did or did not do in the past.
Why, how, it just gets captured
by the psychological autobiography, that's all.
But we share patterns and within,
we each have our own psychological biography
or not only psychological, our own development
in all these different ways,
conceptual, psychology, geographic.
I don't know, I don't have a psychological,
I'm trying very hard to treat psychology as soul science,
as nothing other than an interpretive modality
and not as any kind of science.
Most people do have fairly fixed stories
of who they are and where they're going.
And as that happens, let's say you're getting older,
for example, you don't want to be living a life
in which, oh shit, I peaked in my 20s.
What's the point of even being alive now?
I'm a little older than you, I'm 62 yesterday.
Oh, happy birthday.
Never felt so alive.
That's wonderful.
Never felt less worried about death.
I was much more worried about death
when I was 20 than I am at 62, I assure you.
Oh really?
That's fascinating.
And that's connected to letting go of those narratives
that, by the way, I don't think any,
there's a difference between those narratives
of a certain age or number being some kind of a marker
for some kind of a whatever in life
versus kind of you have from the moment you were born
until now had a particular development
and that is your development, even if you don't,
whatever you remember or don't remember,
whatever stories you put on it.
But it's beautiful that you don't worry about death.
I mean, I don't either, but I did too.
I remember when I turned 25, I felt like my life was,
I had just like, I couldn't believe I was 25.
Like I just wasted my life or something.
It's strange how experience changes that.
You see, I mentioned the term integration.
So there's two basic mathematical terms,
differentiation and integration.
Differentiation is creative
and things arise through differentiation.
This is a bit Buddhist, I suppose, in this approach.
When we tell stories-
Also Hegelian a bit.
Integrate to some over things as if there was a part,
whereas I'm always new and my becoming is always new.
And to tell a story of personal achievement,
did you get where you wanted to go in life
and blah, blah, blah, blah,
is to integrate over a tiny little thing.
Whereas I'm talking to Andrea today.
I'm so much bigger and better than I was yesterday
because I've talked to Andrea.
It's not knitted into a big personal discussion,
autobiography, except you get a footnote on page 47 in June.
But it's perfectly true.
The use of personal pronouns is tricky.
The Buddhists are not very fond
of being too fond of this guy.
I'm trying to be with them a little bit, I suppose, yeah.
Yeah, it's, again, that we need to use language
in these representations to meet,
but we don't, I mean, if we were together,
we could just sit in the room and communicate,
but especially through a medium like this,
it helps us to communicate.
But to use that in a beautiful way
and almost like a song or a dance
to let it kind of change the space
or help us change the space together is beautiful.
But to confuse that with the actual process of the body
and so on, it's kind of at the root
of a lot of that fear, probably,
that I felt when I was 25 or that you felt.
Because something in you knows
that you're not confined to that,
and yet you also feel like you need to live up to it
or understand it or own it or, I don't know.
It's that linearity too,
and that either-or stuff that bothers me so much.
Physics gives us a straight line of time,
which is an idealization, a construct.
Time is not of that nature.
I mean, physics has to work so bloody hard
to even find out what direction time goes in,
and all they could come up with is things fall apart.
I like to think that the trace we're leaving now
with this conversation is contributing to time
in that someone might encounter it and be moved by it,
and that would have an effect.
Now, we didn't, the pre-record bit was ephemeral
in the fact that in the way that you and I
may be changed by it,
it's not gonna change anyone else.
But by making the recording we're inscribing
or leaving a trace,
that could potentially affect someone.
And that doesn't work with a linear notion of time.
No, it doesn't.
And I agree with you also, however,
I think even if we hadn't recorded it,
I'm glad we do record these.
We just come on and talk and that's wonderful.
But you might say something, and I'm sure it's happened,
that you say something to me
that shifts a little bit the way I am
and the way I communicate.
And I go to the grocery store
and somehow that's kind of changed something
that I say that then someone else picks up on
and it changes them.
So I don't think we ever get out of that,
but it's just that it's beautiful
that we can have moments where we give,
like give it to time and space and people,
because they'll all be coming from different places.
The now for them and whatever they hear from this
will be based on all their development.
So it's just like a release or a surrender.
And it's also kind of a,
without not still being responsible for what we say.
Do you think of teaching like that?
You're a teacher.
Yeah, yeah, I'm a teacher.
But I just want to say,
for people who haven't seen your videos,
like you're really good at explaining things.
So if you want to know something like,
what is ecological psychology?
Or if you want to think about cognitive science ideas,
then have a look at Fred's videos,
because he's good at explaining.
Thank you, but I can also confuse people very easily,
precisely because I consider the questions
from such a rather-
So many angles?
So many angles, yes, without answers.
And I favor epistemic humility over explanation.
My teaching has changed.
I improvise now, I talk.
And I have at least two whole modules that are just,
let's talk about some stuff.
And I'll say, you read this and you read that,
or look up that or something like that.
Do you have Googling or whatever?
We're just going to talk about it in class.
And for me, that's been liberating.
I think the pandemic helped me recognize that as well.
How so?
Because you had a different form of that?
Because the personal interaction was gone.
And I realized we didn't know,
the first thing about what we were talking about
when we started talking about the intimate chat
in the classroom was face-to-face,
which it most definitely isn't.
And we failed to notice that the Zoom chat is face-to-face.
To my horror, above your head,
there's a little face there
that people would apportion to me.
I assure you, I have no knowledge of that face,
as you have no knowledge of your face now,
unless you look in the little window above me.
On your screen, you mean?
Yeah.
Yeah, but it goes back to what we were talking about
at the beginning about how there is a responsibility,
because you're introducing people to new ideas
and that process comes with a kind of pace
and responsibility that can be dangerous
if it's done the wrong way,
as we were talking about at the beginning.
I had one student in the last semester
who was taking my introduction
to cognitive science course for undergraduates,
so it's an elective
and students from all over the university can take it.
And she was loving it,
but she was also taking a course
in cognitive neuroscience
and a course in mindfulness training as well.
Nothing she met across those three courses and lined up.
I'm there teaching about the metaphoric role
of the computer in the historical development
and over in the neuroscience class,
they're saying, your brain's a computer.
That's what we know.
I'm there trying to speak carefully
in a modulated fashion about what we can learn
from traditions that we are ignorant of,
that are quite culturally remote.
And she's over there
in this full-on capitalist mindfulness thing,
which is just training you to shut up
and be a good employee using Buddhism as an excuse.
The tensions of being a student in the present world
is not just if you come to my class,
but they become very obvious if you come to my class.
I think it can be so overwhelming.
I do remember feeling like that too
when I was in my early student years,
but that there's so much information
and you do start to feel like you need to kind of latch
onto some, I don't know, some kind of grounding.
I think it's what we look to
what we might call spirituality or religion,
or even sometimes different philosophies or literature
are like for that kind of release
from needing everything to fit in a particular way
while at the same time being part of some kind of community
that we feel like we can trust
because I think it's so confusing.
It's confusing for me to be honest, to figure out,
because a lot of times in these different realms
that you just described, I'm in them too,
and I know you are too, right?
When you're doing mindfulness
or you're talking to computer scientists,
or you're dealing with technology,
or you're studying philosophy,
everyone's got a different language
and they're coming at it in a different way.
And you can figure out your way in
to where you're talking about the same thing,
maybe using different words than you would in another one,
but it can also just get kind of overwhelming
to where it can seem like there is nothing
that you're really talking about or something.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've got very picky about talking and writing.
My preferred mode of publication now
is me talking to a camera uninterrupted.
Just me talking. I think you're ahead of your time
in that way.
I think it's gonna become more.
I've heard people now do papers like that,
like spoken papers because it's somehow.
Yeah.
Or even a PhD that's spoken.
That's actually like a thing you can do
in some universities now.
Yeah. That's good.
I always think whenever I think society's gone mad
and everyone's gone mad,
and I realize everyone else actually
has the same problem.
Yeah, that's the funny thing.
We're all-
If I'm uneasy about something,
lots of people are uneasy about that something,
but they don't necessarily know what to do
with that unease.
Well, I think you're opening spaces
for people to understand that it's okay to fill it
and you don't need to have the answers.
But at the same time, you are a teacher
and you are taking responsibility for what you put out.
I mean, none of us can do it all perfectly and stuff,
but I think that's why maybe you say
you do present a lot of different perspectives
because you're so aware of exactly the kind of,
the tipping point we're in right now,
which is one of having access
to so many different perspectives,
but still not sure how to understand
how to release our own eye
and the eye-eye that you were holding up.
Use the eye when we need to,
but also surrender and release that eye
and understand it's multi-scale, multi-variable,
but it's meaningful, it's cohesive, it's coherent,
all of that at the same time.
Such epistemological puzzles, existential puzzles,
I can think my way into them.
I don't know what other people are going through though.
I don't know what my students are going through
and I don't know what's good for my students
and I don't know what I should be teaching them.
I no longer believe that if they're blessed
with this paper, this paper, and this paper,
they'll be better off.
Some of them these days don't come to class,
a lot of them don't come to class.
Students are becoming much more independent
and making up their own mind.
They've developed a healthy distrust
of the institutions themselves.
They encounter a world in which housing and jobs
are no longer simply straightforward parts
of the human world, but are so obviously
part of the political social apparatus of power.
We have an enormous crisis here, both with migrancy,
which is only gonna get, I mean,
just a drop in the ocean, and housing.
And I was not aware of that when I was the age
of my students are now.
So I respect their choices and they choose to engage with
and so I just kind of say, well, you can come talk to me.
I think the answer is in some kind of conversation
and sharing and something like the fact
that we can do this now more easily
on these kinds of spaces.
I try to see that as a positive movement
towards a different kind of,
towards what we used to do with papers, writing papers,
but that has now become, like that is just kind of,
at least for now, it's not doing that in the same way.
Of course, we still share information,
papers are important in that,
but when you talk to scientists and a lot of people
who are in that where you have to publish
and it has to be in this sort of thing,
there's something a little bit,
it's not doing what we are talking about here,
but maybe just conversation and videos are.
Yeah, I mean, there's no accident
that this is the second podcast I'm doing today.
Papers, I lost faith in scientific publication
over the space of a couple of years
and I moved from one journal, which was very central,
it was journal of phonetics, normal journal,
good linguistics journal, to an outsider journal,
but still an Elsevier journal, Language Sciences,
which took wild ideas, but it was still in the publishing
and after three years there, I had to say, I'm sorry,
I can't do this anymore.
I don't, that's not a good way of doing things.
If you call science this peer review
and professional publication thing,
then I want no part of it.
I'm certainly not gonna adjudicate
other people's battles on there,
but people also tell themselves stories
which may or may not match reality.
So everyone's told that there's a publish or perish thing
and you have to get citations and so on.
Just for my part, no one's ever asked me once
about my citations.
Okay, I did the promotion thing up to a certain level
and I'm never doing that again,
so I don't have to sell myself.
If I had to sell myself citations or something like that
would be what I would talking about,
but not having to do that, I don't experience that
and then with that, I realize I'm free to say,
no, I'm not a peer reviewer for a random shite
about things I'm not qualified to talk about.
Like I got asked to review a paper
where some Chinese people had a beef with Saussure
because they just discovered Saussure
and he was very European, wasn't he?
And I'm like, let them have it out.
Who am I to adjudicate a fight between Saussure and China?
And they were drawn to Derryvon and not a Derryvon scholar.
But you have a certain kind of like a humble clarity
or being comfortable with who you are,
which I don't mean, yeah, that's all stuff
that probably took you time to learn and become.
It did.
And you did have a lot of success and you know.
To be confident is a great boon, that's true.
But I do think you're right in a way that like,
well, I mean, it just makes me think
a lot of the younger people I know or I encounter
mostly they're really, really interested in education
and they're getting that education through podcasts,
through videos, through books,
not necessarily through university.
You mean they're finding stuff that attracts them.
You see, education is sometimes a means.
What they think of as an education.
Social order places that stamp upon the person.
That's why we had well-developed school curricula
and you had to learn these poems and not those poems
and you had to chant your tables.
Society imprints on its young people with education.
I have a grave problem with that
because you gotta understand the social order is also,
what's this society?
What is this social order?
But in my work on joint speech,
myself and Luciana Longo,
we uncovered that just by empirically looking
at where this joint speech goes on,
there was so much to see and there's a whole world
of ritual and protest and a group affiliations,
but there's primary education.
And then when we did that,
we stopped looking at it from a sociological point of view
and just ask, where's the chanting, right?
And it's in the maths tables
and everyone learns the maths tables by chanting
and I did and you did and kids all over the world do
if they're in our kind of school system.
And we broadened it to other kinds of school systems
and we found Quranic chanting in the madrasas.
And we realized that in both cases,
the sacred values of the ambient society
were being instilled in the children through repetition
in neither case with any attention given
to whether they understood or were capable
of interpreting what they were doing,
they merely had to make the right sounds.
That's true for Quranic chanting on maths tables.
And with that, I felt we had found something,
but not something that's within an education
that fits in easy in the view of education.
Can you help me understand what that tells us
about education?
Is it, are you saying there's a communal connection
that's at the root of it or something?
It's very hard to step outside your own cultural bubble
to think from the other side.
I can't do it any more than anyone else can,
but by virtue of recognizing that primary education
is the kind of social construct
that actually does travel outside into worlds I don't know.
I'll still find something called primary education
and lo and behold, I'll find different sacred values
being imprinted in the chanting.
And they're very, very interesting.
Quranic chanting is really interesting and gorgeous.
I know why it's a sacred value.
It is a sacred value.
And I understand, I love it.
I love mathematics and I love Quranic chanting.
And I'm not inside the Islamic sphere
such that I would aspire to chant it myself.
But when you're taught to chant it,
you're taught to make the sounds.
You're not taught to understand the words or the meaning.
That's a biblical approach.
What is it you love about it, Fred?
Is it the communal aspect?
Is it what it does to your body, the experience of it?
I put it on in my temple and I ascend to heaven.
That's what I love about it.
What does that mean?
I know God through it.
Does it change your physical state?
Because numbers too.
You also said you love numbers.
So I'm trying to connect.
Where's the, is it the patterning
that then becomes sort of trend,
leads to a different state of whatever?
If you are capable of being moved by,
you must have gone to some sublime choral music
in your time.
The elevation that you get in the sublimest
of Gregorian chant or Hildegard from Bingen
or one of these wonderful choral chants
is the closest thing I could suggest
to being swept up by the speech, by Quranic recitation.
It's a matter of letting yourself surrender.
Surrender is essential in Islam.
It's a central term and there's no getting
to heaven without surrender.
It's a very important term.
But these are not insights that you can share.
But that's the way joint speech works.
It shows you things that are outside your cultural bubble.
It allows you to see that,
well, that mathematics is a sacred value around here,
for example.
I've often wondered why everyone insists,
now everyone hates maths.
We insist that they learn maths.
Everyone says, I'm no good at maths.
Everyone's scared of that maths.
And then they go out and they just do calculation.
Nobody knows any fucking mathematics.
I've only discovered mathematics
in the last couple of years.
And it's great, let me tell you.
Oh my God, it's nothing like what I learned in school.
Nothing like it at all.
I agree, I love math.
I love, I don't know what it is I love about math though,
except that there is a similar,
that's why I asked you
because I like reading about mathematicians
and I like understanding the way that the things fit together.
It's not that I love sitting down doing math equations
because that's a bit harder for me,
but I love looking at how it fits together
and how it connects to, how we connect through it,
which for me is something similar
to that surrender you're talking about, but it's a presence.
It's not just a kind of giving up surrender
or like I'm gonna drink till I'm numb, surrender.
Not that that is even really a surrender,
but I really think there's some kind of quality
in which your attention is either,
I don't know, you're not aware of yourself
in the way we were talking about with the eye,
but you're aware, it gives you a state of awareness
that isn't bound by previous.
This eye seems to only exist when you say it
and it exists as soon as you say it
and it exists as long as you say it
and even Descartes said that in the second meditation.
He said, je suis, j'existe, as long as I have this thought,
as long as I say it, basically.
And then he goes and cooks an egg and there's no eye left,
except in German.
That's the confusion, right?
That the eye and the self or the eye and the lived,
the ongoing sort of form that is Descartes or that is us.
Those aren't the same thing.
Your particularity, and we use the word existence
or becoming, you see, being and becoming
are always mixed up since Plato.
So your existence, whether you think of it as a being
or becoming, is not the same thing as what you do
with the creative production of eye.
And you do it for protection, you do it
because you have to become a person among people,
you have to have a position, you have to have an opinion,
you have to represent yourself.
There's all kinds of reasons we use this God damn thing,
but essentializing it and believing that
that lives inside you is the best thing.
Do you see it as connected also to how we start to realize
or be present in this way that something,
so like when you're a little child,
you have this non-eyeness.
I mean, you don't need the eye, you can't even speak the eye.
And it gets imposed on you very quickly
because your parents tell you your name and all that.
But you're in that kind of, you're in that space
of what people sometimes say they experience in drugs
where everything is kind of, oh, one,
and you're looking at the flower and it's incredible
and you're a part of it all.
And then you've got to go through the eye, hopefully.
You learn you're an eye, you struggle
with trying to understand that eye
and accept it and feeling judged.
You hopefully find some practices
and some other people who help you release yourself
from that and realize what you've just been saying
that the eye is only there when you use it,
but you're still there and you're coherent and you're real
and you're part of something bigger.
But somehow there's that process.
It's like you can't do that
when you're just a little kid, right?
So do you see that as connected?
You don't need to, but that's largely what neurosis is.
There's a healthy side,
just like there's a healthy side to psychosis,
there's a healthy side to neurosis.
We wear pants and we don't feel terribly, terribly
constricted because we're told by the social order
to wear pants.
There's no God-given reason to wear pants,
but if I'm going out there in the street,
I'll probably wear pants.
And I don't feel that as being neurotic,
but if I worry that the dishes are not in the right place
and I can't sleep because the dishes might not be
in the right place, then I've become neurotic.
And so we live in a constant state of tension.
The other side, I'm doing a right brain, left brain thing
in case you can't tell, right?
So that's your left brain.
The right brain is your imaginative, artistic,
your psychosis, your capacity to fly,
to imagine it and fly, to lose yourself,
to be transported.
And that done in a healthy fashion
is the best you can possibly be.
Divine madness occupies a whole dialogue in Plato there,
various kinds of divine madness.
And they're well discussed.
And we have this capacity.
There's no way of knowing who gets into,
who's living the best life,
who's actually getting to the best they could be.
You don't see it, it doesn't leave a trace,
it's not in the record.
There's no point in despairing about the world, Ukraine,
Gaza, climate change,
because you actually have no overview of,
like I don't know, the world will never notice
if you have a peak experience.
Hegel's apotheosis at his desk,
when history comes to an end,
which is my favorite example of this,
we're all Hegel.
Well, I would have much to say about Hegel
because of that linearity is what annoys me about him,
but he also did come up with this language
that gets out of the linearity, so.
Yeah, no, he's secular.
Well, yes, of course,
but then there is this beautiful, almost innocent thing,
which is also dangerous and destructive
of being in the moment in time and taking it so seriously
that we can then start thinking about the end of history
and so forth.
It's always the end of history and the beginning
and there's no ending and beginning.
He shows that with his, he illustrates that, I guess,
with the writing and with this constant becoming,
but it's often taken in kind of the other way,
that there's some kind of right progression
and right development and that we're on it
and all of that, but that would be a whole other thing.
To come back here, yeah, well, go ahead.
There's other discussions you can only have in person.
If you're here in person, I've got tons of material here
to talk about time and history and Dure and so on,
but you have to be actually present here
to actually use them.
Okay, you mean like books and stuff?
No, I have a temple inside.
You have a temple in your house?
Yeah, I'm gonna go for a little walk.
Okay.
But believe you or me,
this is better done when you're here.
Cool, I believe you.
But at least like now all the listeners
will also be able to have a little.
So we'll start with, there's history.
Wow.
So there's the whole history.
There's my life.
There's the year 2000, there's the year 2024.
There's William James, John Dewey, Kant, Descartes, Kepler.
So I can see where the ideas stack up and how they got here.
And that goes back to 1600.
And on top, it's rescales.
There's 1600 and there it goes back to Jesus and Plato.
And now I can think about straight lines
and I can think about what's further down there.
And I've got various points marked.
So much art.
I can point all the way to the dinosaurs from here.
I know the dinosaurs are 63 kilometers
out in the Irish Sea from here.
And then there's, oh, sorry.
I want you to meet my lamp.
There's a lamp.
You see this lamp?
Yeah.
Yeah, I see it.
It's broken.
Yeah, it's terrible.
Terrible state.
One day it was sitting here before it broke its neck
and I took a photograph of it.
And then I made a print of that.
I do prints by rubbing them, transferring
and rubbing them into being.
And I stuck its picture up behind it.
And then I took a photograph of that.
And I took off the old print and I put the new one on,
which had two prints.
And now we have an endlessly receding series of.
Nestedness.
Literally looking at this lamp through time.
I couldn't see the whole thing.
I only saw the top part of the painting.
Oh yeah.
There.
Oh, yeah.
Anyway, that's actually very fractal.
It is very fractal and there's one, two, three, four,
five lamps there and this lamp here.
And they go back through time, literally through time.
And I was sitting here, looking at that,
reading a book and there was text came up
right beside this.
So I could look from the book up to this.
The book I was reading was by a French man
called Henri Bergson.
Oh, well of course.
And what it said, what the text said,
as I was looking at this,
as reality creates itself unforeseeable and new,
its image reflects behind it into the indefinite past.
Now that seems kind of relevant.
It does.
So yeah, I have a lot more here.
There is a big-ass-
So much art.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You see?
And this is all-
Wow, that's cool.
So much art.
These are all thinking tools.
So we'll come out of here
because you have to come over for a visit sometime.
Yeah, yeah, I will.
And talk about Hegel.
Okay.
I have Hegel in there.
Have you ever had an art show, Fred?
Yeah, a few.
I thought so.
From now I'm remembering the art.
But there was something, that was a beautiful journey.
You're back.
What do you think?
It's funny, if I were you,
I'd have a bunch of those paintings behind me.
That's not true.
I don't show off my stuff either,
but those are pretty cool.
So, I mean, on your videos.
They all need explanation.
Not explanation, but they're vehicles for co-thinking.
Well, I want to, I mean,
I already kept you a half an hour more than we said.
And so I know, let's get off of it.
I don't have any time limit on this.
I knew you were fine.
Time and space.
But this shamanic tantric ecstasy,
I think we've said ecstasy a few times, and aesthetic.
And I, when I was in my teens,
I was really interested in that,
probably more coming from like Rumi.
But I definitely got into the Sufi idea of this,
and then so on and so forth.
And even more like the Buddhist tantra,
and this aesthetic state, I don't know.
It strikes me a little bit
that it can also be dangerous in the same way
that it can be dangerous to hear
that everything's a hallucination if you don't have.
Oh, absolutely.
And terrible things happen.
But you've heard of it.
We have heard now from the results of other traditions.
And there's wonderful scholarship going on.
Tantric scholarship.
There's a guy called Alexis Sanderson
who's doing a most amazing work
recreating the theories of consciousness
from a thousand years ago in Kashmir.
There's real scholarship going on.
I recently fell into a Tibetan deep rabbit hole
looking at the bond, the world of bond,
which is often regarded as shamanistic pre-Buddhist
Tibetan religion.
Turns out that's a gross simplification.
But I found things in there
that immediately resonated with me.
Now, if there was nothing there,
like I appreciate these come from different cultures,
but having looked into a lot of things,
you can't oversee common themes
which speak of something which is immediately available
to you wherever you are.
There's a wonderful book
by a guy called Gregory Shaw recently
which will piss any historians off
because it's called Hellenic Tantra.
Oh my.
The Hellenes being the Greeks and Tantra being beyond.
But what he's doing is he's actually a student
of Iamblichian Theology,
which are these techniques for getting into the state,
elevating the state through ritual
and reaching various forms of hypnosis,
approaches to God from the late classical world.
And we have descriptions of similar states achieved
through using the vocabulary of tantra from the tantrics.
And the metaphors are congruent.
It's all light and energies
and there's similar kinds of words coming up
and you just can't oversee the fact that,
oh no, hang on.
Now, I'm not advocating a perennialism,
but there's so much that comes through
that you begin to realize,
oh, holy cow, am I ignorant.
And we can learn.
So I'm kind of really annoyed
when people talk about East versus West now
because I deny those.
Because you see the connections and the patterns
and the, but you do,
in the same way, maybe that we use the eye,
sometimes there's a way we,
you know, the movement and the process itself
is never either or in one or the other,
but there's a way we sometimes do,
there's a reason why we set things against one another
in that representational space
until we can handle understanding
that they're not set against each other.
And in fact, on every side of everything,
there could be many, many nested
sort of such ongoing experiences or dialectics
or tantric movements or whatever we wanna,
however we wanna describe it.
But just like, I do need to go soon,
but before, something is really bothering.
Like, I wonder about your perspective on this
I don't know about your personal life,
but my personal life,
we've talked about when we were younger,
we've talked about,
we've both obviously explored a lot of different things
towards whatever, like feeling this ecstasy
or finding knowledge or whatever way we wanna say.
But do you,
I guess I worry,
I don't think we're saying
that none of these things are important.
I guess I wanna zoom out a little bit and think like,
all of that's really important in both of our lives
and all these paths that we found
towards finding some kind of peace,
like we both seem to be kind of okay.
Not that every moment is,
we're still humans doing our thing,
but at least we can say death isn't too scary anymore.
Whereas when I was 25, I thought, yeah,
and you obviously said the same.
So I guess what I wanna open it up to is like meaning,
and that it's not just that all this stuff is meaningful
and we just, I don't want this conversation
to sound to someone like nothing matters
and like none of these things,
there's no cognitive science
and no words mean anything and stuff like that.
Cause it's really the opposite.
That's kind of what we're saying,
but I wonder if you can articulate it better.
Absolutely, but we need to distinguish between inquiry
and the products of the inquiry and their subsequent fate
as they get integrated into popular discourse,
get perverted, get misunderstood
and feed into a collective imagination
that frankly doesn't have a great deal of nuance.
I'm in heaven and I only got there
by doing cognitive science,
but that doesn't mean if you do cognitive science,
you're gonna go to heaven.
I mean, yeah, that's inquiry.
It did this kind of persistent inquiry
into the nature of things, your own minds, understanding.
What the hell am I doing here?
What is this?
What is it to be alive?
Without necessarily needing an answer,
but to be able to ask and always ask and always ask better.
And the answer will change every day.
That's the thing.
There's no goal.
There's no end state.
No, and things still hurt and there's still challenges
and you just keep persisting though.
And it's kind of these patterns start
to feel more comfortable or more,
you can access the joy and the life
in what's around you more like in that childlike state,
but with that kind of surrender and presence
while still holding the responsibility, connecting.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's possible, right?
It's not about not taking it seriously.
It's about taking it seriously
till you understand seriousness differently.
Yes, and you learn so much by asking
how other people have pursued the inquiry,
what motivated them, why did they do things.
So I find a lot now when I'm teaching neuroscience,
I don't tell them you must read this paper or this textbook.
I say, oh, you found the work of let's say Ramachandran
or something like that.
Find out who this person is.
Find out what motivates their inquiry.
Why are they drawn to think of things in this way?
Inevitably, you find out far more
about a particular neuroscientific program
if you understand the neuroscientist behind it.
I only know a few neuroscientists well personally
or know enough about their personal motivation
to understand their work,
but it's always been incredibly illuminating.
Whereas investigation into neuroscience
done in the Google mode just produces
walls of cognitive bullshit.
Yeah, and that also helps us to understand
that the problems, the challenges, the work we're doing
as scientists, as philosophers,
whoever we might become is very important,
but we keep in mind also that we're coming at it
with a particular development and from a particular place
and in a particular way,
and others are coming at it in different ways.
And that's beautiful, that's a portal,
but we don't need to like stringently say
there's only our way.
It's much more about finding ways to connect
with each other towards kind of a better shared knowledge,
whatever, if we're dealing with science
and it would be towards whatever the goal is,
which might be helping people
who suffer from schizophrenia or something, whatever it is,
but it doesn't have to be only like one way,
even if we parameterize our own research in a certain way.
There's a kind of a constructive ambiguity
I try to convey to students,
which is to live with the tension
that you idealize highfalutin ideas
and our inquiry into the natural world
leaves us with inestimable puzzles
and climate change in Gaza.
And you're gonna live in this zone,
indeterminate zone your whole life.
Get comfortable in it.
Learn to seek in the indeterminate zone.
That's why I don't like people coming in with explanations.
If I buy something from IKEA,
I want an explanation to how to assemble this
because then it'll be assembled and I'll be done.
Whereas this kind of inquiry, I don't want to be done.
I'm never gonna be done.
There's no done, because as soon as you've so,
as we address the problems, the problems change
and the ways we address them change them.
And that's beautiful.
That's not to be, that can feel overwhelming,
but when you sort of accept it, then it's funny how,
and whether it's science, philosophy, religion,
whatever label we give it,
a lot of it does come down to holding that space,
that tension, as you said, that paradox,
that finding some way to be in that space
and open it up and realize is not just two things
kind of in opposition, but that's life,
that becoming that constant kind of change
at the same time does have very real resonances
and patterns and things that matter.
But yeah, anyway, that's been part of this conversation
for me, so thanks for having it.
I'm sure, I hope we have many more.
I have to go now.
I wanna, Andrea, I really like this.
Me too, it's fun.
I think there's other places we could go.
I don't know, you have such a broad range of interests
and you think so well that it's great for me.
For me too, the same to you.
It's nice to be able to talk to someone
who's interested in art and neuroscience
and spirituality and it's great.
So I really appreciate that.
And yeah, so I send you some gratitude
and we'll hit the button again soon
unless there's anything you wanna add before.
No, I'm around until about the 20th of July
and then away for a month, more or less.
Oh, you're going on a really exciting trip, right?
Aren't you going to?
We're going to Kathmandu, going back to the country.
Wow, tell me a little bit about that before we go.
The Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
runs a summer school over there.
They know their shit, they've got people in there
and we'll be doing lectures, doing workshops,
going to puja, visiting temples, visiting families.
We have to talk after that for sure.
I wanna hear all about that.
Yeah, as a goddess worshiper, it's gonna be delight.
Okay, well, let's talk after that or if not before about.
Yeah.
Okay, I'm hitting the button now.
Possibly before, anyway.
Yeah, maybe before and after, pre and post.
I'm just ping, send me stuff.
Great talking to you.
Okay, good talking to you too.
