Hey everyone, this is Andrea. This is a research conversation with Lynn Nadel. There's so many
people coming from different fields who listen to this, but as you know, I'm trying to understand
cognition as navigability, as ways we move through the world, the ways we make in the world, ways we
find in the world. I'm looking at this framework across many different disciplines and trying to
just get a good idea, a better idea of how to think about cognition as something we share,
as many different forms of life. And I can see that navigability is one way that we could begin
to understand that cognition is an ecological act that happens at all scales and species. So towards
that, what really got me into that was my study in neuroscience of the hippocampus and this area of
the brain. There's many areas sort of associated with navigation that are also associated with
memory, a specific kind of memory, but just in a general way, let me just say that, you know,
this area of the brain was really famous in the 50s for memory from a guy named H.M., which I'll just
link to some writings about this if you're interested, but he had this area of his brain removed and he
couldn't create new memories. That's a very generalized conception for those of you who haven't heard of
him. And then later in the 70s, a man named John O'Keefe had this kind of discovery of cells in the same
area of the brain that work almost like a GPS. Again, this is all very generalized, but there are cells in
our brains which fire in very specific patterns relative to how we move through the world. And they
are referred to often as the sat nav of the brain or the GPS of the brain. They're called place cells and
grid cells and border cells, head direction cells. And many people like Ronk and the Mosers, of course,
O'Keefe, were involved in this process of discovering these cells, or in the case of Len, writing about
them, thinking about them theoretically in concern to the hippocampus. And he and John O'Keefe wrote a book
together, which has been a really formative book. The book is called The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map,
and Cognitive Map. It comes from work from another man named Edward Tolman, who's also very
interesting. There's so many interesting people and characters. I'm actually writing a book about
this time period, which is why this is one research conversation. But it's also research for philosophical
ideas relative to this channel. I was at a conference actually a couple years ago in Arizona, which is
where Len has been for many years. He was the department head there, and he's been teaching there
many years. And there was a space time conference with kind of all the greats. And it was the first
time I was ever in the same place as Lynn Nadel and John O'Keefe, who for me, writing this book and
studying cognition as navigability, and just being excited about these ideas. It was quite a moment to
see them both together there. And of course, I tried to take some pictures of them. And I have no idea
why. But as you can see here, the pictures all turned out blurry. But this is Lynn Nadel and John O'Keefe in
Arizona at the Space Time Conference in, what was it, maybe 2022. Maybe you've heard of a place called
McGill University in Montreal. Pretty much everyone I've mentioned so far was there around the same time
period in the 50s, 60s, 70s, when neuroscience was forming. And H.M., Penfield, and Hebb, Donald Hebb,
this idea of neurons that fire together, wire together, you may have heard. I think of this time
period. And this university is like the superhero headquarters of what became neuroscience. Lynn and
I talk about it. He was there. He was also at McGill. So was John O'Keefe. So was Brenda Milner,
the person who's famous for the studies of H.M. relative to the hippocampus. It's a really exciting
time period relative to how we study this area of the brain and what it might mean and opening up wider
scales of how to understand these big themes like cognition and navigation and their relation
to one another. Of course, there's many different ways of looking at it. But Tolman conducted these
experiments where he started to develop this idea of latent learnings, maybe how you've heard it,
heard of it. Kind of just how we move through the world is a kind of knowledge gathering. Or just that
we move through the world and we don't realize that we're learning certain routes and paths. But
later we can find our way without thinking about it because we've just learned it. And this is where
this connection is between cognition and navigability. And we can see it in many different
landscapes, not only these geographical landscapes, but also how we move through landscapes of language,
emotional landscapes, and so on. But in this conversation with Lynn, we really talk about this very
early time period where the idea of cognitive maps was just starting. No one had even discovered
play cells yet. John discovered that in the 70s. So this is about those early years. And all the names
that he mentions here are famous names in this little world of neuroscience. But these names and this
little world of neuroscience actually has really big implications across how we're coming to understand
and what it means to develop knowledge and memory and how this connects us to other beings in the
world. So we're going to talk about the superhero world of scientists at McGill in Montreal. And we're
going to talk a little bit about the development of this idea of cognitive maps. So thanks for being
here. I hope you're all doing really well. Let's go.
So thanks for doing this. I appreciate it. I know you have to travel soon enough to Amsterdam, right?
Tomorrow?
Yeah. Coming to my part of the world. Although I'm in Poland right now. That's the background. In case you
see some religious pictures.
On business or pleasure? Or both?
Both.
Where in Poland?
We're in Krakow.
You probably know it. I know you know Poland.
We're in Poland, but in Krakow. Yeah, I know. I know Krakow. Nice city. Great town square.
Yeah, that's true.
Anyway, let's not take up too much time with that.
Yeah, let's get started. I guess it's probably best to jump in and start with the McGill years.
And as I told you, the narrative is I'm really looking for ways to connect all of you. Actually,
it's not that hard to do because of this extraordinary time period at McGill and that you and John were
actually there and so on. But what I'm still struggling with a little bit in the text is the
Tolman because his story is so interesting. It's so crucial to your work. And I'm trying to connect
the dots a little more between maybe even just this kind of academic family tree, you know, how it
sort of got from Tolman to you, Heb, and so on. So I'm just throwing that out in case anything comes
to mind. So we can go ahead and start after you'd gotten into McGill, you were studying chemistry, and
then I guess you could tell me a little bit about how you first sort of discovered psychology
department and this superhero world of scientists.
To say that I was studying chemistry is to go is is to put much more on it than existed. I was not a
very good student in my first few years. And I was there because I had an interest in chemistry, which
was not deep. It was based on the fact that my father had been a chemist. And so and McGill was a good
place to study chemistry. But I wasn't really studying chemistry. I wasn't really studying anything.
Few of us are our first year of college.
Exactly. So but but one thing did become quite clear from the chemistry labs that I did, which was
that I probably shouldn't become a chemist. Why was that not so good in the lab?
I was not sufficiently careful, shall we say? Did you drop some beakers?
I might have damaged my system. So it became clear that I was not that was not
of course. So I was just looking around for something else to do as an undergrad. You needed
to have a major or something. So I switched over to biology. And then I started taking, you know,
a variety of courses in biology, including including psychology, because why not? I was always interested
in that kind of stuff, but not particularly focused on it. And of course, this was under into the intro to
psych course was taught by Hebb. So I didn't go to McGill because of Hebb. I didn't sign up for that
class. I didn't even know who Hebb was. Oh, you didn't even know when you signed up.
I didn't know how famous he was. I had none of this knowledge to me. I simply signed up for a class
in intro to psych. Was he already really famous then? Oh, yeah. Okay. Because he was writing his
book still, or it was already out. This was 1960. This was 1961. Okay. He was probably president of
APA. His book came out in 49. I mean, the fire together, why together thing was already that was
already out. All of that was out there. Although it hadn't been, was not that popular in North America
yet. Right, right. That's a, that's a part of the story here. Anyway, he was very famous in Canada.
He was famous around the world, but you know, that didn't mean people agreed with his approach,
but he was very famous. I didn't know it. I took his class. It was fascinating. And I, so I started to
basically just took a lot of psychology classes without majoring in psych. And I was on a bit of a
pre-med track, so to speak, thinking. Okay. Do you remember what caught you in his class?
Just how interesting the way it was just I know I was, it is the case that I had been interested
even when I was a kid about, you know, brains and when they go wrong and what happens when somebody's
crazy, you know, but it was like, I was interested in that. And I was also interested in baseball and
hockey. It wasn't like a passion of mine, but it was something I was in. And so it matched up with some
early interests that I had had vague in college sort of stuff, just tickled it. So I started taking
a lot of psych classes and I was pre-med and then I didn't get into medical school because of my first
two years and my grades were pretty poor. And, uh, so I had a year and by this point I was married with
one kid and another kid got married young. Yeah. I got married young foolishly, but did.
Mm-hmm. And so I ended up getting a job working for a year in a psych lab because I thought,
let's see what that's like, right? On campus or? Oh yeah. In the psych department. I somehow
myself with people in the psych department, got a job as a, you know, a gap year, so to speak,
an unforced gap year working in doing behavioral psychopharmacology work with Dalbir Bindra,
a professor in psychology. Uh, and that really sold me. I mean, even though it's really pretty
boring research that really sold me on. And I was, because I was there the whole year in the department
in the animal lab area, I mixed with all the graduate students and so on. I was treated like
a graduate student almost. And then remarkably, they let me into the graduate program, which they
didn't used to do, which they tend to, they didn't have a policy of not taking. Right. You're not
supposed to get to do both at the same school or something. Exactly right. That policy was more
strictly enforced in those years than it is now, by the way. Um, anyway, they let me in and, uh,
that was the beginning of it, you know, and, and O'Keefe was a, was a first year graduate student,
the year that I was working in the lab before I started as a graduate student. So John, John showed
up at the same time that I more or less connected with psychology at that research level. Do you remember
the first time you met him or an early time, any like first impressions or a little older,
nice guy, smart, um, a little different, you know, settled, you know, married to, to a nice,
nice woman who he's still married to, I mean, um, nice, quirky, smart and a little older and sort of
wiser and not, not as, uh, not as wild and crazy as some of the rest of us were a little more,
a more self, a more settled person. Always was, and always has been.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah.
He'd already had some other life before that too.
Yeah, I think so. And, and, and he was, um, the thing was that at that point that year,
the psychology, the animal psychology thing was split between a couple of different places. We
weren't all in one place. And John was working with, uh, Ron Melzack in a, in a different house,
completely separate from the rest of us who were working, you know, with Milner or with some of the
other students with Melzack, me with Bindra or, and if have had any students working with animals,
we were all together in one place near the medical school. And then there was Melzack who had recently
been hired. Uh, and John was one of his first graduate students and they were doing cat research
in an old, separate from everyone else. Oh, okay. It's kind of off to the side now.
Off to the side, actually didn't see a lot of John, uh, other than in, you know,
when he would just happen to be around for seminars or for somebody coming to give a talk and stuff
like that because he was a year ahead of me. So I didn't, I was not in seminars with him
specifically. So John and I were friendly during grad school, quite friendly because we shared
political interests. We were both semi-socialist kind of politics, but other than that, we didn't
have a lot to do with each other research wise, because we were not in the same space.
I'd like to hear a little bit about that, this, this social thing, because it's a bit different than
now. I mean, during that time, what did it feel like? There's a, I mean, that was a time during
which if you were a graduate student, even if you were married and had kids like I was,
the lab was the center of your life. It was not a nine to five job. There was no balance,
you know, life quality of life, balance nonsense, nothing like that. You were in the lab all the time,
basically. And as I was, and as my wife would hang out in the lab and the kid and the little
baby thing would be sitting off to the side while I was doing surgery. It was all mixed together.
Basically there was no separation of any of that. And it really dominated, you know, one's life.
And so the, so I did not have a social life outside the sort of group of people that I was a graduate
student with by and large. Some did, some didn't, but by and large, we were all, and we all hung out
together all the time. We spent all of our time together. Did you have seminars with Brenda Milner?
Brenda Milner was, it was on the periphery of what we were, of what we were doing because
Brenda Milner was at the Montreal Neurological Institute, which was, you know, away, away, a ways.
We didn't be there very often, unless there was a talk to be heard or something like that.
She would show up at seminars. She, at that time, of course, was married to Peter Milner.
So he was closer to you probably. Way closer. He was the one that we were all the closest with,
because Peter was at that point, Peter was writing his 1970 physiological psychology textbook,
which is an absolute classic, you know, by far the best textbook ever written, you know.
It's really stood the test of time, that one, hasn't it?
Yeah, it's an impressive book, basically. And so he was, he was writing that book when,
while we were graduate students, and we were reading mimeographed. There's a word you probably
haven't heard, or maybe don't even know what that word means. I've heard it.
But mimeographed was a, was a, was a, a machine for making copies before fax.
Free fax thing, all I can tell you is it used ink and your hands got messy.
Okay. That gives me a good image.
And, and the, and the ink it used was to tend to be purple. Have you ever seen old reprints?
Oh, wow. That sounds familiar. I mean, I've been in a lot of libraries and
archives, and I've definitely seen purple ink.
Yeah, that's what identifies it. Anyway, he's passing around mimeographed copies of his
chapters of his book that we were reading in seminars. So Peter was in full bloom, and he was
the one we all went to for questions. And he was the guy who knew everything. I mean,
it's remarkable because he's writing a textbook about the whole fields. He was, he was the one
we all went to. Melzack was new, and a little bit less accessible, but very smart and nice guy.
We interacted with him a fair amount because even though he had a lab over in this other building,
he had an office in the place where the rest of the animal researchers were. He had an office there that
he was in and out of, not all that frequently. My advisor, Bindra, was a human researcher mostly,
and he had just started getting involved with animal research so that he could look at some
pharmacology things. And he didn't know much about animal research. So I interacted almost entirely
with Milner and Melzack. And he did not have his office where the animal researchers were.
Okay.
We're in another building where the human researchers were. That was the main hub of the
psychology department, an old house on an old street. And do you know Montreal at all?
I've been there like twice.
At the base of the mountain, there are some old streets. Anyway, he had a lovely old house.
And psychology there would meet every afternoon for tea. So kind of thing, which I got used to. And so
it would be tea in the afternoon at three or four o'clock in the psychology building where Hebb was.
And if you wanted to spend time with Hebb, you just would walk over, stroll over there. It was about
a 10 to 15 minute walk from where the animal lab was. And you do tea in the afternoon. And I did that,
you know, fair. So that was how. And so one interacted with Hebb that way, but one also interacted with Hebb
by virtue of taking his first year seminar, which was famous, you know, for its.
Mm-hmm. What were those teas like? I have to, I have to stop on that one a little bit. Did, did,
did people ask him questions and he would talk about things or was it, it was, you know, they,
in some ways they were less memorable for me than the teas I subsequently had at UCL with John,
with people, anatomy and physiology department where the tea every afternoon there, you,
you sat around the table with three Nobel prize winners. That was a little more gone. That was a
more daunting tea sort of episode than having tea with Hebb, which itself, but Hebb was friendly. And
actually the, the person who was most present during the teas I'm, I'm now remembering was the head of the
department, George Ferguson, who was a statistician, who was, was a real bon vivant and a bit of a poet
and wrote kind of doggerel poetry and gave great Christmas parties. And I sort of, I modeled my
behavior as department head a little bit after what I observed in him because he was really the, a bit
of a social glue person in a, in a department. Anyway, so we had tea in the afternoon. We would see Hebb that
way, that would be the interaction with Hebb, you know, it would be in and out sort of over the time,
when he was a graduate student, but he was a presence. Then we moved into a new building in
about a year and a half before I finished up and John finished up. And then suddenly we were all
together in a new building.
Were you already working on the hippocampus? Because your PhD was on the hippocampus. How did
that happen? Already working on the, why did I, ah, okay. Was that any connection between
Peter and Brenda and all? Oh, absolutely. We'll segue straight. So the big, the big issue there,
if you were, if you were in that department, you were probably interested in memory as a graduate
student, probably not only, but probably have, you know, I mean, right. So, and then there was Brenda
Miller and then there was HM. Which was already, those papers were already well known. The Scoville
and the Penfield stuff was already, yeah. All right. Now, so, you know, some of the background
here. I was trying to get a sense of when it all started to fill. I mean, from my point of view,
it feels like it was already kind of huge, but I know it, it took some time in different parts of the
world. It took some time and it was somewhat, progress was, was delayed, you might say, by the,
by the fact that the early attempts to, to kind of create an animal model of HM all failed. So
that set the stage for, right off the bat in, after the 57 paper, Brenda Milner and a, and a postdoc,
Orbach, joined forces with Rasmussen and to do an experiment where they tried to replicate the surgery
that was done on HM in a group of monkeys. Oh, okay. And then to demonstrate that they have a memory
defect, like HM had a memory defect, you know. Sure, sure. The hippocampus is different though,
but I guess you could still. Oh, you know, you have whole models. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I know.
So they prepared the, you know, surgery as close as possible to the, what Scoville had done in HM.
And, uh, all and behold, these monkeys had no memory deficit whatsoever, virtually no memory. Wow. A
little bit, but nothing, nothing. So, and then people then did hippocampal lesions in rats,
early hippocampal lesion work in rats in, in the early 1960s, same thing. No general, nothing at
all like what was seen in HM. So that was the conundrum in the early sixties. There was this
conundrum in the field, like what's going on here. That's fascinating. Was there any spatial,
no, nobody was even looking at that, I guess. Nobody was even looking at any of that stuff. It was
the reigning theories of hippocampal function in animals were, were not memory. They were things
like response inhibition or, or avoidance behavior or emotional. Oh, wow. Fascinating. A whole range of
things, not, none of which were memory or space. So closer to amygdala like behavior. Exactly right.
Closer to sort of amygdala like thinking part of the limbic system still from that perspective. And
so that was, that was the setting in which I was firstly an undergrad and then a grad student in
that setting, you know, kind of brewing in that broth. And that was the atmosphere in the department,
you know, that there's this, you know, we're interested in memory and it has ideas about synaptic
memory. And then these ideas that the hippocampus, you know, based on HM is crucial, but what's the story
in animal models? We were animal researchers. You can't do much work in humans. So, you know,
what do you do right now? There's a couple of, now a couple of small points. When I was an undergrad,
taking that first year intro course in psychology, I think I was my second year as an undergrad.
I roomed with two other undergrads. One of whom was, there's somebody odling Smee.
When you say roomed with, was it like a dorm room kind of thing?
We shared an apartment. I shared an apartment with two other, two other people. We each had
our own room. Odling Smee was his name. I can't remember his first name now. And he ended up doing
work in, in the UK. Some interesting behavioral work. And then an American from, from Boston called
Charles Bud Corkin. So my second year roommate, you know, got involved with a graduate student in
psychology and ultimately married, uh, Suzanne Corkin. And so while I was rooming with him in
my second year, taking the course from eight. So you had that connection, you already had HM and you're
also hearing a little bit about this crazy, you know, HM person. None of it registered with me at that
point. Okay. Now you dial forward a few years. Now I'm a graduate student. HM is in, you know,
and there's this disjunct between human and animal stuff. So I had the hypothesis,
the hypothesis, which was based on some reality, which is that in the, in the work with humans,
HM, for example, the surgery removed most of his anterior hippocampus because that's the way the surgery
came in, in, in the rat work that was not confirming what was seen in HM. Everybody was
looking at the dorsal hippocampus, which is the posterior hippocampus in humans. So I, I had the
idea that, well, you know, maybe the disjunct between animal and human work is that they're
looking at different parts of the hippocampus, that the human folks are looking at the, what is
the ventral hippocampus in rats and the rat people looking at the dorsal hippocampus. So obviously
different things. So that was my dissertation. It's a good hypothesis. I guess it wasn't quite
true, but maybe it would have been if you'd had really better information about where HM's lesions
really were. Cause didn't it change a bit? It changed a little bit, but you know, I think,
I mean, this, this was the first Len Girard who just like died like four months ago, I think,
uh, also published something on comparing dorsal and ventral hippocampus in the, at, in the same
time, 67, 68, we were the first ones to even, you know, think about that. And I did it for the
reasons I described, and then I dropped it more or less. However, I've come back to that.
Didn't you write about that too?
Yeah, I recently just published another paper in 21, published a paper on the long act of the
hippocampus. And I'm thinking about, and I really think there's something very important
about, about what's going on, but you know, that original intuition was onto something,
but it was not what I thought it was anyway. So that's why I worked on the hippocampus.
I ended up working on it because, because of that, but I did not do my master's thesis on that. I did my
master's thesis on, on memory using cortical spreading depression to study the role of the
cortex in the memory, in habituation memory. Is that where you started looking at the stuff
that you would eventually propose for your PhD? I'm wondering how to connect those things.
There's no correct. There's no connection. I mean,
you just had different interests. There wasn't necessarily a connection.
In those days you could do your master's on one thing and your PhD on something else.
Now it is people don't do that much anymore. Anyway, I did my master's and I didn't want to,
there was no way for me to follow on with that research. Given the technologies I had available
to me at that time, the, the, the, the kind of world leader in the technique that I used in my master's
thesis, this cortical spreading depression, the world leader was in Czechoslovakia in Prague.
That's what I went. Oh, okay. Well, there's a connection. That's the connection. That's why
I went to do my postdoc. But I dropped my technique temporarily to jump on the hippocampus bandwagon.
That was everybody else's hobby horse in that psych department at the time. So I was following the
crowd, you might say. So you, you went back to that anyway, but first, can you just tell me a little
bit, do you remember, have any sort of sensory memories of the lab and of being at McGill? I mean,
was it? Oh, a lot of them. Most of them. What do you think of when you think of it? Was it cold?
Was it, you know, cold? Yes. That's the first thing. Yeah. First thing. Always cold. It was always
cold because you, although of course I spent, you know, a number of summers in Montreal and they were,
uh, they, they were very nice, but anyway, cold. The lab itself was, you know, the two completely
different eras. The one where we're in this old animal research building next to the medical school
off by ourself. It was like a grungy pre, you know, pre-regulation era, you know, animal lab. I mean,
none of the heavy duty stuff that is, is, you know, you go, have you ever been, have you been to
Trondheim ever? Uh, no, actually I never went there. If you visit the Trondheim lab, if you go to their
animal lab, you can't even get into the lab without putting on like full surgical. Oh, wow.
Okay. It's all behind barriers. You visitors, everybody, proper shoes, everything is completely,
you know, aseptic. Oh, wow. That's, that's one extreme. Very sci-fi. We were at the other extreme. Okay.
You're smoking it in the lab and stuff. It was, everything was going on.
Yeah. It was also 1960s, you know, so. Right. Yeah. Well, I want to hear a little bit about
that too. I mean, you said you and John shared interests. What was the vibe like when it's,
what other kinds of things were you talking about at the time? Because there was a lot going on.
Well, we were very politically engaged, both of us. He a little bit, even more than me, but we were both
politically engaged. I know, I know that he, he and me a little bit on the sideline was involved
in bringing Chomsky to the campus back in the 60s to give him talks. I mean, we were, we were engaged.
We were not like, you know, on the front line. We were graduate students, but we were very engaged.
We were both engaged politically. It mattered to you. It mattered to us a lot. We were both very
political. And so we, a lot of what we talked about was politics. And you both seem to be very,
rather philosophical. I mean, he was already reading a lot of philosophy. He had a background
of philosophy a little bit. And his wife was a, was a PhD philosopher. I mean, I lean this train
in philosophy. So he had more, he had much more, you know, background in philosophy than I did. Mine,
mine was second acquired. Were you interested in that? I mean, were you trying to understand bigger
issues then? I got interested in, you know, in the space issues of, you know, in philosophy of space and
thought philosophy of science issues. What about the political things? Did you see
that as connected to the work you wanted to do in your life when you were young or did they seem
separate or is it like separate? I was always interested in politics, even from when I was
young. I remember from what I was like, even trying to date it, you know, when Stalin died, I mean,
I was 10, 11, 12. I was, I was, you know, seriously reading political stuff when I was a kid.
Oh, wow. Always fascinated, always interested in politics. Very, you don't know, you don't know the New
York political scene, I suppose, but in New York in the 50s and 60s, you know, the Jewish community
of which I was nominally a part, but not really, was very progressive and very socialist in its,
in its leanings in the 50s. Yeah. Times have changed. And anyway, the point is back then to be in the,
to be in the community I grew up in was probably to be kind of political, socialist leaning and political,
if you have ever thought about those things at all. And I did. So I read newspapers,
voracious, and John was just like that. John grew up in the same environment.
Mm-hmm. Also in New York.
Catholic, Irish Catholic environment, you know, where it's either the church or politics,
one or the other. Right? Yeah.
And that's New York. New York was, was three, three, there was three cities, four,
one of which the other three ignored. It was a Jewish city, an Italian city, and an Irish city.
And they represented, you might say, almost one third of the population. And then there was the
fourth world, which was the Hispanic black part of the city, which the rest of us ignored back in
the 50s. I'm being brutally honest, right? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Very, very different world. But it was a world in which politics mattered a lot.
Mm-hmm.
We bonded on that. John and I bonded on the interest in politics.
It reminds me of a quote. I, I guess it's a true quote that you said. I can't remember it
perfectly right now. A Jewish boy and a Catholic boy had to go to Canada to meet or something like
that. Yeah. Something like that. It's true. Not very far from each other.
Yeah. But I guess that helped that you understood each other in this way.
Yeah. But probably it did. Yeah, it did. So we didn't have a lot to do with each other in graduate
school. We were friends, but I would not, we did not interact a lot socially in graduate school. I was
hanging out with a different group of graduate students. I wouldn't say we connected the work to the
politics. They were separate lives at that point and they really stayed that way mostly. We weren't
working on politically sensitive issues. No, the work, the work was, I mean, we were all crazy in
that. We, we hung out at the lab all the time because that was all we were thinking about,
you know, and, and the blackboard was always full of, you know, this diagram, that diagram,
you know, how do we figure it out? How do we, how do we test Hebb's, how do we test and disprove
Hebb's hypothesis? And I mean, it was, you know, we were all there to kind of figure out how the
brain did learning and memory and we were going to do it. It was a pretty intense atmosphere of that,
of that kind of intellectual, you know, ferment and, but we also were fun. We all played and John was
part of this too. We all went out in the afternoons and played soccer on the reservoir. We all had a
good time, you know, we, we weren't doing that, but, but mostly it was, and we had big, big ideas.
I don't know. I don't know how that happened, you know, quite honestly. Yeah. But you had a feeling
that you wanted to do something in the world. Like you were, you were trying to change the world in a
way. We were in a place where people, where the people we were interacting with had already done
that. That was the, that was the, the kind of soup that we were basically swimming in. Yeah. It was
still happening. I mean, it was, it was still happening. It was a world of people who were
achieving at that level. I didn't know any other world. I didn't go somewhere else in undergrad.
So I wasn't like aware that the atmosphere at McGill at that time, in that particular era,
the fifties and sixties was unmatchable. It was, it was absolutely, it was unique. Now there are
other, it still is really, it's kind of without precedent, maybe UCL. There are other places like that,
you know, and they were probably, and there were other places like that at the time,
but I did not realize that somebody who only went to that place, unique and special it was.
I'm not sure. Are there really other places like that? Because I, it's hard to trace back so much.
I guess at least in this time, a few places that were sort of like that, then maybe this will connect
back with Tolman. Berkeley was a little bit like that. So the Tolman in the Tolman era was a little bit
like that in the, in the days of Solomon and so on. Hull, you know, the group that he, you know,
there were clusters of places where there was real strength basically, but the cluster at Montreal and
at McGill was unique in the way that it combined brain and behavior.
Mm-hmm. It was really starting neuroscience.
Exactly. That was really what was unique about him. So the, and so the people who were attracted to
go to graduate school there were already of, of a mindset, you know, that they were, you know,
that they wanted to jostle with the really big issues, you know. Yeah. It's very exciting to think
about. It was a very exciting place, but you know, again, one was, I was so immersed in it that I
didn't understand how unusual it was. It took me in other places to realize and to talk with other people,
you know, and to experience other universities and other studies, not many of what I've experienced,
to realize how unique that was. You know, were you always a lucky person,
even when you were a kid? I can only assume that that's the case.
Yes. Yeah. You've had pretty good luck, but you also, I've been very well, you know, you go with
the luck, you go with the luck, you make your luck a little bit, you take advantage of the, of the lucky
opportunities that, you know, and I've been probably good at that, but yeah, I've been extremely lucky in
that regard. I mean, just being in the right place at the right time. Let me, let me give,
weave another thread for you. So I, so the name you mentioned included Bronk and, and who's fabulous,
by the way. Yeah. He deserves a lot of credit too. There's a lot more credit than he gets.
Um, uh, and Bob Muller and, uh, and John Kubi. So Bob Muller. So dude, so there's a connection to Bob Muller.
Okay. This is the small world in which we all navigate.
Robert Muller. Yeah. Bob Muller. Bob Muller and I went to the same high school.
Oh, you're kidding. We not only went to the same high school in the same exact timeframe,
but we, we were in the same official class. So when we were in Stuyvesant,
Stuyvesant. Oh, wow.
which is a test in high school in new york city for supposedly smart kids who want to do science
and we and and 30 or so you're broken up into groups of 30 and you each have your
homeroom that you start the day in right before you move off to your separate classes
and you did alphabetically in this class so bob muller jklm
he sat in front of me and i stared at the back of his head which was pretty you know hairy
so bob muller and i were friends in high school oh that's wonderful and you dial forward and he
ends up befriending in graduate school completely separate he ends up befriending in graduate school
eileen o'keefe again how weird gosh makes you think the world is just really is a small world system
and then separately all of us converge on the hippocampus it's crazy that's crazy work that
we and how it connects up the story the story gets better but all the years that that you know bob
was working on hippocampus you know he and me and john had a lot of a lot of good time together we
really knew each other and really liked each other a lot bob's dying was a big there's a trap big tragedy
yeah that must have been yes yeah that was that was really sad um anyway dial forward to 1990 i'm
jumping now but but it's okay i'll take you back later the bob muller story uh in mid 90s i'm working
on uh the beginnings of the multiple trace theory with uh with morris moskovich um i go to give a talk
actually in eastern europe you know about it and in the audience is bob muller for one reason i
invited a bunch of people i put this conference together in eastern europe and invited a bunch
of people who were connected to eastern europe through the mcdonald pew grant mechanism they were
funding in europe and i used to try to jump start cog neuroscience in eastern europe anyway so i put
together a conference and bob was involved with one of those groups anyway so he bob was in the
audience i gave this talk about the beginnings of the multiple trace theory people thought it was a
little bit nuts at the time but anyway bob bob said oh that's really interesting i'm i'm editing uh
a special issue of the current current opinion in neurobiology which is this journal that does
reviews the field in different i'm going to do the one in cognitive neurosciences of 1996
for 97 how would you like to write this up for that journal so okay that's great that's a great
opportunity so me and morris you know wrote what became the 97 so we write we wrote up and submitted it
to the this journal and then we started to hear back channel of furious attempts by various people in the
field to sabotage this paper so that it will not get oh no why because the paper was a direct attack on
standard validation so i will not go into names you can you can whatever you want but let's probably
figure it out but let's say that behind the scenes there were some attempts to sort of squelch
this stuff which you know is really ugly when you hear about it but this happens in science and
certainly happened a fair amount back in the day and we and a lot of us knew know and knew who the
main culprits were but they were generally people of power so you you there wasn't much one could do
anyway so bob so bob sort of responded to this pressure by telling the people who were pressuring him
to go themselves oh wow and that was a friend to have it's good you knew that that was that was bob
baller in a nutshell yeah i love that i love that new york personality that that's the new york person
and it was partly because he was a friend also he yeah you knew each other i think he would have done
it for anybody but i think it mattered that he was somebody who knew me knew john and he was you knew us and
he wasn't about the bad guys basically determine what was so he literally said that i've heard
this from multiple sources so the thing got published and you know it has had a fairly
it's had domino but that's so that's about trace is like such a word yeah that's bob muller's uh that's
bob muller's contribution oh that's great to hear because i i want to put him more into the yeah he's a
hero he should be one of the heroes of your story whatever the story that's good that you say that it's
good you highlight that um but let's we're already going it's already 7 15. gosh i have so much i want
to talk to you about but i do want to um figure out i i want to go to prague but had you already
been thinking about tolman at all when you were still in mcgill i mean so told me and you asked how
do we get to tolman well heb was a big fan of told and heb was a big fan of you know of cognitive
approaches too and heb was a fan we talked about you know cell assemblies and phase sequences well what
what were those other than tolman's you know internal models and so we were very sympathetic
so was he speaking about that in those intro classes or was that in his seminar we would
read we were reading all about the debates that were going on in the field and tolman at that point
was central to them and heb was sympathetic even though heb was very um uh positive about skinner and
about hull and their contribution and their contributions he was also very open to tolman and to the points
that tolman was making and and the the emphasis that tolman was putting on you know what was going
on inside the head yeah exactly because heb was there also there was stuff going on in between and
told me when it was saying that you know from the point of view so we were open to tolman and it was
you know it was we were not like heavily focused on tolman because because we weren't looking for that
john was not like space john was john was looking for memory yeah i guess i wonder if heb ever
mentioned anything about seeing tolman when he came to speak there at mcgill or any of i mean just
to connect back to that political social issue because tolman had all that tolman was very
political and that was another reason why both john and i liked him we were aware of tolman's political
sort of lead so that you know that gave tolman a leg up you know right off the bat for both of us
mm-hmm because he really did something big for science and kind of opposing that mccarthy stuff
tolman was a hero for both of us already you know even before even before the cognitive map stuff uh
you know but but we didn't know a lot about you know his political heroism we knew about it but we
didn't know a lot about it but it was enough in our uh it was an easy jump to tolman once this
once the play cells were it wasn't like oh what could that be you know yeah you couldn't have
even imagined it at the time but once you saw that so okay so why prog was it all this political
stuff or i mean you could have done it was partly political for me it was partly political but it
was first of all i i applied to three places for postdocs both john and i applied to nih for
postdoctoral fellowships to go to go overseas that you both got them we both got them that comes a bit
later i applied to three places i applied to hernandez peon who was a reticular activating
system researcher in mexico city okay you know so so let me point out i had i had the adventure bug
yeah i was about to say you were already looking to get away i was ready i you know my family you
know basically never left new york but i was ready to i was ready to go so you hadn't used your passport
yet except for canada you know i don't even know if i had a passport i don't know if you needed it
you'd been in the us and canada at this point i had been in the i had never been outside of the east
eastern part of north america okay okay very very parochial but i but i knew there was a big world out
there new york is sort of international so it's hard to be parochial when you come from there
fair enough i applied to hernandez peon i never heard back from him he uh got killed in a car accident
during that in that time frame oh gosh so that's why you've never heard of him it was very work
then that you had to write directly to the person you wanted to supervise you and before you got into
the school yes and these days you wrote and said that you got a you got the huge you have a postdoc
opportunity for me you know could i come here and work and so on i wrote to it i wrote to somebody in
in california in um at stanford who did work with uh monkeys and uh i wrote you know signed my name
et cetera and you know you got any room no you're laughing i got back a letter saying dear miss
miss or mrs what why are you why are you interested in coming to the bay area you know does your husband
have a job here oh lynn i see oh gosh that's funny i asked you my first name i've had this this this
mistake has been made multiple times actually oh what an insight you must have gotten into and oh you
betcha way things work oh you betcha this was i tell this story frequently by the way to my to you
know every grass i've ever run i tell this story about what it was about about how i got a little
bit of insight into what it's like to be a woman in the field right then that was a wake-up call
so i know so i didn't write back to him that was it i just dropped it good for you yeah i'll you know
i can tell you who it was because he's dead now but doesn't matter but but subsequently i met him
said yes to him of course something i met him and he and told him about this he didn't remember it at
all and he apologized profusely and became my champion forever basically it's true he became my
champion after that he was a man of considerable i guess he was embarrassed but considerable power
so i i you're not going to tell me who it is okay that should i try to guess it was called prebrum
oh wow that's huge that's quite a name to yeah but he just played out you just turned that one down
and the third one i guess all right now now my third choice and my third choice was the guy in
prague who basically brought spreading depression to the world jan burish and i had so i wrote to
him and said oh that goes back to your masters yeah okay that's my message can i come to prague
to to work on you know when i have some ideas about using spreading depression to study learning
and he said yeah i'd love to have you you know just he was just beginning to
have some westerners come to the lab uh i'd love to have you but you know you i can't pay
you so if you can get money you can come so then i applied for the nih postdoc john applied for one
as well to go to london we we both got you both got it was that hard to get at the time and that
sounds like winning the lottery these days but it was winning a lottery but but amongst the reasons i
was interested in going to prague styles back again was the previous year maybe a year and a half before
i was ready to go leave another graduate student whose name is phil philip liss this is not a name
you would know his story his story did not end well but philip who we all acknowledged was brilliant
crazy but brilliant he was part of your crew there he was one of the he was one of the apps
absolute brilliant ones with all he took a postdoc working in poland in the neski in the neski
institute for meteorology with uh with kanorski in warsaw why do i know that name well kanorski is
very famous kanorski was the most famous polish neuropsychologist he was already famous in the west
he published a book in 1967 where philip liss is acknowledged in the front of that book oh wow
kanorski had come to visit mcgill because of course if you ever got out to the west if you were in eastern
europe and you got out to the west that's where you went you came to mcgill because you wanted to
visit with heb we got to meet everybody gosh wow so kanorski not only did we have access but it was
the crossroads like ucl very much yeah so we met kanorski kanorski who stood in front of that blackboard
that we all that room that i was telling you the surgery lunches he could or she was in that room
at that blackboard talking to us about synaptic this and that it was spectacular wow he was a
dynamo he was like you know i now think of him as this is this short guy except that he was probably
the same height i am he was the short guy who looked a bit like me with no hair at this point
i'm thinking you know not a bad comparison anyway he was really something uh and phil got taken with him
and applied to do a postdoc with him and got a fellowship and went with him and so he phil who
i was quite close with uh and stayed with afterwards wrote me from warsaw and said this is great you
really ought to try something like this why don't you think about going to coming to east and go to
eastern europe and i got curiosity going it was that got me sort of said it's doable right and he had a
wife and a kid he was there with a wife and a kid you had two kids by two kids by this point two
little kids uh a was doable and b you know it was fun and you know you could get a grant and i was
interested in politics too phil wasn't phil couldn't have cared about the politics at all okay i thought
wow i could go there and see what it's like to live in a socialist country you know see what it's really
like to live under social you know had you read anything about prague but before i i had read
something about prague i didn't know a lot about it luckily in 1967 was the world's fair the world's
expo in montreal oh that's great and so there was a there was a czech pavilion which was fantastic yeah
it was innovative it showed off you know czech uh culture in a very positive way so that was what we
knew about czechoslovakia so at the czech pavilion in montreal at the expo we went on scene basically
and just showed up you know that must have been spectacular because prague i remember the first
time i went and how spectacular it was and by then it was already very well known to the west showed up
at the train station and you walk out come out the station if the train station has been modernized so
what you're seeing when you come out the train station is not the train station that i arrived at
but you mean the one near the monument there the main one yeah the train station love love me not
okay okay it's right there just just off to the side of the the top of the square square yeah
yeah wait yeah all right and you walk out and then almost immediately a little bit to the right i know
prague extremely well a little bit to the right is the powder tower called prasna brana so you step out
of this train station you're a kid from new york you have never seen this time in your first time in
europe well actually we've been in paris and amsterdam for a few days but first time in medieval
europe yeah and you step into nothing like that yeah and mind-blowing it was absolutely mind-blowing
prague was you know dirty but but gorgeous in those years it was just spectacular prague to me is
the top it's it is something very special i went i loved it i loved it and go back to phil bliss the
guy who started it all on the evening on the day before the russian invasion of prague
i got a telegram from phil liss who was visiting in warsaw telling me i'll i'm on the flight i'll be in
prague tomorrow oh on the day of the invasion on the day of the invasion he was about to visit me
in prague he had been he had been in warsaw and then of course the russians came instead of phil
so you arrived in prague at the train station with your two little kids and your wife and some
suitcases little kids and my wife and and was greeted there by our by my mentor uh jan burish
he had a wife he took us to an apartment he had very famous olga burashova she was not with
he picked you up in a car yeah picked us up i guess he had a car yeah he did have a car that's
right and he drove us north we didn't know this he drove us north to an apartment that we were meant
to share we were going to live in one bedroom of a shared apartment about 45 minutes from the institute
this was the arrangement goodness and within a day or two my then wife rightly said this is not gonna
work this ain't working uh and i went to him and said this can't work i mean this will not work and
he then found within a 10-minute bike ride of the institute in a little town adjacent you know suburb of
prague it was like a village at this point right across from a pond a lake the upstairs of a of a
house that we we could rent you know that was like perfect i found the perfect place having you know
found this place that was totally unacceptable i have no idea what what they imagined we could how we
could function in that setting but the first few days were funny because of course we had no language
whatsoever yeah you know and then just going out trying to find some food and trying to explain to
people what it is you want it when this was not stressful or was it kind of exciting both it was
amusing it was stressful in the sense i couldn't find anything because everything then this was not
the prog of now again this was prog 1967 that means the grocery stores didn't have like fancy
packages everything was in brown paper bags with a lake so how could you tell what you what i
would i just wanted to buy some cereal for my kids and i walked out with a bit with a pound of rice
that's wonderful yeah no no translation devices to help yeah no translation device nothing we were
just completely on our own for the first few days it was pretty fun but we adapted pretty quickly
the place we moved into in the countryside was incredible the neighbors across the street were an
older couple with some kids of their own young married couple included and the older couple kind
of adopted us like grandparent i mean it turned out to be that sounds absolutely and did you learn did
you pick up the language did the kids pick up the language language probably because i had to
about out of it i you know when the invasion came i went i left yeah i want to hear about that but
somehow you had gotten a vw bus by then too i know because i oh yeah we had a vw bus when did you get
that did you go get that in germany because you couldn't have gotten that early on basically and and
i i did not drive my wife was the driver i was i did not drive it was a little unusual but she was
the driver it's not like that anymore i learned how to drive finally we walk in new york you don't need a
car go to montreal you don't need a car you go you mean i turned out i didn't need a car mostly places
i live but yeah frog it was useful it was good that my wife drove anyway we we left because the
burish said i can't guarantee the safety of your children you should probably leave and i called up
john who was the only other person i knew in europe the only other person yeah and we said we're leaving
can we come and camp out with you in london for a little while and he said of course so we drove
we packed everything up we drove out there's a lot of stories there which i won't go into now
and we we decamped in london uh on in john's apartment for a couple of weeks but by then it
was clear that that marriage that i was in was not worth preserving anymore so we split up we in the
midst of all of this turmoil sounds very chaotic it's very chaotic but under conditions of chaos
sometimes you take decisions that you are not otherwise things become clear you're bumped out
of your local uh meet you know your local minimum and you're and you can you know do things you might
not otherwise do that's true we did that a certain sense of clarity the right thing to do it wasn't
but i need to hear about this trip so you you drove in the vw bus to london yeah we went out we drove
down with the kids we drove down to austria yeah out that way to the south and then from austria
all the way across europe onto the ferry and over to london with the kids stayed there for a little
while then we decided enough and she took the kids and went to spain in the in the van and left me
behind and i stayed for eight months transferred my grant to london and did some work there found a
place to live all of that kind of stuff uh and then went and took the kids back because they didn't
want to be with her and she didn't want them and i took the kids and went and i was really challenging
i went back to prog with the kids as a single father which in prog turned out to be a lot easier
than you would think it would be in most because you had so much community maybe they had fat well
it was partly the community the people i didn't cross the street i lived in the same place again
uh but it was partly that you know it was the the free daycare the free health care the free
everything it was all laid on because all the women had to work there everything was set up
so that women that's true right that's my friends tell me that too it was a lot of things was actually
it was actually very sustainable you know i mean i was on my own i wasn't but that and i'm getting
back to why i had to learn check if i wanted to have any kind of a social life i had to learn some
check okay so that's a good motivating force that was partly what drove me to learn something also lots
of lovely people around i imagine there were a lot of people around that wanted to interact with
yeah so i have to go back to this one moment though when you arrive in london because i have
kind of written about this a little i'm trying to kind of visualize it so you arrived there first with
everyone right in the bus or did you arrive alone and was john everybody in the bus what was the weather
like were you exhausted did you did john come out and meet you you know i you know probably you know
although they live up on the sixth floor of of i think then it might not have even had an elevator
or it had an elevator i remember so yeah i think john must have come out but but i can't honestly say
any of the details uh persist i don't remember the actual moment of arrival i do remember that the
weather was crappy this was august the weather was pretty nap lousy i remember that i remember that
the the trip over on the ferry was you know not so pleasant but other than that i don't remember
very much because it all got jumbled up together and trying to have a guest room that you all slept
in did you sleep on the couch or yeah he had a big apartment he still has the same apartment that
he's been living in since forever it's a big apartment and we um we were yeah in one of the
rooms of this big apartment but after about 10 days it was like what are you going to do then yeah
maybe you should find something they had a baby as well at that point so they were not without their
own responsibilities and you know they've got and i realized it so we moved on sounds like a time of
very big changes because you went back to pragma then by then did you know that you wanted to go to
london to work with yes yeah and during any time that i that i was in london john and i figured it
would be nice if we were in the same lab not that we would work together that wasn't the idea okay just
that we were nearby we were very simpatico we thought we had a you know we had a very similar
background training wise that would that let's see and then we actually cooked up a job for me we
arranged a job a lectureship in the anatomy department it was all set up i went back to
prog with this already clear i was going to go back to it spend a year and a half there you know
deal with them in a setting where i could and then i would come back and i would have this job in the
anatomy department and that's exactly what happened a lot of other things happened in between but that
but that happened work-wise that's exactly how it played out i went to prog i got a lot done i published
a bunch of papers i had a really good time there it was really a fabulous sounds like it was very
um productive for you even though you had so much personal stuff going on it was quite productive in
the midst of all of that personal stuff that's true but i think i've always been sort of good at
compartmentalizing yeah and and then and then i went back to london and then you know that's the whole
other chapter started there because fairly quickly this play cell thing happened and then i
i abandoned what i was thinking so the i mean when john discovered the play cells i abandoned the
visual system which i had think been thinking i was going to go back to uh for you know that's a
whole that's connected to the prog work that i did i and i thought this is just too interesting
and uh we uh we started to think about what would be the implications of there being a cognitive a
tolman-like cognitive map what would what would that mean you know for how we think about the
hippocampus how we think about its role in memory how it relates to other structures in the brain how
to interpret all the data that's out there already what would it mean for all of us and uh and we sort
of you know there's a kind of an interesting theoretical framework here so but you were you were
working in the same hallway or how was it like how were you in the same office building we were in
the same hall we were like two doors from each other we were in and out of each other all the time but
neither of you were really working on hippocampus yet or you were starting to at the end of the 60s
i had done but i was not at that point i started when i showed up there i started with the intention of
physiology of vision lab where i was going to trace down visual memory traces from one hemisphere to the
other okay but i have this i have this image tell me if it's correct or not that he sort of came to
you because you had done so much work on the hippocampus already and when when he found these
at the very beginning he had seen the cells he had had his ideas already a little bit and but yeah he
came to me because you know literally it was early in the in the in the discovery look at what i'm
seeing in the hippocampus yeah you know you know something about the hippocampus you did your
dissertation on it what do you think what do you make of this it was you know just like that
and was it just immediately like oh it's definitely something with space it was immediate to him
he didn't need me to tell him what he had already seen he just wanted to you know confirmation firm
yeah and then like okay what what you know what now i jumped on it i thought this is fabulous and then
and then we very quickly saw that this would have big ramifications in the hippocampal world that this
this might offer a way of understanding you know the disjunct between animal and human stuff it opened
up lots of possibilities if one explored it and we started to explore it i don't think we at that
point understood how it could also open up sort of possibilities for thinking about the brain more
more generally more broadly a way of thinking about the brain and behavior you know that you know in
other words we were kind of making up you might say you know a framework for cognitive neuroscience
without actually thinking that's what we were doing we just imagine yeah we have to talk about that
later because there's so much there especially like you really blew my mind a little bit when you
brought up the predictive processing because i've studied that and i just hadn't really quite connected
it that mental models basically are cognitive maps and a lot of the stuff in that book actually is
already presaging a lot of what's coming up without realizing it i don't think we understood just how
but it's but it is all there the whole notion of that that's what the system is doing is constantly
predicting and then the misplay tells are the kind of prediction error detectors i mean it's all
all there although i don't think that was our intention so i don't want to take credit for it no of
course not and it's coming from different lineages because i don't think you mentioned him holds and all
this yeah it was part of the framework certainly that we that emerged because shortly after i and
i've told this story in a couple of venues where i insult i insulted the editor of psych review we had
we had initially been intending to publish in psych review so so having having insulted the pompous editor of
psych review i love that i love it that john went along with you too and just left
what else was he gonna do yeah it's good that happened because otherwise you would have had a
paper maybe instead of all these years working on you know who knows we might have ended up with a
psych review paper and you know and 35 citations and that would have been the end of it yeah but
but but that avenue having closed we then decided all right well we'll write a monograph you know
now in those days you could publish thin little monographs we'll write a monograph and we'll publish
it as a thin little monograph haha that was how it started it started as a thin 70 page monograph
and it just kept on building it just kept building because we kept on
we kept on seeing that this story had more tentacles than we we were aware of and each tentacle
tapped into a literature that if we could connect to it would strengthen the overall story because it
would be one more bit of converging evidence so to speak so we kind of again invented and didn't invent
because again other people have kind of the notion of converging operations and bringing multiple level
analysis i mean we built that in right from the start even the idea of the philosophy being
interdisciplinary the more we saw that the more it looked appealing but then the more it meant we
were going to have to at some level master the literature in five or six different areas which
is crazy i'm still blown away that you know all this about cons and so on and so forth it's really
hard but that you know in those days you could in those days you could but i'd like to tell the story
it takes years i'm looking at my at my bookshelf over here because i have re-bought pretty much all
of the books from the 1950s and 60s from the great conferences that were held those are there's on in
the space of two sections of books maybe 40 books that was all you had if you read those 40 books when
you were a graduate student you'd know everything that we had needed to know in the whole world that's
crazy now it's like that many papers in an hour now it's that many papers every week right so it's a
totally different world it was possible to somehow master even then we missed a bunch of stuff it was
possible then to get a grip on everything or at least rest everything now it would be absolutely
impossible yeah you would have so once we realized that then the next thing we knew we were in the middle
of a six-year project to write a book we didn't think it would take that long we didn't anticipate
we didn't anticipate all the ups and downs personal and otherwise that would get in the way
we didn't um we wrote a first draft we wrote many drafts typed out by hand in those days oh
do you have a little olivetti typewriter if you know that name olivetti was very famous back in the
1960s college kids they were cheap and available olivetti do you still have any of them anyway you
better put them in an archive or something john has them hey john has file cabinets full of them because
we put them on different colored paper they're all going to we think they're all going to end up at the
welcome at the welcome institute for the history of science in london he's he's negotiating for
what's happening with those they're the you know i have one he gave me one chapter the chapter on
anatomy so i can track a little bit and you know we he and i have been going back and forth but anyway
it's it doesn't matter as long as they end up somewhere yeah as long as somebody as long as they're
there we ended up with a draft that we thought might be worth getting some feedback on it was about 300
typewritten pages we paid for 40 copies of that 300 pages and we sent them we sent it around
unbidden to a bunch of experts in the various fields that we had to philosophers to
psycholinguists to hippocampal people who knew about it a little bit yeah we just sent it out for
commentary and we got comments back from a lot of people a lot of useful feedback and then it took
another four or five years to to finish it to finish the job sending it out on the manuscript or how did
that some did some didn't some some took some of what we said and plagiarized it i mean who knows
we took a big chance we had to hold that out it was a yeah i don't know that one could get away
with doing anything like that now yeah probably not but yeah and during this time we also didn't
publish we also didn't publish very much yeah i guess not how could you but i guess you were
taken care of in a way that you didn't have to so much at that we're sort of protected yeah so that's
the story behind the book there's a lot more yeah we got we'll get into that later i think that you
go for i'm i'm out of the country now for for three weeks well you know i'll be in Amsterdam for a few
days over there and then i'll be if you all need anything but i'm going to the states to present some
papers so we're switching places we'll only be uh we'll only be there for three days it's really just
to see the community i'll connect with you again all right how did you talk so much
