We're also interested in stuff that, in principle, could never be made conscious.
This idea of equipment becoming transparent
is a marker of when we're using equipment in a skilled and hitch-free manner.
When things break, we have to start concentrating on them as independent entities.
What we first hear is the motorcycle.
We don't hear a raw sound. We hear the bike.
We don't experience the entity as an object.
We don't experience ourselves as a subject either.
Just as the entity disappears, so do we.
The kind of robots that were built in the traditional view
were really clunky, they were really slow, they broke down really easy.
When the violinist plays a cracking concerto,
a lot of her intelligence is not in her brain, but in her fingers, in the muscles.
A lot of the interesting stuff that happened in robotics
was how things that look like really difficult cognitive problems
are only difficult cognitive problems if you split the subject and object up
and think the subject has to build a model of the world in order to do anything.
If you want to understand human emotions, listen to Wagner, don't listen to psychologists.
Hey, everyone. Welcome back to Love and Philosophy.
Sorry if I sound a bit weird.
I've had a cold, but I just have to go ahead and record this
because you can't always wait.
For those of you who are new here, you're listening to Love and Philosophy.
I started as a research podcast
relative to a bunch of work I'm doing, both in academia and not in academia.
I'm a little unorthodox, but also orthodox.
In any case, that sort of is this podcast as well,
because it's hard to fit into a box.
You can put it in the box of Love and Philosophy, but that's about it,
because we talk about a lot of heavy subjects relative to just life in general,
but also neuroscience and philosophy
and just this quest to get through life in the best way
and also understand what we are and what's going on here
and how we can better connect to one another
and to this incredible world around us.
Today, we have this really cool discussion
between Mirko Prokop and Michael Wheeler.
Mike Wheeler is a philosopher.
You'll hear a longer introduction coming up soon,
but he's working as part of the Sterling Philosophy Unit
in the research cluster of mind and knowledge.
His primary research interests are philosophy of science,
especially cognitive science and artificial intelligence, biology.
Mirko is interviewing Mike.
You might remember Mirko from a conversation we had about Elizabeth Anscombe,
which is relative to his PhD work, as is this conversation.
So he's doing this one today. He might be doing some others in the future.
You'll hear they talk a lot about Heidegger here.
They talk about phenomenology and Heideggerian robots
and cognitive science, authenticity.
There's a lot here. It's very deep,
and their conversation goes really into wonderful themes
that are in part of Mike's book, which you can find in the show notes.
If you want to know even more about this, because there's a lot more
that can be said in a two-hour conversation.
So I hope you enjoy this.
Big thanks to Mirko and to Mike for this great conversation.
And you can support love and philosophy all over the place if you want to.
There's a lot of opportunities. It really helps.
Hope you're doing well wherever you're making your way.
I send you lots of love today, and I hope you don't sound as I sound.
Hope you don't have any cold wherever you are today.
But I'm feeling so much better today. I'm so happy.
It's amazing after you have a cold, or it was more than a cold.
But after you've been sick, when you finally start feeling better again,
you just love life. It's wonderful.
And I just love life, and I love this conversation.
And I hope you do, too. Thanks for being here.
Well, hi, Mike.
Great to have you.
Thank you so much for accepting coming to come on the podcast.
Yes, so for the listeners, I'm very happy to be talking to Michael Wheeler,
who's a professor of philosophy at the University of Stirling.
Yeah, and hopefully get to talk about phenomenology
and the relationship to cognitive science
and some more recent things you've been working on.
But maybe before we get into these issues,
you could tell us a little bit about how you became interested in philosophy
in the first place and what you've been doing since then.
Yeah, sure.
So I sort of self-identify mainly as a philosopher of cognitive science.
And I guess one of the things that's associated with my work in cognitive science
is bringing Heidegger and phenomenology into contact with cognitive science.
And we'll be talking about that as we go on.
But my sort of first interest in philosophy
was in philosophy of artificial intelligence,
which is still a topic I'm interested in, obviously,
intimately related with the philosophy of cognitive science.
And actually, just to say, the story about how that happened,
I didn't go to university until I was in my late 20s, had another life.
And one night I came in from the pub, in fact,
and it was the old days when there weren't many TV channels.
I channel hopped the three or four channels that were available.
And I just came across John Searle, the philosopher,
talking to Geoff Hinton, the AI programmer,
about artificial intelligence.
And many viewers of this podcast will know
John Searle is mostly associated in many ways
with his critique of whether or not we could produce
a genuinely intelligent, conscious thinking machine.
And I just became really interested in that interchange
between Hinton and Searle.
And I was starting to think then about going to university
and starting to think about doing philosophy,
but I hadn't made the decision.
But on the back of watching that TV programme,
I decided to do philosophy.
I decided to do philosophy that interacted with artificial intelligence.
So I actually sought out where I could do a degree
that was about 50% philosophy and about 50% AI.
And I went to Sussex and did a degree that was about 50% each,
a bit more philosophy than AI.
And that was the beginning of it, really.
And while I was there, I did my degree
in the School of Cognitive and Computing Sciences,
as it was then at Sussex.
So I was brought into contact with empirical work in psychology
and linguistics and so on.
And I just went on from there.
And after that, I did my PhD at Sussex
with Maggie Bowden as my supervisor.
And that's where I first started work
on the Heidegger and cognitive science stuff.
That was my PhD thesis.
And then went on from there to do postdocs
and ended up as professor of philosophy at Stirling.
So that's the sort of story.
And as I say, I really sort of sourced my academic profile,
my intellectual profile, back to Sussex, really,
because the fantastic thing about Sussex at that time
was not only was there this close interaction
between philosophy and artificial intelligence
and cognitive psychology,
there was also a lot of interaction
between analytic and continental philosophers.
And that was quite unusual
on the British philosophical scene of the time.
It's a bit better now.
At the time, it was the philosophy in the continental tradition
and the philosophy in the analytic tradition
tended to be quite siloed from each other
and quite hostile sometimes,
the relationship between these two great traditions.
So on the one side, people like Heidegger and Murdo Ponti and Sartre,
and on the other side, the great spanalytic philosophy,
the Putnams and the Quines and so on.
And it really did feel as if these were very different intellectual islands.
But at Sussex, they were talking to each other.
And that's how I started to get interested in phenomenology.
And then that timed with the release of The Embodied Mind
by Varela Thompson and Roche,
a conic book in the history of contemporary cognitive science,
which also drew on some continental ideas,
particularly Murdo Ponti.
And so that book became an influence on me as well.
And that was really the springboard for the stuff that I do now.
There must have been also a really rich environment there at Sussex.
And I still also remember from my time
studying my undergraduate at the University of Hamburg,
which is still, I think, a fairly analytic department
that sort of phenomenology and Heidegger and these kinds of issues
were not really regarded as worthwhile studying by many people.
So it's really, I mean, in preparation for this programme,
I've been reading a bit through your book,
Reconstructing the Cognitive World,
which was published in 2005, I think, with MIT Press.
And it's really nice to see how you try to sort of bridge
these different traditions and also bring in
what was then cutting-edge research and cognitive science.
I guess things have also moved on since then a little bit.
Yeah, so maybe we can start with just giving,
sort of trying to get a very general idea of phenomenology,
what this is about as a tradition and maybe a kind of method.
Sure. So I think what's quite useful in this respect
is to start with how the term phenomenology gets used
not within the continental tradition, which is where I draw from,
but the analytic tradition.
So typically when someone talks about phenomenology
in the analytic tradition,
what they're focusing on is first-person experience.
We talk about the phenomenology of a situation,
which would be the character of my experience in that situation,
and what it's like for me to see red,
what it's like for me to hear a bell, so on and so forth.
And if someone then thought about what will be a method around that,
when we'll be talking about, well, describing your first-person experience.
And I think that's a starting point
for thinking about how the term gets used in concept of philosophy,
but it's not the end of the story.
And quite regularly within the analytic tradition,
and also within some of the sciences, the cognitive sciences,
that are connected mostly with the analytic tradition,
that's when people sort of stop.
They think, well, phenomenology, that's first-person experience,
so describing your phenomenology
would be just a description of that experience.
And the thing that happens then quite regularly, you see,
is that people then think, well, it's useless to cognitive science, right?
Because there's lots of really well-established empirical psychology
which questions whether or not our own introspective reports
of our own experience are really reliable
as to what's going on in our minds.
There's many experiments which show that, for instance,
we will describe what our reasons are for doing something,
but we show that we can show via the experiment
that we're actually confabulating,
we're making up reasons that couldn't be right, and so on.
So in cognitive science, that idea of phenomenology,
a kind of introspective report on one's first-person experience,
is thought of as, often, anyway, thought of as not very useful
for finding out what's going on in the mind.
So that can be a kind of controversial starting point.
If one says one's interested in phenomenology,
often within mainstream psychology and so on,
it's greeted with a certain amount of hostility.
Although I should say that introspection recently
has had a bit of an upturn in psychology and in analytic philosophy,
but that's another story.
I guess one of the main building blocks of William James' way of thinking
about psychology as one of the fathers of the tradition or the discipline, no?
No, absolutely. Absolutely.
And introspection initially played a very important role
in the founding of psychology as a discipline,
but psychology has kind of left those roots behind historically.
I mean, what is important, I think, to point out
is that within cognitive science,
of course, there's the conscious experiences that we have
when we have thoughts and perceptions and so on,
emotions and so on.
But we're also interested not only in the unconscious,
in the sense of a, broadly speaking, Freudian-style unconscious,
i.e. unconscious stuff that's going on that we could bring to consciousness
if we had the right techniques.
We're also interested in stuff that in principle
could never be made conscious.
So it doesn't matter how much meditation you do
and how much psychoanalysis you have,
you're not going to make available to your consciousness
what's going on in really early vision, right?
When the first processes happen,
that transmit light intensity differences on the retina
into the first kind of information that we have access to
when we behave intelligently in the environment.
Nevertheless, that, what goes on in early vision,
is really important in cognitive science.
We're really interested in that kind of process.
So it's important, I think, for people who come from philosophy
to understand that in cognitive science,
we're interested in the conscious, the unconscious, and the non-conscious.
That all plays a role in cognitive science.
And that's another reason for thinking that introspection
is a kind of limited and sometimes misleading kind of guide
to what's going on.
What's important, though, is when we turn to phenomenology
in the continental tradition.
So here we're thinking, you know, there are precursors to this, of course,
but we're particularly thinking of what happened
when Husserl started to work
and then Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and so on.
So people in that kind of tradition in continental philosophy,
there, that idea that we start with first-person experience
absolutely is still the centrepiece.
And so what we're doing when we begin
is we're thinking about our own experience,
we're trying to get an accurate description of that experience,
and all that's kind of shared, if you like,
with phenomenology in the analytic tradition.
But the thought, I think, and this, I think, for me,
characterises phenomenology most generally,
is that the way we engage with first-person experience
as a philosopher when we're doing continental philosophy,
continental phenomenology as a method,
we're not stopping there.
That's the beginning of a kind of,
I don't know whether to call it a theoretical or a meta-theoretical process,
where the target, in a pretty Kantian register to start with,
the target is to understand the underlying conditions,
one might say the a priori conditions,
that have to be or are in place
to explain why the experience we have is the way that it is.
Right? And so if we think about Kant, for instance,
as a kind of precursor to this, you know,
Kant tells us that the structure of space and time
has this kind of a priori structures with respect to experience.
All experience has to happen in space and time.
What's different with Heidegger, I think,
is that when he's got his Kantian hat, right, in phenomenology,
so he is looking for the transcendental conditions
that explain why our experience is the way it is.
He's definitely doing that.
But his notion of the transcendental is different.
In Kant, you know, space and time is,
they're the kind of intuitions of structure experience for all human beings.
And for Heidegger, there's a sort of element in which that's true, right?
It's still true for Heidegger, at least time in the early Heidegger
and perhaps space in later Heidegger play these kind of roles.
But what he thinks is that there are transcendental conditions
that are historicized, right?
So the transcendental conditions are, as it were, deeply held
or deeply positioned with respect to the structural experience.
Features that mean that our experience is the way it is,
but that can change over time and can change from one culture to another,
can change historically.
So the transcendental becomes historicized
and that's a really important aspect of more contemporary phenomenology
in the Heideggerian tradition.
So the idea is that I grew up in a culture
and I grew up at a moment in history
and there's all these deep structures that structure the way my experience is.
That, in a way, I've been initiated into as a result of my culturation.
So they're in place, they're a priori, with respect to,
they're in place in advance of any experience
that I as an individual might have now.
But they're not timeless, they can change over historical time.
And that feature of the transcendental, the historicization of the transcendental,
is an important feature of phenomenology as someone like Heidegger.
Okay, that's very interesting.
I'm just sort of starting to get interested in Heidegger,
but it's true that in Kant you really notice this kind of universalist ambition
of trying to find the sort of universal structures of thought
and also something that I guess transfers to his moral philosophy
with the categorical imperative and so on.
So this idea that there are these structures
that are a priori common to all human beings in some sense.
And I think a lot of what you said regarding Heidegger
about this historicizing aspect probably also quite related to things.
I'm hoping to talk about authenticity and his idea of Dasein as being in the world.
One thing to note in Heidegger,
I think it's true that there's a tension in Heidegger that's never really resolved,
at least I can't see it ever being resolved,
between what looks like every now and then a kind of universalist statement.
So he still thinks that temporality is a kind of universal structure.
It's just that what counts as what goes in the dimensions of temporality
can be historically different for different epochs and so on.
That would take a lot of explaining.
But the important point is I think Heidegger gets a call
between his sort of Kantian past, he was a Kantian scholar in those days,
which would have that universalizing kind of impetus
and what he comes to believe is true,
which is that there's historicization of the transcendental.
And I think he never really kind of resolves that tension,
it's just there in Heidegger.
And different Heideggerian scholars will emphasize one side or the other of that.
So some scholars get much more into the idea
of Heidegger as a kind of transcendental phenomenology.
And others focusing on these kind of cultural conditions
often think of Heidegger more in what's called a kind of hermeneutic way.
And Heidegger is explicit about this, that we as theorists, we as philosophers,
we are caught inside a hermeneutic circle.
So when we come to say, I'm going to now do some work philosophically
on understanding how experience is
and what the conditions are for experience to be the way that it is,
we are inside a kind of hermeneutic circle.
We bring our own structures to the table
as part of the way in which we do that theoretical work.
So we can't get out of that circle,
we can make it more or less profitable in the way that we deal with it.
And as Heidegger sometimes puts it, the trick is not to get out of the circle,
it's to kind of get into it in the right way.
I used to realise that those cultural conditions that we live in
are part of the deep sort of philosophical structures
that we bring to the table when we do theoretical work in philosophy.
So the more you interpret Heidegger that way,
the more you get this idea that you're never really going to reach
a kind of universalised fixed point in philosophy,
telling us the way it is.
Because the way that it is is always challengeable
based on difficult conditions or historicalisation.
And I think he never really resolves those two differences.
I was thinking, I mean, because in Heidegger,
he seems to kind of build up his position in contrast
to some of the things that Descartes said
and his still very long-lasting influence
in the way in which we think about the place of human beings in the world
and the cognitive subject and agency and things like that.
So since we've already started talking about Heidegger,
I'm not sure if it's fair to say that all the phenomenologists
see themselves as sort of building a project in contrast to Descartes.
And I think, for example, Heidegger criticised Husserl
for being, in some sense, Cartesian, you know.
But maybe we can try to unpack that a little bit,
in which sense maybe Heidegger's view
of the way in which the subject is related to the world
and already always finds itself in a meaningful relationship
and in a kind of projective relationship
is maybe quite different in the way that Descartes approached the subject.
Absolutely.
I mean, so there's different ways in which one can talk about
the anti-Cartesianism of Heidegger,
depending on what one's interests are.
So I'm going to say some stuff that already, I think,
signals where it might go in cognitive science.
So if we think about how Descartes thinks about the human subject,
or let's put it this way,
let's think about what the fundamentals are
of our relationship with the world.
Let's put it that way.
If we think about what the fundamentals are
of our relationship with the world,
for Heidegger, he's going to disagree with a really central aspect
of Descartes' work,
which is that we relate to the world always as a subject to a world of objects.
And for Descartes, that's just the way things are.
And you can see that, obviously, in, you know,
everyone's going to know a bit of Descartes here.
You know, we've got sort of substance dualism,
which separates the mind as a substance from the world as a substance,
where the world is, you know, points of pure extension and so on.
The mind is essentially conscious.
And we have this deep split between mind and world.
And that gives us the idea of essentially the human subject on one side
and essentially a world of objects on the other.
Now, as soon as I say that, that's a caricature of Descartes, right?
Because I have to say, I mean, something that I hope comes over
in Reconstructing the Cognitive World
and something that I've tried to make clear in subsequent writings on Descartes.
Descartes actually has quite a subtle understanding
of the relationship between mind and body.
The sort of what we learn in first year undergraduate philosophy
about mind-body dualism.
Not really Descartes' view, right?
He has a very subtle understanding of certain mental states,
what he calls the passions of the soul,
that are dependent on the body in a very deep way.
In fact, even in The Meditations,
the book that we tend to study first when we learn about Descartes,
in the Sixth Meditation, he talks about the relationship
between mind and body,
such that we have a kind of mind-body unity as a human being.
All that said, and that's true,
we have to be careful not to allow a caricature to run away with us,
it's still true for Descartes that there's this essential part of human being,
which is the conscious mind,
that's separated ontologically from the world of objects.
And it still remains, whatever the complexities of that relationship,
it's still true that the body, for Descartes,
is part of the physical machine that's on the side of objects.
So this kind of dualism is really deeply written, as we know in Descartes,
even if it's more subtle than most people say.
And because of that, we have this fundamental idea
of the relationship between mind and world as subjects against objects.
What it is to know the world is as a subject to come to know the world of objects.
And what it is to be in the world is to construct a series of, for Descartes,
representations of that world of objects in the mind.
So we've already got some really deep things going on here.
We've got the idea that the mind-world relationship for Descartes,
the subject-world relationship, is this fundamental dichotomy.
And we have the idea of how one bridges that gap
when one comes to know things or believe things about the world.
One forms representations of the world.
And Descartes is very clear about this,
the notion of an idea is central to Descartes' understanding of what it is to know.
So we have in Descartes these deep structures.
And in fact, there's even more that one could say
about what's packed into the idea of the Cartesian mind.
And as I say, looking forward to something we might talk about in a moment,
I think when one unpacks a lot of the things Descartes thought about the mind,
here's a really important fact.
You can deny substance dualism
and still be fundamentally a Cartesian, right?
You can deny that there's this ontological split between mind and world,
where world includes the body,
but still believe that what's going on here is based on a subject-object dichotomy,
that we come to know the world through representations,
that that's how the subject accesses the world through these representations.
And that sort of idea is behind a lot of contemporary philosophy of mind
in the analytic tradition.
I mean, just to give an example of how that gets played out,
we think about computational theories in cognitive science,
we say things like, well, it's the manipulation of representations.
That's what goes on.
Obviously, there are other things going on here.
The mind's a kind of inner realm compared to an outer realm of objects.
There's how this all works in terms of certain kinds of inputs
coming into the mind from the world via perception,
which are then processed by the mind,
and then that produces guidance, as it were, to the body
about what to do in the world.
Again, Descartes says some quite subtle things about that,
but that's the sort of character.
So there's all this stuff going on in how the Cartesian mind works,
and more particularly in how the Cartesian mind accesses the world,
that's independent of substance dualism.
Part of that independence also becomes a kind of independence
of thinking about the mind in an explanatory way compared to the body.
It's like, if you think about how computational theories in cognitive science work,
then we understand the computations.
The algorithms, the rules that govern the thinking.
And in cognitive science,
that was often thought to be something you could do
without caring about exactly how the physical body worked.
The physical body was just a kind of implementation strata
for all that algorithmic processing that was independent of the body.
So you still get this independence of mind from body
in terms of the explanatory projects of cognitive science.
So putting all that on one side, but then we turn to Heidegger.
Things look really different for Heidegger.
This is where I think we have to cross over into some of Heidegger's technical terminology.
But starting, for instance, with how he thinks about the human,
or what it is distinctively to be human.
He uses a new term, he introduces a neologism,
dacite, their being, or being there, for what it is to be human.
And that's a conscious decision that he makes, introducing that kind of terminology,
because he thinks we need a different language.
Now, in Heidegger's scholarship, there's a certain amount of...
What's the right word?
Difference of opinion, say, about whether we should think of dacite
as a fundamental rewriting of the notion of a subject,
or whether we should think about dacite as a structure
that is not fundamentally a subject-object structure.
I'll come back to what not fundamentally means there.
I prefer the latter route.
That's the route that certainly people like, you know,
Dreyfuss and other Heidegger scholars take.
So I don't like to think about dacite as a subject, essentially.
Dacite is a way of being in the world
that is not fundamentally based on a subject-object dichotomy.
So immediately, we have this difference with Descartes.
Sorry, if I can just...
I mean, one thing that I found,
thinking about the difference between Descartes and Heidegger,
in some sense also that Descartes is mainly interested
in what you might call epistemology, right?
The idea of how we gain access or knowledge of the world.
And that's, in some sense, because he starts with this idea of a subject
being different from an objective reality, right?
Yeah.
Whereas Heidegger, as he says, is more interested in ontology,
or this idea of the nature of being, of sein.
And he just kind of starts from the idea that meaning...
You know, we have a meaningful relationship to the world,
and so he wants to understand how that's possible.
I think with one caveat,
I think that's a useful way of looking at it.
I mean, the caveat is just that...
I think there's a tendency to think of Descartes
as, you know, we think about Descartes doing epistemology, right?
He's talking about what it is to have justified beliefs about the world.
But I don't think... I mean, Descartes is as much a metaphysician
as he is an epistemologist, and contemporary Descartes scholarship
often focuses more on the metaphysics than the epistemology.
So Descartes is interested, I mean, you know,
he's interested in the real distinction between mind and body,
you know, and what exists, right?
And the answer to that is mind, body and God, right?
And so...
So I think we should see Descartes doing metaphysics now.
Now, metaphysics is not necessarily the same thing as ontology,
as that's understood within the Heideggerian tradition.
So just to be that small clarification,
what I would say, you're right.
So Heidegger...
For Descartes, getting yourself into a meaningful world
is a kind of an achievement, right?
It's something that we have to achieve somehow.
Because we start with the subject-object dichotomy
of a split up from the world,
in order to get into the world in some way,
we have to somehow achieve something.
We have to get some beliefs that match up with the world
in an accurate, representational way.
Heidegger starts from the position
where we're just in a meaningful world.
We find ourselves in a meaningful world at every moment.
And of course, that's what experience tells us, right?
If we think about what Descartes goes through,
of course, Descartes would agree with this in a sense.
But it's not as if we find ourselves
in a world that's meaningless to us most of the time.
We find ourselves in a world that makes perfect sense to us.
A world of microphones and cameras and laptops
and whatever else is on my son's desk
since I'm recording in his room.
And that's the world we find ourselves in.
We don't experience being in the world
as a kind of epistemic achievement.
We just experience, we start with us,
as Heidegger sometimes puts it,
we're thrown into a world of meaning.
We find ourselves, we always already find ourselves,
in a phrase that Dreyfus likes, in a world of meaning.
And that's what the phenomenological experience is like.
So for Heidegger, that's where we start.
And what happens here is,
it's a bit crude to think of it as a simple reversal.
But whereas for Descartes, we kind of start in a meaningless world
and we have to kind of bootstrap our way into it somehow epistemically,
for Heidegger, we start in a meaningful world.
And if we find the world to be a strange meaning in this place,
that's a kind of weird moment.
And it's quite those, they're actually quite important moments for Heidegger.
But that's not how we normally experience things.
So if we want to use our experience as a guide,
we have to start, according to Heidegger,
from this experience of being thrown into a meaningful world.
Yeah, great. I think this takes us really into some of the things
I wanted to quiz you about a bit more.
I mean, you've already mentioned this term, Dasein,
and as Heidegger's term for talking about maybe human existence or human agency.
And maybe to try to make sense of what exactly he means by that,
we could talk a bit about what he means by the study of equipment.
So in the German term is Zeug,
which I think just pretty self-consciously chooses that term
to mark a difference to the idea of things or objects
and the way that Descartes, for example, thought about them.
So why does he talk about equipment
and how does it relate to this idea of being in an always already meaningful context?
So for Heidegger, when we characterise this finding ourselves
already in a world of meaning,
the way he starts to get a grip on that in the early pages of being in time
in what's called the existential analytic
is to think about what that experience is like
and what entities are like when they're experienced as meaningful.
And that's when he introduces this term that the great Heidegger translators,
McCrory and Robinson, translate as equipment.
And I think they choose that carefully
because the idea is that we're in a world of things that matter to us for our projects.
So to use Heidegger's much overused example,
which I don't mind using even though it's kind of cliched now,
he's like this example of the carpenter and the carpenter's hammer.
So when the carpenter experiences the world,
he doesn't experience an object with certain kind of properties
of a certain weight, of a certain mass, of a certain colour,
made of wood and metal and so on.
That's not how he experiences the hammer.
He experiences the hammer as something to do carpentry with,
I as a piece of equipment.
And so for Heidegger, that's where we start.
We start with a world that's meaningful in terms of a world of equipment.
Now, something really important about this.
This is really an essential kind of aspect of the Heideggerian position.
He also doesn't think we experience equipment,
if we want to understand the significance of equipment, as meaningful to us.
And that's the experience of the entities with which, as he puts it,
we're in most proximal contact.
Right, so the entities that are meaningful to us.
What's important is we don't experience them as isolated.
So we think about Cartesian notion of an object.
It's kind of an isolated thing.
And if we want to say why this piece of pure extension
is the kind of equipment that it is,
we start with this thing that takes up a certain amount of space,
and then we introduce what Heidegger sometimes calls function predicates,
or value predicates.
And that's the idea that we say, well, it's this object,
it's this physical object, and it's for these certain things.
So fundamentally, we think of its fundamental way of being
as just a physical object with certain properties,
like size, weight, mass, made of certain materials.
And then we say an object of that kind has function,
such that it can fulfil this role as a hammer.
Heidegger starts with the idea that we just experience it as a hammer.
And in playing out what that means,
we get a really important part of Heidegger's position.
He calls the sort of roles that equipment plays in our world
involvements, okay, in the translation.
And an involvement is not a standalone structure.
It's like a referential structure.
Each piece of equipment points to other equipment.
So to experience something as a hammer
is in part to have a grip on its relations to lots of other things.
Now, immediately, you're going to say, well, it's the workbench,
it's the nails, that's the kind of world of the hammer, if you like.
But it doesn't stop there.
What's really important for Heidegger
is as we fill in those referential links,
we find that we start to enrich our picture
of what the significance of the equipment is
as a piece of equipment, as an item of equipment.
So, yeah, the hammer is for hammering.
And in that sense, it's related to the nails and the workbench.
But also, the hammer is related to the projects of the human user.
So it might be building a table for one's daughter
to make her bedroom better so that she has a better life
and can do her homework.
And so you're doing it fundamentally for being a parent.
So the significance of the hammer points to these kind of aspects
of what it is to be a human being.
And fundamentally, these referential links bottom out
in some deep structure of what it is to be a human being
and how human beings find the world to be meaningful.
So we have this very different holistic kind of meaning structure.
Of course, when we're using the hammer,
we're not aware of all that meaning structure, right?
And that also is really important for Heidegger.
It's that when we're using a piece of equipment
in the most proximally kind of like appropriate way,
i.e. we're using a hammer-to-hammer,
and we're not experiencing any problems with that,
it's not like we're aware of all this significance,
but somehow it's kind of sitting in the background, right?
It's part of what it is to be a human being,
is that that's what's going on here, if you like,
in a very sort of general loose term.
So that's why the notion of equipment is really important.
And again, they're sort of thinking about Heidegger and Descartes
in a kind of simple reversal relationship.
So when can we get to the idea of the hammer
as just something that's an object with a certain weight
and a certain size?
Yes, of course we can do that.
We can put the hammer down and we can say,
how much does it weigh, right?
And we can then weigh it, right? Of course we can.
But then we're treating it as an object.
When we treat it as a piece of equipment,
we're treating it as something that plays a role in our lives
as human beings.
And of course, how one feels in those referential structures,
to come back to something I said about earlier,
about the cultural inflection here,
you know, what it is for something to be a hammer
might vary from culture to culture.
You know, a certain entity might have different kind of meanings
in different structures.
One structure, you might have something that we think of as a...
I don't know, we might experience as a tree
with a certain kind of sets of meanings,
maybe it produces fruit or other.
But in another culture, we might experience it
as a place of the spirits or something like that.
So how things turn out to be equipment,
of course, natural entities can play equipment or roles as well.
Not every piece of equipment is something that we make.
It might be something that we destroy.
You can see that cultural variability
in how totalities of involvement get played out
for different human beings at different times,
in different places.
I'm actually really interested in this notion of,
I think in your book you call it involvement networks or something.
And also, I mean, Andrea and I talked about Anne Schoenbren
in an earlier episode and it's interesting
because I think it's quite similar to loads of things
that she says in her book on intention
and the structure of practical knowledge
that once you think about why am I doing this
and you keep asking the question why,
you kind of get to increasingly broad structures of meaning
until you say something like, I don't know, I'm just doing it
for the sake of being a student,
why am I talking to you and doing this podcast and so on.
And I think it's these fundamental structures
that ultimately are sort of the bedrock
of what Heidegger understands by being in the world, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
So when you fill out the...
I mean, the reason I called them involvement networks in the book
is to get this idea of the referential structure,
so it's a network of meaning.
And then you could think of how all those,
how different sets of involvement networks might fit together
to make up the life of a human being
or the meaningful world of a human being.
I think that's what Heidegger means by world
in one of his uses of the term world.
So when we talk about being in the world,
we're talking about a meaningful relationship
that's filled in in terms of these involvement networks.
And I totally agree with you, there's a crossover with Anscombe.
I suspect, in truth, that's because both of them are influenced by Aristotle.
And there's something similar going on in Aristotle.
I think in your book, you talk about these three different modes of engagement
that Heidegger distinguishes and how we deal with equipment.
So first, there is this kind of very intimate relationship
that he calls the, I think, the ready to hand, right?
The zuhanden in German.
Which is for him the most primary mode, right?
And maybe you could say a bit more about this
and how it relates to this idea of transparency.
I mean, I think you've already mentioned it in a way.
Yeah, I mean, I alluded to it, but I can say more about it.
So I think it is really important.
So if we think about the influence, again, looking slightly forward,
thinking about the influence Heidegger has had
in cognitive scientific thinking,
it's this bit of Heidegger that's probably had the biggest influence, I think.
So, again, in this part of being in time, the early part of being in time,
when he's talking about once he's set up the project to being in time,
he then launches into what people call the existential analytic,
which is when he tries to describe what it's like for us to be in the world
in ordinary, everyday context.
So I've talked a bit about that in terms of the meaning structures.
And I mentioned that when we're behaving with a piece of equipment
and we're using it skillfully and it's not playing up in any way,
that we don't really experience that equipment,
that item of equipment as a kind of independent object.
And this is really important to Heidegger.
So the term that often gets used here is this term transparency.
When we're using equipment in a skilled manner and in a hitch-free manner,
and I'll say a bit about that in a moment,
then the idea is that phenomenologically, in terms of our experience,
that entity becomes transparent to us.
So if I'm working on a paper or something and I'm typing away on my computer,
I don't really experience...
And I'd say that I'm a skilled typist to a certain degree, good enough anyway.
I'm not really concentrating on my hand movements,
I'm not really concentrating on the keys,
I'm not really concentrating on the screen.
It's like I can experience... I go through that, it's transparent to me.
What I'm concentrating on is the project, right?
On the writing, on the paper, on the ideas.
And similarly, Heidegger's example of the carpenter.
When the carpenter's building the desk, in the example I used before,
they're not really concentrating on the hammer, right?
They're skilled users of the hammer, the hammer becomes transparent,
and they'll be thinking about the task.
So this idea of equipment becoming transparent
is a marker of when we're using equipment in a skilled and hitch-free manner.
Now, if we're not a skilled user of the equipment,
then it will be a problem for us.
We'll have to concentrate on how to use the hammer,
we'll have to concentrate on how to type,
because we're not very good at it, right?
So then we are concentrating on the keyboard as well, right?
At least as well.
The other examples in which we start to concentrate on entities
as independent of us, as not transparent,
is when things break or malfunction, or get in the way, or are missing.
So Heidegger calls these disturbances,
and whereas in the case where we're using equipment in a hitch-free manner,
he calls that readiness to hand,
when things break,
he introduces a new phenomenological category called unreadiness to hand.
Now, when things break, we have to start concentrating on them
as independent entities, right?
We might need to... I've knocked loads of coffee over on my keyboard,
suddenly I'm reaching around to find something to clean the keyboard,
to clean the computer, to make sure it continues to work.
Or the head flies off the hammer.
I've got to either fix the hammer or find a new hammer or something.
Or even if the hammer's not really working for me,
it might be too heavy for the job.
So there's lots of ways in which equipment can fail to become transparent.
In those circumstances, we have this mode of being,
or mode of encounter, as I call it in the book,
that Heidegger calls unreadiness to hand.
Crucial thing about unreadiness to hand
is that we still make sense of what's going on
within the network of involvements, right?
So this is a computer that's now broken.
So what actually strikes me at this moment
when my computer keys start to play up
because they're sticky from the coffee, right?
Well, what starts to show up to me is
the laptop is something I'm using in order to write a paper.
But it goes beyond that.
It's now affecting my capacity to perform as an academic.
So the whole of that network of links that goes from the typing
to the screen, to the paper, to me delivering the paper on time,
to what that will mean for my career as an academic,
and how I make sense of myself as an academic,
all that now gets sort of lit up.
And I now can see all that structure in place.
So when equipment fails to be transparent due to a breakdown,
it's not merely the entity that now, as it were, lights up for me,
or becomes present to me, not transparent any longer.
It's rather that all that network of significance gets lit up.
And we can go further than that.
So in some cases, this might mean just an adjustment to my behaviour,
and I can fix it nice and quickly.
But sometimes things might break to an extent
where I can just have to treat them now as a physical object.
So I might have to fix the hammer,
which might mean doing certain things that I might need to know
what it's made of and so on, things like that.
So at a certain point, an object, an entity,
can be so disentangled from that network of significance
that it just sits there like a Cartesian object, right?
But that's not our primary way of engaging with the object,
of encountering the object.
That's the way that happens when things aren't working.
Now, you know, that's the final reversal, right?
This idea that suddenly we can see the Cartesian objects,
but they're like unusual circumstances.
There's a nice bit where Heidegger says at one point in Being in Time,
and the reason I say this is because it's not really just the object,
but sort of things that we might previously in the history of philosophy
taken to be fundamental,
turn out to be private or secondary,
or, you know, white things that we experience
only when things are in a weird state.
So Heidegger says, you know, what we first hear is the motorcycle.
We don't hear a raw sound. We hear the bike.
We hear the motorcycle.
Of course, as a philosopher, I can sit down
and get myself into a really weird state of mind
where all I hear is a raw noise.
Of course I can do that.
Sense data. I can experience the sense data, you know?
But that for Heidegger, that's not our fundamental way of being in the world.
And for Descartes, of course, people in the Cartesian tradition
and the empiricists who come after Descartes,
there's a sense in which that kind of raw piece of sense data
is the building block of our being in the world.
But for Heidegger, that's just a kind of...
It's a side effect of what happens either when things break
and one has to think about things as having certain kinds of raw properties,
or when one gets oneself into a certain philosophical state of mind
where that's what one experiences.
But that's not to describe our fundamental way of being in the world.
That's to describe some weird secondary state.
So that's where you get the full distinction coming out.
That relates also to what in your book I think you refer to as the...
the primacy of online intelligence, right?
Which is something that Dreyfus also picks up.
But this idea for Heidegger that...
that what he calls the ready-to-hand,
what you just explained, is in some way more fundamental and primary
to our more detached, disengaged modes of dealing with objects in the world.
One thing I should tell you, this primacy of online intelligence,
as I started to develop these ideas in relation to cognitive science,
of course, as I always say, Dreyfus was the...
We ended up disagreeing about something, we might come back to that later,
but Dreyfus was very much a kind of inspiration in the way that he read Heidegger.
And Dreyfus, as an interpreter of Heidegger,
we might think it was broadly with a kind of pragmatist tradition
of interpreting Heidegger.
And some Heidegger scholars really don't like that.
And so, in some ways, this primacy of online intelligence,
the primacy of the practical,
so the fact that what we really want to understand,
to understand our most natural, if you like, way of being in the world,
is this kind of skilled practical intelligence
that the Scarp interacts, that the typist has, and so on.
And that when we come to reflect on things in a detached way,
that only happens in these kind of unusual cases.
We can do it as a philosopher, of course we can.
We can reflect on the world's world objects.
It's probably the way of engaging with the world
that's the fundamentals of a lot of science.
There's a lot to be said about a kind of Heideggerian philosophy of science.
Maybe not the place to do it, but it's not that these...
It's very important, I think, that although Heidegger talks about
our engagement with equipment in this skilled way,
what I call the online intelligence,
as our most proximal way of engaging with entities,
I think these days I would pull myself slightly away
from that strongly Dreyfusian pragmatist tradition
and think that actually it's not as if the present at hand is...
Sorry, the present at hand, I haven't mentioned that,
but that's the term that Heidegger uses
when we really do experience things as independent objects
with sets of context-independent properties
like weight and mass and size and so on.
It's not... I think these days I want to say
that's still a really important part of being human, right?
That we can do that.
It's the fundamentals of science, fundamentals of philosophy.
Okay, it might be that that fact that we can do that
has misled us in our philosophy
towards a wrong picture of our relationship with the world.
But the fact that we can do it
is still, of course, a really important part of what it is to be human.
I think when I talk about the primacy of online intelligence,
I think I probably overplay it a little bit
in reconstructing the world to what I would do now.
But I think it is definitely there.
I think it's important to mention that probably
this ready-to-hand mode of engagement for Heidegger
is something that's probably not that common
in our everyday experience.
Probably, I think one thing that I liked about your way of explaining it
is that if you have these two extremes,
the ready-to-hand and the present-to-hand,
you have this kind of spectrum in between
of this third mode of engagement of the unready-to-hand
where you're still engaged in a practical activity
in trying to achieve something like writing a paper.
So you haven't really given up yet on your project.
But you're still in a sense that there's a gap opening
between you and the object
because it's not really fully transparent
in the way that it would be
if you were just fully skillfully coping with it.
And that brings out a nice thing, actually,
which is that what we can gradually see,
in the case where the entity is transparent to us,
the thought is that's not correctly described
by a subject-object dichotomy anymore
because there's no separation between the subject and the object.
The entity here, the hammer,
is just part of this ongoing activity that is DASI.
So it's not merely that we don't experience the entity as an object.
We don't experience ourselves as a subject either.
Just as the entity disappears, so do we.
There's just the hammering.
Now, as things start to break down
or as we start to get ourselves consciously as a subject
into a state of mind where we're opening up the world differently,
then what we gradually do is establish a sort of subject-object dichotomy.
Now, I think in that unready-to-hand kind of zone,
we start out with not much of a subject-object dichotomy
and as we move through the spectrum of possible extreme breakdowns,
we gradually establish a stronger and stronger version
of the subject-object dichotomy
till we get a fully Cartesian kind of relationship with the world,
but now that's this only part of the picture.
In the best case, it's only part of the picture
and possibly, depending on how one reads Heidegger,
a secondary mode of activity.
So all that's really important, I think, in understanding this.
And I think one thing I wanted to stress,
which you alluded to there in debates with Bert Drowfus,
is that which we had after we constructed the cognitive world
in a bunch of papers.
I mean, one of the things I wanted to say there was that...
I mean, that idea that there's this fully...
this way of being where we're not aware of ourselves
and we're not aware of the entity, we're just aware of the hammering.
I think that's quite rare.
It links up with stuff that's gone on recently in various bits of psychology,
especially in sports psychology, like being in the zone in sport,
where you're not experiencing...
You're at one with your bodily movements
and your tennis racket or your squash racket or whatever it is.
And that somehow that's an example of this,
being in the zone or people quite flow sometimes,
or different versions of that.
And that's often characterised, drawing a bit on the phenomenology
of people like Merleau-Ponty and Heidegger,
as this kind of lack of a subject-object relationship.
It's this... You're just aware of the activity.
I have to say, I think the only people who can believe that about the sport
have never played sport against anybody else,
because constantly you're being disrupted, right?
And you're constantly aware of how to correct.
And I think the idea that that flow state is what you aim for in sport.
I think that's become less popular in sports psychology recently
through the work of people like John Sutton and others,
as we've re-established a kind of sense that
the world presents itself as a sort of problem that we have to solve.
So what I want to stress is that whilst I think red-innocent hand
is a really important phenomenon that does happen,
and it still might be our most fundamental way
of revealing entities as what they are, as equipment.
It may be quite rare in our actual day-to-day experience
that we get into quite that zone.
One of the things you mentioned about playing sports against someone else,
I mean, is obviously the presence of other people in our lives, right?
I mean, in a way that, you know, engaging with other people,
they're not like just objects or means to an end, right?
There's different kinds of phenomenological characters,
as well, that can be disruptive,
but maybe also in other loving relationships or something
is also more of a kind of fully engaged kind.
So this is something that, I don't know if Heidegger talks a lot about
this relationship between other people and disruption
and how it relates to our modes of being in the world.
Not really. I mean, one of the strange things about Heidegger,
I mean, there's a statement that's really important in being in time
that he says that being in the world is always being with.
But we have to be careful about how he understands that.
I think what he means by that is that all that is another way of putting the point
that all these structures through which we interpret the world
and find the world meaningful, through which the world's intelligible to us,
they're all social structures, right?
Hence, all the cultural stuff again comes back in.
So being with is that sense of not being with
in terms of being alongside other people in a loving relationship, whatever,
but it's rather this idea that we start from a shared world.
I mean, again, there's something interesting here with Descartes.
I mean, the whole problem of other minds, right, is the problem.
If we relate to other people as something where we don't really have access
to their thoughts, we have to infer them from their bodily movements that we can see,
then we get this problem about whether they're not...
Well, in the first case, can we understand what's going on in other's mind
in any accurate way?
But secondly, whether there are minds there at all, you know, really?
You know, what epistemic position are we in with respect to that?
And, of course, De Heidegger just doesn't have that problem
because everything starts from these kind of social structures.
So being with is fundamental.
And the way in which Dreyfus sometimes puts it is...
And I remember a view that I've been quite sympathetic to over the years
is the extended mind hypothesis,
where we think that minds are not tracked within the skull,
but are rather implemented or realised in structures
that go beyond the skull and skin, often associated with Clark and Chalmers,
the sort of architects, the original architects of the view.
But I remember when I defended that view,
I mean, you know, Bert Dreyfus called it trivial and contrived.
The reason for that is he thinks we need a much deeper kind of externalism
than the extended mind can ever give us, right?
We have to start from the thought that the human being is always outside of itself
because all the structures to which we make sense of the world
are social structures.
So there's no starting point from the point of the individual subject.
If we cut ourselves off as an individual subject,
that's a cutting ourselves off from our fundamental way of being,
which is inherently social and essentially social.
So that's quite an interesting sort of way of thinking about this structure of Dasein,
that it's got this radical sort of cultural externalism about it.
And I think that's the way Heidegger thinks about being with.
The idea of being alongside other people in a more kind of empirical sense,
I don't think he really...
You know, he doesn't really talk about that very much.
He says some things that are quite interesting,
which is the idea that we can only make sense of being alone
with respect to the idea that we were fundamentally social in the first place,
you know, which I think is a really nice idea.
I'm really interested in exploring that idea in more detail
in the way that we're already always in a cultural kind of world.
And maybe we can come back to that when we talk about
some of the more existential themes in Heidegger if we have time.
But maybe just because you mentioned it and it connects to something we talked about
in relation to the ready-to-hand, the extended mind
and this idea that cognition is distributed in many ways
and sort of spreads across the brain, body and environment in many ways.
Maybe you could develop that a bit more in terms of
how you think that is sort of in line with what Heidegger thinks.
Good, yeah, good.
So, what I don't think...
I mean, I've defended the extended mind hypothesis for years.
I still think it's right, but the minds are sometimes extended.
And you might think there's an easy route from Heidegger to that.
But I don't think there is an easy route.
It's not as straightforward as one might think.
It actually comes back to some of those comments
that Bert wrote in Christmas, I'll get to those.
So, the standard way of thinking about the extended mind hypothesis
is that we have these brain, body, world systems.
And normally, everybody agrees there are brain, body, world systems, right?
Doing mathematics before we throw ourselves into calculators
and iPhones and so on that can do the maths for us.
Doing maths on a piece of paper, right?
We write things down on the paper, we move symbols around on the paper.
So, doing maths, right?
Achieving a mathematical conclusion or doing mathematical reasoning.
When we do do it that way, not when we do it in our head,
as we might say with mental mathematics,
in a traditional kind of way of thinking about it.
When we think about how we do maths when we use symbols on the page,
clearly, there's a system there that's distributed over brain, body and world.
Everyone's going to agree with that.
The question is how much of that system counts strictly as cognitive.
Now, you might think this is a kind of weird question, right?
There's a cognitive achievement here doing maths
and it's achieved by a brain inside a body
and that manipulates symbols on the page, right?
Using or writing symbols using a pen.
And so, you might think the obvious answer is, well, the thinking in some...
Whatever counts as cognitive, whatever counts as mentally,
it goes on inside the brain
and there are things that support that thinking, right?
Including my bodily movements and moving the symbols around on the page.
And the theorist who thinks like that
is maintaining a certain kind of internalism about the nature of mind.
They're maintaining the thought that all the mental stuff happens in the brain.
And all the rest might be really important, but it's merely scaffolding.
Now, someone else who's got a more extended mind view
just thinks that that's not the right way to think about this.
What the extended mind theorist thinks is that, no,
actually, the cognitive here, the mental,
is itself distributed over brain, body and world.
So, the symbols on the page have as much right to count as having cognitive status,
whatever that means, come back to that, as what goes on in your brain.
The simplest way to think about this in terms of cognitive status
is whatever status we usually grant the brain in thinking,
the symbols on the page and the bodily movements when you manipulate the pen,
they all have the same status.
So, the mind, in this sense,
at least the parts of the world that realise mental processes,
that realise thinking,
are spread out over brain, body and world in such a way
that the body and the world also count as cognitive.
So, thinking happens in these distributed systems.
It doesn't just happen in the brain.
All right, great. So, that's two different views.
I haven't argued for one or the other,
but it's just to get a grip on what the two different views say.
Now, when we go back to Heidegger on equipment,
you might think, well, surely, Heidegger must, you know,
isn't there some direct route from Heidegger to the extended mind?
And I don't think there is in the obvious thought.
And this comes back to things we started with
about how phenomenology works, right?
So, of course, if Heidegger's right about the experience
of using equipment in a hitch-free way,
then when I'm using the pen and the paper and the symbols in a hitch-free way,
I won't be concentrating on the pen and the paper
and the symbols as independent entities, right?
I'll be experiencing through them to doing the maths, son.
So, that's great, right?
So, they disappeared from our unconscious experience, they're transparent.
So, it looks like the next thing you might say is,
well, then why don't they just count as part of the thinking?
But it's not obvious that one has to make that move, right?
It still might be that all the thinking here is happening internally.
It's just that the entities externally don't show up for me in my experience.
So, I don't think you can, just off of that,
I think we could take the following view.
Where we have that kind of transparency,
maybe that's an indicator or the beginnings of a story.
Maybe we're on the way to an extended mind story.
So, I think that's the way to think about it. It's not an obvious.
Now, as I said, that's to think about the extended mind
as it's usually thought about.
You know, we have some cognitive activity,
like doing mathematical reasoning,
and we use entities in the environment to achieve that,
under certain circumstances, haven't said what they really are.
We count the entities as part of the mind,
rather than as just non-cognitive supports for the mind.
Now, but I don't think there's a route from transparency on its own,
but Dreyfus might be right,
that if we adopt the whole Heideggerian framework,
then it looks like we're starting with the idea of the mind as somehow extended.
That the mind itself, we can't make sense of mind as an inner realm.
The only way to make sense of minds in the general sense,
which we use them today,
is as something that is a social entity, through and through.
So, Dreyfus thought that was a kind of existential externalism.
The idea was to make sense of minds.
We had to see minds as inherently social,
being with as an essential part of what it is to be a thinking human being.
Again, that was Dreyfus's view,
that that would give you a kind of radical externalism,
more radical, in fact, than the extended mind idea,
but it would give you something like it.
I'm not sure that follows exactly,
because it might be that the social stuff is only codifying the meanings,
but doesn't tell you where those meanings are realised,
but that would be something...
There's an extra Heideggerian...
A lovely paper on this, that goes in this direction,
is John Hoagland's epic early paper
in the full recognition movement, Mind, Embodied and Embedded,
where at the end of that paper, he talks about equipment as meaningful,
and what that means is we have to leave meaning out there in the world, right?
And that, going back to what I said about equipment,
it's not that we take this neutral entity
and then we impose functions on it from inside our mind,
but rather we experience the entity as meaningful.
Where does that meaningful come from? It comes from the social.
And then I think Hoagland's thought is,
given that that's our relationship with things,
we get a kind of externalism out of that
that would support something like an extended mind view.
But I think that that's a trickier story.
So what I would say is I don't think there's a direct route
from Heidegger's phenomenological observations about transparency
to the extended mind.
Maybe another reason for thinking why there isn't such a direct route
from Heidegger to the extended mind idea
is that, in a sense,
maybe for Heidegger, this question of where is the mind realised and so on,
coming from this interest in just being transparently involved in an activity
where you have no distinction between self-denial and object,
maybe for Heidegger, it would just be a kind of uninteresting
or misguided question to ask where...
So there's lots to be said about that
and lots of really difficult philosophical questions that come up there.
First of all, as a matter of historical bookkeeping,
I think you're absolutely right.
Heidegger wouldn't have seen this as a question that he was remotely interested in.
And in some ways, I don't know...
I think there are indications both ways in different bits of Heidegger's writing,
whether he would have thought that even if he didn't care about,
as it were, the mechanisms, where the mechanisms are
that realise mental states and processes,
even if he didn't care about that,
whether he thought that his philosophical work had implications for that.
And again, there are different views, I think, within Heidegger's scholarship.
Those people who think of themselves, I think, much more as purely thinking
about Heidegger and his importance as a philosopher,
perhaps think that those kind of questions are just, as you say,
they're orthogonal to anything that Heidegger would think was interesting.
Heidegger's not the only philosopher in that book.
People like Ryle, I think, you might have a similar kind of view about Ryle,
in the analytic tradition.
He talks a lot about how to think about mind in the concept of mind,
which looks like it might have some implications
for how we think about things that might have an extended mindy feel.
Some philosophers have argued that.
But again, you might think Ryle would think that was a kind of category error,
to even think that what he was saying
had any implications for what science and other kinds of philosophy
tell us about the mechanisms of mind.
So, clearly, that's true.
How I think about this, though,
is via the lens of a distinction that John McDowell has introduced,
which you actually alluded to part of it, this idea of...
Sorry, McDowell probably didn't introduce it.
He introduced a version of it.
The terminology was already around in people like Dennett and Hurley.
But in recently, McDowell started to talk in some papers
about what he calls the personal-subpersonal distinction.
Actually, I should say that in terms of historical bookkeeping,
since Susan Hurley was a grad student at McDowell,
she and I got it from him originally.
But in terms of writing about it,
McDowell, in a paper called...
I think it's The Content of Perception Experience,
introduces this distinction between the personal and the sub-personal.
And that distinction is, at the personal level, as he calls it,
what we want to understand is what it is for a creature
to be in touch with its environment in a meaningful way.
And he talks about that as a kind of constitutive explanation,
what it is for the phenomena of mind to be as they are,
what conditions would have to be met for that to be true.
Now, you might think that's definitely Heidegger's project,
in some description of that.
And then there's the sub-personal.
And there's the question of what one says about the sub-personal.
McDowell thinks that's the job for cognitive science, right?
Cognitive science will tell us about the mechanisms
that underpin or enable, as he calls it, enabling exclamation,
enable the phenomena that we as philosophers get a grip on
at the personal level.
But there's a really interesting question that comes up at that point.
What's the relationship between the two, right?
So, some philosophers, I think Dreyfus, Kelly, think this,
working with a kind of Heidegger,
or at least Dreyfus working with an Heidegger framework,
Kelly within a broader phenomenological framework.
I think they think the story goes like this.
We do all this neat, smart philosophical work at the personal level,
and we tell the scientists what it is to be in touch with the world
via perception.
And then the scientists go off and take that notion
and tell us how to wire up a bit of the world
such that that phenomena could be true, that could be true.
And it's like all the pressure comes from the personal to the sub-personal.
And sometimes McDowell could be read like that.
So the idea would be get your philosophy straight
and then go off and do your psychology and your cognitive science, right?
But that doesn't strike me as like a happy place to sit, right,
for lots of reasons.
So just say two things about that.
I mean, one is even within McDowell's own picture,
he has a counterexample to that.
He has this example where we do...
He likes the example for various reasons
due to the way he develops an example.
He thinks this idea of personal explanation,
I mean, although it talks about persons,
it's just a mode of explanation.
So you could do it for frogs, right?
You could say what it is for a frog to be in touch with its environment,
kind of an organismic level of explanation, if you like.
And then you could talk about the mechanisms
that enable the frog to be in touch with its environment
in the way that it is,
experiencing a world of food, you know, and so on.
And he says, look, here's the interesting thing.
We could open up the frog's head, right?
And we could have it... Let's do it one step back.
We could have an account at the personal level
that gave the frog this really rich phenomenology,
lives in a really rich world.
Then we open up the frog's head
and we find there's nothing there but a homogenous lump of jelly.
Now, we've got two possible moves at this point.
We either say, isn't it amazing what a lump of homogenous jelly can do?
That doesn't sound plausible.
What we would probably say is,
ah, we've got our constitutive explanation wrong.
We need to rethink that.
But if that's right, then there are influences
that run from the sub-personal to the personal.
So what I think is that we need to have a kind of two-way direction,
two directions of travel here.
Yes, we can do philosophical work
and we can say this is the way we think things are.
Then the sub-personal work gets done.
There'll be clashes between the two.
We'll have to sort them out. It doesn't have to be...
And this is a long, complicated story
about how one makes sense of naturalism
in the philosophy of cognitive science.
I don't think it always has to be that the philosophy gives way.
But in the end, I think we've got to have a story
such that those two match up in a way that we take to be satisfactory.
McDowell himself talks about there being a relationship
of intelligibility between the two.
Whatever that means, he doesn't feel that in, frustratingly.
Whatever that means, it's like a reflective equilibrium between the two.
It has to be that these things make sense of each other,
the constitutive and the sub-personal, the enabling.
So I think that when we talk about that flow from the personal to the sub-personal,
we don't get back to Heidegger.
So does Heidegger's framework tell us how the sub-personal mechanisms have to be?
I don't think you read it off directly.
You take that account,
you look at what sub-personal mechanisms we're getting at in cognitive science,
we see how they match up,
and we bring these things into some kind of equilibrium, ultimately.
Now, this actually leads me to what the whole pitch was,
in a sense, in reconstructing the cognitive world,
because it wasn't in reconstructing the cognitive world
that I thought we do those Heideggerian philosophy,
that tells us how things are,
and then the cognitive scientists go off
and tell us how to wire up the world to make Heidegger's position true, right?
Even though I think the two have to be brought into equilibrium of some form,
or some relationship of intelligibility.
What I thought was, actually,
there was something really interesting going on,
that the way we'd been doing cognitive science up till the 1990s,
on the whole, not everyone, but on the whole,
had had a whole bunch of theoretical structures at its base,
deep conceptual assumptions about the way things worked.
And they were, to a certain extent, by and large, with caveats, being careful,
the kind of assumptions that I talked about earlier, coming out of Descartes,
that the fundamental relationship was one of subject against object.
We needed to build representations of the world to understand the world is.
We needed to manipulate representations in thought,
which leads you to a kind of computational story.
That, basically, we have inputs from the world, sensory input,
then we do loads of internal clanking and whirring,
and that produces patterns of action, right, down the line.
So, a kind of sense, sense the world, model it,
plan in your models, and then act in the world framework.
All these things one can find in Descartes,
including the idea that we can explain cognition
without essentially appealing to the body as a kind of important structure.
The body is just a way of implementing the computational structures
that we get at through notions like algorithm and so on.
So, we get a kind of explanatory disembodiment of cognition,
not a metaphysical disembodiment, there's no substance dualism here,
it's a kind of explanatory dualism.
And while I looked around cognitive science,
that's what I saw, right, that was what was going on.
We were doing representational computational cognitive science
in a way that was kind of committed to a certain explanatory disembodiment.
I mean, just to give an example,
in that school of cognitive computing sciences,
they kind of made me the philosopher that I am,
there was no neuroscience, neuroscience was down in biology,
it wasn't thought to be relevant, right,
that was just the chemistry of stuff, the implementing base.
Okay, so that's, we have all this Cartesian stuff going on,
but then there was this new cognitive science happening
in the early 90s.
And this was coming out largely from the people who were building robots.
Now, they were, but not all,
interestingly, some of them were reading Heidegger,
particularly Phil A. Gray.
But they, but they were large,
these roboticists weren't reading Heidegger, right,
they were just building robots.
What they saw was a certain failure,
as they saw it of the representational computational view,
what I called the orthodox view,
which you can think of as a kind of Neo-Cartesian view.
They saw that as failing to explain cognition.
They were thinking that things look like this, really crudely,
this is much too crude.
Basically, cognitive science as it was then was pretty good, it seemed,
at explaining things like how we might play,
how we might solve cryptographic problems
like the famous missionary and cannibals problem in psychology,
or even playing draughts or chess, maybe.
You know, we could get explanations of that kind of thinking,
but it wasn't giving us explanations
of perhaps our most basic way of engaging with the world
in real-time action.
And in fact, the kind of robots that were built
using the traditional view were really clunky,
they were really slow, they broke down really easy.
And so these roboticists were saying,
no, we have to do things differently.
So they started to build robots where they minimised,
not got rid of altogether usually,
but they minimised notions like representation,
they changed their view of what representations had to be,
from being something that was a kind of neutral picture of a world
that we could then build a model of,
but became things that were already in some way linked to action,
so they would encode the world in terms of actions we could perform in it,
prioritising, as we mentioned earlier,
online intelligence over the kind of offline intelligence
that you might get in pure thought.
So they started to build robots that moved away
from that very set of assumptions that define the orthodox view.
They prioritised online intelligence, they minimised representation,
they started to think of cognition as a kind of dynamical system
rather than a computational system.
They didn't have a set of sort of clearly defined
different functional stages in cognition
where one sensed the world, one built a model,
one planned in the model, then one acted.
All of that got messed up in some really quite interesting
action-oriented kind of mechanisms.
When I looked at that cognitive science,
it was being done by people like Rod Brooks and Maia Matarik
and Sussex by Phil Husbands and him and Harvey and Dave Cliff and others.
What I saw was a very different way of thinking about what cognition was.
So what I did in reconstructing the cognitive world
was interpreted the fundamental structures that we would need
to understand that kind of cognitive science
as not Cartesian but as a kind of neo-Hydro-Gerian view.
So that was the move.
So the Hydro-Gerianism wasn't a kind of prescriptive,
top-down, personal level to sub-personal pressure.
It was rather making sense of cognitive science
as it was actually happening.
I think this is a really strong dialectical move
you make in the book of just kind of saying,
well, I mean, I've described the structures of human action
and thought and so on in terms of Heidegger,
but actually a lot of the stuff that's going on
is already Heideggerian in that broad sense.
I think it's a good illustration of what you mentioned maybe
of thinking about how also thinking about
the sub-personal level of explanation, if you like,
constrains or is sort of in a mutually productive relationship
with these more personal level kinds of explanations.
One thing I was thinking about when you were talking about this
is that I was recently rereading Awakenings by Oliver Sacks,
which is this sort of account of his experience
working with Parkinson patients.
I think he's actually really struggling
with exactly the same kind of distinction applied to medicine
and just kind of saying when you talk to the patient,
you're actually faced with someone with a subjective experience
in a meaningful world that is sort of shattered
in various kinds of ways.
But then as a neurologist, you're also trying to really understand
the neuro-underlying structures.
I think in the later chapters of the book,
when he sort of reflects on more broadly
his way of approaching this, both as a doctor
but also as a human being, working with these people,
he's really trying to make sense of that kind of relationship
between these different modes of thinking.
Yeah, I think that sounds very plausible to me.
And I do think this kind of,
what come to be called Heideggerian cognitive science,
I think it could be valuable way beyond my particular interest
in the robotics of the early 90s and so on.
And there have been people who have developed ideas like this
in relation to various kinds of psychopathology and things like that.
And that relationship between the person and the sub-personal
I think does become...
It's quite interesting that Heidegger himself
in the Zollikon seminars, so a much later text,
which is a kind of a set of reports of discussions
between Heidegger and some psychiatrists,
lots of these issues come up about personal and sub-personal,
not under those terms,
about what the neuropsychiatrists are doing
or psychiatrists that are doing and what Heidegger is doing.
And there's some really interesting stuff.
Actually, one of the themes that comes up
that I haven't really mentioned is...
I mentioned it in relation to Descartes but not Heidegger,
is the notion of embodiment.
And here, I think just to say something briefly about it
would be quite useful.
It's really interesting that in being in time,
Heidegger does not talk about embodiment at all.
He only mentions it once.
He says, the body, that's got a whole set of problems all of its own.
And that's all he says.
Yet, Heidegger is often thought, and it's there in my own work,
that Heidegger is someone who has been one of the
sort of influences through various people,
Dreyfus as well as myself,
on embodied cognition as a kind of way of doing things.
Now, we have this term, which I mentioned much before,
I didn't explain, Fourier cognition,
which we think of mind as embodied, embedded, extended and inactive.
We've talked a bit about being embedded in a world,
what the extended mind is.
But also, mind is thought to be essentially embodied.
And to understand the structures of mind,
we also have to understand the structures of the human body.
And this comes out in lots of different ways in embodied cognition.
Embodied cognition is a very broad church.
And it comes out in ways,
sometimes that are quite non-disruptive
to many aspects of the Cartesian picture.
So you might think that when we have representations of the world,
that the content of those representations
often bear a lot of the markers of embodiment.
A classic example of this, Lakoff and Johnson,
think that, for instance, set theory,
really abstract mathematical and logical kind of framework,
is really a bunch of metaphors of embodiment.
You're kind of inside the set or you're outside the set.
You're inside the body or you're outside the body.
Inside the skin, outside the skin.
And actually, a lot of our very abstract thinking
are based on metaphors of embodiment.
That's one kind of embodied cognition, really interesting,
really important in cognitive linguistics.
But then there's more radical forms of embodiment,
where you start thinking that when the violinist plays a cracking concerto,
that a lot of her intelligence is not in her brain,
but it's in her fingers, in the muscles.
And then you get, again, very Hoaglandy pictures of how...
You can't really separate that.
It's like the signals that the brain sends
are already somehow adapted and specific
to the very muscles that this violinist has,
such that you couldn't take the brain out of that body
and put it in another body and it would do fine.
It's all one, you know, it's tightly interlinked system.
And, you know, you get more and more radical notion.
You get more and more sort of different notions of how a body plays.
All of that is very much part of the picture.
Heidegger doesn't say anything about that then.
There is some stuff in the later stuff in the Zollichon seminars on embodiment.
And there Heidegger makes a distinction,
also Merle Ponti goes on to make in the Florology literature,
between embodiment as a kind of... about the physical wiring up,
but then embodiment as a kind of way in which of opening up the world,
that a lot of the ways in which we open up the world is through our body,
and we interpret the world through the kind of structures
that our body brings to the table,
the kind of sensory motor mechanisms that we have.
So that definitely feeds into a contemporary tradition
that also brings in people like Gibson,
where we experience the world as a set of action possibilities.
And of course, action possibilities are going to be different
depending on what body you've got.
You know, this chair sits on a ball by me, but not by an elephant,
because it would crush it.
You know, I can't track magnetic fields
without this I've got some extra tech plumbed into me,
but sharks apparently can or whatever it is,
you know, whatever the stories there are.
So like, you know, how one experiences the world
as a set of action possibilities is dependent on one's embodiment.
And then that leads you kind of back to thinking about equipment
and how the meaning of equipment gets fixed.
So there's a sort of story where embodiment is sort of there in Heidegger,
even though he doesn't really talk about it too much later.
So I think that's a really important part of the process.
So that explanatory disembodiment that I think we see in Descartes,
that definitely was challenged by the cognitive science of the early 90s
that was based around robotics.
A lot of the interesting stuff that happened in robotics
was how things that look like really difficult cognitive problems
are only difficult cognitive problems
if you split the subject and object up
and think the subject has to build a model of the world
in order to do anything.
If you just allow an embodied subject to move, right,
suddenly those problems sort of go away.
In the history of cognitive science, there's a fantastic paper
by Chris Alton and Andy Clark,
where they argue that there are these really difficult cognitive problems
because the input, roughly speaking,
because what we get in perception is a set of kind of statistics,
and what we need are a set of statistics
that are not obvious from that first set of statistics.
So we need some really fancy cognitive mechanisms
to pull out the second-order statistics,
and that's really, really hard.
And then, like, Rolf Pfeiffer and Christian Scheer
did some great work where they showed that,
for some of the cases that Clark and Thornton thought were really hard,
if you just allow your robot to circle around the object in question,
all those stats just come out in the movement.
So, again, being an embodied creature
can make things kind of easier from a cognitive perspective.
So all this is really important to the robotics of the early 90s,
but that comes into the Heideggerian picture that I was painting
in a slightly kind of more indirect sort of way.
Yeah, and especially this notion of movement,
which, of course, is very centrally related to the body,
is sort of part of this idea of making cognition
something that is enacted, right,
that perception is something that's very active in many ways.
Yeah, there's so much to talk about there.
Yeah, that would be a whole...
Yeah, and I mean, I guess one big name to mention there
that you already brought up is Merleau-Ponty, right,
who, I guess, I mean, he was very influenced by Heidegger, of course,
but he was probably the one that introduced the body
as the central theme in his phenomenology.
That's definitely right. What I would say there is, I think,
Merleau-Ponty's distinction between two kinds of embodiment,
one of which is the kind of physical body, the natural body,
and the other is this body as a way of opening up the world as meaningful.
And that's got loads of influence. That has influence on Dreyfus.
He talks about Merleau-Ponty a lot when he talks about embodiment.
So there's both Merleau...
I know I'm very strongly influenced by my readings of Heidegger and so on.
I've obviously read Merleau-Ponty
and I've used Merleau-Ponty in ideas as well.
But I guess I'm more influenced by Heidegger.
But I also think that distinction between the two kinds of embodiment
is there in the Heidegger of the Zollikon seminar.
So in some ways, I think, though he didn't really develop it,
Merleau-Ponty did and rightly should get credit for the developments that he does.
It's not as if that isn't there in Heidegger. It is already there.
No, I mean, obviously we could talk for hours and hours about this and more.
But I mean, most of the themes that we talked about
are kind of based on your book, which was published,
I think, almost 20 years ago now.
And obviously you have been sort of stalled since then,
so it would be really nice to maybe hear
some of the things you're working on at the moment
and maybe how some of the things that we talked about are related to that.
So are there some aspects in Heidegger's work
that you would like to explore more
or that you're currently exploring more that are really interesting to you?
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, one of the things that I'm really interested in now
is the concept of authenticity.
Now, this goes back to something I said earlier.
I said that this stuff on the ready-to-hand and transparency,
that's been one of the really big influences
that Heidegger's had on cognitive science.
And that's true.
I think there are other things in Heidegger
that might be mined for interesting ways of engaging with cognitive science.
And at the moment, I'm really interested in a notion that can seem like
a deeply existential notion or a moral notion
or something that only philosophers and maybe,
I'll come back to this, literary theorists could care about,
the notion of authenticity.
And we often think about authenticity as being who one really is.
And there's all kinds of problems in that
or expressing oneself in the way that reflects who one truly is.
And there's all kinds of problems in that way of thinking about authenticity
because it seems to be committed to this idea of some prior essential self
that then gets expressed.
So that distinction between the expression and the essential self.
And actually, in Heidegger,
there's a different notion of authenticity that falls out of his framework.
And I should stress here that it's interesting
because some people don't like the sort of translation that we get of...
Authenticity is a term that Macquarie Robinson,
the great Heidegger translator, used.
Some people think this isn't really a notion of authenticity at all.
I don't think that's quite right.
What's essential to Heidegger's notion of authenticity
is still the idea of a self of sorts.
But it's the idea of owning the structures by which one behaves.
So if one goes back into something we didn't really talk about in Heidegger,
which is, as we behave ordinarily in the world,
Heidegger thinks that we are subject to what he calls the dictatorship of the they.
Now, what I said earlier about being with,
being our fundamental way of being in the world, or one aspect of that,
that we behave according to various social structures that we inherit,
into which we're thrown,
and that we project ourselves in our activity
onto various possibilities in the world
that also draw on those structures that we inherit.
So I interpret myself as a parent.
I do the sort of things that a parent does in my culture, to be a good parent.
And most of the time, Heidegger thought, we just do that.
It's just what one does, right?
We don't even, in a sense, this would need a lot of cash out,
we don't even think about it, we just do what one does.
And he calls that the dictatorship of the they.
Now, on one hearing, that can become like a very negative thing.
It's like, I'm just doing what other people expect of me,
and somehow that's a really bad thing, because I'm not owning it myself.
But I don't think Heidegger, most of the time,
he's got some moments where he rails about the dictatorship of the they,
and so he calls it levelling as well,
this idea of everybody forced down to the same level,
because they all behave, all of us behave the same,
and you can tell a story where that sounds a very negative thing.
And Heidegger does sometimes tell that story,
there's some passages in being someone who does.
But a lot of the time, it's not that it's a kind of negative thing,
morally or politically or socially,
it's just our default way of being, right?
We just do what one does.
However, there are moments where that smooth behaving as one does
gets disrupted in various ways, and there are various ways.
And Heidegger calls these moments of anxiety,
where the world is actually a kind of strange place to us,
where we have to decide whether to continue to behave
in the way that we're being conditioned by our culture or not.
And these are Heidegger's moments of authenticity.
It's the moment where we're not cut off from the social structures,
but we have to somehow, I mean, decide might be too strong.
We have to find a way of getting back into the world.
And there's ways of doing that.
One is to just go back to doing as one does
without explicitly kind of endorsing those ways, because it's easier.
But another way of doing it might be to explicitly endorse those structures,
to decide that these are the structures by which I want to live.
And Heidegger's got a whole story about this that he calls retrieval.
Actually, I translate the term as retrieval.
Others would translate it as repetition, which I think is misleading.
But retrieval is a process where one picks on models from the past,
or ways of behaving that are available from one's culture,
and uses them as models for how to go on.
Now, this could all still sound like a really big picture,
the sort of thing that philosophers care about,
and literary theorists care about.
But actually, whilst I think that's true,
I think this is now, I begin to think this is part of our basic dynamic of thinking.
The thinking itself is a process
by which we bring structures from the past to bear on the moment.
And there are different ways in which we might do that.
And in that very process of doing that, there's a moment of creativity in thinking.
And this is just what it is to think, is this moment of creativity,
where we decide how to apply the norms of the past to the present.
And so I'm thinking that this notion of authenticity
is actually something we need to understand to understand what thinking is,
as we go on.
Now, I should say there are some other people
who are saying very similar things,
although not in the language of authenticity,
but in a different kind of language.
Sebelvedo Pedro, who's a contemporary activist,
has written a fantastic piece in Frontiers in Psychology,
called something like Levels and Norm Development,
something like that.
Not sure if that's exactly right, but you'll probably find it.
Where he talks about the moments of going on in the world of these moments
where one brings the norms that one has got, as it were, available to one,
to bear in the moment.
But one has to, as it were, interpret those and apply them
and decide how to go on at every moment
in a kind of fluid, dynamic kind of way.
Going back in the history of philosophy,
Gilbert Ryle wrote a fantastic paper called Improvisation
in his latter years, after he'd actually retired
from Maldives as a former philosopher.
Improvisation is my current go-to piece for thinking about thinking,
where he argues that all thinking is a form of improvisation.
And in fact, what I'm doing in some of my contemporary work
is actually thinking about how understanding musical improvisation better
might become a model for thought.
Yeah.
That's a very brief story about how I'm beginning to think about thinking
in a different way.
Not much of this stuff published yet, so you heard it here first, as it were,
and that's fine, but it will be coming out gradually.
So I now want to rethink what thinking is,
using the machinery of authenticity, of improvisation, of creativity,
as basic to thought.
And I think that's going to be...
It will link up with the stuff that Sepp Vader Pedro is doing,
certainly link up with the stuff that Ryle did,
and that's going to be the new story.
And this, for me, is part of a broader picture,
where I've become more and more interested in creativity as a...
So I'm interested in explaining musical creativity,
aesthetic creativity, and so on,
but I'm also interested in learning from that,
how that might be part of the basic structure of thought itself,
what I call the creativity-first sort of understanding of thinking.
And that leads me, actually, has led me to think about my work
really differently to how I have done in the past.
I now think of myself as a philosopher who's engaged with a...
I mean, we might pretentiously call it a movement,
which is typically these days being called
either the cognitive humanities or the cognitive arts and humanities.
I know I've said a lot which you might want to ask about,
but just to give you a quick sort of tie-up to the story.
Some years ago, I just got an email from a guy called Peter Garrett,
who's a fantastic literary theorist of the Victorian era in particular.
Peter had just won this network grant
to develop this idea of the network
on what he called the cognitive humanities
or cognitive futures in the humanities.
This was something that got a grip in the US a bit,
but hadn't really got a grip in the UK.
And Peter asked me to join this network
as the kind of representative of embodied, embedded, extended cognition.
And in that network, I interacted...
I was the only sort of philosopher in the central group,
so I was interacting mostly with literary theorists of one sort or another.
And the idea was to develop a network
that reflected this idea of the cognitive humanities,
where the idea was that the kind of literature,
but also more broadly the humanities,
could be brought into contact in a productive way with cognitive science.
Such that the traffic didn't all go in...
It wasn't just as it were,
we can tell you what's going on in literature,
let's do an fMRI scan of a reader,
which kind of was being done.
Or we can understand what aesthetic appreciation with,
we'll just fMRI a few brains of people while they look at Caravaggio's,
which was being done in neuroaesthetics, I'm being obviously unfair here.
But rather to see literature and cognitive science
and the arts and humanities more generally,
so now it's expanded out into choreography and dance and all kinds of things,
to see them in a mutually productive relationship,
such that not only can we learn more about what's going on
in things like literature and art through doing cognitive science,
but equally we can get a better grip on what's going on in our cognitive science
and what cognitive science should be saying,
by understanding more about literature.
And here's my big go-to thing about this,
Jerry Fodor, one of my heroes,
one of the greatest philosophers of cognitive science,
if not the greatest.
I admire Fodor all the way through and I admired him even more,
when after, unfortunately after he died,
I think before he could have done so much more great stuff.
But there was an obituary written of Fodor,
in which an anecdote was reported about Fodor.
And basically the anecdote was that Fodor took the view
that there was more good sense written about the human mind
in, as he put it, Henry James rather than William James.
Much preferred Henry James to his psychologist brother.
Also, if you wanted to understand human emotions,
listen to Wagner, don't listen to psychologists.
And the idea, I think Fodor, I want to sign up for that,
that in fact is going to be the opening of my new book on this stuff, right?
Because the idea is that if we want to understand what it is to be a human being,
I think we probably would reach for the literature and the art
rather than the psychology.
That doesn't say that psychology is somehow not worth doing,
it's very important.
And it might feed into this idea of the personal and the sub-personal distinction
about different ways we might engage with that distinction
through literature and art in terms of the personal side.
Psychology on the sub-personal side,
but bringing them into a reflective equilibrium.
I see that as it were the Cognitive Humanities is doing that.
And there's a Cognitive Futures in the Humanities Conference every year,
and that came out of that network that I helped set up.
Well, sorry, Peter set up, I helped develop with Peter,
so I don't want to claim ownership of the network, that was Peter's.
But that I worked on with Peter and other people, Karen Kukin and others.
And so out of that idea came the Cognitive Futures in the Humanities Conference,
that happened every year now.
And that's where this kind of work is going on.
In many ways, I think of myself as a kind of theoretical cognitive humanist,
if you like, these days.
And so sometimes when I'm talking about authenticity,
I'll spend some time giving you a reading of Kerouac's On the Road,
which I think is a novel about authenticity.
And I don't do that as a skilled literary theorist,
I do it as a philosopher reading literature.
But nevertheless, I'm quite happy to use literature.
I talk about Sam Rebekah's work a lot.
I'm quite happy to use literature, to use theatre, to use art,
as it was part of the argument,
as much as I am willing to use science or straight philosophical reflection.
I always thought of Cognitive Science as a kind of interdisciplinary movement.
And now I think of it more broadly as the Cognitive Humanities
as an interdisciplinary movement.
I see myself as engaging as a kind of theoretical,
if you like, cognitive humanist,
using my philosophical skills.
So that's how I self-conceive myself now.
So I said at the start I self-identified as a philosopher of Cognitive Science.
I now self-identify a little bit differently.
I mean, in a way, I was just thinking that that ties in really nicely
with some of the big thinkers in the phenomenological tradition, right?
Because one of the nice features as well for many people,
also sort of more in the public sphere,
there are not so much in academic philosophy
about people like Sartre, for example, and Simon de Beauvoir and so on,
is that they were both writers and philosophers as well.
And I guess Melo Ponti's work in his engagement with Impressionist painting
as a way of understanding vision and how we actually see
is also, I think, maybe a good example of that idea,
of really engaging with, obviously, the arts and humanities
and trying to understand the structures of experience
that matter to us and that shape our experience of the world.
I mean, one thing I was thinking,
one thing that I am personally very interested in
is the way in which when we start thinking about the human mind
as always encultured in some way
and sort of part of a broader social, cultural, material horizon, right,
of things that have come before us
and that in Heidegger's work we're sort of thrown into
and that we have to deal with.
But in that process of social learning and so on
and adopting these various kinds of roles and norms,
we also sort of, I guess, are forced to make them our own.
And I guess maybe this is the way in which authenticity
or I guess Heidegger's term is actually eigentlichkeit,
which is just kind of a weird...
I mean, for me as a native German speaker,
it's not really a word that you encounter in the ordinary German language,
but it has this connotation of making something your own, right,
of sort of in some sense incorporating it
or making a part of who you are comes in.
So one question that came up is whether...
Do you think, I mean, from what you've just said,
is that your approach to the human mind and intelligence,
can we make sense of that without sort of the social environment?
Because in some sense, a lot of the stuff that also maybe happens
in what you described as the orthodox cognitive science
is very individualist, right,
that they focus on sort of one agent in a particular environmental setting,
whereas on this broader idea of thinking maybe about...
Thinking on the lines of authenticity,
you have to bring in the kind of socio-cultural background
that shapes us always.
Yes, so I think that's right.
I think there are some very difficult issues that come up here.
So where I think this can become really important
is how one thinks about the cultural and the social
in relation to us as also biological beings.
And this is really important.
So back in Reconstructing the Company of World,
I took a line then, which I now wish I hadn't,
because I don't think it was the right line.
Well, I wish I hadn't, that's too strong.
I explored an idea, I thought I kind of made it sell,
but maybe not now, I don't think it's quite right.
So I had this idea then that we have all these cultural domains of meaning,
the totalities of involvements and so on, equipment networks.
But also I wanted to say that that kind of holistic network framework
also could make sense of some of our own behaviour
that wasn't culturally infected,
that was kind of somehow driven by us as biological beings.
But also, therefore, the reason that was important
was because it would allow the framework to apply to non-human animals.
And I think the reason that was important, I think,
was partly because a lot of the cognitive science
that was going on in the robotics literature
was about a lot of activities that we might think of as the animals did,
or even insects did, and we might do them too.
But somehow it was stuff that we shared
with the insects and the non-human animals.
So the picture I had then was a kind of...
I never really resolved this in me construct the code,
but I'll say something about it at one point,
about what the relationship between the biologic and the cultural here is.
So the way I think I had it then, roughly speaking,
was that there's some kind of complex interaction
where there's these biological structures,
they can be reinterpreted in the cultural world of human beings,
but in some sense there's these biological structures
that have the same kind of network structure,
where the normativity is set by evolution,
by what's the adaptive thing to do, or adaptations, and so on,
depending on how one understands that part of the picture,
whereas the cultural stuff's initialisation into a culture
rather than evolution.
And I just think it was too clunky now.
I'm much more now thinking,
and I'm not sure about this still, I still haven't really settled this,
but I think there is a real issue here about how to understand this.
So I like to contrast that picture
with something like the picture that John McDowell has,
whereas what he thinks is that once you become a cultural being,
roughly speaking, this is a kind of free interpretation of McDowell,
once you become a cultural being in the sense of a human culture,
it's not that as it were there's all this biological stuff
that's still around, in terms of meaning,
that's doing the same thing it did before,
and then there's a cultural layer on top,
rather the cultural stuff reaches down and changes the lower level
so that that's all now part of the same kind of cultural thing.
So when you go, when humans develop and become cultural creatures,
the meaning is all somehow cultural,
it's conceptual, and I'm not adding in the notion of the cultural here.
And whereas in the animal sense,
it's not as if there's a sort of animal core of us that sort of...
I mean, of course, we're still historically animals,
and we're still animals, we're just cultural animals,
but it's not as if there's all these biological meanings
as it were hanging around
that haven't been brought into that cultural framework.
And now I'm a bit more sensitive towards, you know,
I'm thinking that's the right way to go.
So I think there's some very difficult questions
about how to think of us as cultural animals
in a way that does justice to the sort of Heideggerian picture,
perhaps picks up on some of McDowell's stuff,
but keeps that idea in view that, you know, in studying animals
and in studying robots that behave like animals,
we're still doing something important,
we're understanding various mechanisms,
but it's not as it were as if all those mechanisms,
they're in us, right, in some way, but not in an unchanged way.
I don't think that's the clearest thing I've said today.
That's going to be quite a mess done.
Because I think it's a really difficult issue,
and I'm not sure how to think about it, I have to say.
Yeah, I mean, that's something that I'm really, really interested in
in trying to understand it,
and it always has sort of two directions of difficulty, right?
So the one is sort of how you think about the behaviour and actions
of other animals that are not humans,
without already sort of projecting our structures of culture and meaning
and so on, onto them.
And the other is to try and understand how in the human case,
this kind of entanglement of, let's say, cultural nature
and biological nature actually happens.
This brings us all the way back to Heidegger in a way,
because one of the things that's really interesting about Heidegger
is that he struggled at different points in his career,
but always struggled,
struggled in different ways, but always struggled
to make sense of animals.
So every now and then he mentions that non-human animals.
Sometimes he says animals have no world.
Animals live in meaningless worlds, right?
There's no world, there's no meaning.
They don't live in the world at all,
because worlds are only worlds of meaning,
and there is no meaning.
And then he's got an extended section
where he thinks about a lizard basking on a rock in the sun.
And he just can't make...
It just won't fly for him for that.
There's some way in which that's a meaningful behaviour.
So then he starts talking about animals as poor in world.
So they have worlds, but they're poor.
But then that doesn't really line up nicely against the idea
that the only source of meaning is cultural, right?
So he struggles by his framework in a way that...
On the one hand, he could just legislate and go,
no, animals, it's all meaningless.
Whatever they do, it's all meaningless.
But he's a great phenomenologist, right?
So he can't bring himself really to say that,
because he knows that doesn't fit the phenomena.
So he struggles to get that right.
And there's no account of what it would mean
for an animal to be poor in world.
Do they have a network of meaning, but it's only a little one?
Are there big gaps in it? And what does it mean?
And where does that meaning come from,
if culture being with is central to meaning?
Also a problem that not only would apply to animals,
but maybe even infants and small children.
That infants don't have yet the design
and sort of the full sense of being in the world,
being part of a culture and so on.
It's a perfectly reasonable criticism of Harlegr, I think,
which is one that Sean Gallagher in A Culture of His,
Jacobson have made in a paper that's in a volume
called Heidegger and Cognitive Science
that I co-edited with Julian Kieberstein.
But they make the point that all of Heidegger's explanations
start from the point where Dasein's up and running.
But we want to ask the question, how does that happen?
How do we get to be Dasein?
And it does seem that Heidegger, it's a sort of...
It's a bit of a kind of paradox of the hippie type thing.
I mean, presumably there must be developmental structures
where kids, non-adult human beings are gradually inculturated,
where they don't really have... They're not really Dasein yet.
They don't have all these big networks in place.
But what does it mean to be partly Dasein?
Are we on the way to Dasein? Do we have bits of the network?
How does that work?
And it looks like that's a very similar problem, as you say,
to the one of what one says about animals.
Usually one kind of gets away with it with kids by saying,
well, they're on the way to being Dasein.
So gradually, at some point, indeterminate where that point is.
Over here, when they're just born, they're definitely not Dasein.
Then loads of stuff happens with intersubjectivity and triangulation
and caregiving and all that stuff happens.
And then over here, they're Dasein.
In between, not really sure what to say.
But I think, as Sean Gallagher and Colt Jackson have made the point,
I think we do need a story about that.
And Heidegger just...
Partly, I think, because he's not interested in the mechanisms,
just never tells us that story.
He just says, no, there's Dasein. That's the whole human being.
And if you're not Dasein, we can't use this framework to understand you.
But it looks like that's inadequate.
We need to understand the processes that lead to Dasein.
And indeed, I would say,
as part of the influence of the sub-personal on the personal,
as we understand those developmental mechanisms,
that will change what we think Dasein is.
Fascinating.
Yeah, I guess, I mean, there's so much to still talk about and explore
and a great, yeah, thing maybe to...
Because we've talked for quite a while now to end the podcast.
So, is there anything, final thing you wanted to say or mention
that is close to your heart?
Oh, that's a nice final question.
Yeah, I don't know about close to heart. I do...
This is more like self-report,
but it's something that I kind of think it's worth saying.
It picks up on some of the things I said earlier.
I mean, I would go to university at 28
as, you know, to do philosophy and artificial intelligence.
If I'd have gone to university at 18,
I would have become a Samuel Beckett scholar.
And I kind of think that that,
and I didn't because I had other things to do,
you know, another life before I went to university.
And...
But I think that stayed with me, that love of him,
particularly Beckett and Joyce and other things like that.
So, I think what's really happening with my current work,
although I talked about it as this kind of, you know,
intellectual and intellectual development,
is that I've just found a way
to integrate all those initial interests in literature
into being a philosopher of cognitive science.
And I think that's, you know,
as I freely admit, you know,
coming into my final run-in before I retire,
I think, you know, I think that's...
I'm glad to have found a way to, like,
finally get to write about Beckett and Joyce
and Kerouac and others,
and yet still make people who care about cognitive science listen.
I mean, it sounds very much like you're in the process
of becoming very authentic.
I mean, you're always...
In some sense, yeah.
Going back to your roots of your...
Yes, definitely doing that.
But no, exciting.
I can't wait to read the book when it comes out.
And, yeah, thank you so much for the very rich conversation.
Oh, thank you. It was really interesting.
And, yeah, I hope people listening found it interesting.
But on the back of watching that TV programme,
I decided to do philosophy.
I decided to do philosophy
that interacted with artificial intelligence.
