Hello, everyone. Welcome back to Love and Philosophy Beyond Dichotomy. This is a research
podcast where we delve into all sorts of subjects relative to how we make our way in the world
and navigability research. We discuss what we love about life, about learning, and we share
all the many paths we've been on or subjects, ideas, relationships, books, etc. that we've had
to navigate the challenges and inspirations of all those shared landscapes, and we try and do it
beyond the traditional divisions of what does or does not fit together or what should or should not
be said. And in that spirit, this week, I'm going to post maybe three different conversations
because I'm finally back home after some travels, and it really feels like it's been half a year
of travels. I have a pretty deep backlog of research conversations now, at least a dozen or so.
And they are from all sorts of scales and endeavors, all sides of the world.
And out of that backlog, this week, I'm posting three pretty different ones. The first one is
with Lucas Van Asse, or Lucas Voss, V-O-S. You'll find him online on YouTube. He has a podcast. I met
him through this tangled, beautiful collection of paths and little corners that is YouTube.
Because actually, love and philosophy is kind of popular on YouTube. I'm not sure how that happened,
but I'm very grateful. And I found Lucas through a conversation I had with Richard Watson, which
ended up with me talking with Karen on The Meaning Code, which then meant that Lucas reached out to me
and I would talk to him on his podcast. So this is how it works in that amazing world. Anyway,
it's delightful, as is Lucas. He's just graduated from college. So we're talking about where he is,
what it means to look for and find purpose at that age, which is, some of you know, an age of
humans that I care and worry about very much because it just seems like you're all, I don't know,
like the world is trying to stress you out with your own images and, well, I guess all of us in a way,
but especially young people. But that's a subject for another podcast. Anyway, Lucas has been through
all this and he's really trying to find meaning in his life and something that will be good for him
and for the world as he moves forward. So he's been questioning a lot of the things that the world
says you should or have to do. And his paths really reflect that. He tells us some good stories about
what he's been through, what he's been finding all along the way. We also talk about ideas,
of course, everything from Rene Girard to Egyptian gods, to his life-changing experience with
psychedelics, to how he almost got sick, trying to be too healthy, with all these improve-yourself
programs that we can all get rather fascinated with. We also talk about another life-changing love,
which is his recent marriage. So this is a conversation with someone who's at a different
point in life than me, but we share a lot of common paths as well. I appreciate learning from
him and hearing his perspective about what seem like everyday things. But of course, those are the
things that matter the most to us. The next couple conversations, one will be about the power of
polarity, which is a fascinating topic that I'm a little bit obsessed with. And another is with
Paco Cavo about the possibilities of plant cognition, which is really interesting. I talked
with Mina Salami about sensuous knowledge, very inspiring book, Avanoa about action and perception
and entanglement. Anyway, there's so many things, beautiful things coming up. If you look on the
website, you can see all the names, a lot of beautiful revelations on the horizon, at least for me.
Anyway, thank you for being here. And I hope you're doing well out there wherever you are making your
way today. You can find the links to Lucas and to all the things we talk about in the show notes.
And if you feel like supporting love and philosophy in any way, there are many opportunities and it
really helps. So lots of love to you and I hope you enjoy this. Thanks for being here. Bye.
Hi, Lucas. We already said hi, but let's say hi again. We've talked before a few times and today
we just are going to talk again and about you this time. Last time we tried to talk, we talked more
about me, but the question that came to mind today when I was thinking about your work, like the stuff
you did with your undergraduate about Egyptology, which maybe we'll get into, was Rene Girard. Am I
do I remember correctly? That was kind of an inspiration towards that thesis you did as your
undergraduate work? A little bit. It's what I mentioned to my supervisor being like, this is
one of my interests and inspirations. So do you have a topic that would fit into that a little bit?
What did you read or what do you remember? What was interesting about Rene Girard? Yeah.
Well, his theory about memetics and sacrifice, especially. Sacrifice relating more to Egypt,
because I think Rene Girard, who I don't even know how to describe him because he's able to talk about
difficult topics, but I think originally he wasn't even a philosopher or anything of the sort. I don't
know if you know what his academic title was exactly. I haven't looked it up. I mean, it just
came to me. Obviously, I didn't even say his name right. Girard. Sorry. I don't know how to say it.
I'm terrible with French. You speak French, right? Just a little bit. I have to be able to
understand it for my parents-in-law. Oh, congratulations, by the way. Thank you.
How long have you been married now? How long? Let me check the date. It's almost
been two months. Wow. We'll get into that too. That's the love part.
No. So yeah, a little bit of French, but Rene Girard, I think he was a literature
scholar slash teacher actually. Yeah, it was definitely literature that he writes about.
I think he was at Stanford and he's deaf. Yeah. Like Greek. I know there's a lot of Greek stuff in there
and it's very interesting actually because I hadn't thought much about it, but this beyond dichotomy thing,
I need to go read him again. So already I'm going to say thank you for reminding me of that because
I think it's a lot about combining opposites, isn't it? And about like, I mean, I'll have to,
that's why I was bringing it up to you, but I seem to remember him talking about that we imitate each
other and that it's like, yeah, that similarity is the problem rather than dissimilarity. And that's
really interesting when you think about. Yeah. And then there's also the memetic of the opposite,
let's say, I think, if I remember correctly. Something like anti-memes. It's okay if we get
it wrong, but just tell me what comes on. Yeah, we're getting a lot of stuff wrong. This is a while
ago. That's okay. Everyone, we don't know what we're talking about. We're just trying. Go look up.
Oh, that's great. No, but I found him to be terribly insightful. I listened mostly to like an audio
series he did, which is excellent. I think it may have been with the BBC before he died, but he
basically goes through his work in like a couple hours. And that was terribly insightful, especially
on sacrifice. I think he's got a very solid theory on it, what world it served. And then he connects
that to mimesis. But unless I stumble upon this, unless I stumble over my words and trying to relay
this theory, I think I shouldn't go into it too deeply. No, I think what I'm, the reason I'm
bringing it up with you is I'm trying to understand what you were thinking about that your professors
noticed in you that then sort of oriented you towards what you study. Like, do you remember
what was, what the themes were? It doesn't have to be like specifically talking about it, but
where were you? What were you thinking about? What do you care about? So to give a bit of background,
the thesis was about Egyptian theology, and about specific texts which contained hymns to a specific
God, and that God was seen in those hymns in the context of those hymns as the the highest God and
other gods would be manifestations of him. And I think one of the main reasons my supervisor gave that
topic to me, or at least he suggested that topic, was because I'm generally interested in
gods, where I was at the time for sure, and in reality, and almost therefore it's theology.
I'm trying to, through whatever medium, understand reality, and I found theology to be
quite fruitful for that. Yeah, I'm really interested in that part of your
life and your work too. You said gods, so I mean, that's a big theme here, right? The pantheism.
Yeah. But I don't, I mean, yeah, maybe you can talk about that a little, like that topic, or
I mean, are you a pantheist? Or like, what? No, we are, but the term, the term they used was hematheism.
Yeah. That is like polytheism, but one God is taken to be higher than the other God. So there's
a hierarchy of some sorts with one at the top. So even in the Bible, this view is kind of espoused,
where they mentioned, for example, other gods. And don't quote me on this, but I think they say
something to the lines of having to choose, choosing Yahweh over the other gods, let's say.
Could be getting this wrong, which are along those lines. That's how first the concept was explained
to be by my teacher who taught me ancient religion in my course. But yeah, so within
Egypt, there were times that in this case, Amun, which was the God that I'm speaking about,
was thought to be higher than other gods. And so you're still operating within a polytheistic
framework, but he would be the sole ruler in a certain sense. And it's funny because this came
shortly after there was something that you could consider monotheism. Some people consider it monotheism.
Way before the religion of the Israelites, where Akhenaten, which was another god, or sorry,
I'm saying this wrong. Aten, which was another god, was thought to be the only god and exclusively the
only god. So even other gods would be erased from Egyptian tombstones and imagery, let's say.
Yeah, it's so interesting to me. I said pantheism, didn't I? Sorry, it's too early in the morning
here, and I'm on the other side of the world from you today. And I've been traveling. But yes,
polytheism. Of course, I'm always thinking about opposites, what seem like opposites, or many,
and how this relates to the idea of one. Or we brought up Girard and this idea of, I think he also has
idea of triangles, and something with the mimetic, I'd have to look back at it. But, and then in your,
like Christian, or certain kinds of, I'm no expert on this at all, not even close, but there's definitely
like the, the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost, there's the, you talk about, I don't think I have
the terms right, but like the triad, and the triunity, and yeah. So are all these ways of
trying to understand like a plurality of possible gods? I mean, we don't even have to think about what
does God, like that word mean when it's plural, or when it's singular? I find this so fascinating,
but so hard to talk about. Was this part of why you wanted to get into it too? Or do you have a
clearer idea of it than me? Yeah, so yeah, I think this view is kind of a reflection of my view of
reality as well, which is similar to what you were just talking about of one and many. One of the books
that I read for the thesis is, is called something like that as well. The one and the many, or at least
one of the chapters is. And so you've interviewed McGilchrist as well. He opposes the left and the right
hemisphere. And then another thinker I like speaks about multiplicity and unity. And then
John Verveke speaks about, well, opponent processing one. And I think he has another dichotomy that is
escaping my mind right now. And then you famously have Jordan Peterson speaking about order and chaos.
And I think all of these are different frameworks, which, which I think point to
one, the paradox of reality, because one and many seem to be opposites, but they both represent reality
of some sorts. Yeah. And two, I think the dichotomy of reality in a sense as well, which is what you're
interested in and then going beyond it. So transcending it in a way. So, so yeah, I think there's actually a lot
of points of conversion there. Yeah, exactly. I mean, the whole idea of what I try to talk about
in the philosophy and find ways to like what I'm trying to connect the patterns with across all
these disciplines is holding the paradox, right? Which doesn't mean that the opposite, like we seem
to think of paradox as a problem rather than a portal, you know, but it's actually, I feel like
it's more like that's the portal, right? And you hold it. You don't try to make that squish the opposites
together. But you also kind of start to realize that there's not just two. I mean, that's a weird
way we think too, in the way our language is focused. And I think also these, at least most
modern religions, I feel like it's an either or always this God or no God or this religion or no
religion, or you believe or you don't believe. And I'm really interested in after studying it so much,
like how you see that too, because for me, I feel like the practice we need and what I'm trying to
figure out a way to approach and show in my philosophy, which is feels very important in a
lot of ways is holding the paradox, right? As a practice that opens up seeing things not in twos,
right? Maybe more in threes or maybe in complex systems of threes, right? Depending on where your
position is. I don't know. How do you see it? Well, I think speaking about mystery, which this is some
kind of a mystery, the paradox, I don't think mystery is something to solve. I think it's something to
attend to, to hold space for. And so I think ultimate reality is not for us to understand.
Maybe it's for us to interact with, and it's for us to be in relationship to. But, you know,
it's a paradox for a reason. And I think it partially comes from having a scientific worldview that we try
to get an answer. I don't think we need an answer, but I think, I think there's a lot of beauty to,
to the dichotomy and transcending it in some, in some way, but that has to go beyond words at some
point. So, so yeah, that's what I'm thinking about. Yeah. It's like, I mean, in a way we can't represent
what it is and we can't, I mean, all this stuff, whether it's religion or whether it's text,
whether it's literature or whatever it is that we're, we're doing, we're, we're finding ways to
represent it and communicate about it with each other, right? With one another. And that's very
important and it's meaningful and real and even true. But what I hear you saying, or at least this
might be my own projection is all the stuff that we're representing to one another, the real process,
which is like continuous and kind of beyond beginning and end. And none of these categories
that we use to describe it and talk about it and come to know it better could ever actually describe
it. So we seem to kind of like, you know, how do we understand that we'll never describe it or, or it
is this mystery in the way you described just by that's what it is. We're part of it. Even we can't
even get out of it. But at the same time, it's really important, isn't it? To try to describe it
and to do the science and to do the literature, write the books, like find all these ways to
communicate with one another, because somehow that's doing something to with the process of
the process, or what do you think? Yeah, well, it's funny. I was listening to talk about Daoism as
well. And what you're speaking of reminds me of that, where, you know, you have the Dao Te Ching.
I don't know if you're familiar. Yeah, Daoism is important. That's another example of this in a way.
Yeah. And you, they write a lot about the Dao. At the same time, they're very aware,
like, this is inexhaustible. Once you think... Yeah, there's even that quote, isn't there? Like,
the Dao that can be spoken isn't the Dao or something. Exactly. And then there's, yeah,
it aligns with this idea of, I think it was Meister Eckhart and maybe someone else that said
that he would pray to God to rid him of God, of the concept of God, because he cannot fully understand it.
Oh, I've never heard that. That's beautiful. I mean, I've read Meister Eckhart, but wow,
thanks for... That's a good one. I'm not sure if that was Meister Eckhart, but I hope...
Whoever will... Again, yeah.
So, yeah, I think it's something like that. It's definitely useful to think about this,
but not in a way to solve it. But you can always get closer and you can find ways to attend to it. But
yeah, you were speaking about different religions and false and correct. One thing I point out in the
thesis is that the Egyptians didn't think about gods or even creation myths as false or correct.
They thought more on sacred and less sacred. So I think one of the reasons we applied this false,
correct dichotomy and paradigm is, again, because this is kind of what we are raised in in the last
under 200 years. But I'm trying to find ways to transcend that a little bit. And sometimes you have to let go
of all your theories. Sometimes theories can also be good ground to stand on. But you have to remember
that the ground that you stand on is not absolute. It always remains a map to the territory. It remains
something that is of this world and I feel cannot fully represent what goes beyond. So yeah,
that's a good way to say it. It reminded me, I think, in the video, which I'll link to where you
talk about your thesis, you talk about, I think it's that the this worldview was one where multiple
stories or multiple paths can be correct, I think. And even I won't say it correctly, but you know,
multiple gods are also one god or one god is our multiple gods, or there's this wonderful quote,
I think it's by Jan Osman that you talk about, like, how to, it's talking again about the triunity
or the triad. Again, I don't know which term is exactly right, but you talk about it being like
transcendent. It's the way to be, there's a wonderful thing about the plurality of gods
that then can be transcended to be something like one, which almost feels like the opposite of how you
might think of it as being, but speaks to what we're trying to do here with holding the paradox, right?
Yeah, yeah, exactly. And that's the fun thing about it as well. It's fun, but it's also,
it can be annoying because you can't fully pin it down, but you have to let go of that. I think you have
to, you have to approach it more with the right hemisphere in a sense that you cannot be too precise
about it. But yeah, there's a power to both the plurality and the unity. And I was speaking yesterday
to someone who is very much interested and involved with Robert Persick's work. I don't know if you're
familiar with him. Who? Say it again. Robert Persick. Oh, the motorcycles and the art of motorcycle
maintenance. Yeah. Yeah. I like his framework as well, because he has a metaphysics of quality,
where he, he poses that static and dynamic quality is a way in which you can, you can view the world,
I guess it's a, it's a very useful paradigm and I've found it to be very useful and it connects
with this as well, this multiplicity and this unity and that you kind of need both in most situations.
And therefore for reality as well, I think. I absolutely agree. Yeah. Yeah. And I,
it's funny you bring, I mean, I guess we all, once we have this understanding through reading or
something, we start finding similar sources because I don't think, you know, but I also worked in this
like ecological motoring and I've done some, okay. Well, I've done some conversations actually
relative to that. And I, I've read that a lot and, and, and thought about it even just in terms of,
I mean, that's a more practical issue, but yeah, how we can understand what movement means in our
lives and the way that we create vehicles towards it. But I think to try to bring it to a more
practical, like, has this, how does this, because I want to know, you know, you're doing so much
studying and you're thinking so much about this and you're doing it in school, but it, it feels,
you know, now you've graduated and, but you're, it feels like a real life mission you're on, you
know? Yeah. And when did this, I know we talked a little bit about it together before, but when did it
start and how does it relate to all these ideas? Like, how has this changed you, right? Is this become a
practice for you in a way or the ideas? Yeah. And this, this idea too, of being able to see,
think of, for example, I wonder about with, with God and with religion. I mean, I think that's an
important part of your life. Right. And I don't know if you came up in a particular to go to Girard,
like a kind of imitation or a path. Right. And I don't know if that fits well with all of this or not,
or yeah. What does that bring up in you? Oh yeah. Okay. Let me think where to start here.
Well, I got, I got interested in like really learning and reading at a later point in life
and I'm very young. So I don't mean that in my sixties, but like when I was 18, so like as a
teenager, I was never interested in school. I think partially because, you know, you have to read,
so you don't, your curiosity aspect doesn't get activated so much. Um, so yeah, about when I was
finishing high school and when I finally had like some, some freedom to read what I actually wanted
to read, that's when I got turned on to a lot of, um, a lot of these ideas, started with John
for fake Ian and, and, um, and I read a bunch of philosophy as well. My brother has been very
helpful with that. Uh, he teaches philosophy and so, so yeah, that, that started things. And then
slowly, I think I started developing something akin to this worldview of it's a, it's a relational
worldview. It's a worldview of, of unity and multiplicity as you were describing as well,
and of holding the paradox. Uh, it's a nice way of saying it. And what that translates to in my life
is that I, I try to, I try to make my life as reality is, or as nature is, let's say we're
speaking about nature and importance of reconnecting to nature in a sense. I think nature has a very fine
balance of, of unity and multiplicity in a sense. Um, I think there's a real coherence to nature,
but there's fantastic diversity to it. Um, and so I think the more I've learned about these ideas,
the more I've realized that it's very important to put into practice first. So to stop always talking
about it and, and what putting that into practice means is, yeah, I think it's, it's to be, to try to
become more beautiful. And I think to become more beautiful is to, to exactly, yeah, to, to replicate
nature of some sorts. Um, and therefore the multiplicity and the unity, the paradox almost.
Oh, that's so interesting. Yeah. Whereas that's not, I think normal nowadays. So if we're really
going to analyze a bit, how, how a modern life looks, I think it's quite disconnected from that
actually in many ways. Um, and that was definitely the trajectory I was going on for a while.
Can you say more about that? Cause I think that's something I hear, I mean, that's a really
important point right now. And it even weirdly relates to Gerard, I think, because in terms of
where we are now with social media and like this memetic imitation and, and what you just described,
it doesn't feel like we're trying to reflect or find ourselves or notice ourselves as part of nature.
And the way you said it feels more, well, what's it been for you? I'd really like to hear your
experience. Yeah. So I think I was on that path for a while as a teenager. Uh, I lost your camera
here. I hope you're all good, but, um, I'm still here. I don't know. Okay, good. Good. Okay. Um,
yeah, I think I was on that path for a while just as a teenager, I think it was obvious to me that I
just wanted to, to make a lot of money and, um, yeah, I think, I think it's because I was kind of
raised by pop culture in, in this sense, watching a lot of TV. And I think I never questioned the
values of, of that. So of the TV shows, I was watching the films that I was watching and
yeah, everything that I was interacting with through the internet. I think a lot of kids are
online nowadays. And if you just would look at it by who's getting the most views and the most
clicks. So who are people really giving their attention to, um, and therefore imitating often.
Um, I mean, there's, there's celebrities there. Sometimes they're athletes, they're pop stars.
They're, they're often people that are not living a very balanced life. They're often,
they often have difficult personal lives as well. Um, but they're often rich and they're often
famous. So they're getting a lot of eyeballs on them. And yeah, so I never really questioned
that path. I was always like, yeah, of course, that's the highest path you could want. But I
think what you're doing there to use a bit more religious language and hope that doesn't turn people
off too much. It's like, you are basically worshiping lower gods, you're worshiping idols,
you're worshiping greed, uh, money. And that's not good, you know? So I think at some point I had,
I started to realize, I think it was more of a gradual process that, that that's not
the highest path I could take in life. And, and I think the education helped with it, but also
trying to live a more natural life, um, trying to get priorities straight. My wife really helped me
become more complete and more balanced for sure. Um, in my, in my wedding, during my wedding, I said
that I used to want to be perfect, but that she made me want to be complete and whole. Um, and this,
this perfection is something I think a lot of people are going for nowadays as well. It's this,
I think it's the domination of the masculine as well. The masculine wants to be perfect, but the feminine
is able to be whole. And so, um, yeah, that, that's definitely played out in my life because
when I just started getting into these books and into the self-help things and
into this journey of like, I want to make something of my life,
the obvious trajectory there was like, I want to become the most successful or like, you know,
become the best at something, but you always sacrifice, sacrifice something if you want to be
the best at a particular thing. And so, um, in accordance to nature, I, I stopped going on that
path. Um, because anything that grows so quick as to become famous is like a cancer, um, in biological
terms. So, so yeah, time, take the time. It's yeah. I think there's so much in there that I care about
and that I think about a lot and that I see and, um, you know, different people in my life,
younger people too, that I worry about, but my, also myself of just what you just said, like you,
we, we are born into a certain kind of space and there's already these kind of
accepted parameters of what is, um, attractive in terms of what we want to become. And,
but it's, it's, uh, I think we, we think because things are the way they are, that must be right.
That it must be, yeah, this is very hard to talk about, but hopefully we can try and do it together.
Cause, um, for example, you look on social media, like you were saying, and you see the people who have
the most money or the most, um, followers or whatever. And we think that means they're happy
or something, or that they've succeeded in some kind of, all this is stuff we assume.
We're not really thinking about it, but we direct, we want to somehow be like that,
like seen, loved in that way. But we take for granted that that actually means those things.
And it actually doesn't always, I mean, do you, how do we, how do we readjust like, uh,
our understanding of, I mean, I feel like what you said about being complete and while we've
been trying to talk about what I think of how it's holding the paradox, what many other people
that we've already talked about have different phrases for you kind of, or meditation or what
religion can give us, you take a step back from all that and you just look at it and say,
you know, there's some, it has to do with, with the nature and the wholeness too. I don't know.
What do you, it's hard to talk about, but let's try.
No, no, let's do it. I have two different ways to approach this that I like. One is the,
the being versus the having mode that John Faveki has spoken about, which I really like,
where the, the having mode is, is it's about having more things or, um, you know, being,
being richer. So having, having more money, um, and hoping that that transforms you.
So you see that often with people that go through crises in their lives, they try to change the
things that they have and, and they buy sports cars or whatever. Um, whereas it's much more important
to, to focus on the being mode. So how can I be a better, a better husband, a better wife, a better,
a better father or daughter or whatever it may be. How can I become wiser? Um, so that's one of the
ways in which you can, you can change your, your paradigm a little bit in the way you're
looking at the situation. And another one that I like is, um, which fits with this is it's
quantity versus quality, where anything you can, you can quantize doesn't necessarily mean that it's,
that it's going to result in a better life. Like if you have more followers,
doesn't mean it's going to be better. If you have more money, doesn't mean it's going to be better,
but you can focus on the quality of your life. Um, and then you can be content. It's the same with
the people that are trying to live now for 230 years by becoming half of a cyborg. And I think
a lot of it is just out of existential angst that you're, or not existential angst, but death anxiety
that you're afraid of, of this to end. But I think it's very important to come to terms with your
mortality. Uh, and I think it's an escape when once you do that, I think you can get the,
the, the satisfaction and the contaminant in life to say, okay, this was, this was good. Um,
and it's okay that it's going to finish and it's natural. So it's going back to nature as well.
So, so yeah, really what we're trying to do here is, is to become more natural, I guess. That's,
I think it's a very high thing to, to strive for, uh, and not to be reduced. So yeah, that's what I'm
thinking. Yeah. It's, I mean, again, we're trying to hold the paradox because for me,
it's not that we have to become natural, but it's almost like a realization that we're more
already than this body. Right. And we are, we are part of it. And how do we notice it and come to
know it? Or how do we come to understand that our completeness is actually what you were just
describing it, the being, um, the being and the having one are the same in a way in this paradox.
So when you, when you stop separating like yourself from nature, I don't know how to describe that.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. No, but you're right. I mean, separation is one of the things that,
well, many different religions or schools of thought was described as, as, as an illusion in a sense.
Um, I'm not sure about that exactly, but it of course depends on how you look at it,
but separation definitely is something that isn't, it's kind of false on one level of reality.
When we're talking about unity, for example, in a way we do have a unity, um, it's about learning to,
to see the separation for an image for, for not a, for, for basically a useful fiction, but, um,
learning that we're actually, or realizing that we're actually one in a sense, and then you would
never hurt yourself, hopefully. So you wouldn't hurt another. Uh, and that would hopefully result in a
more harmonious existence. Uh, that's something to strive for. It's like, it's really significant,
something to strive for. It is. And, um, I mean, even these kinds of practices can become,
how do I say not, not static or dichotomous, but it's, uh, I'm trying to think of like,
just in real life. Okay. Because it's, it's wonderful to be in the space where we, we agree,
and we can talk about, about these things, but the, the way that the patterns are set at the moment,
or the way that the paths that we come into, right, work in a certain way. And until we can
all have this way of stepping back and realizing, which could have been fast, but to shift those
patterns, then you, one feels like they need to fit in. Right. So I don't know if you've experienced
this or how you've dealt with it, but you know, you're a young person, you need you, the world is
telling you, you have to decide who you are and create your story. And what are you going to study
and where are you going to work? And you know, you got to make money and how are you going to pay the
bills and yeah. And sometimes it, all of what we're talking about is the way to deal with all
that pressure, but it's a lot of pressure, isn't it? And it's, it is, it's hard, isn't it? To
understand that this can be helpful. I mean, maybe the more of us talk about it and are doing it,
the more the patterns start to shift, but has it been hard for you? Because maybe listening to you
and looking at you, one might think, oh, well, he just kind of had an epiphany and he's living his life
in this way, but that's a good, it's a very good question. I'm very fortunate. First of all,
I think I'm well surrounded. I've always had good family around me, giving me,
giving me people that I know will love me no matter what I do. That's, I think very powerful to have a
very useful, something I can always rely on. And I know that I'm also lucky in terms of personality. I'm
I'm not neurotic at all. So I don't, I don't get very fussed about what other people think,
but that also had to do with the certain, certain lessons that I went through in life,
because I definitely feel like I was the opposite as a kid or even as a teenager.
Yeah. I think it was around this time where I was, you know, finishing high school and had time on my
own. This was as Corona started. So having a lot of time there and just basically thinking like,
I should not let my life be guided by what other people might think of me. That's not to say I won't
listen to what people think of me or that, that I don't hear my family when they're concerned about
me. But if you don't, don't, don't love me, then there's a good chance that what you're saying about
me is not to, to lift me up, but actually to destroy me or to, to want to, you know,
maybe it's, maybe it's more coming from your own limitations, or maybe it's coming from envy,
um, that you're voicing what you think about me or all these things.
So were people doing this to you at the time? I mean, were there actual people that you felt,
um, or was it more of this media kind of thing that we've been talking about?
I think a lot of, I think a lot of it is like, you think people are doing it. So it's, it's your
own imagination of what people are saying or thinking about you that are holding you back
from changing your life. Uh, sometimes there, they are actually people, but it doesn't really
matter so much. It's more about your own projections and your own thoughts. And I was more interested
in stopping those thoughts than stopping those people. For me, that's fine. If people want to
do that because it's their own issue. And actually I would love to help them with that, but it's more
about what, what you construct in your own mind that can be extremely parasitic. Um, is that connected
to what we were talking about in terms of all the movies you'd watched and all the, this idea you had
of what, what success was supposed to be and you comparing yourself to that somehow?
Yeah. You're, you're, you're planting patterns in your, in your life where they're being planted by
the content you consume and the people you surround yourself with. You start to create expectations,
of course. So that's why a lot of people advise to, to change the people you hang out with, for
example, or like to, to change your surroundings that they're all helpful because your, your reality
around you shapes who you are in a sense, and you have power over that to an extent, but it goes very
gradually. So you have to change that step-by-step. If you want to go into a more beautiful life, you
have to clean it up a little bit, step-by-step and, and, um, and make it more beautiful.
Well, that's kind of a wonderful realization, isn't it? That, I mean, it seems kind of simple, but
you had to have it, right? As you're describing it, just, just to step back and think, okay,
everything I'm reading, everything I'm opening my phone and looking at all the conversations I'm having,
these are patterning my life. And it feels like you don't have agency over that because you don't
at first, you're just pushed into it. And, you know, as kids, we don't even have a sense of self
yet. And through language and sociality, we, we, we develop the agency to question our self,
listen to our thoughts, or we're just still stuck with them. Like we can't separate our, we don't
know that our thoughts are not us, right? That's a realization to have. And then to have what you just
described to realize, okay, I'm not my thoughts, but also my thoughts are just patterns that are
being created by all the stuff I'm consuming. If I change what I consume, I can change the patterns,
maybe. Exactly. And that goes very slowly, but it's, it's, it's really what you say. It's a powerful
realization. It's, it's basically shifting your, your mind in that sense where you can feel really
enslaved by what you're doing and the behavior you're engaging in, but you can also see it as,
okay, I have some power over this and I can do that step-by-step. And I feel that,
especially with habits, I think that's, I mean, it's a very cliche and a popular book,
but atomic habits I really like is a book. It's very simple, but it speaks about it. The title is
fun. It's atomic. So atomic, meaning that it's a small, it can be small as an atom, but it cannot,
it can have a gigantic impact, like an atom bomb. So, so you can change small little things in your
life to make massive changes because everything you do, especially if you do it habitually,
compounds over time. And so, yeah, I found it to be an extremely empowering way of thinking. And
that started me off on the self-help type of thing. Oh, is that one of the first books you read,
Atomic Habits? No, not necessarily, but it's in that sphere. But that idea in general. Yeah,
exactly. It is. I think it's a very clear way of just like, I think about habits all the time,
because we don't usually think of thoughts as habits, but they are. And, um, you know,
that connects to this whole like body and mind, not being dichotomous, but being still being distinct.
But, you know, we stand with our bodies when we do that, that we have good habits or bad habits,
but we don't understand that our thinking is that way too. And that it's also just as kind of
constrained or unconstrained by what we, the conditions in which we put ourselves in,
in terms of those thought spaces. Right. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And you can see how
the things you do with your body can shape the way you think. Absolutely. Yeah. That gets to the
nature because I was, as you've been talking a few times, I've thought of the shorts that you often
produce and they're very natural in the sense of, um, like one can fill the, a different habit,
right? Yeah. Through usually visions of nature, whether it's, I don't know, a landscape or some
rain, or is that on purpose? Is that, has that been part of your re-pattering your habits of emotion
and thought? The shorts that I post? The way you see the world, right? Yeah. Because the shorts are just
little, yeah, little visions from your mindset. I would say, I would say so. I think like nature
in general, just viewing nature, I think that's, it sets you straight, you know, there's something
about it. It's, it's extremely transformative. Well, being out there and noticing it, right?
Just actually not walking through these spaces, caught in patterns of thought, but looking at them,
I feel like that's what you're doing with the camera. You're like, look, guys, like, look, girls,
look, people, look, everyone. Yeah. Yeah. It's observing, it's attending. And that's what I'm
saying about the mystery as well. And the mystery is all around us, um, in a sense. So you can attend
to it at all times, but I think especially in natural places and in sacred spaces as well,
um, it can become present to you more easily. You know, there's people that can meditate on a busy
street, you know, but, but going to nature actually affords that, that type of mind state much more
easily. And so, so yeah, that's, that's, that's extremely important to me. Actually. I live,
I live just next to a forest. I'm looking out on it now and close to a beach. So it's, it's actually
very important to me when I, um, when I was going to study, start going to start studying three years
ago, three and a half years ago, I didn't care so much where I lived. I just looked on the map,
wherever there's green, because I just knew that would be an important part of my sanity.
Um, that's great. Yeah. It probably made a big difference.
Yeah, for sure. Absolutely. So how did you, so you, let's say it was your, your teenage years
before you started studying, when you started changing these, these habits in a way, and I'm
interested in how that brought you your path, because you're, you're kind of changing your path.
You're changing this mimetic triangular thing or, and how did that bring you to your,
to full love? Right. I mean, there's many kinds of love, but if I feel like you've discovered
a love that's opening you as a person, that's what you just said, right. That's helped you
in the ways you needed. So I'm wondering how these paths, where are these paths found one another?
Yeah. Yeah. No, that's a good question. It's also, it's really not obvious based on where I was going,
because I was onto the track of the self-help and, um, I still, still see a lot of, I see it actually
becoming more and more popular nowadays, the waking up at 5 AM and the, the hours of running. Um, that's
what I was in for a short time. Um, so what happened was I actually had a very fortunate experience with,
uh, psychedelics, specific psychedelic called ayahuasca. I don't know if you're familiar with
that. Um, yeah, that was quite a gamble. Yeah. I've never done it. I have to say, but I know,
I know it. Yeah. That was a big gamble for me because I was, uh, I was 18 or 19. No, I was 18
when I got really interested in this, where I just heard people transform. And I was at this time still
very much stuck in a materialistic view of reality, reductionist view, let's say.
Were you already waking up at 5 AM and doing all that? Were you? Yeah. That's yeah.
You were in that kind of a, yeah, I was in that zone working in the morning.
Do you want to unpack that just a minute before? Cause you kind of brought it up and I, I know what
you mean because people get, we can also turn our attention to becoming obsessed with what we think
of as healthy habits, which isn't really what the answer is either. Yeah. That's what, that's where I was at.
Absolutely. Why don't you unpack that a minute too? Yeah, absolutely. So I was,
yeah, I just finished high school and got into self-help, got into reading those books. They're
mostly nonfiction, just helping, uh, just trying to become healthier, I guess, and also richer. So I was
reading a lot of investment books and really it was a very materialistic way of being, if I look back on
it, because it was focused on the biological and the financial in a sense, but, but yeah, I got inspired
by, you know, certain individuals and certain ideas of, of optimization of health, for example, um,
which ironically doesn't take into account so much the, the social or the spiritual, um,
um, but yeah, it, I got inspired to squeeze out every part of my day, become becoming as productive
as possible. I've always liked a little bit of structure in my life. Uh, my mother always told
me that I like structure. And so I started just planning out my days, like all of my day.
Uh, so yeah, yeah, almost, uh, almost on the hour, let's say, to be the most productive and optimal
in terms of exactly. And that was actually like looking back on it. I always tell people that that
was actually really good for me, but it had to be temporary. Um, that's a good point too. That's a,
to this either, or it's not that that was bad, but yeah. Yeah. It's, it serves a function in a moment
so that being imbalanced is not always bad, but it has to be in service of something else. And so I
would wake up at five, I would run sometimes I would run half a marathon just in a Wednesday. And
I would, um, I had a job that I worked just in the morning and I would play piano every, every day
for an hour. Um, some, somehow instrumentally, like not even playing piano for playing the piano,
but just playing piano to become better, uh, and language learning. And I would read certain
amount of pages every day. And, um, there must be other habits that I'm forgetting about, but just,
yeah, basically, basically that, that was a phase on all in all aspects, trying to improve, right?
Yeah. And it was good to a degree, but at some point, my brother, who I bless my brother,
I love him to death. He, he would always just try to steal and not steal, man, to, um,
play the devil's advocate a bit with me to be like, okay, but Hey, uh, you know,
you haven't spoken to your friends in this time. And like, is this sustainable, this type of path?
And, um, yeah, he basically always has helped me get a bit, get a bit closer to,
to goodness. I think, I think that he's always done that, whether consciously or subconsciously,
but he's always been a very good influence on me, uh, like he also helps you see yourself too.
Like what we're talking about. So you don't get exactly up in the inertia of whatever,
and not take that step back, which we have to do it every day. So we need people to help us, but
yeah, people are, they can help you reflect indeed. And I didn't have a lot of people around me. So
there wasn't a lot of that happening in your world. Yeah. So, so yeah, that was that phase.
And I was also listening to a lot of podcasts at the time, just whatever I would find interesting.
It's also started my fascination for history and ancient history. So it's partially where I got
interested in Egypt. Um, but yeah, then I heard multiple people who had done certain psychedelics
start reading up on psychedelics. Um, basically, you know, from a materialist frame, psychedelics are
transcendence in a sense. So the, they are, they are when people describe it, like the, almost the
only passageway out of that, especially if you're really deeply entrenched in that. And I, and I was,
so, whereas I think a lot of people are just more, um, they're just a bit more open and a bit more in
tune with their spirituality. They might not need such a blast of something and such a, a, a,
breaking of the frame as I had, but I feel like I really did need that, or at least it, it turned
out to be extremely fruitful and helpful for me. So I got interested in that and I, I did a, um,
um, a session just in my country and, um, yeah, that got me to, for that, isn't it? For sorry,
the Netherlands is a good place for being able to do that in, well, I was actually still illegal.
It was still illegal, but, um, it's, it's better than other places for sure. Like it's in Dutch,
we have this saying that it's, um, it means something like it's illegal, but it's kind of
condoned like it's okay. Um, but like they had a public website and everything, so you could just
do it. Um, but yeah, I did that and that basically showed me, it convinced me that there was so much
more to reality than I could have ever imagined. And I think it really opened up my view of reality.
I think it, it broke a lot of frames, a lot of, you know, those, when I spoke about the ground that
we stand on, that's actually useful fiction, it, it kind of blasted away that, and then it leaves
you with this blank slate almost. And that's why there's a negative potential there as well. You
know, people get into cults. Um, I guess it could be scary, right? If you're not,
if you don't know, then you don't know what to hold on to. If the patterns have suddenly opened like
that. Exactly. Exactly. So you come out of it with, at least I did overwhelming feeling of love,
but also a certain sense of confusion. Like I couldn't speak for two hours after it. And I
couldn't believe that the apple that I was holding in my hand was, was real and, and things like that.
But I was extremely opened up to, for example, my religious upbringing. I had much more sympathy
for it when I came out of it. My parents, they picked me up. They prayed for me before. And, um,
Oh, that's very, it's very sweet. Yeah. Family to support you. Cause a lot of people,
they have to hide it from everyone they know. And yeah, no, they didn't. They were very,
very supportive, but also very worried. Yeah. Of course. Of course. But yeah, I was,
I was at past 18. So they, they had to, why did you choose ayahuasca? Can I ask? Because you could
have done something like some kind of mushroom or, I mean, that is legal in the Netherlands. Yeah.
That just see, ayahuasca seemed just like the most intense possible thing that I don't think
anyone does it do coming back. Like, oh yeah, it was okay. Like almost everyone comes out of it
with like a complete transformation. And that's what I was looking for at the time. Um, so I've
always been a kind of zero or a hundred type of person. Yeah. I was about to say it fits with the
way you were doing the, the habits beforehand. Exactly. And I still am that to a certain degree,
but I tried to minimize that a bit, but yeah. It's good to just know it's part of you and
embrace it and channel it the right way. Yeah. You can channel it properly. Exactly. But yeah,
I was, I was very well surrounded afterwards as well. This is when I got into John Vavacky. This is
when I got into, um, philosophy and theology. And I think doing that after having broken open your
worldview can make you so much more open to different theories and views of reality that I think.
How did you find John Vavacky, by the way, you've mentioned him like three or four times. And to be
honest, I'm taking it as a sign. I need to now. I think you would love to speak to him. I think you
would make for a great, um, well, I need to first study him. So maybe you can recommend where I should
start. Yeah. I will recommend anyone listening, um, his YouTube series, which is extremely popular.
It's called awakening from the meaning crisis in which he basically awakening from the meaning crisis,
the meaning crisis. Okay. Yeah. So the meaning, meaning crisis is something he's really popularized as a,
as a concept that we are currently in this day and age suffering from a crisis of meaning. And he is a
cognitive scientist as well as a philosopher. Um, so he's got an, I think he's got an MA
and a BA in philosophy. I'm pretty sure. And then he had a PhD in cognitive science,
at least he's well-versed in both of those. And he does in that series, he does a,
he runs through basically almost a history of thought, but he connects that to meaning making
into cognitive science and to practical things that you can do in your life. Um, but yeah,
he's, he's very influential. He's been very influential on me. And the way I got into touch
with him was through my brother who is, you know, more philosophically oriented. So he's always
recommended me people to listen to or music to listen to, or things to think about. And he's always kind
of, you know, poked holes into my worldview, um, every step along the way. So he's, that's been very
helpful. Um, but yeah, that's when I got into all of that. And then, because I was so well surrounded
as well. And at my father to talk to, my father's a theologian, my father to talk to about, um,
some mystic texts. So you came out of the space where you realized there's much more to the world.
There's much more to everything, I guess your patterns were kind of, you realized those patterns
were patterns, which is a way of like almost opening to what patterns am I going to create?
And then you started with these conversations with your family and, and listening. Yeah.
Yeah. Just trying to, yeah, exactly. Listening to other people that are wiser than I am and smarter
than I am. And then speaking a lot to people that I loved. And my father was helpful because so he's a
as well as through a Gnostic, a Christian Gnostic text. And I was just reading that.
You went through both? Like you both sat together and every day or some, or often?
We did a weekly, um, discussion of just one chapter of the new Testament. We did that for a while.
So we went through that and just trying to help me to understand because I had so much, so many
hangups with, um, with the faith that I was brought up in and I've come much more at peace with it. I'm
not a church goer. Um, at the moment, maybe I will be, maybe I won't be, because I still have some,
some issues, but I've become much more comfortable with my Christian identity and a lot of Christian
ideas through him and through that experience, because it allowed me to see it in a different
way. Whereas before I was approaching it as a scientific equation and a book full of forensic
facts. Now I think I can see it as an extremely powerful, um, I think I see the Bible as symbolically
extremely powerful and true on some level in many cases, but yeah, he helped me a lot with that.
And, um, then I was very positively influenced by a lot of people online. Then I got started on,
uh, talking as well, uh, just a year ago. So now I just like to speak to people as well. Um,
but I've gotten a bit away from the ideas and a bit more into the personal, um, because I think,
like I told you earlier in this conversation, there's only certain lengths to which you can
go with talking about this. You can do it very beautifully with trying to hold the paradox and
attending to the mystery and using words to refer beyond words, but that doesn't always happen.
And I feel like with the personal, there's something really beautiful about individuals where they are,
I feel like they're irreducible in some sense, if you let them unfold in front of you. So they're,
they're wholeness. Um, so yeah, that pulls me a lot nowadays, uh, as we're, as we're almost wrapping up,
but yeah, it's no rush. It's okay. Yeah. So, yeah, well, it's almost, um,
I mean, we hadn't said the word, but when you were talking about with your, with your dad and these
study sessions, but also the way that you started listening, I guess it feels like love to me. It
feels like a space of love in terms of letting your parents love you and maybe also accepting that love
from not without it needing to be quantifiable or scientific. Um, and I guess that has to do with
the way you feel about yourself, right? To go back to that theme of that way you were being hard on
yourself, criticizing yourself, trying to live up to other patterns that don't feel like love to me.
Does that make any sense? Yeah. Yeah. Love became my biggest, to love became my biggest goal and to
spread love. Um, and it still is, I think to, to embody it. And, and I think it's, it's at the
foundation of reality because I see reality is relational and I think love is essential in that
relationship. So, um, before we, that's what you're doing in your conversations, opening that space
somehow or trying to learn how to sit in that space or. Yeah. The, the, one of the most important
things about the podcast that I do, which is very small scale also for a reason, um,
is that relationality is the most important thing to me in the podcast. So getting to know people and
to, to let them be heard and to hold space for them. Um, so I had a while there where I had some
couple of bigger guests on, and then I noticed that that just wasn't very good for me. I started to
yeah. I just noticed that I had a kind of a bad response to it. And then I wanted to one up
the guests that I had every time. And then I was like, okay, I need to tone down. So then I very
consciously was like, okay, I'm just going to stick to some random people that I think are
beautiful to talk to. And that's, that's when really good. Um, and so that's actually a really
nice practice in my week, but it's actually something that I tried to do offline mostly. Uh,
there just happens to be one conversation every week that I record so that I can speak to some
people overseas and, uh, some people that I'm particularly interested in, but it's been really,
uh, gratifying and, and, and fun to do and meaningful.
So it's the way you want to live your life then is in conversation in this way or something.
It's a part of, uh, life and it's a way to,
to make relationships and to strengthen them and to maintain them to, to talk. I think conversation is,
is, and well, it can be beautiful. And I think communication is really important. And I'm trying
to talk to, to so many different people to somehow transcend the separateness and to come to a reality
that's a bit more connected. And I think that's something that is the opposite of what our society
sometimes feels like, especially with the digital age and with the people feeling that, uh, their
neighbors are their enemies sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just from my perspective to see someone
who's so young and who's trying to find a different way to set different patterns, right? Not,
not just going with the inertia of assuming this is good and this is bad and this is cool and this
is not. And cause you know, just by doing it, you start to open up the fact that that can be done,
right? That that's a possibility for other people, uh, that are around you. And I don't think it's,
is it an easy thing to do? Or, I mean, I, something I was wondering about before we talked was like the
pressure you might feel from positive things like that you're, for example, the way you look,
right? That people expect you because of, because of the privilege you talked about before. Um,
or because of even being like handsome, we once talked about that you were modeling and stuff and
that that's a lot of weird pressure. Um, these things that people don't think of as like
pressurized. I wonder if this has helped you deal with some of that too. Cause when you were talking
about like with the guests, right, where you want to one up, um, there can also be a way in which when
you do have success or when people do see you in this way that the old, you would have wanted more of
that becomes pressure. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I do. I do. Sometimes it comes back. Like I had a,
I'm still doing a little bit of modeling and I had a job recently and, you know, I noticed it as
well on myself. It was like, oh, this could actually be something, but then I'm like, well,
you know, and same with the podcast, there's, there's lower parts of me that then want that.
But I think the higher part of me is always more dominant and, and, and I feel more aligned than I
used to be. And so right now to speak more practically, I, I was asked to go to Italy and
September and October, for example, to work, uh, instead of, well, yeah, to, to live there for
two months and to do a lot of castings and to really stay there. Oh, okay. To actually be in
the, yeah. And I've done it before and it was a helpful experience, but also after that, I was like,
this is not for me. Um, and so then there's a part of me is like, well, you should really do that.
But then in the end, I've decided to, to walk a different path instead. And I said no to it. And
I'm not going to be a comma school teacher. So that's something.
Oh, really? I was going to ask about, yeah. So you, yeah. Tell me a little more about that.
Before you do too, um, is, have you, I mean, there could be a way to, that it's not either
or for this stuff too, isn't it? Yeah. I do it a little bit. Like it's okay. It's just,
it can't be. It's the way you're thinking about it, I guess, isn't it?
Yeah. It's like how, how it affects your mind. And you know, if you do it and it turns on your
vanity and it turns on your ego, then it's not good. I found it fine to do a job and it was okay.
It didn't do much bad with me, but I think if I start to live somewhere for two months and do it
exclusively, uh, I'm not so sure if that would be good. And especially if I do it instead of
doing something like this where, um, yeah, I think becoming a school teacher for me really
aligns with what I'm trying to do in life, just to connect with people and to spread love and to,
I really like to, to educate and to inspire the younger generation as well. I think that's really,
one of the highest things I can do with my time at the moment. So when I saw that as an opportunity,
I was like, that's probably one of the best things I can do with my life.
Totally. I mean, two things I have to say is, um, it's like what you were saying before,
what we were talking about of what you put yourself in the regularities you surround yourself with.
Even if you're the most enlightened person are going to, you know, create the parameters of
your life. So if you're surrounded by people who are worried about how they look and trying to
look better than one another, which I know what that world is like, it's just like that. And
people telling you what's wrong with you all the time or what you should fix. There's no way you
can't help but change the parameters and regularities of your life are going to shift in that direction.
I mean, no matter how enlightened you are, and it's not that it's a bad thing, but it is a choice,
right? You, you, you step back enough to know, okay, I'll be making the choice to be
setting those parameters in my life or this other one you took, which I have to tell you just yesterday,
I had a lunch with one of my best friends. Cause I'm in the States right now. And, um,
she's a school teacher and, uh, I think she's probably changed people's life more than almost
anyone I've met. And, and also even on the podcast, uh, or even in like life, having conversations,
almost every person, I would say 65 to 70% of people end up saying it was some teacher
who gave them some book that changed or opened up or that, or that some teacher noticed something
about them and just spoke it and it changed the trajectory of their life. So yeah, you couldn't
choose a more important thing to do from my perspective, having, yeah, that's awesome.
When does that start or what does that like? Oh yeah. That feels exciting.
It is. So basically there's a big like shortage in the Netherlands of teachers, probably in other
places as well. And so I saw, I was just looking to see if there's any full-time jobs that I could
just start right now. Uh, and I saw this as a, it's, it's a job from the start. So you get paid from the
start, but it's also an education. So normally you'd have to do a four-year track to become a school
teacher in the Netherlands, but this is a sped up one. So it's done in two years. Um, and then
the first six months are more of a trial period where you, you're at a school and you're helping,
but, um, you're not fully into the education yet. And so, yeah, I saw that and I was like,
that fits perfectly. And that's starting in two weeks. And then next week I have some
introduction things and I still have to bear to school, but, uh, it makes me almost want to cry
because I can just imagine all these kids. It's exactly what we've been talking about in a way,
like all these kids having a role model like you, right? Just someone, and I don't mean to put more
pressure on you because you don't need to be perfect and you don't need to do this for your
whole life or something or whatever. But I mean, just someone who knows what, you know, and has stepped
back and isn't in that trap that you, we all saw when we were kids. I mean, I'm a lot older than you,
but I mean, it makes such a huge difference. Um, so I feel emotional to think of you going into that
because it feels to me, it fits very well with all this. I didn't expect it. It's a surprise.
And that's probably part of it too. And, um, also just, it feels like you're going to give so much,
maybe you don't know it even, but just by being there, I can already imagine, you know?
Yeah. I hope so. Thank you so much for those words. It means a lot.
I want to hear last thing. I mean, there's a big thing that we haven't talked about much yet. And
it is connected to all this and that's that you've gotten married. And so how do you see that
relationship and that source of, of love when it comes to these other things? Has it, because I feel
like you and your wife have a lot of conversation, not online, I mean, but it feels conversational. I
mean, how would you, how does all that connect to what we've been talking about? Maybe.
Yeah. Okay. So I met my wife through yoga class. She teaches yoga and that was three years ago
in the university. She has this embodied. Yeah.
She has, she had, when I met her, she was like, oh, she has got everything that I don't
in a sense. Like she, she's like, she's gonna complete my puzzle. And that's what happened
basically. And I first met her thinking that she would never be interested in me. She's a bit older
than me. And I was a first year student, you know? So, so we got to build a solid bond first and we
spoke a lot after classes and I would just ask her questions about yoga and about a bunch of things.
We had a lot of meaningful conversations. Most of which like, I forgot the content, but I remember the
connection and that was always very profound and very powerful. And, um, she kind of, I think,
made me like less obsessed with all the books and the podcast. Cause I was just listening the whole day
and reading the whole day. And yeah, I think that she, she allowed me to become more embodied. Um,
and I see yoga as a wisdom practice and she teaches it really well. I think
having been taught now by, by more teachers as well, I'm really grateful for that.
And yeah, that relationship has been the best relationship in my life. I would say, um,
I think that I was very certain from the start and she was as well. I wanted to get married right
away, actually. She was like, let's wait a bit. And that proved to be a wise decision because now we've
had a beautiful wedding with our families and, um, and it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's like I said
before in the podcast, it's made me much more complete. Like she would call me out on so many
stupid things that I was doing, like things that were just not serving me, uh, things that were a
little bit too extreme. Like I would fast the whole day and I would eat one meal because I wanted to be
focused and all these things like, um, so that's, that's been an extreme, extremely good help in my
life. And, um, it's the foundation that she's what grounds me and she is, she is like my favorite
person to talk to. And, uh, so I'm very privileged to have her. She's just right behind over there.
Someone, um, that's beautiful. So yeah, that's, and it fits in with all of this in the sense that
I think being in a intimate relationship with, with one person in some sense is
yeah, it's, it's, it's in a way it's reflective of, of reality, you know, this relationality,
what we were talking about. Um, I think it's really good to have someone to share life with
because life is not monological. I think life is, you know, and found in the relationship and the
in between and in the dialogue. So it's a, it's a pleasure to share that.
Well, I'm so glad you, you found it and just having heard you talk about her, it does feel
like she sort of turned you back towards the world or she does into your body and into real life.
And yeah, I was floating there for a while. She, she, she brought me back. Like we always joke about,
she has a, she has a moon tattooed on her, on her shoulder. She had that when I met her,
that's like representing, um, the feminine and does the more spiritual. And she herself is more
of that masculine sun type of energy. And so, uh, she, she got me interested in also getting a tattoo.
I only have like three little small ones, but I got a sun because I was the opposite. Like I was all
the way to the feminine and to the spiritual and almost like drifting in that, like disconnected from
the world. And I was like, I was just checking out and meditating and, and, uh, and so, yeah,
she brought that back to my life to, to allow me to become more whole. And I hope to do the same
with her. So I provide her the other side of the coin. Oh, that's so wonderful. And actually that's
a perfect place to stop talking today because it's actually where we started, right? This, this, uh,
coincidence of opposites or the paradox that you hold that becomes the most rich portal, right? The portal
into real living. So it's wonderful that you found that with two bodies, right? Um,
yeah. Beyond dichotomy. Exactly. Beyond dichotomy. Well, um, Lucas, I I'm so glad that you and your
wife are in the world doing what you're both doing and, uh, let's keep talking. I want to hear how the,
the school stuff goes. Um, so let's check back in about that later.
Likewise. Thank you so much for your time. It's always good to speak to you. Let's speak again.
Bye. Thank you.
