So I read a lot about the death process to understand why I wanted to live and what living
every day could mean for me.
Like I'm not, I don't think of myself anymore as like dying every day.
That's the big shift for me is I'm actually like, or waiting for a specific time to die.
I actually, it's really, you know, what can I do every day?
And that could also just be like reading a book, laying on the couch, laying out in
the grass and being okay with that.
But I think where the motorcycle ties into that, and I talk about it a bit in Motorcycle
Saved My Life.
It's just like, because if you're not present on a motorcycle, you are going to die.
Like every day I get on my motorcycle, I'm very close to death.
And that's good for me.
It reminds me why I want to be alive in everything that I want to do.
It could be my last day and I'm okay with that.
And I don't think I would have been okay with that at 39.
I wouldn't have been okay with that.
Are you in the present moment at all much?
During that time before 38, 39?
Were you?
No.
No.
Being, living in present, I think for women is extremely difficult anyway, because we're
always worried about the past, worried about the future.
What do I look like?
How do I sound?
Am I safe?
Am I saying the right things?
Am I doing the right things?
Am I upsetting somebody?
It's almost impossible for women to live in a present state.
And when we're on a motorcycle, you are in a present state.
And so when I think a lot of women talk about freedom of motorcycles, for women, for me,
it's like because we get to exist in a present state for that small amount of time we're on
a motorcycle.
And that is amazing.
Also, to feel safe.
Like, I do dress a particular way so that I don't attract what I would consider negative
attention on me.
Like, no, zero judgment on how other people are living their lives.
But for me, it is not a safe, comfortable space.
So, you know, I, most people assume I'm queer or I'm a lesbian by the way I dress and the
way I look.
And I'm frankly fine with it.
I was called that a lot growing up as well.
Even when I did, like, seemingly dress more feminine because of my sports and my, you know,
and what I was doing with my life and career focused and not really looking to, like,
get married or any of those things, I got called lesbian, like, my whole life.
But I was like, that's not an insult.
That's not like a bad, like, some of my closest friends are lesbians.
Also, when we are in these situations like sports, we almost, I don't know if you did,
but you almost feel like you have to be a boy because, or the things you need to be,
like, strong and fast and all these things are associated with boys, which is totally messed
up, but it becomes confusing, right?
Like, male, female characterization.
I don't know if that even makes sense.
And it's, and this is the thing is, like, this is the thing about growing up when it
felt like it was either or.
Like, I definitely prefaced masculine qualities because I thought that would show the world
that I was stronger, not someone to fuck with, like, all these things, right?
So, like, I definitely wanted to exude way more masculine qualities as a young person.
And I did for most of my life to, you know, up until, like, my parents died, I was living
that, prefacing those qualities, no doubt about it, because I felt like that's how to set
myself apart, how to not be less than.
It wasn't until after they died and, you know, and doing all of this, you know, deep
work just in terms of who we are as really humans, where I see it's, we're just a balance
of those energies.
Like, right?
I feel really balanced in my feminine and masculine energy.
We're all, all of it in different ways.
I mean, we could, men need to be feminine, too.
I mean, it's wonderful to be able to be all of it, you know, in different ways at different
times.
But why, it's so hard.
But what I found so beautiful and confusing in the most, in the best way, almost like
untangling all that stuff, the other confusion is that you embraced the motorcycle and learned
how to ride and it embraced your feminine, being feminine in a way, or being a woman and opened
up this space of acceptance for just being who you are.
To me, that riding a motorcycle is that perfect balance of masculine and feminine, because
the bike does have all that masculine energy to it, right?
And so when women ride, it is a balance, like it feels like really incredible.
And I think that is another aspect of the presence and the overarching theme of freedom.
I think all of these things come in, play into that, that I think a lot of us just don't
know how to articulate.
But for me, like riding that, riding the motorcycle really definitely helped me embrace more of
my feminine.
Like that film really came about healing that mother wound for sure.
And I wouldn't have even been able to express that when I was making it, to be honest.
It's just like in reflection years down the road.
Hello, everyone.
This is a podcast with Laurie Lozinski, who created two films that I hope you will watch.
One is called The Pilgrimage.
Another is called A Motorcycle Saved My Life.
And they are both about women on motorcycles, but they are also about family and the ecological
connection of humans and machines and the open nature that we are and that we move through
all the time.
And that when you're on a motorcycle, moving through that world becomes especially potent
if you're in a particular state of mind.
So I found Laurie because of the film she made.
And I wanted to talk to her as part of the Ecological Motoring Initiative because I wanted
to talk to her because she's a woman riding a motorcycle and also because I love the films
that she made about the experience of being a woman or group of women connecting to and
through the world and one another and oneself while on a motorcycle.
But we ended up talking about all kinds of things, love and philosophy, life, what it means to
be a woman, all the images and things that are put upon us as both women and men, and how
kind of weird and strange it is that we have these ideas of what a woman is supposed to be
and what a man is supposed to be and that we all live in such pressure trying to live up
to these things.
Like, where did that come from and why do we do this?
Can't we have both sides of what we've traditionally thought of as masculine and feminine to different
degrees?
I think we come into the world that has an inertia of judgment and we take on that judgment
without actually questioning it.
But we're on different parts of that spectrum or we're nested at different levels of all those
scales at different times in our life.
And that's the richness and beauty of life.
In our most intimate relationships, we feel okay to explore all those areas.
It's something, as someone who grew up playing sports and also being involved in the motoring
world, also in other areas of life like academia and so on, there you do confront what it means
to be a woman, what it means to be a man in different ways.
And it's something we all think about.
And Lori is just wonderful because she talks about it so honestly here.
And I really appreciate that.
I'm not even going to cut this much.
It's going to be long because it's just one of those episodes I feel like she's going to
say something that someone needs to hear.
And even if it's only one person, it's worth just leaving it all in there so that whoever
that one person is can listen to it and hear it all.
So it's a conversation between Lori, who is an award-winning filmmaker in Canada, she lives
in Vancouver, and me about different parts of life, love, and motoring.
So this one's posting on a lot of different channels and I hope that's okay with you all.
Hope you're doing well out there wherever you're making your way.
And okay, let's go.
Hi, Lori.
It's so nice to see you.
Thank you for being here today.
I'm super happy to be here.
Thank you.
All the way from Vancouver.
Vancouver to the Netherlands is the connection today.
Thanks for getting up early.
You said you're an early bird.
I'm a night owl.
So getting up early.
I have great respect for those who can get up early and look as like you look like you've
been awake for hours or something.
Wait for a couple hours.
Yeah, for sure.
No, the older I get, I appreciate the quiet morning hours to myself.
You know, I love the morning hours, I have to say, and I love the late night hours.
It's just you can't really have both of those at the same time unless you stay up all night
and then sleep all day, which doesn't really work for a normal life, I guess.
No, that worked for my teenage years.
That's for sure.
So we're going to talk about a couple of movies that you've made, a couple of films,
but you've got your own company and there's a lot of films.
And one of the through lines, at least that I've noticed, is of journey, exploration,
be that in physical space, emotional space, et cetera.
So to get into all that, I'm wondering about your childhood.
Did you take a lot of road trips or what was like kind of the relationship to movement
in your early life?
Yeah, we did take a lot of road trips when I was young.
The holidays were always in like this van my dad bought.
He just bought like a shell of a van and then, you know, made a bed and put a bed inside
it and we would go camping and he had relatives in Vancouver.
This is, I lived in Edmonton, Alberta, and we had relatives in Vancouver.
So, you know, a lot of those younger kind of holidays were camping in the van on the way
to Vancouver to see relatives.
And I think too, also because we had farmland that was north of Edmonton, like about two hours
northeast of Edmonton or around a town called Lacklabish.
We went there every weekend.
So, because my dad was a part-time farmer.
That's where he grew up.
He was an engineer, but he still farmed on the weekend.
We had cattle and a little over 2,000 acres.
And so we were doing that every weekend.
So we would drive two hours every Friday to go there and then every Sunday back.
So there was a lot of times in the car.
So me and my sister learned how to entertain ourselves, you know, because that was the days
when there was, you're lucky if, I was lucky if like my parents played the radio.
It was pretty cool.
Oh, yeah.
So, or it was just news, you know.
So, yeah, me and my sister learned to entertain ourselves.
So, yeah, road tripping was very prevalent in my childhood.
It's funny you said your dad was part-time engineer and part-time farmer, because
these are kind of themes I see a lot too.
The land connection and also the motoring or the movement through some sort of vehicle
connection.
Was he really into cars and stuff too or not at all?
No, he wasn't surprisingly.
And I will say he was probably a full-time engineer and a full-time farmer.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's a lot of work.
Yeah.
You know, he really worked hard.
I got an extremely great work ethic from him in many ways.
And I think I got the take it easy gene from my mother.
So, I have a balance of it all now.
You know, I just turned 50.
So, I feel like I'm finally balanced with my work and, you know, how I choose to live
my life and that kind of stuff.
Happy birthday.
That's a beautiful moment.
Thank you very much.
It was May.
I'm a very grateful aging person.
And I'm, yeah, I'm excited about the next, I'm going to say 50 to 75 years.
I'm about longevity.
So, if I can 25, I'll be great.
Yeah.
There's still a lot of years.
That's for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A lot of movement left.
So, how did you get from farming or this world interested in films?
Were you watching a lot of films?
Did that, yeah.
What about the film part?
When did that come in?
Yeah, the film part came in quite late into my 20s.
Growing up, I definitely watched movies and stuff, you know, going to the theater.
I can remember going and seeing Star Wars and, like, kind of the bigger movies.
And, but, you know, in terms of television, like, we didn't really have cable growing up
because we were, at that time of, you know, life, we were made to go outside.
We were not allowed to stay inside.
So, I didn't grow up with a lot of television.
But I had, I was a project manager in the telecommunication industry.
Oh, okay.
So, that's how, that's how it started?
Because you're often talking about how hardworking you were.
And I can tell you've had, like, a really intense career.
But I don't exactly know how to put it all together to where you got to making the films.
Yeah, I had, I had moved to, I started in the telecommunication industry in Edmonton.
And it's also because that's the industry my father was in.
So, I worked with my dad for many years.
And, and then I took a job in Calgary.
So, I lived in Calgary for a little while.
And then that company claimed bankruptcy.
And so, my dad was actually the chief technical officer of a company in Vancouver.
And he was looking for a project manager.
And he asked if I was, you know, interested and available.
So, I came out to Vancouver.
And then that company also claimed bankruptcy about a month after I moved.
Oh, gosh.
My dad had to fire me or had to, which was very, it was all very funny.
But I was now in Vancouver.
And, you know, I had thought, like, kind of early in my 20s and all through my 20s, I really thought I was going to get an MBA and be running a company by the time I was 30 and, like, all these things.
And when I came to Vancouver and I was in, you know, still in what I, corporate life, I realized I didn't really like it.
To be honest, it wasn't really suitable for my personality and what I like doing.
And even back in the day when I had gone to college, I was thinking of taking accounting because I like the black and white of numbers.
And my dad talked me out of it.
He's like, you're not going to, like, enjoy being an accountant.
He's like, it's great.
You have the skills.
But there's so many other things you can do.
Oh, interesting.
Like, laugh about because that would have been a very nice, stable job.
Do you wish you had done that a bit or?
Not at all.
But I'm very happy.
He was right overall.
Yeah, he was totally right.
I'm very happy.
I have all, like, that background.
It helps me so much being a producer in film and television.
But so I came to, I was, like, in Vancouver.
I didn't have a job.
And I was just like, and then there was just, like, film trucks everywhere.
And I was like, oh, what is that?
Because I had never really seen that before.
And in Edmonton, you know, it didn't have, like, a film industry.
It does a little bit now, but nothing like Vancouver.
So Vancouver's, like, the center, I guess, for those who don't know.
There's always a film being made there or something.
There's, the film and television industry employs, like, 60,000 people here in Vancouver.
So there's, like, there's a ton of work being done here.
So much service work from Americans.
So lots of series, lots of films.
Toronto and Vancouver.
Toronto is a little bit bigger, but we're the main centers here in Canada.
Calgary is getting quite big, too.
But yeah.
So you saw all those trucks and you're like, hey.
Yeah.
And so I just kind of did some research into the film industry.
And I realized that a lot of the skills I had as a project manager would translate to producing.
So I decided to go to the Vancouver Film School, which was a film production program.
It was a year-long program.
And I really just wanted to learn how films were made.
And that program was really great.
And it taught me that.
And then immediately I came out and was working on set a little bit as an assistant director.
And then I started working with a production company called Screen Siren Pictures for a number of years.
And then I went to the Canadian Film Center.
And yeah.
And then so I've been pretty much producing now for over 20 years.
Wow.
So it's interesting.
It's also interesting that it sort of started connected with your father and his work a bit.
We haven't talked about your mom yet, but except you said that she was more relaxed and laid back.
And in the film, there's one film we'll talk about, A Motorcycle Saved My Life, where one of the, I'm not sure exactly which family member it is, but says that she was always very happy and easygoing and so on.
Maybe, like, what was the connection with your mom early on?
I know she rode horses, too, but she had given that up?
Or were you riding horses on the farm?
What was, like, maybe we can open that part up a little bit, too, before we get in.
Yeah, I think that's where my mom was, like, kind of a chronic reader of things.
So I think a lot of my love of stories comes from my mother.
Because, like, that's what we, you know, just a good afternoon, just me and mom laying in bed and reading books somewhere.
Oh, wonderful.
Yeah.
And even in the short, A Motorcycle Saved My Life, there is, like, that small moment where they're in a room and they're reading together.
And to me, that, you know.
And in the pilgrimage, you take a shot of someone reading a book.
I really like that part.
Yeah.
Or somebody takes a shot of that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was me.
Okay.
Yeah, I figured it was you.
But, and then also there was this great thing I wanted to ask you about where you said you're kind of joking with your family members.
And you say that you were reading your mom's dirty books when you were already in elementary.
Can we unpack that just a little bit?
Well, like a lot of women that read books, they like their erotica.
So.
Yeah, cool.
Okay.
Yeah, I was, you know.
You found them.
You discovered them, like, what, under the sink or something.
My mom used to keep her stuff, like, under the sink, thinking I couldn't find it.
But that's the easiest place to find it.
Yeah.
No, my mother was very sex positive.
So they were out in the open.
Oh, cool.
I'm also very fortunate.
I had a very sex positive mother.
That's really good.
Yeah, I mean, I was pretty young reading those things, but I don't see it, like, as, I really don't see it as a bad thing.
Because there's so much story and character, you know, and relationships that are going around.
You know, when you read those books, you realize, like, kind of, like, those, the intimacy is, comes through in many ways.
Not just through, you know, the act of sex.
So I was reading, like, you know, her Harold Robbins and her Danielle Steele and her Jackie Collins.
Okay.
Yeah, like, all that when I was young.
And I am very entertaining as a young person to read all that stuff.
Yeah, it's kind of exciting.
You have really not much of a clue of what they're talking about, but it's still sort of exciting.
And later, it makes more sense.
So did your mom have a lot of friends?
Did she have, like, a group of women?
I mean, the reason I kind of wonder about it, because I want to talk about The Pilgrimage, which is just so beautiful.
And it's a film about women taking motorcycle tour together, mindful motorcycle tour.
We'll get into it.
It's great.
But I'm thinking about, like, what your experience of women was like when you were young, you and your sister.
You had a lot of women in the family.
Your mom sounds rather empowered.
But I don't know.
What did it, can you, what comes to mind when I ask about that?
Yeah.
No, my mom was extremely popular.
She had a lot of friends, and I honestly never met a person that didn't like her.
All of my friends loved her.
She was, you know, she was definitely the support for a lot of my friends.
Her best friend was, you know, lived across the street.
She was the Avon lady, so we had a lot of Avon in the house.
The Avon lady.
Oh, yes, I remember Avon ladies.
I guess there still are Avon ladies, are there?
I think so.
I haven't seen one in a really long time, but I had a lot of Avon growing up.
So it was always, that was always fun.
So the Avon catalog is, and so, you know, I mean, my, there were some challenging times
like early on with my mother, because she was diagnosed as bipolar and was put into an
institution for a little while when I was young and had shock therapy.
And, but that's something she said helped her.
I feel like I got, you know, and I, you know, I had a good experience with, you know, living
with someone with bipolar.
I know a lot of people don't, but I felt like that really made her just appreciate life,
to be honest.
And like, just, you know, she liked to have a good time.
She didn't take things too seriously.
You know, as a child, I had a lot of freedom.
I didn't have curfews.
I was trusted.
I, you know, and so I kind of felt like I was treated like a responsible person from
a very young age.
And also when my parents divorced, I was quite young.
I was only nine and my mom had to start working.
So it was really, you know, me and my mom and my sister really on our own taking care
of each other.
So I didn't know you were so young.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, but, you know, there was so many things like I, I, I identified a lot more with my
dad when I was growing up.
So when he left, it was harder for me and I've always felt like more close to him in
so many ways.
My sister felt closer to my mother in many respects.
And, you know, I, you know, at the end of the day, my mom was, you know, really happy if
I was in a relationship and that kind of stuff.
And I, like, I never wanted to get married.
I never wanted children.
I never wanted those things.
And I think she would have been really happy if I had just, that would, she would have
understood more.
I think if I would have just kind of worked into that, like, frankly, I think a stereotype
of what a woman's life is supposed to be.
So I really tried, you know, to, to defy all those stereotypes for a lot of my life.
And, you know, I was a competitive athlete in softball and volleyball.
And that was another thing that, you know, my parents met playing sports.
So I come from a very sporty family.
My mom wrote equestrian, they wrote playing volleyball.
My dad played softball.
He played hockey.
He, like, both my parents could kind of play whatever they wanted to do.
And so me and my sister were really into competitive sports as well.
And, and my mom was my coach for a number of years when I was growing up in ball.
And so, yeah, she was very, very well loved.
Yeah.
Was she very traditionally sort of feminine?
Because, I mean, I ask, and I even hate the question, but there's a lot of tensions in
there that I think play out in your work a lot in terms of breaking conventions and, and
even these spaces that open for women where they feel like they don't have to be what everyone's
been telling them a woman is supposed to be.
Like, I didn't know your mom had this, the bipolar too, that adds a whole, it's a lot
to handle if I'm thinking of your mom.
And then also that the marriage didn't work and then that she had the two daughters.
And I guess there's two, two threads I want to see how to bring together.
Because in, in the work, you talk about how you were really close to your dad from early
on.
And it's, it sounds like there was a natural alignment between you and your father in terms
of just hanging out together and stuff daily kind of stuff.
And then as you just expressed, maybe with your mom, it was a little different, but so
there, that's one thread.
And then there's also this thread of where was the pressure coming from to conform?
Because I kind of felt it from your dad in a way towards, but not towards being a woman
in the traditional way.
And then now it sounds like it's from your mom a little bit towards, I don't know.
It just feels a little confusing.
What does that, those threads bring up?
I think it is confusing, you know, and that's the, like, I do feel, you know, I saw a lot
of my mother and a lot of the women in my family being living like those kind of traditional
lives.
And I didn't feel a lot of happiness in my family, to be honest about it.
Yeah.
And traditionally we mean like the mom stays home and cooks and is looking pretty and this
kind of stuff.
That's definitely not the women in my family.
Okay.
Yeah.
I wrote, I wrote an essay a number of years ago called My Mother Doesn't Wear Makeup.
My mom never wore makeup.
She was always like, you know, kind of outdoorsy.
She always had short hair.
She wasn't the Avon lady.
She was not the Avon lady, but her best friend.
She was not buying the Avon.
Yeah.
That's cool.
Yeah.
She had short hair.
No other mothers had short hair.
And, you know, she was really, she was very quick and witty and a smart ass and like had
a, like a very quick humor about her and loved her British television.
She sounds like someone would write a book about.
Yeah.
You know, I, I, you know, I definitely, I think making a motorcycle saved my life is
really, that film is really an, you know, it's a, it's kind of a love letter to my mother
for sure.
Yeah.
It definitely feels like that, which I think was a surprise to you, which we'll get into,
I guess.
But yeah, or you can get into it now.
Sure.
Well, well, that was the thing is like, you know, even with the pilgrimage and a motorcycle
saved my life, I had written one proposal and it was really the pilgrimage.
And I had sent that to the CBC and I'd sent one to the national film board, just trying to
get money to make these shorts and the CBC like the pilgrimage, they really, you know,
and so I went forward with them.
And then the NFB is just like, they liked the writing in my proposal.
They liked when I talked about myself and why I ride, because I had a whole section on,
you know, why I started writing.
And then they, I went into, and they're like, we'd like to go to development phase with you,
but we don't want to make the pilgrimage.
We want to make a film about why you're riding a motorcycle.
So, and that, and that turned into, you know, the film that it is now, but through that
development.
So they funded the motorcycle saved my life, but you still did the pilgrimage or both?
Yeah, I did both.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was trying to figure out which came first or if they came together or kind of how.
Yeah.
They originated from the same proposal, but I did make the pilgrimage first.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
2019 or so.
Yeah.
Cause I, I shot the ride.
I shot the ride myself in 2019 and that was before it came on.
So they liked it.
I love the way you shot it with the nature and that bird at the end.
Oh my gosh.
Like that was just luck or what?
Total luck.
It was like, that was her last shot of the day.
And then three eagles just rose up from the road.
I couldn't believe it.
I mean, and I was like, is that really, like, I thought, is that a bird of fray?
Is that really, or am I, is it like a crow or something?
No, it's definitely, it was, so it was an eagle.
Okay.
Three eagles.
Yeah.
There were three eagles.
It was really great.
The ride, I like basically all the footage of the ride and the riders, I shot myself
off the back of my bike.
I just bought a camera and rented some lenses and some stuff because I didn't secure any
financing and I wanted to shoot it.
And my really good friend, Chris was the one that organized it.
And so, you know, we, you know, did all that together.
And then after I shot it, I showed CBC some footage and then they came in.
And so what I did is I went back six months later in January of 2020 and shot a bit of
the footage of like the road and the eagles and some of the trees and some of like the
water.
And I had, I had another director of photography and a team out there doing that.
So all the footage that we see on the road was actually a camera mounted to the front
of a truck that had motion control.
So I had a guy inside the truck working the camera to simulate what it felt like for a
motorcycle to be on the road and do that kind of stuff.
And really that the literally those eagles, it was the last shot of our day.
There was the lead truck in front of us.
I was in the van behind us with the director of photography and I had a monitor and then
buddy Chris was in another car behind us and they also had a monitor.
And as soon as those eagles flew, like we all just flipped like every, like, cause we
were all on walkies and stuff like that too.
It was just like incredible.
And the way just the camera guy, like just caught it all.
It was just so good.
It's a real gift.
You feel like on the bike, you are flying with the eagle in a way and just like where
it, with the story, it fits so perfectly with this kind of freedom and release.
And, oh, I love it so much, but okay.
So you're, I'm confused a bit because it sounds like your mom was really freeing in a way, but
then I feel a block, you know, there's some kind of a block between you guys.
And then maybe also with your, just watching the films, listening to another interview you
did with the purple motor, the purple motorcycle, which I'm going to recommend to everyone.
I feel like where you were holding yourself back a little bit with your parents or maybe
in your life or something.
And this could be wrong.
Just correct me.
But I don't know, like we're going to talk about the pilgrimage and this is like, there's
so much in there about acceptance of self and being who you are and so on.
Did you struggle with that as a kid?
Was it related to your parents or were you really at peace and you already kind of had
this Zen flying with the eagles stance?
You know, I always, I think there, I always had a struggle when I was younger.
I really felt like I was a pretty staunch feminist from birth and I was always trying to push
back against the stereotype of being less than as a woman.
You know, I excelled in sports.
You know, I was frankly playing, like when I was younger, playing at a higher level than
boys my own age, but I was still relegated to certain things.
And, you know, as a young ballplayer, I was playing, you know, with women quite older
than me and, you know, that, and my mom allowing me to do that and pushing me to do that was
like rare too.
And she got a lot of flack from other parents of other girls because I wasn't playing with
girls my own age and that kind of stuff.
And so, but where I think I really, you know, seemed, my mother wasn't very ambitious and
I kind of, that didn't speak well to me.
Like, and it could be like her bipolar, it could have been the medication she, like, there's
so many factors there, but, you know, I think at some point, like she gave up riding when
she got married.
Like there was things I felt like she just, she gave up who she could have been.
You know, a really good rider, a horse rider, we should say, riding horses.
Yeah, she was, yeah.
It seems like it just disappeared when she was married.
And even in the film, your family's talking about, oh, well then she started, she needed
to learn how to cook and all of this.
Yeah.
Cause that was, for me, I wanted to try and understand because she's no longer here for
me to ask.
And I don't even know what kind of answer she'd give me anyway.
Yeah.
Trying to talk to some of, you know, my family members that knew her.
And I think it's wild that, you know, from, cause I have all of these pictures of her
riding from like basically 10 years old.
Cause her father rode, he was in the mounted military.
So, and she was very close to her father.
So, so she rode competitively for like, you know, 12 years and then suddenly gets married
and just stops.
And I was like, you know, and is it, was that her choice?
Was that something like her and my dad talked about?
Like, I don't know.
Like, I don't know any of that stuff, but I just, that makes me sad.
Yeah.
Because I used to.
You probably picked up on something in her too, because I mean, I don't know any, what
I'm talking about at all.
So you can disregard all this, but it sounds like there was probably some tension even in
her, right?
Like she's, you sound like you're more like her than anyone in a way, but that's often
hard, I think for parents, because then you, you know, the pressures that you've had
to deal with or the things that people have said to you.
And so there, there's this inner struggle of maybe pushing that person that's so much
like you to be something different.
I don't know.
It can be very confusing, right?
This isn't a linear thing.
There's all kinds of things going on in all of us when we try to deal with these, especially
masculine, feminine, and especially at that time.
Yeah.
And I think too, like, and as well with her, you know, we used to go to like every summer
or every fall for a number of years, we used to go to an event in outside Calgary called
Spruce Meadows, which is like a world-class international show jumping competition.
Went to that every year.
And then my mom would literally say, she knows the people jumping, like she jumped against
them.
And I was like, well, yeah.
So to me, I was just like, oh my God, like you could have been this world-class athlete
and maybe you were, but you know, and then I had a similar trajectory, right?
I played very high-level softball.
And at a certain point, I played with Olympic players.
I played against Olympic players.
And at a certain point, I didn't push myself to do that either.
Like it's one of the major regrets of my life is that I didn't try to do the Olympics.
Because I played that level.
Why didn't you?
Why didn't you?
I understand you, by the way.
I just want you to know, I also played sports and I was also like, people called me a tomboy
and all of this stuff when I was a kid and stuff.
So I just want you to know, I'm understanding you.
But why didn't you, why didn't you go for it?
You know, I had, I'd had kind of a, an incident in grade 11 when I was like 16 years old,
where I was playing, you know, volleyball at a very, I went to a very good high school
for volleyball.
I didn't go to a high school that was in my neighborhood or where my sister went.
I went to a school that had a really good volleyball program.
For that reason?
Yeah.
Okay.
And, but the thing was, I'm very tiny for volleyball.
I'm only five, three and a half.
Yeah.
I'm only five, three and a half.
So, and back in those days, the game was a little bit different.
It's a lot bigger now.
And I could have played now at my size in a different role.
Setter or something.
Yeah.
Well, I probably would have been a libero.
I probably would have been a defense specialist.
And that didn't exist in the volleyball I grew up with.
And all the women, you know, and I played high school and I also played club volleyball.
And all the women I played club volleyball with were quite big.
Yeah.
I was small and I'm, I'm five, eight, by the way.
And I was small.
So I would have died to be five.
It worked great.
I was taller, you know, I mean, I kind of stayed the same, but I was taller in like ninth
and 10th grade, but then I didn't keep getting taller.
But yeah, most people were even taller than me playing volleyball.
Oh yeah.
And all these, all, you know, a bunch of the women that I did play with in, in high
school and play club, they went on to be like, they all went on to the university of
Alberta and won multiple national championships.
Those women.
Gosh, it sounds like there's a little bit of theme here.
Yeah.
And so, but what had happened was I was trying out for the provincial team with all of them
and I got cut.
Oh, and I had never been cut before.
And I was really pissed off about it because I definitely wasn't cut because I wasn't a good
player.
I was cut because I was short.
And so I, you know, and then I kind of spiraled a bit after that.
I dropped out of high school.
I didn't want to go anymore.
And then the softball kind of like tailed off for me a little bit.
I came back to it.
And, but I think I just became afraid of failure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wonder if anything like that ever happened to your mom with her stuff.
You know, I maybe.
And that's the thing is we're really talking.
I mean, she was always very supportive and understanding.
She did not push me into things necessarily.
And sometimes I'm a little bit mad maybe at my parents for not actually not take, like
not allowing me to quit things and not do things.
But I was a pretty stubborn young person.
I'm still very stubborn.
Like many people, I, nobody can get me to do something I don't want to do.
Like, so, you know, so I can see looking back, that was, you know, they just tried to support
in every, everything we did.
And like my mother came to like every game I had.
Yeah.
Wow.
And volleyball.
Even when I went, the first time I went to nationals, it was in Burlington, Ontario,
and she didn't come and she was so upset.
So the next year, you know, she came to the nationals when we were in Saskatchewan, like,
and everybody knew my mother and everybody loved my mother.
And like, I mean, just how fortunate and grateful I am that I had a parent that was
so supportive, like every ball game, every volleyball game.
And that's, I know those kinds of parents too.
My mom came too, but there were some parents who were sort of, I don't know, they made the
room better, you know, like, cause they were, everyone looked to them and it would set the
pace.
I'm imagining your mom was kind of like that.
One of those, cause you said she was there for a lot of your friends and this kind of thing.
And those were the moms, right?
Where if you needed something, you went to them or they always had this kind of spirit.
Yeah, they do.
And like, and then the irritating thing to my mother was when my dad would occasionally
show up, he becomes the life of the party.
Okay.
Gosh.
You know, so he got all this, like all the, you know, everyone would be like, oh my God,
Dave's here.
Right.
And so, and he was very loud and boisterous and very supportive too.
Like, like when I was young, he used to like pay me to hit home runs.
What?
That worked?
He paid me like 10 bucks a home run when I was like super young.
So I would just, yeah, I'd make money every game.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
Like very, he was, my mom was the, like the super supportive, like always like, you know,
was there when I won or lost really.
My dad wasn't, but my dad was there to like, you know, really provide that ambition for
me.
And it's just like, it may be good and not good, but you know, if you're not winning,
you're losing kind of mentality.
And I do still take that.
Like I do still hear that all the time.
So I, that kind of is all in all facets of my life in so many ways.
You know, I've really pushed hard at the career I have because of those kind of mantras from
a young age.
Sports really gives you something like that.
I think of it a lot.
I mean, the Olympics are on right now and I, it's almost hard for me to watch because
I want to play so much, you know, it's, and I remember that spirit and that time and that,
I don't know, it sets you up, right?
It almost gives you a weird scaffolding that you kind of can apply to a lot of other things.
And yeah, definitely like all the team sports I was in and playing at a high level and
understanding loss, you know, and what that actually is and knowing how to win and what
the feeling of winning is.
I, the only time I've ever achieved that similar feeling is being on a film set when it's,
when everything works, it's magic.
And yeah, the same kind of team flow.
Weirdly, I thought of it a little bit with the pilgrimage reminded me a little bit of some
feelings you get when you're in the national championship, for example.
Yeah.
The pilgrimage really was a beautiful experience.
It's really funny timing too, because, you know, when Chris organized that ride, she said,
I just, something spoke to me and I needed to organize it.
And this may be the only time it happens.
And Chris, the one who was had the smudge stick and wrote the letters and stuff, or was that
someone else?
Okay.
No, that was her.
Okay.
Amazing person there.
But yeah, she's like one of my closest, dearest friends and, and yeah.
And it's really funny because some of the women that were on that ride were just recently
on Facebook reaching out to her saying like, we're all still thinking about this ride and
we'd love to do it again.
And it's funny because one of the, like Chris, maybe organize another one.
I don't know, but she never promised to organize another one.
So we'll see how that goes.
But the women, like so many of the women had, yeah, it was a spiritual experience for most
of us, I'd say.
So I mean, I want to get to that, but also like you talked about how this moment when
you got cut kind of jarred you.
I think I know it from myself too, that when you're just in an inertia where you're used
to winning and you're competitive and it matters so much when the obstacle comes and they always
come for all of us at some point.
It jars you more, right?
Than if you've had a lot of little kind of, it's not that we don't all have obstacles,
but it kind of can throw you off.
It reminds me a little bit of in a much bigger way, what ends up kind of motivating some of
the films, which is when you had another loss.
But of course this one was a emotional deep loss of your parents within a very short time.
Both of them passed, is that right?
Yeah, within like two years of each other.
Yeah.
And they were both kind of unexpected or?
Yeah.
I mean, my dad had a fatal heart attack and kind of died in his chair.
And I just, a few days beforehand and he, you know, of course people seem fine.
And then, and he had just turned 70.
So, you know, like it was kind of incredible because, you know, generally we would have a
family reunion every year around the time of my dad's birthday because his cousin had
the exact same birthday.
And so a bunch of us had just all been together as well, like two weeks before.
So yeah, that one was hard.
And then my mom got diagnosed with cancer and it happened quite quickly.
So.
Okay.
Wow.
And where were you in your life at this time?
Were you, had you made any films on your own then?
Had you started Violator Films, which is your company or what was, where were you around
this time?
Yeah, no, I was already fully in my career.
I had, you know, I had won like a major, an award by then too.
I won something called.
You won quite a few awards, but I can't, I couldn't figure out if you were, it was with
these other companies that you were working with or with your own or both, or I don't know.
I just, because I don't know the landscape so well.
Yeah, no, they were my own.
And the thing too, is like, you know, my parents, you know, saw me come out of film school and
I mean, yeah, I think for them just being able to see my things on television, see my
names and credits.
And yeah, like I had won like, you know, a major award as well called a genie at that
time.
They're now called the Canadian Screen Awards, but genie was for, for, was for film and
it's like the Canadian Oscar.
So I'd won that.
It's huge.
So they saw you reach the top in a sense and yeah, they, well, yeah, they definitely
saw me achieve like the highest level award you can in Canada.
So, so the dream, of course there are always levels.
There's the next one.
Oh, of course I know.
Yeah.
Still, but they had seen that.
And you, so I guess when you would, we haven't talked about the motorcycle in your life yet,
which I guess needs to come in now, but you weren't riding though at that time and you'd
wanted to as a kid or.
Yeah.
Let's talk about the motorcycle.
Like you wanted to do that as a kid, but nobody, your dad said no.
Right.
Yeah.
My dad said, no, my dad was weirdly against two wheeled things.
I mean, I could drive, like, honestly, he taught me how to drive massive equipment at
a young age.
So I could, and I had a trike.
It was like these Honda trikes, which were like, frankly, most dangerous things in the
world.
Really?
Yeah.
So unstable, I guess, even when they're unstable and like, we didn't wear helmets then
like we didn't do anything.
And I was like such a little jerk on that thing.
So it surprised me.
But I also didn't, you know, just talking about a lot of women in my family, there were
no boys, you know, so it was all women.
And so it was, yeah, and my dad, I don't know what my dad's issue was with motorbikes, but
he wasn't going to get us something like that.
So, you know, and over the years, you know, I would make jokes about getting my motorcycle
license and he's like, oh, over my dead body or whatever.
Like, you know, he would just like crack funny jokes to me.
Cause I mean, I can do whatever I want.
I'm an adult, but.
Yeah, of course.
But honestly, it was like, and then he died and my boyfriend at the time had his license
and ridden motorcycles.
He didn't have one at the time, but I was like, you know what?
I'm, I'm going to get my, I'm going to get my license.
And so, yeah, I just started taking lessons like a year after he died.
And then, you know, I did my lessons and then me and my boyfriend went out for like
one ride when we were, when I was in Vancouver, I bought a bike and he had rented a bike for us
to just rip around on.
And then my mom got sick and I was, I went back to Edmonton to be with her and be with
my family during that time.
And then after she died that spring, I got my license and I, and then I bought my purple
motorcycle, which was for my 40th birthday.
I love it that you have a purple motorcycle.
You still have it, I guess.
I do still have it.
I don't think I'll ever sell it.
Okay, good.
Yeah.
It's a very special thing.
And then my boyfriend grew up with me.
And so, and then, yeah.
So like, I just had like these three kind of big losses and honestly, and also my father
died without a will.
So it got really rocky in my family for many years.
So yeah, so it was, it was not a fun number of years.
So the motorcycle was really stabilizing for me at that time.
Was your, I don't know why I want to ask this and you don't have, if it's too personal,
you don't have to answer it, but was your dad competitive with your mom or like what happened
when they were like, why did they break up?
And you went with your mom, but you were really close to your dad.
I just wonder what was that?
Was that also a shock or did you see it coming?
Did it feel like a loss?
Is it comparable at all to this loss that we're talking about now?
I don't know.
It was for me.
It was pretty catastrophic for me at a young age.
Because age nine, you have full on consciousness.
I mean, you remember everything by that age.
Yeah, you really do.
And the thing too is like, I don't remember them fighting or not getting along.
My sister does.
My sister is three and a half years older than me.
So she remembers that stuff, but I don't.
I think honestly, I think my mom's mental illness freaked him out.
I think he left quite soon after that.
Why did it freak him out?
Because of what others thought or like the actual everydayness of it or what?
I think both, both.
Yeah.
He was, he was someone that like, he had to exist in a space where everybody loved him.
It really mattered to him and he didn't do well if he felt someone didn't like him.
So, you know, the thought of having to take care of her perhaps for the rest of her life and being uncertain about and being like, yeah, uncertain and unsure about how she was going to behave.
And, but also like looking back at that, like how awful that he just left two kids with her.
I mean, he just couldn't handle it.
Like I keep, he just couldn't handle it, but still it is awful.
It is awful and he didn't handle it.
And, you know, he was having an affair and he, you know, with somebody else and he eventually married that person and like stayed with them until he died.
And then, you know, eventually my mom, you know, several years later also found, you know, her partner and they were together until she died.
So, but it was, yeah, I think, you know, so seeing him, you know, and I didn't think of him, you know, chickening out at the time.
But like looking back, I was like, oh my God, like he ran because he was afraid.
And, you know, and I think he probably was wondering what others would think of him having a wife like this and all that kind of stuff.
So, I mean, my mom was always great with him at like, for like, I was again, very fortunate.
I never heard them speak badly about one another.
Like that was never, you know, this whole, like try to get you on their side thing.
No, none of that.
No, my dad for, you know, some of his like, you know, faults and stuff was like very responsible.
Like, you know, took care of us, paid for the house that we were like, you know, like we were taken care of, you know, and my mother.
He just didn't know how to handle the.
I think I have some of this in my own family, by the way.
So I, and I've seen not bipolar, but some of the, you know, these kind of illnesses that at some point were a little bit stigmatized or that people just don't understand.
And they don't know how to handle, and I've seen it too, where they don't want, like, they don't want people to know what's associated with the family.
So they don't talk about it or tell anyone or all kind of weird stuff.
I mean, these days we know that like every family has something and yeah, but it just, it kind of goes deep to me.
I guess I'm trying to get into a little bit, like what was going on with you unconsciously?
Because, yeah, and maybe I wonder if the loss of both of them at that time, did you have any kind of stuff that you hadn't dealt with that you needed to deal with?
It sounds like it hit you really hard.
And of course, of that's just also because you've lost these two incredibly important people in your life.
But I just wonder what all the complexity was in there.
Not that you might even not know yourself, but.
I thought a lot.
I've had some therapy.
I've done a number of things for sure.
Absolutely.
After they died, I, you know, I had a really wonderful counselor that helped me through many years.
And I, they're credited in a motorcycle saved my life because they were a part of that.
You know, I think what, like looking back and, you know, what I knew or didn't know in my little body, what I saw was women get left.
And so I, and I learned that men can't be trusted.
And so like that has definitely permeated most of my life.
And, you know, I've had a number of like, you know, relationships and that kind of stuff.
But for the most part, I've been on my own and, you know, I'm totally okay with that.
And like the thing too is like, I, you know, nurture versus nature.
Did I never want children?
Did I never want to get married just naturally?
Or was it like a reaction to what I saw around me?
I think it's probably a reaction to what I saw around me.
But like, I've never felt like maternal in that way.
I've, and so I really was like opposite of what I thought was the life that women were supposed to be leading as per what society said they should be living.
And my sister did, you know, kind of that as well.
Got married young, like had a career, had children and that kind of stuff.
And I was like, no, I'm not doing any of that.
Like I'm, and like, you know, and I moved very far away from my family when I was in my 20s.
Like I live in a, like, I don't have any family where I live and, you know, and I travel alone and I do stuff, a lot of things alone.
And that my, a lot of my family doesn't, they love it, but they don't get it.
Yeah.
No, I did the same.
So yeah.
Yeah.
So it's just like, so I think for like, basically, you know, basically up till my parents died,
I lived my life a certain way, you know, to be against the system, to be very ambitious, to not, to do exactly the opposite of what society thinks a woman should behave.
I really tried to be the opposite of that.
And then, and then as soon as they died and I had some good, really good counseling and some years to like, and years to sit in that grief and not numb it and not try to hide from it.
Like I really sat in that grief for a couple of years.
Again, didn't know if I wanted to keep producing.
Like I really, I was really in a dark place for a couple of years.
Like you didn't feel motivated to do anything.
I mean, were you?
Well, I didn't know what I was living for anymore.
You know, like I really felt like I was living for the pride of my parents and the two people that loved me unconditionally were gone.
So it's like, oh, so I can't get away with doing anything anymore.
Because like, who's going to love me?
So I actually had to learn how to love myself.
And I, and I thought I did, but like now I actually do.
So that's a message in your, a lot of your work too, that comes through, I think.
So, yeah.
Yeah, it is about that, like acceptance of who you are, regardless of society's ideas on who you're supposed to be.
And I'm sorry to interrupt you, but when we say this, like just accepting who you are, it can sound so, like I need to take a minute because this is really deep stuff, you know, like what you were going through.
And I think a lot of us go through it with whoever in our lives, our parents often, or our caretakers, or, you know, we have these kind of, we need to prove something to someone or we're, I don't know, it's, we haven't come to terms with like being just okay with who we are.
We feel like we need to be okay.
And it does get with our parents a lot, whether it's our dad or our mom or both, that somehow we don't feel that they've said you did a good job, even if they've said it.
Or, and then when they're gone, or when you just kind of leave them, or you have to start being the adult and the relationship shifts or whatever happens, it can feel like the foundation is kind of gone, you know, like what was all that?
And I guess, yeah, I just, this acceptance of self, how do you see that?
I mean, it's not just so easy because you don't even, it's hard to know who you are too, isn't it?
Yeah, and I do, I don't think we know who we are until we actually go through some, a lot of suffering, to be honest.
Because some people get delusional in their suffering, or they numb their suffering, or they avoid their suffering.
And to me, that's where, that's where you find yourself is at the bottom.
And I think too, like, you know, losing them both by 30, like I was 39 years old when they were both gone.
And I had kind of had this like weird thoughts that I wasn't going to live till 40.
And I would voice that every once in a while to my parents, and they'd be like, oh my God, like, stop being so like dark about it all, right?
When did you have that? When you were really young?
Yeah, I was young, I was in my late teens, and I kind of always thought it.
And so I think I, you know, I was extremely ambitious for a lot of my life because of that.
Because I was like, I have time, you knew the time would be running out at that time.
It felt like, and what happened is they both died before I was 40.
I did experience death.
You did. Not what you expected, I guess.
Not what I expected. And probably exactly what it was supposed to be.
Because I think what I feared most was their death, actually not my own.
And then that happened before I was 40.
So I was like, oh, okay.
So what do I do with that?
I can either choose to end my own life.
I can do that because I thought about it a lot.
Because I didn't really know where I was going to go anymore.
Or who I was, what I was doing.
Like, who was I?
What is the purpose of life?
Why am I making films and television?
Like, why am I a storyteller?
Or what does it matter?
Like, what does anything matter?
So it was a couple years.
It really was a couple years of doing that.
And going to a counselor as well through that period.
But I was really, like, I lost friendships during that time.
You know, because there's people that are like, oh, well, stop feeling sad.
Go on medication.
I'm like, no.
I am just going to feel real shitty for as long as it needs to happen.
And so I'm really grateful I did that.
But it was extremely difficult.
And I also, you know, had the time to do that and the resources to do that.
So, again, that's a privilege, to be honest, to be able to, like, suffer comfortably.
If that's a thing.
But I read a lot, you know, I read a lot of books about dying, like, Tibetan book of living and dying and, you know, Die Wise, Stephen Jenkinson is someone I read a lot.
But, like, so I read a lot about, like, the death process to understand, like, why I wanted to live and what living every day could mean for me.
Like, I'm not, I don't think of myself anymore as, like, like, dying every day.
Like, that's the big shift for me is, like, I'm actually, like, or waiting for a specific time to die.
I actually, it's really, you know, what can I do every day?
And not in a creepy productive way because, like, that could also just be, like, reading a book, laying on the couch, laying out in the grass, you know, going to the beach and being okay with that.
But I think where the motorcycle ties into that is that, and I kind of talk about it a bit in Motorcycle Saved My Life.
It's just, like, because if you're not present on a motorcycle, you are going to die.
Like, every day I get on my motorcycle, like, I'm very close to death.
And that's good for me.
It reminds me why I want to be alive in everything that I want to do and not be afraid of death either.
Also knowing, like, every day I got on my bike, it could be my last day.
And I'm okay with that.
And I don't think I would have been okay with that at 39.
I definitely would have been.
I wouldn't have been okay with that.
Were you in the present moment at all, much, during that time before 38, 39, were you?
No.
No.
Living in the present, I think, for women is extremely difficult anyway, you know, because we're always worried about the past, worried about the future.
What do I look like?
How do I sound?
Am I safe?
Am I saying the right things?
Am I doing the right things?
Am I upsetting somebody?
Like, you know, it's really hard for women.
And, like, and all the people that you're responsible to and, you know, people that rely on you, I just think it's, like, almost impossible for women to live in a present state.
And when we're on a motorcycle, you are in a present state.
And so when I think a lot of women talk about freedom of motorcycles, which is different than what men, it's different for men, I'm not going to speak to their experience because I'm not one.
But for women, for me, it's, like, because we get to exist in a present state for that small amount of time we're on a motorcycle.
And that is, like, amazing.
Like, you were just, there is no noise other than that bike, you know?
So, yeah, it's pretty incredible.
Yeah, and there's all these themes in there, this, that you, the power and the control and the freedom and the weird balance of, that you find, like, kind of what you just described where you have to be in control and present, but at the same time, you, and not worried, too.
So, there's, it is a bit like surfing, I guess, for people who don't ride or, but for people who ride, everyone knows it, right?
And we're always constantly trying to figure out a way to describe it.
And there's really no way to describe it.
But I do think connecting it to life and to that moment that you release control, but at the same time, you've never been more present.
There's something about that, you know, which is a hard place to get into as a woman, as you said, but even just in, in life.
I mean, as you were talking, I was wondering, did, what was your relationship to, like, the gaze, you know, being seen, being looked at?
Because sometimes, I mean, a lot of that was, you were trying to perform for your parents and do well.
I don't only mean, like, people looking at you, but I do mean that, too.
And maybe I'm just speaking, projecting from my own sense, because I think it can be hard to be in the present moment as a woman because you feel like you have to watch how everyone else is watching you, if that makes sense.
Yeah, I mean, that was, like, just the physical gaze was really prevalent in my life.
And mostly because, again, tomboy, similar to yourself, and sporty, and I wasn't really, I didn't really dress like a girl was supposed to.
I mean, I did for a little while.
I experimented a little while in my late teens and early 20s and stuff like that.
But it wasn't comfortable for you?
No, it's not comfortable.
I don't like being viewed sexually.
It scares me.
Yeah, I understand that.
Yeah, and so, you know, and, you know, I'm a curvy lady.
I have big breasts and that kind of stuff.
And so it's...
So the gaze comes no matter what.
It came no matter what.
I find now in my 40s, and when I cut off all my hair and I let it go silver, I, like, I appreciate the gaze now, like, a little bit, because it's, like, it feels different if it comes.
But being a young person, like, all through my...
I was not comfortable dressing that way.
So, you know...
Maybe it feels different because you're, I guess you're being, you're presenting yourself externally the way that feels comfortable for you instead of the way that you think other people think a woman should look or something.
Is that fair?
Yeah, and also to feel safe.
Like, I do dress a particular way so that I don't attract what I would consider negative attention, you know, on me.
No, zero judgment on how other people are living their lives.
But for me, it is not a safe, comfortable space.
So, you know, I, most people assume I'm queer or I'm a lesbian, by the way I dress and the way I look.
And I'm frankly fine with it.
You know, because it's, like, because I do...
I like to hear.
That's powerful to hear.
I'm glad you said that.
But I think people probably need to hear that.
Yeah, and it's also, I was called that a lot growing up as well, even when I did, like, seemingly dress more feminine because of my sports and my, you know,
and what I was doing with my life and career focused and not really looking to, like, get married or any of those things.
Like, I got called dyke and, you know, lesbian, like, my whole life.
But I was like, that's not an insult.
That's not, like, a bad, like, some of my closest are lesbians.
So now it's cool.
Now it's trendy and cool, I guess, in a lot of places.
Although I won't, although there's a lot of places, it's still very hard and painful.
But I think back then, which wasn't so long ago, I mean, just it's changed so much just in 10 years or five years.
But, yeah, it was another one of those things that reminds me of maybe your dad's discomfort with the illness or this thing where people feel uncomfortable about it because it's so true in a way.
It's always been true, but we can't look at it.
Yeah, and I think, too, like, also, and again, this was, like, over 30 years ago that people were saying to me.
But, like, because of playing sports, I was around, like, queer folks.
And, like, one of my cousins is, like, is gay.
Like, it was, and the thing was, that was very accepted in my family, which also very grateful for, you know.
And so it was, it wasn't, it was never a negative thing.
And even through periods of time when I wasn't in a relationship for a long time, you know, my mother would call me and she'd be like, oh, so are you dating?
Are you seeing anybody?
I was just like, no.
She's like, no, guys.
I'm like, no, guys, mom.
No women?
I'm like, no.
Oh, okay.
No women, mom.
She was open to that.
It's so wonderful you brought this up because I was thinking of this.
And I think this leads into, now we can really talk about, like, the pilgrimage in the other movie.
Because I was really thinking about this a lot of, because I also, as I said, grew up playing sports and being a bit tomboy.
Just my natural state was I didn't want to wear makeup.
Like, the most natural I can be, if I can wake up and just be who I am in comfortable clothes.
And, like, I don't mind wearing dresses or skirts if they're comfortable, like, but in general, yeah.
And when you play sports, too, you, I think this is hard to talk about.
And even, like, with your dad treating you a bit like a boy in a way, you say, in the film.
There's a weird confusion about it all in my head and I think in the world where maybe your dad felt more comfortable with a boy, so he treated you that way.
Like, it was probably too, in the same, like, too much to love you as a girl or just to love you and not know how, because he's a boy, how to deal with being a girl.
But also when we are in these situations like sports, we almost, I don't know if you did, but you almost feel like you have to be a boy.
Because, or the things you need to be, like, strong and fast and all these things are associated with boys, which is totally messed up.
But it becomes confusing, right?
Like, male-female characterization.
I don't know if that even makes sense.
And it is.
And this is the thing is, like, this is the thing about growing up when it felt like it was either or.
Like, I wanted to, like, I definitely prefaced masculine qualities because I thought that would show the world that I was stronger, not someone to fuck with.
Like, I was not rapable.
Like, all these things, right?
So, like, I definitely wanted to exude way more masculine qualities as a young person.
And I did for most of my life, you know, up until, like, my parents died, I was living that, like, prefacing those qualities, no doubt about it.
Because I felt like that's how to set myself apart, how to not be less than, how to not be all of these things.
And it wasn't until after they died and, like, the thing, you know, and doing all of this, like, you know, deep work.
Like, you know, just in terms of, like, who we are as really humans, where I see it's, we're just a balance of those energies.
Like, right?
I feel really balanced in my feminine and masculine energy.
Yeah, we're all of it in different ways.
I mean, we could, men need to be feminine, too.
I mean, it's wonderful to be able to be all of it, you know, in different ways at different times.
But why, it's so hard, you know?
It's so, but, like, just to, it's hard not to talk in either ors.
It's not an either or.
But with you, when you learned how to ride the motorcycle, which most people would say, oh, that's like a male thing, right?
I have my motorcycle license, by the way.
Yeah.
But I don't, I don't ride.
Yeah, I do.
And it's not something that people think a woman should get or something.
It seems like a boy thing.
And there's a lot of reasons for that we don't need to go into.
But what I found so beautiful and confusing in the most, in the best way, almost like untangling all that stuff.
The other confusion I just noted is that you embraced the motorcycle and learned how to ride, and it embraced your being feminine, in a way, or being a woman.
And opened up this space of acceptance for just being who you are and stuff.
It's interesting.
It's almost like the male portal, so-called, became a portal into just being okay with all, or helping others be okay with it.
I don't know.
But what do you, what does that bring up in you?
Am I talking crazy?
No, I, it's my kind of crazy if it's crazy.
Okay.
It's just, I do like, and that's the thing, another aspect with women and motorcycles.
And again, it's like, you know, I speak most, I speak from a heterosexual point of view, for sure.
I very, you know, I have a lot of queer friends and lesbian friends and gay friends.
But, you know, I speak all just from my heterosexual point of view.
But to me, that riding a motorcycle is that perfect balance of masculine and feminine.
Because the bike does have all that masculine energy to it, right?
Which is wonderful.
Yeah.
And so when women ride, it is a balance.
Like, it feels like really incredible.
And I think that is another aspect of the presence and, like, you know, the overarching theme of freedom.
I think all of these things come in, play into that, that I think a lot of us just don't know how to articulate.
You know, but for me, you know, like riding that, like riding the motorcycle really definitely helped me embrace more of my feminine.
And a lot of women riders, you know, even our instructors would say women are much more technical.
Like, we're, like, you know, a lot of women that ride are, like, have less accidents, have less things.
And it's not because we're necessarily less risky, but sometimes we're a little bit more technical on how we ride.
And, you know, there's a kind of embodiment to, that's another theme in a lot of your work of coming into the body, feeling the body and on the bike and in the land.
Well, you know, the body knows.
We, our little consciousness is in these, like, like the most amazing, like, bodies.
Like, we have no idea.
The body is amazing.
The body is amazing.
It's like.
But we don't, that's another thing connected to all this, right?
I guess, like, the women fill their bodies in a different way.
And when you combine that with a motorcycle, the masculinity of the, I mean, it's a different experience for a woman, I'm sure, riding a motorcycle just physically.
But also in what you were saying about the trainers, where I think once a woman embraces a motorcycle, there is already an embodiment, a sensitivity or something that's a little bit different in terms of just the riding.
Yeah, it totally is.
Yeah, it's, it's interesting because this summer was the first time I'm, I mostly ride, you know, a lot of the time with women.
And I go to these huge, like, women only, like, camp outs and stuff like that with, like, a thousand plus women, which is, like, one of the most incredible feelings in the world.
It's such a safe space, isn't it?
So it's, yeah, it was just something I had never experienced before when I went to an event in California called Babes Ride Out with another friend of mine.
I went multiple years until COVID happened.
But just, yeah, being in, like, a space and a campground with only women, I had just never experienced that kind of safety before.
And, like, I was in my early 40s.
And I was, like, and I've played, you know, and I've done a lot of things.
And I'm a confident woman.
And, but, yeah, that feeling really, that experience really sparked something for me.
And even for my friend Chris, who came to one of those events, I think it sparked her to do the pilgrimage ride as well.
So that was before the pilgrimage?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, because I thought of that space of, I mean, a lot of the themes we've talked about, it's almost like a relaxing of all that stuff.
In those spaces where you don't have to worry about the gaze, you don't have to worry about how everyone else is looking at you, or if you're looking a certain way, or what you're wearing, or, like, all that is just relaxed.
And, wow, what a feeling.
Like, and I think, let's talk about the pilgrimage now, because I think the movie itself, the way you do it, you get that feeling.
Even when we were talking about the bird at the beginning, there is this feeling of soaring or something, right, where you're just free.
And I don't mean free in the way people usually mean it with motorcycles, more like, oh, it's okay to be who I am.
And so many people say that in the film that, before we talk about that, like, maybe we can set it up just a little bit.
So Chris decided to do this, and it's like a mindfulness kind of ride, or maybe just, like, sketch it a little bit for people who haven't seen it yet.
They can go watch it.
Yeah, so my friend Chris Vatour, who I've known for a number of years, we initially met in the film industry, and then discovered that we both ride motorcycles.
And, you know, we had gone to one of these women-only events in California together as well.
She came, and she just woke up one day, I think, and she kind of describes it best herself, but just, like, had a feeling like she had to put together this ride.
And so she did, and this was, yeah, in 2019.
So I remember her telling me, I was in Toronto at the time producing a feature film, and she'd called me, and she was talking to me about it.
And she's like, I think I'm going to organize this ride.
And I'm like, yeah, that sounds amazing.
Like, let me know.
Like, I'll do anything to help organize or do anything.
And she's like, and she knew that I was, like, wanting to do more writing and directing because I really hadn't at that point.
I had directed some theater and stuff, but she's like, I want you to make a documentary about it.
Oh, it was her idea.
Oh, how wonderful.
Yeah.
And so I was like, oh, yeah.
And this was, like, I think on a Saturday afternoon.
Gosh, that's so funny, Laurie, because the other film was also not really your idea to do the one that became Motorcycle Saved My Life.
Life is so weird.
I have, like, these beautiful humans in my life that can see things in me that I don't see.
Yeah, and you listen, too.
You listen.
And I listen.
Anyway, sorry.
Okay.
I didn't resist these ones.
Yeah.
But I was like, oh, my God.
Yeah.
And so I was like, well, I'll write a proposal and I'll send it to you tomorrow.
And I wrote a proposal and sent it to her.
And she called me back and she was just like, wow, did you just write that?
And I was like, yeah.
I was like, what?
In one day?
Yeah.
And I was like, yeah, I just wrote it this morning.
And she was like, dude, this is really good.
And so I was like, well, cool.
I'm going to try and get some money.
And then I think, like, a week later, I was really sending it out to, like, you know, folks at, like, CBC and the National Film Board, like, to just get, you know.
And that was the first time I had really done that.
And that was the first time I had written so personally because I had put applications into direct before and in other programs.
And I wasn't successful.
I'd done that for a few years.
But you hadn't really written personally for those?
Just from the heart, right?
Like, this one was, like, just so, again, it was about this ride and why this ride mattered.
But, like, why I ride and why these type of rides matter for women and how I came to riding and what it means to my life.
Powerful.
Yeah.
And so.
Yeah.
And then, yeah, I finished making that film and I came back to Vancouver in the spring.
And, you know, Chris, you know, I just continued to try and find money.
But, you know, the funders weren't going to give me money at that time.
So I was like, and Chris is like, what are you going to do?
I'm like, well, I'm just going to go buy a camera and do it myself.
She's like, all right.
Awesome.
And so, you know, and so, like, you know, a couple days before the ride as well, I went out, you know, to Victoria and did the route.
Like, she showed me the route and we were, I was helping her put up signage and that kind of stuff.
But, you know, we just kind of talked.
And, like, I've made documentaries.
Like, that's the beautiful thing is, like, I'm an emerging director, but I've made a lot of things.
So I knew.
Yeah, you've seen it all.
I had my shot list.
Like, I had all my plans.
And the real intention was just, like, to shoot the ride and to talk to and not interview people because I didn't want to take anybody out of their experience.
I was wondering about that where all the, if you ask people questions or first, we should probably say, like, how many women were there?
Was it?
I think there was over.
There was about 55.
Yeah.
Wow.
Okay.
So 55 women sort of meet all with their bikes.
They didn't really all know each other.
Right.
But was it Chris that connected them?
Because there's, you know, there's this beautiful thing of, like, sending handwritten notes to everyone to invite them with, like, little flower petals in it.
It's already very physical and kind of sensual from the start.
And then there's the smudge stick.
And there's, like, it's very.
But then you have these beautiful, huge machines.
And it's all this masculine, feminine stuff in a new context.
But how did she did all that, Chris?
Yeah, well, that was, like, you know, back at that time there was, like, and it still exists, there was a Facebook group in Vancouver called the Moto Girls of Vancity.
And that was, like, from where it started and where it is now, it's pretty, like, I mean, motorcycle industry has just boomed for women in these last 10 years.
But she had, so she put out, you know, saying, like, I'm having this ride and this is the cost and this is what it's going to be.
And it's a mindful motorcycle ride.
But she didn't tell anybody the route and she didn't tell anybody what they were going to be doing.
She didn't tell people where they were going to be camping.
So it was all a mystery, right?
It was about, like, surrendering to the mystery of it all, which, again, is very difficult for women, is to know where they're going to sleep, where they're going to go.
Like, it all plays into our safety.
So she kind of wrapped it in this, like, everyone, you're going to be great, but I need you to trust me.
You got to trust.
Trust is big.
And we should say a lot of these women have families and lives and careers and they were all, you can tell, you know, they're all coming from.
The hustle bustle of daily being a woman life into this space.
Yeah.
And so, you know, and that attracted those people.
And there was definitely people that are like, hell no, I'm not doing that, you know.
But the people that came, it was like, it was for them.
It was meant for them.
And so kind of the structure of it was we all met in Victoria.
We all stayed in, like, hotels, like, the Friday night.
And there was an opening kind of party at a motorcycle bar in Victoria.
And everybody got to meet each other and sign up.
And, like, and then, you know, you were basically told where to, we were told where to go the next morning to meet.
And we were going to have, like.
It's very exciting.
Yeah.
Everybody gets their motorcycles.
We all meet at, like, a motorcycle shop on the Saturday morning and had breakfast.
And Chris spoke and, you know, from her tradition of, like, seining and smudging, she, you know, everybody that was wanted it was welcome to, like, be cleansed before the ride.
And, you know, Chris is definitely very spiritual and very witchy.
She's, and so she, you know, she, you know, created a space.
She has a twinkle in her eye about it.
She definitely has a twinkle that one.
And she created a safe space for us to all be in energetically, you know, between the veils.
And, and then the ride start, and then everyone was given the map.
You were given a map.
And then you were told, and then, and you had stops along the way.
So everyone had to stop along the way.
I think we had, I think she called, I think there were three refugios where you had to stop and contemplate something.
You didn't know what.
So you had to, yeah.
So everyone got the map and everyone had it out.
And the first stop was, like, at the lighthouse where, and there was a certain, and everyone had a handwritten note with their name on it.
So every stop they had, they just had to give their name.
They were handed their card and they opened it.
Oh, at every stop you had a handwritten note?
Oh my goodness.
You were handed a note and it told you to contemplate something.
Wow.
And so there was, it was at the water and then it was, like, you know, at the lighthouse and then it was on the beach.
And then it was, like, in the trees and then, and then the final destination.
So people on that map knew where they were going to be camping that night.
And it was, like, an old girl guide's campsite.
So it was really cute.
And there was a river.
It was really beautiful.
Everyone went swimming.
Yeah, a bunch of people went swimming and were totally fine for me to film them swimming naked.
Naked, yeah.
So sweet.
Everyone's, like, splashing around like little kids.
Yeah, a really beautiful experience.
And so that was the container of it.
And then, and then everything that happened.
And then the Sunday morning was Chris had another, you know, kind of small ceremony to, you know, close the circle and let everyone safely release.
But for me, it was really important.
And this is, Chris and I talked about it.
It was, like, I, everyone, so in all of Chris's things, it's, like, it's going to be filmed.
So just, you know, but, like, non-invasive.
Okay, I was wondering about that.
Yeah, non-invasive filming.
So everyone, I met everybody on the Friday night.
They saw me with my camera.
And everyone was, like, cool.
And I knew, like, a bunch of the ladies, too, and a bunch they didn't.
But it was just, like, I'm not going to talk to anybody.
I'm not going to interview.
Just please just exist.
And, you know, I'm just capturing a moment.
So that was what was really essential for me.
So what I did after was I had, I think I invited nine or ten women into a space very, actually, the studio next door to me.
I had nine or ten women come in.
And I just, we, they were all mic'd.
And I had a professional guy recording us all.
And Chris was there as well.
And I just asked them questions about their lives and their ride.
And it was, like, an emotional couple hours talking about the ride.
Yeah, it sounds like it.
And crying and laughing and doing all these things.
And then let everybody go.
And then the guy that was recording us, his name was Jeff.
He was, like, he also rides.
And he was, like, wow.
Well, I, me and my friends don't feel that way about riding.
And I feel like I'm missing out.
I was, like, maybe talk to your guy friends a little.
Like, maybe do some different things.
Have a different experience.
You can have those experiences with people.
Like, you know, this masculine thing is bullshit.
It is.
I mean, that's what the men need to hear, right?
That they, because they want it, too.
Believe me, every man I've ever really gotten into a deep conversation with will say something like that, right?
Like, there's a longing for it.
Yeah, and it was something that, like, Bruce and I talked about on his podcast, The Motorcycle Life.
He said something similar.
He's, like, yeah, I feel like I'm not getting the full experience that you guys are getting.
I think I remember it, yeah.
So it was, and so, and that's, and that kind of, like, you know, became why the film just has, like, a cacophony of voices.
It's just the voices of all those different women.
What do you think it was like for them?
Because all the stuff we've been talking about, this space, we haven't really described it yet, but maybe we don't, can't describe it.
People just watch the film.
But I think, like, those moments where you do feel okay with who you are and life is going and there's that, the metaphor that we described of writing, which isn't really just a metaphor, where you're really present, but you've also surrendered.
Like, did you feel that space opening gradually?
Was it there from the beginning?
Yeah.
How did it feel in the process of actually happening?
Yeah, it was, it's even one of the writers says it in the film, too.
It's just, like, when they came to the final campground, like, it just, they all felt it's one, right?
Like, it didn't, and I think that was the thing is, like, you know, the Friday night, people are just kind of getting to know each other, having a drink, having something to eat and some music and stuff like that.
But once you get in the rides and you're all having the same experience, but different individually, but the same collectively, like, they already felt bonded by the time they all landed at that campground.
And so, like, that evening was really beautiful.
And women came from, like, interior BC and, you know, and, like, from Vancouver and Victoria and, like, from Seattle and the States.
A friend of ours, like, flew up from San Diego.
Like, so it was, like, you know, women were kind of coming from, like, and not many folks knew each other.
So it was just, so hearing those type of things and just knowing, like, how bonded they were.
And, like, other women were like, there's no drama.
There's no, it was all just love, right?
It was just love and acceptance.
Like, we're all here, we're riding motorcycles, and we're all here at this moment in time.
And it, honestly, it's just, like.
Like, supportive, too.
There was a feeling of being supported.
And we get, I guess we should say, we did talk about the birds, but everything feels so in touch with, like, the trees, the everything.
There's this feeling that's also about being on a bike, right?
Where you're just, you're kind of becoming one with the people you're riding with, but also with the space you're riding through.
Yeah, well, it's, it is, like, the themes that I am, have explored in past work, and a lot of themes that I explore in the things I'm riding and directing.
It's that sense of, like, belonging, you know, like, we belong to one another, and also we belong to nature.
And that's something else about motorcycling, and women are safe in nature.
A lot of the world says we are not.
I mean, it's classic bear versus man, right?
That's just, like, the heightened version of it all.
But women are safe in nature.
And I think we need to talk about that more, and I think we need to, like, live in that a lot more.
And I think, like, having these type of environments, especially, like, the pilgrimage and where we, you know, had the ride.
I mean, you're just surrounded by, like, natural beauty.
And that does something to you, too, right?
Your senses, your physicality, what's possible.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And being safe with one another naked.
And, like, being safe with one another, like, in singing and dancing and, you know, enjoy.
That space you show very well, too, with your filming.
The way that, because it can be very hard not to feel judged if you want to just stand in the corner and read a book.
Or if you want to do some karaoke, like, in social situations, we can all feel so pressured.
And when that's lifted and you just can be whatever, what a special thing.
You show it somehow with the filming.
But, okay, so we were talking about the nature and stuff.
And I noticed this, too, in A Motorcycle Saved My Life because, you know, it's A Motorcycle Saved My Life.
But, like, even the pictures of your family, most of them are in nature.
Of course, you're on the motorcycle, so you're traveling.
But there's the trees in the picture and then the lake and I just wonder how conscious you were, maybe in both films.
But we can sort of move into A Motorcycle Saved My Life a bit, too, because there's so much there that's richness to talk about.
I know it's a theme in even your current work and the land and the relationship.
It's almost like a nestedness with what we've been talking about, with masculine, feminine, and feeling supported in the way you just described it with belonging.
But when did you start thinking of that in that way?
Not that you can remember exactly a moment, but was it part of your filming at that time period and your thinking?
I think it's just been in my body since I was a little thing.
And even, you know, even growing up on the farm, like, being on the farm on the weekends and being in the city for school and stuff is great.
But I was, like, a number of years younger than my sister, three and a half.
So it was enough to, like, you don't, at a certain age, like, you just don't play together so much anymore.
Maybe my sister didn't want to.
I don't know.
And I was the youngest of all my cousins, too.
Like, all my sister was closer to my cousins.
And so I was on my own a lot.
And I was just, like, you know, and motorcycle kind of shows that as, like, the little girl going into the woods with her axe and that.
Like, that's what I did.
Like, every day I was just, like, you know, woke up and I was, like, I was just out.
I was in the forest all the time by myself.
And didn't have, like, my parents weren't afraid.
Like, nobody was worried about me, you know.
And, like, I think it's really kind of fascinating because at a certain age, I can't remember, maybe in my 20s, I became afraid of that.
And I'm still a little afraid of that.
Like, I go camping on my own and stuff like that now.
But I'm still not super comfortable.
And so I just want to return to that.
I just want to return to, like, feeling safe there again and for all women, to be honest.
And it's very powerful what you said.
I almost want you to say it again, that women are safe in nature.
Is that what you said?
Yeah, we are.
Yeah, because it's hard.
That makes me feel a little emotional in a weird way because, and especially thinking of you as a little kid because me too.
I mean, there's a lot of parallels here.
And probably for a lot of people listening, as a kid, that was my safe space.
Or where I felt what we've been talking about in the terms of nobody's looking at you, but you're present.
And you're with others, but you're so-called alone.
You know, it's, yeah, just to hear that that still is okay.
Yeah, and even, you know, one of my fondest memories to growing up is just, like, my dad handed me, like, a bucket of nails.
These horseshoe nails to, like, go walk the fence line and then just, like, fix any fencing that was down.
And so, like, I would just take that bucket of nails and I would, my hammer, and I would go out all day.
And I had, like, a pony named Misty and she would just follow me and, like, she would just come to every post with me.
And it was just, like, yeah, to me that was just, like, combining, like, a great day of, like, you know, doing good, working on the farm.
And then just being in nature and being with the things I loved.
And, yeah, so I definitely wanted to represent that in A Motorcycle Save My Life.
And the land is, that, it's just, it was another character.
You know, there's my parents.
Oh, yeah, that's how it feels.
And to see how integrated we are with the land, right?
And even, like, with those old pictures, like, being a little bit translucent to, like, show, like, the land is still there.
Those people are not anymore, but the land still is.
Yeah, it's really, really powerful to me.
And we belong to the land.
And this is, like, you know, we'll lead into another project that I'm just trying to develop right now, too.
Like, I don't believe we can own land because I think we belong to the land.
So we belong to one another.
So it's, yeah, it's just a different mindset in terms of, and it feels, because the earth energy is feminine to me, that just feels completely correct.
Yeah, I hadn't thought of it until you just said it, but that might be part of healing a lot of the, or not even healing, but also transforming a lot of the economics and things is connecting with that belonging on that level.
Then things, different systems would already start to shift a bit.
But I love that story you told about going out with the bucket of nails and the horse and just being with Nate, being out there alone, which reminds me of you on your motorcycle.
Because I still have the feeling that you're a bit of a loner in a way, not a loner.
I mean, you obviously have a lot of friendships and deep stuff, but, you know, you're behind the camera or you're on your bike.
And some would say that's, like, not a good thing.
But in a way, it's the most connective.
It can be for some of us.
Maybe I'm speaking again, projecting.
But it can be the most, the place you're most connected or the place you're charging, you know, the place you're, I don't know, surrendering into that belonging.
Does that make any sense at all?
Yeah.
No, you're, I think we share a lot of similar views and thoughts and feelings about it all.
No, I am most comfortable when I'm in nature on my own, when I can stop all the noise.
And the thing, and that is on my motorcycle.
Like, I do, I ride a lot by myself and I really like it.
And I've been on a lot of long trips by myself, weeks at a time.
I definitely dream of doing month-long trips.
And hopefully I will do that, you know, in the next several years.
Yeah, it's, solitude works for me.
I really like it, you know.
And I love meeting people along the way.
I love having conversations with strangers.
And, you know, I love, like, you know, being by myself and all my gear in a restaurant and people.
Like, it's such an invitation for people to talk to you, which I love.
I mean, I, it doesn't take much for me to talk to anybody anyway.
But it's like, I love when people feel compelled to ask me a question about what I'm doing and why I'm doing it.
And, you know, the odd question, the crazy questions always are like, oh, so brave of you.
So I'm like, what's brave?
You know, but just to be a woman out on her own like that and, like, that kind of stuff.
Like, how people seeing me, like, kind of, I think, hopefully breaks those, you know, ideas about what women can do and what we should be doing.
And definitely.
And people see you, maybe young people, and they think, oh, they could do it too.
You know, it becomes a possibility.
Exactly.
And, like, again, I had, like, another really great memory that I wrote about in my proposals.
And it was, you know, when I first started riding, and because when I was growing up and seeing motorcycle riders, like, I was always like, oh, my God, that looks amazing.
You would see all these tour bikes going around and even, like, the Harleys and all that stuff.
I just, I didn't care.
It just looked, I was riding in Vancouver.
And I pulled up to a light.
And I looked to the car beside me, and there was a little girl in the back seat.
And I flipped up my visor because I have, like, a dark visor.
And she saw that I was a girl and the way her face lit up.
And then, like, you know, I just kind of smiled, and I waved, and, like, off I went.
But I was just, like, you know, I wish I would have seen that when I was young.
You know, I wish I would have seen, because I only saw women on the back of bikes.
And I don't like being on the back of a bike ever.
Like, I've been on the back of a bike, like, twice, and I hate it.
Yeah, it's, you know, it's scary.
Weird.
Yeah, it's scary, and it's not trusting, and I like to be in control and all those things.
I mean, I do have other things to work through.
But just that moment for me and that little girl, like, I really hope she saw something that day that she didn't know was possible for her.
It sounds like she did.
I remember once I went to a restaurant to eat by myself, and, I mean, actually, it's happened more than once when I was a young woman.
Because I liked it, not because I couldn't find someone to eat with me.
I just wanted to read my book, you know.
And people would come up to me and say, you know, it's amazing what you're doing.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Like, I'm eating food and reading a book as a woman alone.
But people literally would say that, you know.
Yeah, and you're like, thank you.
I am amazing.
But I guess what I'm saying is it opens up possibility.
Once people see that it's okay to do and other people are doing it, it changes, like, all those patterns in a way over time and so on and so forth.
For some reason, it makes me wonder, when you got your motorcycle, your mom was really happy, right?
Why do you think she was so supportive and happy that you got a motorcycle?
Honestly, it's, like, it's just those funny contradictions, right?
Where my dad was, like, no.
And then, you know, my mom was just, like, because I think I must have talked about it a lot.
And she, and I definitely, when I traveled, I would always be buying, like, my brother-in-law and my stepdad Harley shirts from, like, all around the world.
Like, I would always go into a Harley.
Oh, so that's why she asked if you got a Harley.
Yeah.
And so it was always, you know, because the family is always kind of, like, bikes and stuff.
But nobody rode, really.
But my stepdad's, like, best friend was a biker and stuff like that.
So, and I would always be, you know, buying these things all over the world for them.
And so, yeah.
And I just, actually, I assumed I would have a Harley, to be honest.
I thought that would be my first bike.
And I did test ride some, but they just, they didn't feel right when I did it.
And so when, yeah, when she was dying, she was, I told her, I, you know, I'd taken my lessons and got my learners and stuff like that.
And she was just like, oh, did you buy a Harley?
And I was like, no, I bought a little Honda right now.
I don't, yeah.
I think because in her wanting me to, you know, feel loved and safe and be in a relationship and do those things, she also was really, I think she was really proud that I just, I walked, I wrote my own book, right?
Like, I was my own person, you know?
Like, I think she was really proud of that.
Again, very fortunate.
My parents were both very proud of me.
I was, you know, so, like, when they died, I don't have regrets in terms of my relationships with them.
I'm sad and I miss them and I wish I could talk to them, but I was loved and they were proud of me and that kind of stuff.
So I think, yeah, for her, it would have been, to see me ride, I think she would have been thoroughly, like, scared and delighted.
I do, every once in a while, picture myself pulling up to her house on my bike and what that moment would have been like, but yeah.
Can you share it a little bit?
What have it, like?
Oh, I think she would have just, like, howled.
Yeah, she would have had a good time and I would have tried to, like, get her on my bike and it probably would have been a fight to get her to sit on it.
But yeah, I mean, I wouldn't have taken her for a ride or anything like that, but just to, like, get a picture of her, like, her joy and her sitting on my bike, I think would have been really amazing.
Well, I ask because, you know, the film, A Motorcycle Saved My Life, we can talk about a little bit here.
She, you kind of started out thinking it would be with your dad, right?
And you, because it seems like, that's why I brought up at the beginning about road trips and stuff, because it seemed like you kind of associated that with your dad.
I think in the movie, you say he was always on the road or he was such a road tripper or something like that.
So it seemed like you maybe thought that would be mostly dad oriented or something.
But then it becomes, in a way, I feel like you're healing your relationship with your mom, but not, and I don't mean, almost healing your mom.
Yeah.
In a way.
Well, it's definitely, I've talked to other folks, like, definitely healing the mother wound, you know?
Yeah, and that's what the land, too, and this, when you said you're still trying to figure out how to be in nature, that feels connected to me, all that.
That's mother wound as well, all of that.
You know, that's the patriarchal system that we're in that tries to sever our connections, right?
Um, so, yeah, like, that film really came about healing that mother wound, for sure.
And I wouldn't have even been able to express that when I was making it, to be honest.
It's just, like, in reflection years down the road.
But I know when I was developing it, and just with the National Film Board, and I was working with Terry Snellgrove, who was my producer, and Shirley Veracruz, both producers at the National Film Board in Vancouver.
You know, I think just, because I went through a phase, what they call an investigate, which is just, like, looking at, you know, yourself, and who you are, and why you want to tell this story and stuff.
And then, you know, further going into another phase of development.
But after that investigate, I was like, Terry just said, we were sitting down at her office, and she was just like, I think this film's about your mother.
And I was like, oh.
And so that, it was really just that moment.
I was just like, oh, you're right.
It is.
And then that's where the development really shifted.
Like, we went into another phase of development.
And that was when I decided to actually go and interview all of my relatives, all my female relatives.
So all those voices that you hear in the film were actually recorded two years before I filmed it.
So you just went and talked to them.
What about the campfire thing and all that?
That was later, I guess.
Yeah, that was during the filming.
But, like, I went, you know, we went to northern Alberta.
We went on a trip hilariously.
You know, we flew back on March 13th, 2020, which was the last day of flying.
Whoa.
Yeah, it was, like, right at that time.
You just barely got in.
Just barely got in.
But we went and recorded.
For the change.
Yeah.
We recorded my sister and two of my aunts and a cousin.
And it is those women around the fire that I've talked to.
Those are all of their voices.
Okay, that is their voices.
Yeah, that is their voices.
Yeah, so I did that and then came back and then basically wrote a script.
I went through all the transcripts and I wrote a script.
So it's very hybrid that way.
And so I wrote a script.
So I knew exactly what I wanted to film.
So it's not like a verite documentary.
It's very planned and intentional and hybrid-y that way.
But what you're saying is real.
Because, like, at the beginning, your voice is kind of, you know, you're almost, like, sort of crying or something.
It feels like you're, that was, that was just when you were talking in the two years before?
That was me and my sister talking.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, like, there's a couple, there's a couple moments in the narration or the voiceover where I supplemented some things.
It's normally just my voice.
I, you know, I've clarified something or it didn't record or we needed just something.
But another sentence to set it up correctly or whatever.
But for, like, 95% of that or probably 98% of it was all pre-recorded, like, two years before I filmed it.
Or a year and a half.
That's even more powerful then because it was just, you were just recording these conversations and then, I don't know.
I have to just tell you, I mean, a lot of this is, feels like it's still, I don't know about for you, but still being processed, right?
There's these nested things that I feel like are, the motorcycle for me feels almost like the vehicle that helps it stay together.
But there's a lot of nested stuff going on with all these themes and even with your other films.
I mean, there's even a road trip film in there, I think, Shelter or something.
I don't know.
There's this movement.
And for me, when I was watching it, still, it's still, I'm still not sure how it had such a strong effect on me, I have to tell you.
And I'll just be very honest with you because I was, when I, when it first starts and you're kind of, your voice is like that, it's almost too much for me because I'm like, oh, it's already emotional from the first word, you know?
But it feels real because it is.
Now I know it was just you having a conversation.
And then, of course, it's beautifully filmed and all of this.
And then by the end, I was feeling very emotional, you know?
And I still don't exactly know why, but I'm absolutely sure it's connected to just feeling love for my mom and my bigger mom, all, you know, in these ways that we can't really articulate or something.
So it sounds like that was how you made the film, too.
It was almost like a surprise to you in a way, almost like the way you're describing the pilgrimage where you didn't know, you knew you were going to go on a journey, but you didn't know where you're going to stop or something.
Yeah. Yeah. The pilgrimage was very like that.
And like, and I tried to have a little bit more control over a motorcycle to save my life, you know?
Like I did when I interviewed my family, I had specific questions, but of course you go on tangents with family.
And then I wrote a script and I had, and I thought I knew exactly what I wanted to get.
And I did for the most part, but the ending is what changed from my script.
Okay. And because when I go for, you know, a ride with my mother at the end, like that was never supposed to be, we were never supposed to be in the frame together.
It was always supposed to be the horse riding and then me, and then me riding, and then we meld and then I just leave.
Like she fades away and then I leave, but we, her, you know, a variety of filming reasons and you're working with live animals, you know, the horse was getting scared running through the field with the drone.
Cause we had a drone and the drone on a motorcycle and I was on my motorcycle and all that kind of horse beside you.
Yeah. But we were never supposed to ride together. I was really like, we did multiple passes of the horse, just running and just trying to get the drone.
And, but the horse would always like kind of scare at it. So I was like, you know what, why don't I just come up beside and let's try this.
And so, you know, we came and then the horse was totally fine with me on its side because I was on the side that something was like on the other side of the drone.
So the drone was on the other side of me. And then it turned into this like field of dreams moment, which is one of my favorite movies that I'm going for a final ride with my mother.
Like, and like, I was in my helmet and I have Bluetooth in my helmet. And my friend Chris was also there. My friend Chris was like on, she was, she had to be with me during the filming.
So she was also part of that film. She was on, like on her phone talking to me and she was bawling and I was bawling in my helmet.
And like, it was, so like that kind of moment wasn't planned.
So, well, maybe that's what comes through. Cause that's the moment I teared up and it was before I listened to Motorcycle Life.
Oh yeah.
Too, because then I was like, oh, so she also feels emotional there because.
I'm a mess in my helmet in that shot.
Are you?
Total mess.
Well, I mean.
Yeah. Even when I'm coming.
It's very, I don't know why it's there's, I think it's all the combinations too.
Like with masculine and feminine, you have the horse, you have this creature that's really the beginning of all motoring, you know?
I mean, we talk horsepower and all this, it comes, there's this mobility.
And so you're, there's this reaching into the past already with horse and then the machine and then they're together.
And if there's something so graceful and I'm, I was kind of thinking, wow, the horse is so calm.
It almost feels like your mom would like weirdly the horse and your mom feel like the leader, not the machine, you know?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely. And then, and the thing is the horse's name was glory and she is like a senior mare.
She's in her twenties.
And that's like, you know, the woman that played my mother, Brandy, that is like, you know, that's her.
And like, but still a lot of zip and fire, like tossed her off the day before.
Oh, wow. Okay.
That was your mom then.
Going for a test ride.
Cause Brandy generally rides Western and I'd ask if, if she could ride English, like, cause my mother rode English saddle.
And yeah, she went for a ride the day before and like, yeah, she got tossed off.
She was all bruised.
Oh gosh. Wow.
Yeah. So glory had a lot of fire in her still.
And so, and like, yeah, just, and the thing is too, is just like senior mares lead herds and they lead from behind.
And just like, there's, so there's, I mean, there's just so many things at play in those kinds of shots.
Like there's land, there's emotion, there's mother wound, there's like horse and machine.
And then like, just, yeah.
You know, the leadership of it all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that it just kind of happened makes it somehow.
I know.
And they were like, did it just happen or was it meant to be exactly the same?
Well, nothing just happens.
And, but at the same time, there's a kind of, there, you know, there are things that are more likely and less likely.
And yeah, but it's beautiful.
Like it starts with the horse and then it's both.
And then it's, it's you, right?
Isn't that?
Yeah.
It's just, yeah.
We go for a ride together and then I'm back on my own.
And you're, and do you feel like your relationship with your mom changed after making this?
Because I feel like we're all still in relationship with the people that are gone.
And that aren't, we, it's harder because we can't physically speak to them anymore.
But I feel like we're still having a conversation, at least like with my grandmother or someone, I still feel this conversation.
I don't know if you do.
Maybe that's part of that visualizing of going to her house and stuff too, but.
Yeah.
Did you change your relationship with her?
Yeah, absolutely.
It just, it made me realize how close we were, even though I didn't recognize it, you know?
And even like at the times I tried to push her away and I tried a lot and, you know, and that kind of stuff.
And it also like, not only with my mother, but it really healed a lot of pain with me and my family, with my sister and my aunts and my cousin.
Like, I'm so much closer to them now because of that experience.
And like, and I know you, like, we're having conversations around that fire.
We filmed that fire for, you know, like an hour and a half and we had a lot of conversations.
And obviously, you know, they did not know I was going to pull out my mother's ashes.
Oh, they didn't?
Because you sort of put them in the fire.
Oh my gosh.
I didn't tell them anything that was going to happen.
They all knew that they had to show up wearing something appropriate to film in.
Like, no patterns, no, none of this.
And I was like, and then we're going to have a conversation in front of the fire and there's going to be a camera there.
And they're all like, okay.
And all of their partners and boyfriends and husbands were like behind us.
Oh my God.
I love the thumbs up.
We're behind us.
Like with coolers drinking beer and just hanging out.
And what?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because after we finished filming and then we all just hung out, right?
Hung out together.
Yeah, that's wonderful.
And we had some hot dogs and marshmallows and drank some drinks and like, you know, just went into the evening together.
But yeah, but that time with all of us together around the fire and the conversations we had and the spreading of the, you know, the ashes and stuff really bonded us all in a way that I don't think I'd ever allowed before in my life.
So I'm a lot closer to all of them now.
Your mom gave you something.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't have any right to say this, but it has come into my head a few times that you were very close to your mom or your mom was even very close to you.
Maybe too close in a way, you know, like in a sense.
And it feels like that something expressed through you, through her, through you, through all of this, right?
And I don't know what all that is, but when it comes to belonging, when it comes to the things you're working on now, like, I guess more, I think you used the word reconciliation.
Reconciliation maybe when I asked you in the email what you were working on, it feels, it opened reconciliation and it's, that feels like it's furthering your work maybe too.
Maybe we can even use that to go into what you're doing now.
But does that make sense?
Because you.
Yeah.
Yeah, I did.
She did feel too close to me.
Yeah.
Do you, like, I look at it so differently now, right?
And sometimes we can only experience that in death.
So I don't wish for a time, I don't wish for her still to be alive that, so, because if we would still be the same, it like something, you know, something had to die for us to have this relationship now.
And yeah, I belong to her and she belongs to me.
Yeah.
And you're furthering the best of her.
She's helping you be you, helping you be a better, come to terms with yourself in that way that we were talking about.
Be, sit with yourself, accept and love yourself, as they say in the pilgrimage.
Well, and to accept and love yourself the way that my parents loved me, you know, because that was pretty great.
Pretty great.
But yeah, in terms of, yeah, it does feel, it is reconciliation for sure.
And I do think, like, having these experiences, it is, that is permeating, like, my work going forward.
It's, like, more about belonging, but also reconciling things of, like, humans and land.
And, you know, through the death of my dad, I inherited some of that land that is in The Motorcycle Saved My Life.
Oh, wow.
Beautiful land.
Yeah, where we filmed is actually my aunt's property, but that's where I grew up a lot of mine.
I'm just, like, around the corner from her.
Me and my sister.
Oh, yeah.
Wow.
So, me and my sister share 80 acres of land due to the passing of my father.
And my next project, which is a feature-length documentary, well, I'm hoping it'll be, I'm developing it, is called 10 Steps to Land Back for White People.
And it's about the possibility of looking at what it would, what's the process of ceding ownership of that land and back to the Indigenous nations.
Oh, that's a very powerful theme.
Yeah, which is part of reconciliation of this territory that I'm on called Canada and Turtle Island in general.
Like, you know, stolen lands.
And also, of me, of European descent.
Like, there's a reason why my ancestors came to these lands.
It's because their lands were stolen from them.
So, this, you know, colonization didn't just start, like, in the last couple hundred years.
It's been going on for thousands of years.
And so, like, my documentary is really looking at, like, my reconciling the land that I own now and not really believing that humans can own land and what that could potentially, what kind of relationship could I have with community and with land if I no longer own something.
And just thinking about ownership in a different way and belonging.
And so, you're looking back into your ancestral, I don't, I just, like, what do you mean?
So, your family moved to Canada because they were persecuted or something?
Or what do you mean?
I don't know exactly.
You don't know.
Okay.
So, you're looking at all that?
Yeah.
So, I think that's part of the film was, we'll be looking at my own ancestry as to, like, why my ancestors came here in the first place.
And, like, my mother was Scottish.
So, and then my father was a little bit of a mix of Ukrainian, Austrian, German, Prussian, and all that kind of stuff.
So, Eastern Europe.
And I will be, yeah, I don't think they left where they were because they were having a good time.
I just don't, I just don't think that really, you know, I don't think people leave places that they love and, you know, are safe there.
So, yeah, part of people look into that.
And people bring that trauma with them, right?
Yeah.
And it's almost like you've gone a step back from, and being able to heal your relationship with yourself, which meant healing your relationship, even if it was just the way you thought of.
If your mom and your dad and their loss and your place when they're not there and all, like, all of that reconciliation and healing kind of opens you up to now look at it, like, you can almost look at maybe where they were and what they were trying to heal before you even came and generations back.
And then that's also kind of nested within the First Nations and all the Native issues, which we didn't get into, but a lot of the movies you've done or worked on deal with a lot of those issues, too.
So, it's very interesting now that the space, the landscape, so to speak, has kind of deepened and gotten multidimensional around these themes.
Yeah, because even I have a couple of feature films that I'm writing in Plantage Direct, too.
And one is, like, about reconciling a past romantic relationship, like, seven years after it's over, supposedly, right?
And then, you know, another film I'm doing is, like, kind of more the female Easy Rider, where it's two women on the road, and that it is about reconciling their lives and finding their belonging and finding a new community and, like, again, realizing that they're safer in nature and that kind of stuff.
So, I am kind of, like, it is, it's kind of in everything I'm doing right now.
It's powerful, and the notion of the pilgrimage and a motorcycle saved my life, even those very words, right, take on new resonances with these new kinds of reconciliation.
Yeah.
So, it's, it's cool, it's powerful, and I just, we've been talking a couple hours, so let's go, but my dog's got to go out.
But I love talking to you, and I love your films, and I'm really, very honestly, that's why I found you on The Purple Motorcycle, The Motorcycle Life, because somehow I came across that, and it moved me, and I wasn't sure why, how.
So, yeah, I just want to say thanks for the work you're doing, and I look forward to what's to come.
Oh, my God, thank you so much.
I was, like, so thrilled when you reached out, and I do think we have so much in common, and I've really loved our talk, and I so appreciate it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, Laurie.
Awesome.
Have a great day there.
Thank you.
It's just beginning.
I know, you're just going into your night out.
The sun is setting here, and the sun is rising there, or it's already risen.
Awesome.
Okay.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
