Hello, Dan. Thank you for being here today.
Andrea, so great to be here.
So I want to start with this question about spatial web.
I want to think about how is spatial web, maybe what is spatial web for those who haven't heard of it,
even though it's been there a while and it's affecting the world a lot.
What's the difference between that and what we all know of as the World Wide Web, for example?
Sure, sure. I mean, one way to understand it is just look at the roots of the web itself.
If we go back, I mean, really, we're entering a new era in civilization and we're kind of warming up to it.
But it's really the digitization era, you know, because we've had really the machine era for the last 500 years
since the inventing of the printing press. And then we call it the industrial age.
It's really the machine age. And so that's really been the way we've defined our economy, our civilization.
We're an industrial age, global civilization right now.
And even human beings often define themselves as what is my function?
Tell me about yourself. I'm a lawyer. I'm a doctor. I'm a teacher. I'm a whatever.
So we're very function oriented. The civilization is designed that way. It's very stratified.
We have roles. It's kind of a corporate model.
The model prior to the industrial age was an agricultural model.
We had kings and queens, the lords of the land, you know.
So it's very interesting to see how these big eras in human evolution progress from hunter-gatherers,
again, defining the economy. We hunt and we gather.
We lived in caves. We lived in tents.
And then we discovered agriculture.
And then we had pretty much the age of large empires because instead of food being scarce, land was the scarce resource.
So big armies to control land and all that kind of thing.
And then we discovered the printing press.
And oh, my gosh, instead of taking three years to handwrite a Bible, we could make a thousand Bibles in a month.
You're making some really interesting connections.
So thinking of this as we're moving up towards the World Wide Web with agriculture, of course, we always have tools and technology,
but they're very embodied and they're very connected to the body still.
And here now with the printing press, we've sort of introduced another level, right?
So that we've now we've got a symbolic sort of we've got a tool that's creating a sort of symbolic world that we share,
such as reading books or reading text, which wasn't there before.
No, it's the dawn of machines.
And if you think about it, before that, we had things like plows and things.
We had technology.
We didn't really have machines.
And the cool thing about a machine is it multiplies the like a plow and other kinds of things kind of multiply our productivity.
One person now can do the work of three or four.
But with a machine, oh, my gosh, it might be, you know, 100 people.
And so, you know, once the printing press came in, then the shoemaker looked at it and went,
oh, right, if I make a thousand pairs of shoes at a time, the price per shoe drops.
And so suddenly we had the age of factories.
And and really the world we're living in now is the industrial age.
And that led to the invention of countries.
We didn't really have countries before.
We had empires.
And with countries, we have more like a legal system that can deal with contracts.
And the Dutch, in fact, you're in Holland right now.
The Dutch invented the limited liability corporation.
I mean, because of having to take all the risk of sending these ships around the world to get spices and things.
So the point I'm making is that we're in one of those changes right this second.
That's the point.
They're really difficult.
I mean, kings and queens did not leave the stage in a very easy way.
They resisted change.
And there were a lot of revolutions and things as the industrial age came in and the king and queen model didn't really function well in an industrial society.
It works OK in an ag society, but not an industrial society.
And so so we went through kind of a renaissance on the one side, a very positive thing.
And we went through a revolution on the other, which was like, how do we transform our governance models and everything?
How do we treat people?
I mean, our role in society in an ag age is very, very simple.
You have, you know, the kind of landed gentry, and then you have pretty much all the workers of the world just working on farms or doing various kinds of trades.
And so with the with the industrial society, you suddenly have a middle class.
We never had a middle class, really, in the in the ag age.
So now we have technology is creating more free time in a way.
Oh, well, we'll think about it with one machine does the work of 100 people.
Yeah, you get a whole lot of time, right, exactly.
Society is changing on the desk and you're not having 10 kids and, you know, hoping that some of them live and all that, you know.
So so we've been the industrial age has been amazing.
I mean, if you look at the wealth, bring anybody here from 1500 and they're going like, what what is all this?
I mean, it would be overwhelming for sure.
What is an electric light?
You know, what is this city?
I mean, these things, buildings that are like 80 stories tall.
I mean, it's just mind blowing.
And we just take it like for granted.
No big deal.
Yeah, it's actually all new.
This didn't exist 500 years ago and didn't even really hardly exist even 200 years ago.
It's really only been the last and really since World War Two.
Have we been in the kind of late stage capitalism, modern kind of edge where we're just creating vast amounts of wealth?
You know, but what's very interesting is we had two world wars in the 20th century and again, over arguing over resources to feed the factories, you know, because that's the way the factory works.
You've got a big box and it needs raw materials in one side and finished products out the other.
And so how do you get the price down over here?
Well, you make a lot of them, but you also get the price of the raw materials as low as possible.
So that leads to colonialism and other kinds of things that we, you know, even though we don't have official colonialism today, we still have kind of resource countries and production companies and countries.
And we all can see how that all plays out.
It's still kind of a neocolonialism model.
So, so that's kind of the world we're in, it creates a vast amount of wealth, particularly for the developed world.
And, but it's also now destroying the planet, you know, it's a runaway, runaway industrialization is obviously now damaging the biosphere and water systems and biodiversity and all kinds of other things, not to mention income inequality and all the other issues that were the sustainable development goals that the UN has identified.
There's 17 of them now that they're facing us and, and then you're a philosopher.
So then there's also the existential aspect of it all, you know, we're growing up, we're evolving, we're developing as people.
And we no longer want to be in some kind of a militaristic setting where we're just in a corporation doing kind of paperwork inside of a large machine where we're just a cog in a machine, you know, we want to express our own creativity and all that kind of thing.
So oddly enough, at the end of the last big war in, in World War II, the thing that helped tip the balance in the war and, and help, help the West beat, beat the Nazis was the invention of the computer.
Yeah.
And so, uh, uh, wonderful, wonderful, uh, brilliant, uh, mathematician, uh, Alan Turing in England said, look, uh, give me enough resources, I can build this computer system and we can crack the, uh, German secret cypher code and, uh, we can start to read their battle plans before the, uh, before their battles.
And that'll help us win, obviously, you know, you can play chess, you already know what their moves are going to be.
So first computer in 1945.
So from 1945 until 1970, uh, gosh, if it helped us win the war, maybe it'll help us with our corporations and everything else.
So for the next, uh, 25 years, uh, through the 1950s and 1960s, IBM grew really huge.
And some other huge computer companies grew up and suddenly every corporation, large corporation had a computer.
And the Pentagon had a computer and every government agency had a computer in Europe and the U S and, and, uh, developed countries.
And, uh, somebody at DARPA and the defense department raised their hand and said, uh, we got a problem here.
Uh, our whole military is running on this one giant IBM mainframe and the Russians have highly accurate rockets now.
Cause they put up Sputnik and we went to the moon and all the rest of it.
Mm-hmm one missile into the computer complex.
And we're completely blind.
Yeah.
Let's try to visualize this for a second.
Cause this, this is really fascinating to me.
The, the switch that you just described into the computing, because so we were talking about something like a printing press or something like that, which seems more understandable because it's based in a language that is not just binary.
And, um, you're more sharing information rather than able to do something like what you described with touring, where you can sort of intercept and recode.
There's, there's some kind of new digitalization going on.
Right.
That's, that's different.
How do you see that?
Like, how is that, how is that different?
Cause you're, what you're describing is revolutionary, but, and it's a cognitive shift and it's a shift of behavior and it's a political shift and it's all these shifts.
But like, how would someone who doesn't really understand what a computer even is like at that moment, get a grasp on what, what happened?
Is it digitalization?
I mean, I think, I think one very simple way to look at it is, um, everything is just an externalization of the human body.
So the initial inventions were like spears and better tips on a spear tip to be able to.
Extensions.
And so you get, you, you, you're a better hunter.
So you live longer, you got better, more, more access to food.
So the inventions are all extensions of the human body.
It's like the muscular skeletal system and bows and arrows and a lever and ultimately a wheel.
It helped us move heavy objects and we can build the pyramids and do all kinds of stuff.
So, so the initial phase of, uh, technology, uh, development was, uh, uh, well, just arm lifting, uh, throw things.
Oh, how do we do that better?
Uh, so most of the inventions were extensions of the body.
Cause that was the way to survive, to nourish yourself, to survive capital.
Or survive longer because the kids work, work was based on that.
You got food to feed the children.
They don't die.
Yeah.
All that.
And the whole thing.
So, so, um, we can track the evolution of technologies.
You can actually watch the spear tips get better.
And then the first bows and arrows, you know, the whole thing.
And then same thing with the wheel and then the plow.
Yeah.
That makes sense with the leisure class thing that you said too, because as the technology gets better, the economy begins to shift towards.
And so does the power, right?
Technology absolutely defines everything.
Take a look at it.
When you're a hunter gatherer, you can't, your tribe cannot be more than a hundred people.
You overeat the area really fast and all the food will be gone.
You have to split the tribe if it gets larger.
So it's got a kind of enforced, uh, uh, scarcity issue, uh, that tribes faced, uh, because, uh, you know, they're eating directly off the land.
They're not growing anything.
So they're hunting for, for protein and the animals and, uh, fruits and vegetables from the land.
Well, you're going to live in a small tribe.
So what do we have for 200,000 years?
Tribal life.
Right.
Suddenly we discover agriculture.
Wow.
We can have fields, one grain.
Uh, people don't realize that that aren't in agriculture.
One kernel of corn, one single kernel of corn is worth a million dollars.
Why?
You plant one kernel of corn in the ground.
You don't have to grow it.
It'll grow itself.
You just protect it from attack.
Incredible.
It'll grow up.
It'll make a thousand kernels of corn.
Yeah.
It's incredible.
We forget how magical that is.
Then you plant a thousand kernels of corn.
Now you have a million kernels of corn.
I mean, my God, you can feed the half of it to the people, put the other 500,000 in the ground.
Now you can feed the Persian army.
I mean, so, you know, there was kind of an enforced limitation there.
And so suddenly with the discovery of agriculture, now you've got cities.
And so now you have city-states.
Now you have, you know, slowly empires growing up from that.
Armies, the whole deal.
And so that's the great age of the empires that lasted for really, you can argue eight or 10,000 years.
And then the discovery of the printing press.
And so that's only 500 years, right?
That was 1457.
Accelerating.
Think about it now.
The printing press, when it came in, nobody was literate.
Right.
Priests were.
That's what I'm saying.
Royal family, the church, but 95% of the population really didn't read and write.
You just apprenticed to your parents and learned to trade.
You worked on the farm.
You didn't need to read.
Soldiers, you know, you didn't read.
I mean, only if, like you said, only if you were in the church did you read, you know, maybe there were hymnals and things like that.
But people weren't like going to the bookstore and buying books and reading, and they weren't even going to school.
You know, I mean, that's just the way it was.
So there were no books in circulation effectively in Europe in 1450.
There were 9 million people living in Europe in 1450.
But by 1500, 50 years after the printing press, there were 20 million books in circulation in Europe.
Incredible.
What a shift.
That was the foundation of the Renaissance and the thing exploded from there.
And so that's really the evolution of culture at that point, right?
It just exploded.
And we call it the Renaissance because, look, changes in art, changes in governance, changes in philosophy, changes in religion, changes in almost every aspect of life from that single printing press.
Right.
And a huge change in power structures and information.
The following 200 years.
Right.
And now we created a modern corporate world where even communist countries still have a president, Putin, and heads of the Defense Department and all this.
They just look like a corporation.
It's a Western, Eastern version of capitalism.
You know, so so that's been the model up until now.
But when you see these technologies, they actually bring everything with them, because if you look at it, the core DNA of the way the civilization is functioning is around its wealth creation process.
How does it get its food?
How does it get its materials?
How does it get its CareerE designated and trusted society vendors?
How does it get its Costa Rica trait to infrastructure?
I do as a mirror, and a question is, oh, well, then, if that's the primary function, then the governance and everything are derivative.
Their's second order.
The first order.
The first principle is how are we how are we making our wealth.
You know, when we've got food, housing, clothing, all the rest of it.
So when that shifts, then it's like an earthquake, everything shifts.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
complex systems.
A butterfly effect.
Yeah.
complex systems and butterfly effect yeah so here we are now we've been in 500 years now of uh of
the industrial era really the last 200 years really effectively and the last uh 75 since
world war ii uh in uh really refined capitalism and now but but the printing press for our time
was the computer in 1945 helped win the war people thought oh that's cool it's
it's another machine but it's a digital machine right and so think about it now so the first
inventions were extensions of the body right and then we even the printing press in a way was
extensions of the body we could write faster and write books in a real short period of time
the next wave of inventions though that came with that because the age of science blew up in 1500s
uh were extensions of the sensors so we had microscopes i mean that came right out of
holland again telescopes and all these kinds of things really started to emerge and so we're
extending the senses now so you know first we extended the muscular skeletal system then the
senses right then we kind of a couple more hundred years and suddenly we discovered electricity and
started to have uh networks of uh electrical lines and telegraphs and things well that's kind of like
the nervous system because see how it's playing out the body's playing out so then what's the
computer doing well it's mimicking the brain so it's the first it's the first uh invention that
can extend the brain because the first computer could just add subtract multiply and divide but
wow i can do it at high speed just the way it could make a thousand books did the uh the computer could
do a thousand calculations you know and so suddenly now we've done the entire body so now the computer
began in 1945 doing very simple as subtract multiply and divide and now we've gotten higher order
mathematics and higher order things but even al turing in uh in uh 1945 through 1950 said you know
these computers are going to get smart uh and he really was the first person to really articulate
uh they're going to become artificial intelligence and so what is artificial intelligence well it's a
digital brain uh that uh can uh be as uh as uh capable as a human and maybe a thousand times more so
and so so we've had 75 years since that first computer and every 25 years we have these big
jumps because the technology gets faster and more effective and uh and as you said networks and so
so we went from uh 1945 the first computer then by 1970 uh every major corporation and every
government agency and all the developed countries of the world had computers but they were all siloed
they didn't talk to each other and uh and they were vulnerable if they crashed everything that was
plugged into them would also crash yeah and so somebody at uh darpa defense department and uh said hey
gee we're vulnerable here one targeted missile into the uh into the pentagon and uh we're blind and the
russians were in the war so um so somebody said well i've got an idea of how we might be able to make a
network with no central hub and um and so they did an experiment with four computers uh they're back in 1969
here in la at ucla uh also stanford uh uc santa barbara and uh university of utah four four computers
in four locations with no central computer and um we'll call it uh the internet it was a way of
networking network so internet working so they just shortened it to internet and uh so now everything
didn't have to be in one place it could be kind of shared in many places the idea was you give every
computer and an ip address an internet protocol address and then then a protocol to share little
text files with each other that became email and suddenly anybody anywhere in the world could connect
to that network because it used the kind of phone system network and everything global communication
system uh that uh was uh borderless uh decentralized you don't have to call me to join you just download an
ip address for your computer and plug it in and then you can start sending messages and from 1970 to 1995
that was the age of the internet that was the age of uh of uh uh kind of uh email and uh internet
working was really and if you had a computer in uh 19 like 85 like uh the uh the mac when it came out or
or um the pc with windows and everything you had a computer on your desk and you had word and you had a
spreadsheet program and things like that but i could attach a word file and a spreadsheet to an email
and send it to you on the other side of the world and that could be like a business plan or something
and suddenly we really had a pretty amazing thing going on and anybody in 1985 or 1990 what do you think
well we've got everything we need we've got a global network now we can we have information all over
the world and we're cool uh but that wasn't that wasn't where it ended tim berners-lee came along in
the early 90s and went chips are getting faster networks are getting faster instead of just sending
text files to each other uh actually send fully formatted documents scientific documents with charts
and images and and fonts and everything and so um incredible it must have seemed so incredible to
receive something like that and be able to see it and yeah it was it was a brilliant idea but he did
exactly the same thing they had done with the original internet he gave every page and i an address
and he created a call for all the pages of the link together yeah more distribution http and so now here's
the funny thing when you look at it from a historical point of view the language that we use to format the
page is called html hypertext markup language now why is it just called hypertext language why is it
called hypertext markup language when you give your manuscript to the printer oh mark marks on there
paragraph here italics here they use the language from the printing press to do the internet wow that's
that's that's exciting i had never read that connection is that an echo from the past wow that is so cool
yeah we have now a digital printing press and now we have three billion websites billions of web pages
all over the world anybody can print a book right now online but instead of printing a million copies
you just put it up there and a million people can view it so yeah yeah the whole thing upside down and
it's just so productively amazing and uh so the internet has grown hugely now uh we have multiple
trillion dollar corporations i mean uh the internet is uh the the largest engineering project humanity's
ever undertaken it makes nasa look like a little uh kindergarten project i mean just trillions of
dollars and servers and satellites and undersea cables with fiber optics and websites of all types
amazon selling every kind of product anywhere in the world and google indexes the entire library
this is the largest library ever invented in history and i mean i went to school at berkeley and uh and
you know one of the reasons you go to a really good uh university is they have a great library you
know and so but now suddenly the children all over the world uh in every country from bangladesh to
greenland they'll have access to the same library library in the world so it's really been an amazing
accomplishment and uh we're standing on top of right now and the spatial web which is what we're
doing right now is simply the next level the next layer well before we get there let's i want to
look because you're you're giving me something like a revelation no i mean i just want to like talk this
out a minute because i guess what you've what we've talked about is this increase in technology but also
an increase in the bodily possibilities for connection which sort of became crystallized in a way in
something like language and being able to so the technology is done it's able to we can see farther
we can see smaller but now we can also share all of that stuff that information and connect in different
ways and that's become kind of crystallized now in the technology in a way such that what you're talking
about with the world wide web is almost like you said it was the brain but it almost feels like it's a
body i mean i'm more embodied cognition even though the brain is of course crucial and i understand the
architecture you know inspired a lot of computation that's all true but as you were talking i was
thinking it's actually that we've almost condensed physical physicality into the technology and we can
now connect with everyone everything everything is connected in the world wide web but something's
missing now and it kind of goes back to that physicality and biology and um the interaction of
the actual world itself with itself which i think leads towards the spatial web yeah i think you're
right yeah so again if we kind of look at the content as well uh the content was very physical up until
the computer uh you had a book uh you had a jacket you had a pair of shoes we made content it was all
physical things tables houses uh physical things with the computer uh we're actually uh now uh digitizing
content and so uh instead of uh buying a book we actually go online and read we still buy books but
we don't need to because every book is now online and uh llm so we can even ask them to write books
for us yeah which reminds me of something you say often about the digitalizing the physical and
physicalizing the digital now that's become blurry in a way uh that you just were describing there
well i think uh if we go back uh in philosophy and metaphysics uh uh to the upanishads and uh
to uh soupy uh poets like rumi and things like that they've been arguing all along that what looks
physical isn't as substantial as you think and then with quantum physics we started to realize oh
uh the table isn't actually made out of wood it's actually with something that we call this thing but
actually the microscope it's just a bunch of molecules exactly and people go oh you mean the
whole world is made out of molecules and then the scientists go well in a way that's a level of
perception if you dial up the microscope even more the molecules disappear and it's all just uh atoms
oh what do you mean it's all just that well here look through it oh right there's no wood
there's just simply a frequency called brown and uh the edges are something the brain is creating
out of this whole thing and so the philosophers started to realize that oh maybe the world's not
out there maybe the world's in here out here is energies and moving around and we're
we're putting them together in a way that we call the world but the world's not out there the way we
normally think about it it's actually a mental construct that we're making constantly and i was
thinking about descartes when you were talking earlier too and this mental physical divide and
that's body becoming sort of mental and how when you were describing that evolution of technology that
it seemed to be becoming more so-called kind of mental or or something like that but actually
it's just nestedness of a very similar thing i'm not sure we need to say it's only inside or only
outside anymore but that's such a hard idea to hold um well there's a really great book that i
recommend everyone read it's a dr donald hoffman's work at uc irvine he's a cognitive uh neuroscientist
and uh his book is called the case against reality and uh he's really showing that uh uh
what whatever it is that's out here doesn't have looked like that to every animal it isn't you know
humans constructed in a certain way that we call culture and we buy into it and believe in it and
that kind of thing but uh but animals see it differently and uh his book has done a lot of
scientific experiments with uh different animal structures and uh noticing how what we're really
doing is we're really uh set for um evolution so things that allow us to evolve are what we're paying
attention to and what we're doing and so we're building evolutionary worlds and those we and we
inhabit those worlds and they allow us to evolve more effectively so it's uh it's really uh darwin's uh
kind of model but uh uh he's starting to realize the mechanisms of it and that ties into active inference
which is what uh dr carl friston's work is all about is actually how are the choices we're making
uh how are they mathematically what are the what's the core math of that that allows us to find
evolutionary pathways and so that's the variational free prince free energy principle that uh as we uh as
we're more effective in our uh choicing uh we uh we uh uh are more effective at surviving and thriving
and evolving and so um so the free energy principle and uh out of that active inference and then out of
that active inference ai artificial intelligence is kind of the new cutting edge of our understanding of
of how human thought interacts with reality in a way that is the most evolutionary pathway forward
and uh so we're already doing it um just like uh relativity and quantum physics existed before they
were written down where science discovers the principle so uh dr priston really i mean isn't isn't
he isn't inventing this he's discovering you know this is how we're doing it and then we as a company have
been commercializing that and embodying that in the form of ai products so that then we have evolutionary ai
yeah with verses and i want to get into that but i think there's a little bit of a switch there
between the world wide web which is very 2d i guess so we were kind of there in this 2d uh universe
in a way um and then what you described with with hoffman i don't really think we live in a simulation
but i think what he's saying is true at the same time so that's kind of a weird thing for me to say
but it makes me think of something like the work of david bohm where you have an implicate order or a
holograph or something like that you know where it's still a shared reality but we're all envisioning
in different ways from a subjective phenomenological perspective the two of them totally agree yeah
okay so when you go from thinking of that what i just said and what you said um as when you think
of the world wide web as 2d and then we go to spatial web and that's more of the holograph or the
um simulated togetherness or the i think you call it public ar in a way um it's a way of it's it's like
going to another level if you think of world wide web as 2d then we're going into spatial web which is
yeah what is that so it's really just exactly what we were talking about how we did the worldwide web
instead of just email let's say the chips are going uh at uh at 10 megahertz in uh 1945 and then they're
going at uh 100 megahertz by 1970 so now you can do things like send things across networks and and
process things more effectively and then it goes to a thousand uh megahertz and so now you can do
the world wide web you can do a formatted page instead of just sending an unformatted text file
and then it goes to 10 000 megahertz you see what i mean and so yeah so as the speed goes up on the
chips and the speed goes up in the networks the envelope of possible things you could do increases so
in 1945 the only thing you could do would add subtract multiply and divide really fast on one
computer and that created the first computer and by 1970 uh we could not only do that but we had enough
things where we could actually start to send files to each other across the network as we calculate
these things and send them to each other and so by 1995 uh we now have fully formatted pages that we
can send around to each other and so think about that from 1945 to 1970 25 years from 1970 to 1995 25
years from 1995 until uh today 25 years so pretty much every 25 years or so the band is two generations
of people too at that point they're going through it using it and questioning it how do we do it better
how do we make it better how do we make it more effectively so and suddenly 10 times or more the
bandwidth and and processing power well then of course you're going to get the next jump and so
first thing computer second thing network the computers so they can send files third thing let
them send fully formatted 2d documents to each other so we've got 25 years now of a 2d web but guess
what else we have for 25 years 3d computer gaming huge multi-hundred billion dollar business computer
games however you have to play you have to buy a playstation or an xbox or something like that
because they needed special chips to do that and you needed to even play it on that box because the
network couldn't even handle it for a long time and so you got 25 years of 3d computer gaming 25 years of
2d web the network's getting faster chips you're getting faster oh great i hadn't thought of that
before that's really true about the video gaming it's almost like science fiction is to technology
what video gaming is to possibilities with um spatial uh connection in terms of ar and and so on and 3d
and but even more than 3d in a way it's like a it's almost like forecasting well what it does is
it finally opens up each one of these levels opens up new possibilities so you're just sending email
to each other you can kind of get one level of conversation going if you're actually going to
send scientific documents to each other in real time between scientists all over the world and then
all the other stuff around business and government and everything else with the worldwide web then the
whole civilization moves to kind of another level and the economy moves to another level with it so now with
the spatial web uh we uh access something very very interesting uh it's all the research on game
theory so a big a big understanding of human behavior is game theory how do we make choices why do we
make choices and uh how do we make them more effectively um and so um so you can't really apply game
theory very well in a worldwide web it's more of an information environment it's a big library but if you uh if you've got a
uh spatial web now you can actually make a digital copy of the entire world every building uh the entire
surface of the planet becomes kind of a game space so games aren't only limited to entertainment games
they're really understanding human behavior how do we run a city it's game theory how do we how do we manage
our uh climate is game theory how do we charge for uh how do we charge for carbon footprint you know
uh it's all game theory work and so it's all the mathematics of game theory leading to optimal results
well guess what core algorithms of that are active inference so game theory and active inference are
totally woven together so really all the spatial web is a new play space for humanity to apply its latest
scientific understandings of how do we manage things more effectively how do we communicate more
effectively how do we project forward possible futures and and analyze which path to go in some
ways you could argue that the spatial web ends up being kind of like a gps in a way for humanity's
civilization because it's kind of forecasting forward here are some alternative futures and we kind of
get to vote on them with our choicing and kind of feeding back to us if you do this you'll get this
result you do this you'll get this result it's kind of like a big spreadsheet really for the future
and kind of like what businesses use for a spreadsheet to look at alternative ways of pricing
their products and things only now we've got game theory and we've got active influence we got a
a planetary digital twin oh my god it's going to really help us manage our planet but i have the
feeling that the spatial web as you and your team and versus and others foresee it or see it isn't
just a digital twin or a mirror or something i mean i guess here's a way to maybe get into this
what's the role of uh the real world in all of this because it could just be kind of an internet
of things where we have still this 2d connection of things connecting to one another but are you
talking more about it's going to be a sort of smart markov blanketing of the world itself to where
i can really kind of interact with the trees outside my window that i see right now or the buildings
or even a building in california where you are i mean is it are we making the world are we are we
putting a new layer on the world are we interacting with the world differently or is it all still kind
of normal virtual space as we imagine it thus far like the typical person well i mean i think you could
argue that what science does is it reveals things that we can't see so we just look out there and we see
a tree but science kind of shows us oh the tree has got roots way down in the ground and water's
flowing up through the tree and it's you know putting out oxygen and taking in carbon i mean you
know it's many many systems there's a world out there and we're just seeing it no no no no no there's
a lot way more going on than we see so what uh what science does is it helps us see what's what's really
going on and so you have something like the spatial web now suddenly everybody on the planet just like
everybody has access to every book now uh on the world wide web everybody will have access to the
revelations of science uh and our understanding of the world around us more effectively oh that's
that's really interesting then so i could then almost see the world from a different perspective i
could start i could understand i could look at the tree as not a tree in the sense of i've always
thought of it but maybe as the mycelium uh network or as an oxygen producer or as a carbon
sequestration thing so an eight-year-old girl in kenya you know today may not have access to a really
great school but an eight-year-old girl in kenya in 2030 is going to have access to an ai that can
show her the latest cutting-edge breakthroughs in uh in science and uh we'll see up all over the world
how would she use that ai would it be like a part of her everyday would she be sitting in front of
a computer or would it be something different no no computers disappear that's what spatial
that's what spatial uh computing means you're no longer in front of the computer it's in the the the
world is already embedded with information we just can't see it so that tree in front of my window here
is producing oxygen but i can't see it but if i had ar glasses on i could actually say oh show me how much
oxygen that tree is producing it could actually just show me the oxygen coming off the tree well
imagine uh you know young children growing up with that level of knowledge well their understanding of
ecology and the environment and everything will be like state of the art yeah i think this is an
important point though i think for people who haven't thought about it because this is uh really
a spectacular thing to go back to thinking of the plow and all of this where we had this extension
in a kind of physical object and then we went we sort of condensed everything into a 2d space
um and now we're used to interacting through the object like the computer to access all of this
but now we're kind of going to move through that even back to the body as an extension itself of all
of that so it's we haven't lost anything along the way but now we're gonna with spatial web sort of
get back to the body itself being uh the interface with the world but at a different level so that you
almost have um a kind of nested reality within your own direct interaction now is that safe to say or
is that i think so i mean if you take a look at a scientist uh they're home with their family having
dinner and they're just living in the physical world but when they go into work at the large
hadron collider at cern they're looking at the world of quantum physics and they can move between
those worlds but the course is they don't lose the awareness of the quantum world when they're with
their family but they don't have to only be in the quantum world all the time so we're extending our
understanding uh the fact that uh if we go back a thousand years or two thousand years people did
not realize that the earth went around the sun uh they still got up every morning and worked fine and
knowing that the earth goes around the sun doesn't change that you still have to get up and brush your
teeth and eat food and whatever you're gonna do but our understanding our self-understanding of who we are and
what we are in the world and everything shifts and it's where the philosophy that's why you as a
philosopher come in i mean because what's what these things ultimately do is uh each one of these big
juncture points that we've talked about from hunter gatherer to ag to industrial and now to this new kind
of like uh digital uh economy network digital economy with intelligence everywhere uh what the real big
thing is it's reconceptualizing what it is to be a human being so if you're if you're a hunter gatherer
you're really close to animal you know you're you're you're you're our lifespans were pretty much under
30 in those days i mean if you broke your leg and there was no real medicine yeah totally different
totally different and the great the great religions all came along with agriculture uh christianity judaism
buddhism all these things really came with agriculture and um and so then we had a sense
of like oh there's a heaven and there's humans on the planet and all this kind of thing and then with
and then with the industrial age the age of science came up so scientism really took over from it's the
new modern religion uh of of most uh people in the west um and we still have our traditional religions
uh but really we're very scientific in our thinking right now uh but then now we're about to
move into uh uh you know an augmented reality environment um virtual and augmented reality
with intelligence everywhere so it will itself have its own earthquake impact on our understandings of
who we are how we are together it may lead to kind of a sense of global community oh my gosh we're
starting to realize that the dna is the same pretty much in everybody it doesn't matter whether you're
from india africa and whatever i mean you can hardly find any differences between humans at the dna
level and we're all really one one tribe instead of uh we're not and maybe with uh ai and robotics
and these kinds of things we may be entering an age of abundance um sustainable abundance even where
we do it in a way that doesn't damage the biosphere and in that case uh maslow's uh maslow's uh
wonderful hierarchical model uh where you got people in scarcity on the bottom and you've got
the upper half is kind of a growth area where people are beyond the the fear of you know food
scarcity or or money scarcity and so they get interested in art and ideas and and other
philosophy and ultimately self-actualization and and enlightenment you know so it may be that uh we
really get the age of abundance here in the uh in the uh 21st century that uh by 2100 we kind of have
we've wiped out the bottom the bottom part of the pyramid we don't really have people uh uh in a place
of scarcity at that point it's definitely possible and i guess what you're saying is that technology
isn't value neutral and that but i think i also hear you saying that um one change at least as a
philosopher as you're describing this change is also a change of of course connection but also awareness
and so a lot of it has to do with uh how our awareness of ourselves the world why we're using
the technology so it's like if the technology can increase our awareness of it and ourselves and
our connection to one another in a positive way then actually as you said the sky is kind of the limit
in terms of self-actualization in a positive sense of course it could go the other way too but we
don't need to go there today but i do there's two things i want to get to really quick before we go
and one is just this um i keep kind of harping on it a little bit but i don't really know how to make
the connection because in terms of awareness and technology right now we have this attention
economy where the phone or the computer sort of is or the apps on it or the companies are kind of geared
to take your attention and you kind of lose your awareness and you become almost addicted and kind of
you know you're you're on the roller coaster and you like it but you don't like it but your
awareness is not there so i'm trying to so what i heard you say is now we're going to kind of have
this augmented reality that we experience together the technology so that we aren't solitary in our
phones and then connected but we're we're having a connected experience together of technology but i don't
understand how it happens is it through the phone is it through the bodies implement uh augmented
augmenting the body i don't understand how it happens yeah i think i think what we're doing
if you look too close to the moment uh then you miss the bigger picture you know the bigger picture
is is that uh we've been digitizing our economy and uh so instead of me having to make a million books
and spend them around the world i can just write one document and millions of people can read it all over
the world well wow what an abundance model that anybody now anybody anywhere in the world can
contribute and they can contribute all kinds of things so we're moving to an abundance economy now
you're not going to believe it and most people aren't going to believe it because we've never seen
it before we've had scarcity of food for 200 000 years nobody thought agriculture was coming when
agriculture came and we got rid of food scarcity mostly and then we moved into fighting over land
then we realized oh land's not the point it's what's under the ground the oil the iron ore that then
we start fighting over resources but but as we move into nanotechnology and other kinds of things
uh and abundance of energy from the sun and maybe fusion and things like this we might just all that
stuff just starts to look ridiculous and childish we're not running around chasing animals with spears
anymore i mean you know we're not having huge version and greek armies and having big fights over
empires anymore the industrial age will look really stupid to us in 2100 so just allow yourself to imagine
an abundance economy and because look what's happened over time we've become more abundance
you know we are only now we we haven't learned how to do it sustainably but now we have the science and
now we have the technologies to allow us to create sustainable abundance oh then you're getting into
kind of a a really beautiful next jump and look at humanity it it evolves over time i mean i you know
i stand on my parents shoulders i uh we stand on our former uh on the earlier culture uh science keeps
evolving uh civilization keeps evolving uh you know if you bring anybody here from a thousand years ago they're
going how did you guys get so smart i i see the abundance and i i know i realize that it's a very
subtle and small shift like after all this work and technology and so on a bit like when haptics
came to the phone it was something you couldn't imagine at all and then suddenly it's everywhere and
everyone's doing it i i think i know we're on the edge of that and i know all this is part of it i'm
it's just very hard to understand what's like it's not the plow it's not the printing press is it is it
still the computer and the web it's just that's kind of the connection i'm well the cool thing
about this something like uh with the web uh the protocols of the web is they're invisible they just
run on the network and make it work more effectively for everybody so the spatial web is really built on
the two protocols just like the worldwide web worldwide web is http and html spatial web is that's
hypertext transfer protocol and hypertext markup language so we just build on top of that the next layer
it's the hyperspace transaction protocol hstp and the hyperspace modeling language and so that tool
event is available for anybody anywhere in the world to use you know it's like when apple brought
out the uh iphone um they said look you guys can make apps uh we don't we're not we're not gonna we're
not only going to make the apps you guys can make them and some young kids thought up uber or airbnb
or all these other things so what these what these new protocols do is they release the creativity of
humanity in a new way okay now i'm starting to do is kind of almost get out here's the protocols and
get out of the way i see so you've created the toolkit for people to do this yeah that's it with
this new coding language which is very exciting creativity from humanity i see so you've created the
nestedness like the next kind of nesting of all of this but what's going to happen with it is up to
everyone in a way right but but what we do see is that uh even though there's difficulties in the
transition we do evolve to a new level uh every time that's we there's a there's a long now 200 to
thousand year history of it we just continually grow grow grow philosophically you know in our medicine
and everything right i mean right we just got probably lifespans and from 2100 on will be 300 years i
mean there this is a different game we're about to step into a whole new civilization and the
transition is going to be complicated from from say i would say probably the developed uh world of uh
europe u.s and the other developed countries will probably obviously move more quickly because they
already have the networks really highly done so by 2050 uh uh the developed world's probably moved pretty
quickly but this is everybody all over the world's gonna it's already connected through this so i would say you
know there's a lag in maybe 10 20 30 years but then finally the whole planet kind of gets there
and so instead of just having us europe and other uh developed countries uh kind of living in currently
in the model um we have a planetary wide abundance economy uh from 2050 to 2100 that's the that's what's
in front of us yeah it is exciting we don't have time to get into the coding and the all the wonderful
things maybe another time but i do want to at least touch on the difference between some like we were
talking about the 2d and the sort of that that leads to like large language models thinking of
neural networks and so on and you mentioned active inference ai which is connected more to the spatial
web and to versus and um so i hear you talking about two things that are kind of important if we're
going to have this if we're going to move in this orientation of abundance and um awareness and
actualization it sounds like we need some transparency and we need like a connection to
uh we need nature even if it is there is no distinction um in this way and i feel like active
inference ai is llms don't definitely don't give us that because it's two-dimensional but there's
something with active inference ai in which you can have this active learning and in the moment and it is
like a living system um and you can have more transparency and it is more natural right or how
do you what do you think about that those words yeah no you put your finger on it uh if you look
at uh an llm or a neural net um they make chat gpt then they make chat gpt2 then they make chat gpt3
then they make chat gpt4 well it's just like an iphone it's a machine it's a digital machine but
it's a machine and so you build it you use it and if you want something better you have to wait for them
to deliver the next one yes your laptop doesn't get better by you using it but we can't update it
in real time like we learn every moment we're learning every even from this conversation we're
evolving and yeah yeah we learn that's that's the living yeah active inference is a self-evolutionary ai
there is no gpt1.2345 you just release the child and it grows up active inference is a self-evolving ai
the first one now what's the other the other great thing about it is if you look at open ai and
google and all the other big ai's that are out there right now they're a giant machine they're
having to use thousands of chips and megawatts of power and you get to ask this giant machine questions
and it gives you good or bad answers depending on the luck of the draw that day but what we do is we
have conversations with each other and we check and cross check our and understandings with each
other all the time active inference is modular so our tools don't create a giant ai they're ai tools
that allow you if you're a nutrition specialist living in portugal you can make an ai that helps people
with diabetes manage their diets properly and do various kinds of things if you're a person specializing
in french history and in paris you can do that if you're a farmer in kenya you can build a whole
thing around farming in in the kenyan environment because there are all these different bio regions
and so what we've created with uh active inference is a is a kind of like a web of ais and they're all
chattering with each other well that's what you do and they create culture but it's also dynamic so
it's it's it's also growing and changing as it's doing all that we call that we call that culture
collective intelligence and it's evolving you look at the whole world understanding of reality 20 years
ago it's different than it is today so so we don't have to build this giant thing and maintain it with
nuclear reactors and everything before sam altman's running around trying to build nuclear reactors to
run his data centers no no no no many many many small is all learning and evolving and talking to each
other creates a collective general knowledge of humanity together that's the right approach and
it doesn't use all this power because they're they're small things they can run on laptops they can run on
smartphones they can run on small computers so it's a very beautiful model and it's an evolutionary model
and what active inference and the free energy principle do is they tease out how plants are doing it how
animals are doing it all living systems run on the free energy principle yeah so now we have a an ai a
digital technology that's grounded in biology well that's what we wanted that's the protection right
there so it finds evolutionary pathways then yes this this is now starting to make things clear like
what you were saying about the tree where it's not just what i think of as a tree so in a way this
language that you've described and with the active inference it's built as a living system not as this
digitalized 2d thing that we were talking about with the computer so it can be in the same way that
the tree is many things depending on what perspective many things which is hard for us to get a grip on
because right now the way ai is it has to be the same thing for everyone all the time because it's
static but this is something that uh what i like a lot of this idea that i have of way making or
what you've said many times is each person has a very different trajectory and perspective and this
is a way of us somehow being able to have that as part of the ai so that of course in the same way
that i am going to experience the tree differently from an insect or you or or whatever the ai itself is
also um changing and living in that way um and now i'm starting to see sort of how that is very different
from traditional worldwide web but also how it's very open at the moment of of we're all going to
have to take it in a certain direction 100 now think about this too would you rather have a group
of uh tech pros in silicon valley building a giant ai for the world or would you rather have the world
building many many small ais that are all working together and talking to each other so yeah i call
it being hyper local you want the people in kenya building their own yeah the people in vietnam
building their own yeah you know we can't have tech pros in selling about the world that's just
wrong you know but i i just think that's a point that is so clear to you but might not be clear to
others is because you've built it from that perspective such that what you're trying to do
and i'm starting to get it now is give these tools so that people can do that right but i don't think when
we're so stuck in these other models that it's not that's kind of a hard connection to make that
what it is is the tool to be able to do that too all together we can start creating the age of the
giant mega corporation passes and the age of many many many many many small uh entrepreneurial
activities grows more effectively and because it is really humanity at that point running hyper local
uh you know building things for their needs and their culture and their biology and their environmental
niche because definitely the climate's different in greenland than it is in brazil and so the
farming is different and everything else and so everything's hyper local uh going forward and
that's the protection at that point now now you've got the brilliance of people in south america africa
asia north america all talking together rather than a group of people in europe and the u.s
kind of building something for the whole world that's not the right direction forward clearly right
that makes a lot of sense i don't know if you have a minute i know we have to go but i was going
to ask you about your own kind of how you got here your how important is nature to you and how did
you what's going on like how did you get to this point um i know no no it's funny i my grandfather
had a farm uh my dad's an engineer my dad's a car engineer at general motors uh so i grew up in
engineering but my grandfather had a farm so grew up also a lot of time on the farm growing food and all
that kind of thing and so uh i think uh i got uh one foot in uh in nature and uh one foot in engineering you
know yeah so you had both yeah yeah exactly very interesting so that's your choice when i was when
i was at berkeley i uh i i met a wonderful old uh uh chinese uh uh philosopher he was a daoist master
from china and he had a small center and uh a lot of uh a lot of asian mystical uh teachings that came
into the bay area you know uh in in that period and so um we had tibetans uh teaching uh tibetan
buddhism we had daoist masters we had zen teachers and all that kind of thing but i had a a wonderful
daoist uh master and uh won kang sai and um the dao de ching is uh pretty much uses nature to talk about
the nature of consciousness that uh it's very similar to water and i recommend the dao de ching is one of the
the primary uh books for everybody it's just a wonderful uh wonderful piece of it a very simple
beautiful little poetic uh things that give you an insight into how your own mind works really yeah
i agree i'm so glad you said that and i mean that's part of way the i use this word way it's
like dao and but you never have like once you find the way it's not the way so that i think that speaks
very much to what you've been describing to with this this living system it also leads to something
that i would call trust in other words uh nature we don't have to run around and organize nature it's
doing fine the trees drop their apples the apples are eaten by birds the seeds are dropped somewhere
else new apple trees grow i mean i think we can trust humanity i think we can trust our own
evolutionary process so if we just give the world better tools we're going to find evolutionary pathways
that we can't even imagine right now again it's going to be some 12 year old girl in kenya or some
uh 15 year old boy in uh in vietnam or something that has a brilliant breakthrough that opens up a
whole thing for all the rest of us you know just like we're in airbnb and things like that have done
the worldwide these will be more uh how do we live how do we function better how do we grow our food
better how do we do everything better so i do think that uh i have a huge trust in um in human evolution
and uh and the way of nature so the dao de ching is really about the watercourse way and the way
things evolve so um let's let's let's trust in humanity give everybody the best tools that we can
and uh let's uh celebrate our uh our collective intelligence let's do that that's inspiring i think
it's very inspiring to hear that perspective and um yeah thank you for it it makes a lot of sense to
me now that that's kind of where you started because i i do feel like it's somewhat i mean we
say eastern western north south but there was there's a different perspective that you've already
started with which might be described as more eastern um yeah and so it's it's very nice and uh
thank you for it and thanks for talking really enjoyed it andre is really really nice and let's
have a great adventure here over this next 50 years and uh bring a whole new uh whole new uh more
balanced and more sustainable civilization yeah let's do that
