That's what I appreciated about Beauvoir and Sartre.
Like, and that's what Beauvoir opened up for me, like a way to, you know, think
that it's okay to challenge expectations or at least question them.
And if you go back to the expectation, that's, that's fine.
At least you've thought it through.
Her concept of authentic love was really something that captured me.
This idea, as you say, of authentic love being the mutual recognition of, of two
freedoms I could choose to stop loving.
I'm like, if, if, if I can choose to stop loving, why can't I choose to start loving?
So that was one of the questions that was consuming me.
I was reminded of Frederick Nietzsche, who was like, one of the important things is
to say yes to life, to, to leap in and to affirm life, to affirm that we're here, that
to affirm our choices in a strong way.
And that kind of clicked for me in marriage.
And I'm like, I want to say yes to, to you as my partner in life.
I want to, you know, try this path, see where it goes and yeah, let's, let's leap in.
Let's, let's do it.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome back to love and philosophy today.
I'm speaking with sky Cleary.
She's a philosopher at Columbia university.
And I want to say thanks to Scott Barry Kaufman of the psychology podcast, which you should
definitely listen to if you haven't already, because he put sky and I in touch and I'm so
glad he did.
It's a wonderful conversation.
And I learned so much from her books.
The ones I read and that we discuss here or that frame this conversation are existentialism
and romantic love.
And then the second is how to be authentic, which is about Simone de Beauvoir and the quest
for fulfillment.
This is a, a bold, beautiful expression of a lot of philosophical ideas in everyday real
life language.
Sky is not afraid to talk about her own personal life in certain sense.
As I discuss here, I had certain expectations of what maybe her life was like.
And the more I started reading the books, the more I realized I had really wrong expectations.
And we talk about that, about how she did a lot of things that maybe people didn't expect
from her, like becoming a Lieutenant in the army, for example, learning Taekwondo, not only
learning it, but excelling at it, all these kinds of things that defy expectations, so
to speak, but then make you realize that why did you have those expectations in the first
place?
Where did those come from?
Which I find a fascinating turn of thought and one we certainly need more of.
So check out her books if you haven't already.
And I hope you enjoy this conversation and that some of the places we go here feel familiar
to you or open up something for you and resonate in a way that will add something to your day.
Thank you for being here.
Hello, Skye.
Good morning to New York.
Thank you so much for being here today.
Hi, Andrea.
Thanks so much for having me.
I've been walking around, listening to you on audiobooks and reading your stuff lately.
And there's so much I would love to get into, but we've got about an hour.
So I do want to start with your personal story.
I wonder, when you were growing up, did you feel a lot of expectation coming from the people
around you, but also, you know, maybe putting it on yourself, that word expectation?
I just want to start with that word and what comes to mind early in your life.
Yeah, for sure.
I definitely did grow up with a lot of expectations on me.
And I mean, I think we all do.
And, you know, Simone de Beauvoir, I'll jump right in, calls this sedimentation.
So, you know, as we grow up, there are things that we collect and, you know, which include
one of the big ones is expectations that, you know, shape.
They don't necessarily determine completely who we are, but they definitely shape who we
become in sometimes very strong ways.
So, yeah, I did grow up with expectations and with respect to, say, love, I just assumed
that I would, you know, fall in love, get married, have babies, live happily ever after.
That was sort of my internalized expectation.
Why was that your expectation?
Was it coming from just culture?
You grew up in Australia, right?
Yeah, and I think Australian culture is fairly similar to American culture in many ways.
And, yeah, we have these influences of, yeah, pop culture, movies, romantic comedies.
And, you know, I guess I watched a lot of them, but also from family expectations.
It was just, it's what my parents did.
It's what everyone was doing.
It's what we were all expected to do.
And that was just sort of the life trajectory.
Oh, that was the formula for a happy life that was laid out for me.
Yeah, I understand that.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is how aware you were of it and when you became aware of
it, because we all do grow up with expectations and they're different, but sometimes our parents
or our caretakers say, hey, this is what we want from you, or they give you little nudges.
In the case of my family, quite young, they were already sort of giving me these little
code words of marriage or when you have kids and all of this.
So you just kind of assume that's the path you have to take.
But some of us, and quite often a lot of the philosophers that you talk about and write
about and you yourself in different ways, we push against those or we start to question
them and we start to develop a different kind of agency about them.
So what I'm trying to understand is when you started to think about that.
Yeah, I guess for a long time, I was like, just sort of accepted them and didn't really
question them, but it wasn't until like I was in my twenties, I think that I really looked
around and I sort of thought, okay, well, look at all these people getting divorced.
Look at all these people in unhappy marriages.
And so I started having a lot of questions about whether that fall in love, get married,
have babies, live happily ever after was the formula for a good life and a fulfilling life
and whether that was the point.
Because, you know, I saw that, you know, so many relationships, they weren't happy.
There wasn't the one because, you know, there were lots of other people who they would date
after, who I would date afterwards.
I'm like, how do I know this boyfriend is the one?
Like, what's the criteria?
How do we judge that?
And so, yeah, it was really, I guess, certainly once I started dating, there was some questioning,
but it wasn't until kind of, you know, I got to my mid twenties when there was pressure
from people around me, like, oh, well, you better get married.
What do you, what do you think about grandkids?
You better not leave it too long.
Like, I know those words.
People saying, oh, 28 is the best age to get married.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In your twenties, definitely before you're 30, you know, it's like, okay, okay.
Nobody means harm really with it either.
And a lot of it's their own expectations that were given to them.
And then you just kind of pass this stuff along.
But some of us end up questioning it and shifting it a bit.
And that's an interesting point.
And of course, we're going to talk about authenticity and Simone de Beauvoir, and you write about
existentialism and this, that's all tied up with these wonderful questionings of that kind
of stuff, but as you were talking, I was thinking about how my own parents didn't have this kind
of relationship and you see the pain and the heartache and the breakup.
I don't know if you're, maybe your parents are still together, but I saw that.
And a lot of us do see that.
And then you can't help, but question it in a way when you're looking around and seeing
all this on a personal level, was it, did you start to think about it in terms of like,
was it hurting you?
Was it uncomfortable or was it more like you had a kind of a step back?
I know at some point we'll get into your own relationships, romantic relationships, but
I wonder if you remember that thought process at all, like how it felt, if it felt intimate
or if it felt away from you, like you were already a philosopher in a way.
I'm not sure if I was a philosopher, but I was questioning.
I think what it really came to a crux when I had one boyfriend who was very controlling
and had very strong ideas about how our relationship should be and, and what I should be doing.
And, you know, for example, sort of not doing a PhD and a step back in my career to make space
for marriage and babies and things like this.
And it was really sort of, that was kind of a really difficult relationship for me.
And I found that these sort of the weight of these expectations on me at that time were
extremely demanding, but I felt this internal resistance towards it.
I'm like, I know this is wrong and I know this is not right for me, but, you know, how do
I, how do I explain it?
How do I put it into a language that is, is meaningful?
How do I put it into a language that's meaningful in the context of, of this society?
Mm-hmm.
And that was sort of a real tension that I, I really struggled with for quite a while.
Um, and then sort of at that time was when I started discovering the existential philosophies.
Well, this is to get to my expectations of you, right?
So of course I didn't even know I had expectations, but just having seen things associated with
you, Columbia university and this and that, and, and I had this idea of this path of being
a philosopher and I'd kind of put it on you.
And then I started actually reading how to be authentic.
And you start talking about, you were doing stock trading and you were doing a business
degree and all of this.
So I was like, Whoa, what?
Okay.
This is unusual because that's not the typical philosophical route.
Not that there is one again, but I would love to hear about like, how did this all happen?
And I think this also coincides with your meeting, finding the existentialist, as you said, and
especially Beauvoir.
Yeah.
And I'll preface this by saying, you know, one of the things I discovered early on, like
at university, when I did join the sort of the Australian army reserves is that I kind
of enjoyed, um, disrupting expectations of me because I'm, you know, fairly, uh, you know,
on the petite side and, you know, nobody, and, you know, I had trouble like with the machinery
and stuff.
And, you know, I didn't look like the sort of person you would, um, that would be in the
army reserves.
And I also, I, I got a black belt in Taekwondo.
I didn't look like that sort of person either.
Um, and so I kind of, um, I don't know, maybe got some, some kind of pleasure out of, you
know, not being what people expected.
I'm really glad you brought that up because I wondered if you were kind of rebellious early
on, or if you just liked discovering the other side of things, or, you know, I talk a
lot about beyond dichotomy and I started to notice this in your, in your, in your book.
There's something about doing what might not be expected or exploring the other side.
Or I don't know if that makes any sense at all, but yeah.
Yeah, I wouldn't say I was rebellious in any classic sense.
In fact, in some ways I was kind of conforming, but I think in many ways, like, you know, I
like what you said about exploring the other side.
And I, I think I did enjoy that exploring, you know, a little, um, in, in these kinds
of ways, like who I could be or trying, trying on different personalities.
I was going to say that, but that's a bit of a cliche, just trying different things with
my life to see, see where I could take them.
So I think that's, I think that what you said, there is a really nice way of something that
up, that resonated.
It also resonates, I think with Beauvoir and transcendence and the way I feel like you,
you show it too, and the way you write about her and in your own work, but she's opening
up the space between those either ors through, I think what you call like projects too sometimes,
so that you don't self-sabotage yourself.
And there's this, also the way that you talk about transcendence as being almost like a
perspectival shift or something.
There's some kind of practice in there that feels really important to me and I think is
important in our lives.
When I look at your life, it looks like those are, I mean, everyone's life would look that
way, but there, there are really important moments there when you can look at things from
a different perspective.
Right.
And that's connected with agency.
Yeah.
And that's, I, I really, um, appreciate the, the transcendence, you know, overcoming the
or stretching yourself beyond the facts of your existence, beyond your, you know, the
path that you meant to go down.
And, you know, even though I was, I think, stretching myself in, in these ways of, you
know, Army Reserve and, and, um, Taekwondo and things like that, you know, I was doing Taekwondo
because my brother did it first and I was doing the Army Reserve because I, I think my uncle
did it or something.
So I was still in some ways treading that path of not what was expected, but, you know, what
was familiar and open to me and, you know, I appreciate that, appreciate that about my
parents, that they sort of pointed out these possible paths.
Um, and, and as you say, you know, that, that was a very kind of, I guess, a Beauvoirian
thing in many ways.
And she, uh, being a woman writing philosophy in the 19 sort of thirties, forties, fifties
was always challenging that kind of, uh, narrative of what a woman is expected to do, which is
more, you know, be, tends to be more, you know, keep quiet, stay of themselves, not, not
disrupt too many things.
But of course, at that time, I didn't really know who Simone de Beauvoir was.
I didn't discover him.
We have to get to that.
There's two things we kind of opened up that we haven't unpacked yet.
You, you talked about joining the, I would say the Army, you became a Lieutenant, which is
another like surprise when I'm reading your book.
Um, yeah, so I hadn't said that yet.
You, you mentioned it, but that, that was another one of those, of those moments of.
Yeah.
Awakening, but I guess like, let's all of that, but let's go back to when you were
going to do a business, an MBA, I think you'd been working in, I think finance and stocks
or something, and then to do your MBA.
And then this is kind of where you discovered, I guess, existentialism in the way that it took
hold of you or.
Yeah, it was in a very, so yeah, before that I worked on a trading desk.
I was one of the very few females there.
And, but yeah, I, so, and that was in New York, work visa ran out, moved back home.
Um, and yeah, still did, uh, finance from back home.
And then, but just, I, I don't know, I got sick of being like, um, I felt a bit like a
vampire because I was trading, you know, international markets and up all night.
And I'm like, I can't imagine, well, you need to do something different.
I'm like, how about an MBA?
Yeah.
So yeah.
And what I didn't expect out of that was, um, my MBA at Macquarie university in Sydney.
Um, there were, uh, philosophers on faculty there.
Um, and so I was, you know, in my first semester, kind of the, one of the professors
started talking about, I guess she, her PhD was on freedom and responsibility in the boardroom,
like the existential board and something like that.
And so she was talking about some of these ideas of, of Sartre and Beauvoir.
Um, and I was like, wait, who are these people?
Like, who are?
And it was just one lecture.
And at the end of the lecture, I went up to her and said, okay, I, what, what is it?
Tell me more about this Simone de Beauvoir person.
And funnily enough, I'd studied, um, some philosophy in my undergraduate degree, but it
was very sort of analytical and all about logic and all that sort of thing, which was fine,
but it didn't really grab me enough to continue it.
But I'm just like, oh, if they told me about this in my undergraduate degree, maybe I would
have had a different path, but it was, I don't know, there was something about this, this
language of, as you said, um, facticity and transcendence and freedom and responsibility
and authenticity.
And I'm like, this is super interesting.
I want to know more.
And at the end of that lecture, um, you know, after I'd asked the professor, she's like,
oh yeah, I'll bring you some recommendations.
And sure enough, beginning of the next class, she hands me a list and.
Oh, cool.
Beauvoir is the Mandarin.
Wonderful teacher.
I love teachers when they.
Yeah, yeah, that's the Anne-Marie Moody.
Yeah.
All right.
Good.
Good shout out.
That's great.
Yeah.
And so I started reading the mandarins and I was kind of hooked from that on.
Oh, that was the first one.
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was.
There's, yeah, there's so much in there.
And so I think it's so rich with all these, the existential themes, of course, like authenticity,
freedom, and so on.
But also I imagine this is a time when you were also dealing with the relationship, maybe the one
that was difficult.
Yeah, definitely.
Okay.
I mean, it wasn't just that one that was difficult.
There were others, other relationships at the time where I was sort of questioning what,
what I wanted out of relationship, but oh, how, how I thought a relationship should be.
So I can imagine, and I, I'm, I know this from reading and listening to your audio books and
reading your books and that, that also kind of touched something that you can unwind this
in the right way.
But I kind of imagine it was like, you were looking for a way to rethink those stories
of love, probably maybe not consciously, but, and I, I see, you know, Simone de Beauvoir and
Sartre and their relationship as like, whoa, when you, if you haven't heard of it before,
and then you hear of it, it's like, whoa, okay, this is a different way.
Another path.
Was it like that for you or?
It definitely was.
So yeah, you, you've definitely assumed correctly.
And, um, about that time, there was a book that came out called Tête à Tête by Hazel
Rowley, which was specifically about Beauvoir and Sartre's relationship and which was that
they just briefly, they, um, had a, I guess they met at the Sorbonne when they were in college
and they agreed to, um, an open relationship or they agreed to like an exclusive relationship
for a couple of years, but then, you know, didn't want to deny each other the freedom of
falling in love with other people.
And it wasn't just about sex because they thought if we're just giving people freedom
to have sex, that's kind of a, a cheap and kind of very superficial understanding of freedom.
But so, um, and that was really shocking to me because I was very much brought up with,
you know, the narrative of monogamy and, um, marriage and, um, yeah, because Beauvoir and
Sartre never married.
And so this was a real surprise to me and eyeopening in many ways.
I mean, I didn't think that I, I wanted an open relationship like that didn't resonate
with me, but I, what I loved, what I appreciated was the fact that they were both challenging
the expectations of how their relationship should be.
And of course, this was in like the 1930s, um, 1940s, which was, it's still fairly radical
now, but back then it was, it's more acceptable now and in society, but there's still, it's still
not the dominant thing.
So I, I just, I, I did love how they, they were pushing back on expectations and creating
a relationship like on their own terms, um, and creating what was, what worked for them,
what was right for them.
And they were also really thoughtful and intentional about how they were going to be
with each other.
And they said, yeah, let's be, be transparent with one another.
And this is, and how they sort of formulated the kind of dynamics of their relationship.
And I'm like, that's really refreshing.
Even, even if I want a monogamous relationship, like I loved that they were creating it, what
was authentically meaningful for them at the time.
And that's one of the things I found really inspirational.
Yeah.
And it also just opens, it's like when I encounter things like that, it's then you
realize, oh, there are other paths that other people are doing.
And just the very realization of that opens up a space of agency because it doesn't mean
you want to follow that exact path, but then all these other spaces open up between the
path you thought was the only path in that one.
And it's like, oh, we could explore all of these kinds of things.
So, and you brought up freedom and responsibility.
I want to look at that a little bit, but so did this help you?
I mean, so this moment, I think of it as like a kind of fulcrum, right, in your life
because you're studying business and then here comes Beauvoir and I don't know, it sort
of, I guess that's what sets you towards philosophy and probably also the PhD, which you're one
of your partners didn't want you to do and all this.
So it's a moment of transition in a lot of ways in terms of your relations with your work,
your lovers, your whatever, I don't know.
But maybe you can help me see if that, is that correct?
Yeah, it is correct.
Yeah, it was, yeah, it's all, and it was really the, you know, these, these concepts,
this language, this understanding, I mean, I, they didn't have all the answers.
I know they didn't have all the answers, but this gave me a kind of a framework and a language
to start thinking about, um, like, um, helping me understand that my questions were like healthy
questions and it was okay to be asking these.
And he, and gosh, that's a good way to put it.
That can be so beneficial just to have that.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Questioning that, that sort of romantic arc of, of what's expected of us.
Um, and yeah, definitely set me on kind of a different trajectory and helped me clarify
my own values of what I wanted.
Like I, I wanted someone who was supportive and accepting of me and my ambitions in life,
for example, to do a PhD and not someone who was going to view it as an obstacle to them
and their kind of goals for the relationship.
And, um, or at least someone who was happy to talk about it and discuss and think about
what was an, in, in an equal sense, you know, so recognizing that both like both my projects
and, you know, my partner's projects, um, were, were equally valid and, uh, was open to a
conversation about how we, uh, would create a life together that incorporated these things
that we were both independently passionate about.
And, you know, cause I think relationships are compromises in many ways.
Like, you know, you live with someone, you've got to put up with their wet towels on the floor.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm being facetious, but you know, just these superficial things
are compromising, um, but, you know, and then there may be paths that you adjust for
the other people.
Like, for example, I'm Australian.
And so my husband wanted to move to New York, back to New York for, um, his work.
And I'm like, okay, well, how could I still fulfill, you know, what I'm passionate about
in New York?
And it turns out it was even more kind of, there were more doors and possibilities for me
here.
So that actually kind of really worked well for us.
And, but, you know, we talked through that.
Um, so yeah.
Okay.
So I jumped, I jumped.
No, that's actually very illustrative of, of that same thing of what we were talking about
is if you're, I like that you just brought in the openness.
It's not just that there's a right kind of relationship or a wrong, but some of it is
opening that space and being open to it.
Like if you hadn't been open to it with your husband, for example, you wouldn't have known
that all those other paths existed that might actually be what you want.
So yeah, there's something that relates, I think a little bit to freedom, but how did
you get out of that relationship and get into philosophy?
It seems hard for me to understand you're studying business.
And then, I mean, you do have quite the endurance.
We've seen that in a lot of ways, um, in what you've done, but how did you do that?
Um, I mean, getting out of relationships is often not easy, but it was, I think it was
clear for both of us that it wasn't working.
And, um, so it was, you know, a matter of setting boundaries saying, you know, I, no,
I don't want this as part of my life.
I don't, this is, this is what I want.
It's not what you want.
And, um, clearly you want something, you want something and what you want is totally valid,
but I can't be supportive.
I can't be who I want to be with you.
Um, or I feel that's being with you would be a closing down of myself in some ways, my
possibilities.
Um, so you brought the philosophy into it.
Is that how you started sort of talking, talking it through?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And did you quit your master's and start philosophy at the same time too?
I mean, no, I finished, I finished my MBA.
So you also have the MBA.
Okay.
Um, yeah, so that was, so yeah, that was, that was my master's.
Um, and so that's how I kind of was introduced to, to philosophy.
And then, but it was like, it wasn't like, Oh, quick switch to philosophy.
No, no, no.
This takes time.
And so I finished my MBA and I, I was a management consultant for a couple of years, but during
that time, I also, um, was kind of doing philosophy as the side hustle.
Wow.
Philosophy as a side hustle.
Awesome.
What does that look like?
How did you do that?
Well, I mean, you know, I was studying it on the, on the, on the, on the, part time and
I was doing a research project.
Um, and then I, after that, I sort of applied for the PhD and I was still working management
consulting doing, I started the PhD part time, but then, you know, after I think a year or
so I, I was awarded a scholarship for the PhD.
So I quit management consulting and shifted to, to, to that full time.
And, um, yeah.
And during that time, yeah, I was, um, sort of building the relationship with the person
who is now my husband.
Okay.
So we'd gotten out of, we, I mean, I'm speaking in the, but you had gotten out of the relationship
that was constrictive and somehow philosophically found a way out of that one.
And you'd met the man that's now your husband with you in New York.
Husband, right?
Yeah.
So he's Australian too.
I met him in Australia.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
So what did, did you feel a sense of freedom and agency different in that now that you
were doing your PhD, because it sounded like you had at least you could do it with some
money and funding and you're reading, I guess, Beauvoir and the existentialist because your
PhD project became existentialism and romance.
I mean, it turned into a book called existentialism and romantic love.
So I'm assuming you were really diving into all this.
It sounds to me like a really beautiful, exciting time.
Was it?
Yeah, it was, yeah, beautiful, exciting, frustrating as well.
Frustrating, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I actually never even considered doing a PhD until one of my MBA professors, Professor
Spillane, said, oh, you should do a PhD.
And I'm like, wait, what?
That never even factored into my life up until that.
You had some good teachers who kind of pointed you in good ways or important ways.
Yeah.
Because I had these questions and I remember one of the first questions I was, I was obsessed
with, which was related to these, these men in my life was, you know, can you choose
to love or to what extent is love a choice?
And I was like, no, it's, it sort of feels like maybe you can't choose to love, but I was
feeling, you know, in that sort of breakup, I felt like I could choose to stop loving.
Um, like if, if, if, if I can choose to stop loving, why can't I choose to start loving?
So that was one of the questions that was consuming me.
And I guess.
Very philosophical.
Yeah.
Um, so yeah, that was sort of, yeah, one of the key underlying questions.
And of course the existentialists were, um, very much all about, uh, choice and, um, you
know, how, how we can control our life.
You know, there are certainly those facts, the facticity of our existence, but where are
the windows for transcendence?
Where are the windows where, where we can choose?
So we can't choose our, our genes.
We can't choose to be thrown into the world.
We can't, we can't choose to be here.
We can't choose, you know, the, the type of, you know, features we're born with.
Um, we can't choose the structure of society or the place we're born into, but where are
those windows that we can seize our freedom and, and kind of, you know, forge our own
paths in authentically meaningful ways.
Um, and so with love, it's like, you know, maybe we can't choose, you know, who we're
attracted to.
Maybe we can't control those, those pheromones or, or whatever, whatever the chemicals
or who knows, but, you know, where is that window of freedom and, and the freedom is
in our behavior.
It's how we respond to those feelings because we're, um, you know, we're higher order animals
and we seem to be able to override our animal impulses, um, and choose whether to engage with
people or walk away from people.
Um, and so, you know, that behavior is sort of a loving behavior.
We can choose to be loving towards someone, to be kind, to be, um, uh, supportive, accommodating,
to, uh, be affectionate.
So that's the behavior.
That's the part that we can choose and we can stop.
Not, we can choose not to do that with people who we need to have out of our lives.
Yeah, that's a choice.
I mean, I hadn't thought about the word choice.
It's, although it's infused in all of this and of course in all the writing, but that's
directly related to agency, isn't it?
And freedom and power.
So I guess that's what I'm trying to get at and not, not expressing very well, but as
I was reading and listening and to your work, there's this way in which, so agency matters
a lot and, but agency and agency is related to choice, but a lot of this has to do with
what I was trying to bring up and with the expectations and stuff.
So we kind of come in with this path that's been tread for us in a way.
And of course we're going to create a new one, but we have our parents and we have media
and all this telling us kind of which paths are the right paths.
And then there's that moment where you do develop some way of questioning that and reflection.
And that's where the agency starts, at least I think for me.
And it also gets into all these existentialist ideas of what all this means.
And I guess it is really about that choice.
So did you, do you feel like there's something about the reflective process that is crucial
for opening up that space of agency and choice?
And yeah, that seems very connected to freedom too.
I know that's messy, but I'm trying to figure it out.
I don't know if what that raises for you.
Yeah, I think what you just said resonates a lot, you know, taking, you know, time out
to philosophize and to actually have the space to ask these questions and to think about them
because, you know, our lives are all so busy.
We end up on autopilot.
We end up just, you know, going through, you know, getting up, going to work, you know,
eating, going to exercise, sleep.
You know, we just, it's so easy to get into these sort of habitual patterns of existence
and just go on these paths.
But it's, it's, you know, a little bit like, not a little bit like, a lot like, I think
the Camus myth of Sisyphus, where we're constantly pushing a rock up the hill.
We're condemned to push the rock up the hill.
We're condemned to be here in this life and to, to, you know, do all these things for survival.
But, you know, and as Camus says, the, that moment of reflection when Camus, when the rock
rolls back down the hill and Camus, Sisyphus walks back down the hill to get the rock,
it's that moment of reflection, that time out from the busyness and the drudgery of every
day that is the, that's like the gold of his life.
And that's why Camus says we must imagine Sisyphus happy, partly because we have that,
or he has that space, space of, of reflection.
But yeah, we do sort of tend to go with the flow or another term actually Beauvoir uses
in one of her novels is like, we tend to get on, it's almost like we're on railroad tracks.
You know, there are these tracks that are channeling us, jobs, you know, relationships,
kids, that sort of thing.
And, you know, we're sort of set on this path and all these different paths, but, and,
you know, to, to deviate from these paths, to choose something quite different, whether
it's a new career or something that can be really hard to, to shift those tracks, but,
you know, getting off those tracks, getting off autopilot and, you know, making that space
to, first of all, as you say, think about what we, what we really want to question to,
to, and I was going to say introspect, but it's not just questioning ourselves.
It's actually, you know, communicating with others can give us sort of these really deep
insights into our being that we don't always see ourselves.
Like, for example, with me and my husband, with him moving back to New York, wanting
to come back to New York.
I was like, oh, that never even popped up on my realm of possibilities, but okay, let's
think about that.
What would I do then?
And so this whole new sort of world kind of opened up for me in, in, in a good way.
And so I'm like, sure, let's do it.
Let's leap in.
Let's have this adventure and see where that goes.
It's really important that, because that brings up this idea of inner subjectivity
that is also crucial in Beauvoir.
And especially as you, as you present it, that we're not, it's not just, yeah, this
gets at something else I wanted to talk to you a little bit about, because with existentialism
in Nietzsche, for example, you, in existentialism and romantic love, we don't have time to go
into all of it, but there's Nietzsche, there's Kierkegaard, there's, is Beauvoir in the end,
there's five different people, Steiner.
Yeah.
And you talk about different ways of, of, of thinking about love, but I would say just
kind of people often think of existentialism almost as like a solitary pursuit, um, like
the myth of Sisyphus, but we're alone, we're, it's dark, it's, and then you already kind
of juxtapose love with that, which is fascinating.
Um, but also the inner subjectivity becomes really important in this, that it's not, and of course
this speaks to Beauvoir and a lot of the things, but it's not actually solitary.
It's never solitary, you're in conversation and part of the authenticity or the real freedom
is recognizing that that's kind of where the agency is too.
Do you think of existentialism as dark and kind of, um, solitary or, yeah.
It's, I mean, as you say, it's, it's kind of got that reputation.
And I mean, this is one of the things I love about Beauvoir because she isn't, she's very
far from that, um, um, idea of existentialism and, um, she kind of presents, I don't, I don't
want to say optimistic existentialism, but it's, there's definitely a lot more optimism
in her work than say, for example, in, in, um, Sartre's work who's, you know, Sartre
is much more about, you know, especially in being a nothingness is all about, yes, radical
freedom.
Um, and Beauvoir's like, well, yeah, sure.
We, we can, you know, think about, um, being free, but it's not like we really have radical
freedom in, in any, um, meaningful sense because she's like, there's lots of limitations on our
freedom.
Um, for example, living in society and, and she's like, what, you know, being thrown into
a world where other people are there, other people are trying to create meaning.
We're all in webs of relationships.
That's like reciprocal relation.
That's what you talk about a lot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Reciprocal relation.
And so this, and this is kind of the foundation of her ethics, which is another reason why I
love Beauvoir, um, because really, um, worked on, um, this ethics of ambiguity and thinking
about, you know, what do we owe other people and what, you know, it's, I mean, the thing
is that other people are there.
We, we already live in, in relationship with them.
And if we value freedom for ourselves, then we must value it for other people.
Otherwise it's, um, it's, uh, exploitative or, or oppressive or, um, you know, hypocritical
at least.
So, um, yeah.
And she says, I think you quote once that, you know, if we, we can't be free till everyone
is free or, or something like this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
We can't be genuinely free because our freedom depends on, on the freedom of, of other people
or our freedom becomes meaningful when other people are free, when other people have, have
the same, um, possibilities, um, for us, it doesn't seem to embrace those possibilities,
but when, I mean, she talks about it, you know, we have an open sky in which to, you know,
project ourselves.
Um, and that relates to that expectation and that there's these kinds of parameters being
set, right.
And they're not being set by you.
You're not doing that alone.
And so there's another way in which the freedom of others is your freedom in that sense too.
In the same way we were talking about with coming into the world and having these expectations,
and then you kind of wake up to it.
That's all within a particular set of parameters.
That doesn't, isn't, isn't your agency, right?
Yeah.
And there's another, um, metaphor she uses, which I think the Stoics also talk about, which
is, um, or talked about originally, which is like, you know, society, human, humanity
is like, um, uh, a stone arch and all of us are stones in this arch.
And the stronger the arch, like the stronger we are as stones, the more protected we are.
And, you know, the more, you know, these stones kind of, um, propel off, you know, in their
own ways, you know, the weak, the weaker the arch.
And, uh, so I love that.
And, you know, another actually, um, kind of concept of bouhours, which we haven't mentioned
yet, which is, I think relevant, um, to many of the things we're talking about is this idea
of being for ourselves versus being for others.
And being with, that's a very nice way you say it too, being with, not, yeah.
Yeah.
And being with is sort of the kind of what we're working towards as a harmony, but quite
often, um, uh, you know, we think about authenticity as being for us.
It's what we want.
It's just, you know, us as, us as individuals, whereas Beauvoir's like, well, no, because we
live in society, there is a dimension of our being, which is for others.
And if we lean too far into being for others, like doing what everybody else wants us to
do, you know, that's not a fulfilling, um, mode of being.
And she used, um, she talked about, um, how women are so often, um, for men or for their
children and are giving up so much of themselves to serve other people.
And she thought that was, um, really problematic because you, you tend to be pulled so far away
from yourself.
Um, but being completely for yourself isn't healthy either because you become isolated.
It's a very self-centered kind of selfish mode of being.
So we've got to find a balance between these.
If we want to live in society and, you know, most of us do, um, we need to find this kind
of a balance or find a way to, you know, it's always going to be attention because they're
always going to be things people want from, for us and from us.
And, you know, where there will be times when we will need to pull back, um, to, you know,
assert ourselves and be agents of, of our own lives.
But, you know, we, because we're in these webs of relationships, we need to try and figure
out that.
And as you say, this being with others, you know, how to be with others in a way that sort
of manages these two competing kind of, uh, polar opposites.
Mm-hmm.
And I think that also speaks to the power of choice and agency because it's not that, so,
so those roles, right, those expectations are only negative or something if you haven't
chosen them.
If it's what you want and what you choose, that's completely different than just sort
of being railroaded into that or sideline.
I don't know what the, what the words is she uses, but where you're just on those paths
and you feel like there are no other paths, like you, nobody gave you the Beauvoir book
or whatever.
And so you're just, you're following the route because you didn't know there's another
route.
You know, the, the agency hasn't expanded.
You haven't gotten that way, which I was trying to kind of point out of what you might've
done or what a lot of us do, where we do sort of throw ourselves into the opposite
perspective because that does open up that space.
Even if you don't want to take that path totally when you learn about Beauvoir and Sartre, it
opens up all the space.
So I guess what I'm trying to say is the choice matters.
Like it's not that all these categories and paths are wrong, but if you haven't been able
to choose it, then the authenticity or the, the freedom, the responsibility, all those things
are very different.
Right.
Yeah, absolutely.
And, you know, I mean, I want to say ignorance or not being aware of what the options are
can be very limiting if you're not, if you're not being educated, if you don't have access
to the internet or wifi, if you don't have access to libraries, if you're sort of kept away
from understanding possibilities of the world, that's, that's hugely limiting.
Or, I mean, even for me, like, so for example, going back to the Beauvoir and Sartre example,
for me, it was like recognizing, oh, there are all these other options out there for how
we can do relationships, but it's, and then it brought it back to me.
Okay.
Well, what do I want for my relationship?
And fine.
I ended up going a fairly traditional path in the end, but I thought a lot about it.
Yeah.
And you tried the other side for a while too.
I mean, I was thinking about that.
Like you, again, I'm probably projecting a little bit, but you know, you did take that
route for a while more than others were probably giving you pressure to do, to take the space
and not get married and not follow the route and think about it and so on.
So, you know what that's like too.
You know what it's like to be on that side where everyone's looking at you that way.
So that's interesting too.
And then I could imagine, oh, well, why wouldn't I also want to try this other path if it makes
sense with this partner that I'm with now?
So I guess I'm trying to open that up too.
Because we often think, oh, you either get married and have kids and that's one route
or you don't, and you're kind of selling out.
I hate that term, but it's important if you're going to go one way and then you go the other.
But this is not a helpful way to think of it either, is it?
Yeah, that's true.
And, you know, I respect people for getting married.
I respect people who don't decide to get married.
But, you know, at the time it was.
And, you know, we also need to acknowledge the structure of society that we're in, which
the reality is there are lots of incentives for people to get married.
It's not just acceptance.
It's like taxes.
It's like, oh, moving to New York would have been so much harder if we weren't married,
like moving here together.
And but on a sort of, I guess, a more philosophical and less practical level for me, it was let's
let's have a baby.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's beautiful.
I love that saying yes.
But, you know, that's a different phenomenology or lived experience or sensuality of being in
that position where you want to say yes versus because I've been in both versus feeling like
you really should say yes because like you're getting older and everybody says you should
do this and the person is there and it looks good on paper or whatever, you know.
Yeah, absolutely.
And, you know, I think one of the other things that we that was meaningful to us when we were
sort of making this decision is that the recognition that just because we have a marriage
certificate doesn't solve all the problems.
It doesn't put things in cement.
It what and so one of the things we joke about is we say, oh, how's it how's marriage going
for you?
Oh, so far, so good.
Like, it's just, you know, and it's we joke about it, but it's also this contingency of
knowing that the other might not always be there and, you know, making sure that we're
not taking each other for granted and making sure that, you know, we're sort of continuing
to choose to be in this relationship and continuing to choose to say yes to one another.
Yeah.
And that kind of joking or doing that with each other is a little bit of a way of throwing
yourself out of it and looking at it, which I think is important instead of just because
in these relationships, especially with kids, you can just get it so much, you know, and
you just have to have these habits and you have to have these routines.
And but you also still probably it's good for us to have that thrown being
perspectival shift.
However, we can we can do it together.
And this gets to what I love about.
Well, OK, so your book, existentialism, it's still hard for me to say, and romantic love.
You explore a lot of five different kind of ways of thinking about romantic love, and
they're all very interesting.
And if we had time, I'd go into all of them.
But I feel like maybe and this is because you then write a book about Beauvoir, that Beauvoir
was the one, the idea of love that may be stuck with you the most, all of them you get
something out of.
But there's this idea of mutual recognition, right, of other person's freedom.
I thought of the Rilke quote of protecting the other person's solitude.
I mean, I think this resonates with all we're talking about here and maybe what you're showing
us that you have with your husband a bit of.
There's a kind of mutual freedom.
There's this conversation that you were talking about.
There's this discussing, which is all part of it.
Is that kind of a fair definition of what Beauvoir ends up coming to in terms of love and maybe
what you resonated with in small part about it?
Yeah, her concept of authentic love was really something that captured me and was probably
my favorite part of that.
So existentialism and romantic love kind of grew out of my PhD.
And then I realized that Beauvoir was my favorite.
Okay, good.
Well, you did write a book about her, so it's pretty obvious, but she's my favorite too.
Although I love Nietzsche.
He really breaks my heart, but, and Kierkegaard.
They both break my heart so much.
Beauvoir gives me some, I don't know, uplift.
Yeah, I agree.
Sartre has his moments, but his, you know.
Anyway, so yeah, but this idea, as you say, of authentic love being the mutual recognition
of, of two freedoms.
And yeah, this sort of reciprocal recognition is what she talks about.
Yeah.
Which is all about, yes, respecting each other as individuals, supporting each other in your
individual goals.
It doesn't mean going along blindly with whatever the other wants, but it means being open to
it, being supportive and respectful and having your own projects that you do.
And by projects, I mean things that you project yourself towards in the world, having those
sort of individual projects, but also having, I mean, common projects.
Because if you don't like, where's the relationship?
What, what are you going to do together?
But it's creating yourselves in the world together.
And whether it's, I mean, Beauvoir talks about, it might be building a home together or having
kids together.
It can, I mean, it can be anything really you do together, but the underlying values are
that it's, it's a generous type of relationship.
And, you know, I love for her discussion about generosity where she says, you know, the best
type of relationship is where you're giving your all, but it feels like it costs you nothing
because you're, you know, you have this love and the other person's being generous.
And so this is, yeah, I'm talking idealistically about love.
But it's a real experience too.
Yeah.
And it's a real, and I think it's a, you know, a beautiful goal to have.
And it means, you know, coming together in your strengths, not in your weaknesses and
and dependencies and, you know, pursuing your own authentic goals, but also, also together.
And as you, you know, that resonates with that Rilke quote you said, protecting each
other's solitude, you know, it's respecting each other's need to be alone when they need
to be alone or need to do their own thing.
You know, my partner and I have our own hobbies and things we do like sports and, and things
and that's okay.
Yeah, that speaks to another idea you raised about Beauvoir, which is that it lets us like,
I want to say create new paths, but like reach beyond ourselves or, or reach beyond our perspective.
I would even say, you know, the self is always a dynamic and changing, but it reaches, we
can reach beyond our own perspective.
So if you're in a relationship, like it sounds like you are, where you both are still growing
and learning and doing your own stuff, then you're reaching beyond your own perspective
in ways that aren't only confined to that relationship, but that brings something to the relationship.
If you have this kind of relationship where you do have this dialogue, conversing and
discussing things together.
Yeah.
And that can be difficult as well.
If the other person's, you know, off doing their thing and there's a lot of time being
spent on that and I want to do things or especially, I mean, kids especially bring in challenges
because of course it's, um, you know, more often the, the woman in the relationship who's
left as the primary caregiver.
And, um, you know, I talk about this in the book where there was a real problem, um, after
my, my son was born and my husband going up and doing his own thing, sports and working
all the time, which just left a huge burden on me.
And that was a huge challenge that, that we had to work through.
And I'm like, I, you had at least talked about it.
We did.
And, you know, and this is also comes back to earlier in the discussion about expectations.
You know, I had in my mind expectations about what it meant to be a good mother and a good
wife and like, yeah, I can do this.
I let me handle it all.
And I just want to be the cool mom.
And yeah, like, this is what I'm supposed to do naturally.
Right.
Like, and it was so hard because I was so sleep deprived for so long and just so much
out of me.
And so, you know, and, and, and at some point I sort of brought it up to my, my partner.
I'm like, I, we can't keep going like this.
I can't, I can't keep doing this.
I, we need something needs to change.
And so to his right credit, he sat down, he's like, okay, let's, let's figure out what
we do here.
And, um, that's, and we're able to move forward, but I'm still a little bitter about it, to be
honest, like, as you can probably tell.
It's painful, just bodily.
What you, you, I was going to bring up endurance to talk with you about, cause you have put
yourself in a lot of situations where it requires a lot of endurance, but we all have our limits
and boundaries.
And part of this, what we're trying to talk about, about love, I think is being able to
be in a space where you can admit those and get some, I mean, that inner subjectivity,
that reciprocal relation comes in to, we need it.
We are it.
And, and I can imagine it would be really hard in that situation, but I see you as someone
who is very successful, pretty much what you put your mind to, you do.
I mean, you've succeeded in a lot of fields and you've got a lot of endurance, but then
that situation of being a mom, it puts everyone against their absolute boundary and you really
need reciprocal relation, I guess.
I don't even know what I'm really talking about, but does that resonate at all?
Yeah, it definitely does.
And yeah, I mean, having a child is definitely the most challenging project in my life, but
it's, yeah, it's also, you know, it took a lot and it took a lot of time for me to figure
out how to ask for what, well, first of all, to know what I needed and then figure out how
to, how to, you know, open up that conversation in a way that's, you know, sort of, you know,
because it felt like a failure in some ways to say, hey, this isn't working out for me
so well.
But that's another thing we were taught, right?
The mom is like supposed to be able to do everything, handle everything.
And even if you don't believe those expectations and stories anymore, they wear, they, they wear
on you and yeah, that's just, you're, you're okay, perhaps not meeting those expectations
that everyone has for you, but it's the expectations that are problematic.
And no one's really meeting them.
I mean, not all the time.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
And just to reiterate, yeah, that's what I appreciated about Beauvoir and Sartre.
Like, and that's what Beauvoir opened up for me, like a way to, you know, think that it's
okay to challenge expectations or at least question them.
And if you go back to the expectation, that's, that's fine.
At least you've thought it through.
Yeah, exactly.
And just to kind of start to like wind it down or I was wondering about romantic love and
love.
And if, if after all this, you see those, as I was reading the work, sometimes it seemed
like a lot of that stuff we talked about early on in the conversation was more romance or trying
to fit into the expectations.
And then the love was a little bit more of what Beauvoir gets at.
She didn't live it perfectly either.
No one can, but where it's not about all these things, like trying to live up to the
expectation.
It is about the vulnerability or, or something like that.
Do you distinguish at all between these kinds of things?
Is there only one love?
Well, I definitely think there's more than one kind of love.
And I quite like the ancient Greeks who had like so many different words for love, whether
it's Eros, Philia, Storge, and Lutus and Mania.
I kind of think as you're speaking, I was like thinking, oh, you know, well, there's this
sort of very obsessive kind of passionate love that's okay.
One kind.
And then, so I think they're all kind of love, which is this attachment to another person.
Maybe some people talk about feelings or emotions towards another person.
And this is why I'm going to come back to this authentic love again.
You know, the Beauvoir authentic love is the mutual recognition of two freedoms.
And so that's not just romantic love.
Like, yes, it can be applied to romantic love, but it can be applied to a child, you know,
recognizing that a child is, you know, growing and they're not, they're dependent in many
ways, but the role of a parent is then to nurture them into becoming a free agent of their own
lives and supporting them on their trajectory and respecting that for them.
And so that I like it because it can be applied to all different kinds of relationships.
But I guess, yeah, I mean, I do consider romantic love to be a kind of love.
It's that it has its own features.
Like it's, it's passionate, which would differentiate it from say love of, you know, a parent, you
know, it's, it's personal, which kind of differentiates it from more like an agape type love, which is
love of humanity or love of God or that sort of thing.
Um, and, you know, it includes the hope that it will last forever and, you know, cause when
we go into relationships, you know, if it's love, a loving relationship kind of embodies
that, that hope of, not just being together in the moment, which might differentiate it
from say lust and, you know, a one night stand or, or a business transaction, you know?
So, um, and what's a, a hope to be together in the future, I think sort of an existential
way of, way of putting it.
So yeah, I see, I see romance as, as its own kind of love, um, uh, but yes, certainly many
other kinds of love out there too.
Yeah.
I guess I brought it up cause you talk about it a bit in, in your book too, but sometimes
with social media and notions of what romance are can be a kind of big business and it just
can feel confusing.
But, um, I like that answer.
It sounds like there's a kind of nestedness or scaling to all these different ways of
getting into what we think about as mutual, um, recognition of one another, which could
be with your partner, but could it also, also with your child, of course, but have you ever
thought, could it also be with the people around you, the society, the, the wider ecology?
Yeah, I think so.
I mean, I guess with love, we were talking, I, yeah, the, the types of love I was talking
about and that Beauvoir talks about is in terms of, you know, humans.
Um, but yeah, I think it could definitely, and I know people have applied it to, you know,
the wider realm.
If we respect freedom for ourselves, then we should respect it for the world around us.
Um, the, you know, other species, other, you know, forests and things like that, that sort
of respect, and of course we're not going to get respect and recognition necessarily back
from some of those, I have, uh, rescue bunnies at home and they're very skittish and I love
them, but the, the reciprocity is definitely not like out of whack there, but they're, they're
very, very sweet.
So, uh, yeah, I think it can be applied in a more, uh, general way, but it's, it wouldn't
be a, like say with ecology, it's, it's, um, I, it's not my specialty.
And I guess I would have questions about whether that could be like how we would think about
that as, as a relationship, although certainly the ecology gives us, um, oxygen or clean air
and, and certain things like that.
So yeah, we could definitely take it there, but it's, that's not my realm.
Yeah.
I guess it's just this mutual relation and this kind of reaching beyond ourselves.
If we started thinking of, you know, how self is defined a little bit differently in
terms of all these other challenges, I just, it, I don't expect you to have to answer that.
I mean, but it just, it's, it's interesting to think about Beauvoir and this recognition of
freedom and going beyond and reciprocity or reciprocal relation in those scales too.
Uh, it might be helpful, I guess, um, one other thing that I was just thinking of is,
um, you know, it's thinking about our transcendence and quite often we think about, you know, if
I'm doing this thing, then it's, then I have to stop someone else from doing it.
And there's this sort of zero sum game or, you know, think about the piece of the pie.
If I get a piece of the pie, then someone else doesn't get it.
Whereas Beauvoir was much more expansive about, um, seeing the resources and things we have.
And she seemed to believe.
And I like this view that yes, there's resources and we have all this thing, but ideally what
we want to be able to do is transcend ourselves, let other people transcend.
And, you know, we have this open sky, this, this world, and it's just respecting one and other.
And, um, yeah, I guess it just, um, if, if I get a job opportunity and get a job, that's not a
problem unless there's discrimination involved.
Or if someone else gets the job, it's not like they're necessarily oppressing me.
Right. That's that either or thing we were talking about to that, which I think from reading Beauvoir
through your lens and talking about the scaling, that's why I asked about these different kinds
of love. It's trying to open that up, right? If it's relational and it's reciprocal relation,
and it's reaching beyond ourselves and it's opening the space, there's a different approach,
right? And that's closer to, I think what she's talking about with authenticity and freedom.
Yeah, I think so. And just, you know, it reminds me of that example, you know,
my husband pursuing his goals coming to New York that didn't annihilate my possibilities. It actually
opened up a whole new realm of possibilities. And so I think that kind of idea is also behind
how Beauvoir hoped the world would be. Although, you know, we, she also didn't really consider we
live in a world with a lot of limited resources where we need, um, where nurturing the earth is,
is important and respecting, uh, and we have shared oceans and things like that, shared air.
That wasn't something she, she went into. No, but I think the reading that you give of her
kind of helps us open this because even also, we don't have time to go into it, but there was a lot
of difficulty with this relationship that we started with, with Sartre and Beauvoir. They were trying,
they were making a new path. They were trying with this conversational approach that we've been
talking about reciprocal and, and to say that there was also a lot of pain involved, that
it didn't go the right way. That doesn't mean that it wasn't worth opening those paths. And it doesn't
mean we can't make better paths. I think that's what I'm trying to get to. And like that kind of
approach of love in the way that you presented in the work. And frankly, the way I'm looking at your own
uh, life and the way that you've taken new paths, opened new paths to other people, connected paths
with your writing, then for me, there's just something about that process of thinking about
love as that kind of relation, rather than that we have to decide between two choices. I don't know,
that seems in your work or at least that I got out of your work. So I just wanted to express it.
Yeah. I, I think that's beautifully expressed. Thanks Andrea.
And it's kind of what you've done, right? By doing all these amazing things that you've done,
a runner, taekwondo, stock trader, philosopher. So thank you for opening that path. Those paths.
Thank you so much.
Is there anything that we didn't touch on that you want to say or before I, before we go?
No, I think that was a really lovely conversation. Thank you so much.
Thanks for doing it. And thanks for the books. I really enjoyed them. And I look forward to whatever is
next, but thanks for coming on today and for the time and energy.
Oh, thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And it was so lovely to speak with you.
You're so good at this.
Oh, thanks. Well, be well. Good luck there with your beginning every day.
Thanks. You too. All right.
All right. Bye. Bye.
