Good evening, my name is Paul Holden Graeber, I'm the Director of Public Programs here at
the New York Public Library. It's a great pleasure to have you here. My goal here at
the library, as you know, is to make the lions roar, to make a heavy institution levitate,
if possible. Hello everyone, today is another one of those more personal episodes with someone I've
known a long time, a man named Paul Holden Graeber. I first met him when I was a student in New York
City. In some strange way, we ended up in similar publishing circles and became friends, and this
was around the same time that he was becoming something of a famous man in this literary world
of New York City, and the events he was building were at the New York Public Library in the Stephen
Schwarzman Building. These two big lions out front, a couple of blocks from Grand Central on 42nd Street.
If you've been to Bryant Park, it's that giant building framing the park, and when you go inside
and up two floors, up these big staircases, you come to the Rose Reading Room, this big sort of almost
church-like space, these murals of clouds on the ceilings and circular chandeliers, and it might sound
kind of catchy, but it feels very luxurious. It makes you feel like you're part of something special,
sitting there all day studying, which I did a lot. And at the end of those days, quite often,
it would be a really sweet reward to walk out of that gorgeous cavernous reading room, down a few
flights of stairs, and into another very spectacular space that's part of this huge New York Public
Library building called the Celeste Bartos Forum, because that was where Paul, as the director of
public programming, would hold his events. I'd hear him talk with Rebecca Solnit, or Yumpa Lari, Jay-Z,
Mike Tyson, Christopher Hitchens, Pete Townsend, Zadie Smith, Adam Phillips, who Paul really loves and
mentions a lot in this conversation, Marina Abrevich, Margaret Atwood, Bill Clinton, and John
Hope Franklin. It just went on and on. There were so many people at these events, but the events
themselves were very special. It wasn't just another talk. It was a real event. There was something about
being in that room, being in that landscape of conversation that was created. So that's why I
reached out to him to talk, because he does create landscapes of conversation. At least I've
experienced him doing that many times. And as I've started to imagine conversations as landscapes, and
what a power it is to have them, and be changed by them, and be in them, I've started to wonder,
what is a conversation? How does this happen? And should we even think about it too much? So Paul is
definitely a sort of curator or conductor of conversations, and I talked to him a little bit
about how that came to be in his own life, and what it means for him. Paul's also just a really
interesting conversation partner in his own right, probably the only person in the world to ever get
a recommendation letter from Foucault. Paul calls himself a quoto maniac by profession. He likes to say
he's a digressor, and he does often digress and steer away from his own biography, but he does talk of
his parents a lot. He obviously loves them very deeply, and they shaped him in all sorts of ways,
not least by having escaped the Nazis at the last minute, sort of, in 1938, fleeing Vienna, and then
only meeting and finding one another in Haiti. Here we talk a bit about what conversation means,
the power of it, the art of it, what it does to us, Paul's own path, some of the challenges he's had
to face or is facing now, the landscapes, and I just want to thank Paul for all the conversations
he's gifted over these years, and I hope you enjoy this conversation. I hope you also look at some of
Paul's other conversations, which I'll be sure to put in the show notes. Also hope you're doing well
wherever you are and whatever landscapes you're moving through. There's always been a quest for
truth, and nobody knows what it is. I think there was some sort of a ballot taken where the pulse felt
among philosophers, 2,000 worldwide. What is truth? And they had no real answer. Nobody can explain and
declare what truth actually is. We do not know. And I keep thinking that that is a real blessing.
That's the first time I hear such a thing, yes. I do agree. Sometimes things do not need to be fully
explained. We cannot explain. It's a very good question. Most of the time it's better than a very
good answer. We were trying to figure out how we had met, and it was somehow through Berlin.
It was so lovely to hear from you. I must say it sort of made my heart beat a bit stronger. I was
really very, very pleased. I may or may not have told you that I wanted to teach a class once on
digression, and I really only had the first line of the class. The class was, this is a class on
digression. But before I begin, anyway. That's a good one. It's a good one. And it's true. The very
first year I taught at Williams College, 100 years ago, when I was a pretend scholar, I had this idea
already back then that it really would be interesting to teach a class on digression. And I'm sure already
then I knew the wonderful line of Laurence Stern, who said that digression is the sunshine of narrative,
which was something that stayed in my mind forever. And about 15 years ago, Princeton, where I got my
graduate degree 100 years ago, had been asking me again and again if I would come and give a talk
in the humanities departments. They invite people usually to show them, this is kind of fitting for
your conversation, to show that people who have studied literature, not neuroscience, but literature
in the humanities, may have a future. And they believe probably that I had a future. They had invited
the year before David Remnick, who also had a future. What year are we talking about now?
About 15 years, about 15 years ago, maybe, maybe only 10 years ago. Okay. I think you already had a
pretty clear future. I had a future and now we can talk about the future, which is a little, a little
more of an issue. But I kept saying to Princeton, I don't give talks. I don't give talks. I talk,
but I don't give talks. There is a big difference. Yeah. Big difference. And I said, you know what,
and I said, you know what I like doing? I like talking to people as I'm talking.
Conversation is a little different than giving a talk or giving a talk maybe, but a lecture and all this.
A lecture is not my thing at all. Not your word. No. No, also because I wouldn't know how to structure it.
And I kept saying no every year. And then finally, I thought, okay, they really want me and it's very
lovely to be desired. And I said, why don't I interview someone? Or why doesn't somebody
interview me? Which is something that people had kept saying. And Adam Phillips, a psychoanalyst I
much admire, he kept saying. I saw you talk to him in New York quite a few times. Yeah, I'm sure.
Great talks.
We've done it. We've done it a few times. And Adam,
Adam, who has great. Kissing, tickling, and being bored. And being bored. And he has a great line in
the Paris Review. I quote it because I did a Paris Review interview with him. The only Paris Review
interview in the 75 years of the Paris Review that has a psychoanalyst as a subject of an interview.
I think you would enjoy it, by the way. And if you can't find it, let me know. I know it's behind
paywalls, but I can get it to you. And he says that digression is secular revelation. Which is
beautiful. Digression is secular revelation. It's very interesting. It's very, I mean,
it's a version of sunlight of the. Yeah, it is. Sunlight of narrative, isn't it?
And so I said, I have an idea. Why don't we have, because Adam kept saying, next time I'm
interviewing you, which of course I've never let happen because, my goodness, to be interviewed
by a psychoanalyst, I can think of something that might be more pleasurable. But at any rate,
I haven't yet submitted myself. Maybe I will before I die.
Oh, I thought we were leading up to it happened. And I was going to say, how did I miss this?
I said to Princeton, to the head of the complete department, I said, I have an idea.
Why don't we ask my advisor, Victor Brombert, to interview me? Now, Victor, at that point,
was 90. Day before yesterday, he turned 100.
Oh, wow. Happy birthday to him. He's a wonderful, wonderful man.
This was your advisor at Princeton? Yeah, B-R-O-M-B-E-R-T. He wrote the most beautiful
books on French literature, on the idea of the prison in literature. He's just written a book
at the age of 100 called Musings on Mortality, and another book called The Pensive Citadel,
Bell, which just came out. I mean, imagine that. And he does remind me of my father in the sense
that my father at age 97, when people would ask him when he would retire, he said, I'm too old to
retire. But at any rate. Paul, let's start there, actually. Let's start where I am, which is close
to where your father has been, was, is still. And that, guess where I am right now? Leuven.
Yeah, no. No. Belgium. No. Yes, I'm in Leuven. I think I say it wrong, because there's the L-E-U-V-A-N.
I never know how to say it. At the Flemish, the Flemish. Yes, the Flemish Leuven. What are you doing there?
I'm here visiting a friend. She's at the law school. She has a, like a visiting thing that
just happens to be only this time that I could come see her. So it's a little bit interesting
that that's where I am. Yeah, that's where I am right now in a hotel room. And I just realized,
isn't this kind of the area that your parents eventually came back to? And you too, maybe as
a teenager, as a boy? You remember, you remember things well. Yes. So my parents, so, you know,
my parents left Vienna just in time. My father left the day before the last day you could leave
Vienna in June 1938. My parents met in Haiti. So your dad fled to Haiti, right? And your mom?
And my mother separately. Separately, but both from Austria? Both from Vienna. Both met in Haiti.
There were 137 Jewish families in Haiti. They met there. They were married in Haiti. They remained
married until they both died at the age. My mother was 89. My father was 97. They were married for
71 years. It's amazing. I remember you visiting them often in Belgium, I think, around here,
but I didn't have an image of it. Very, very, very much. I went, the year I went to undergraduate
school when I studied philosophy and law. I went to Louvain-la-Neuve. They had just separated.
That's the French one. That's like an hour from here, right? It's an hour from here. You know,
they separated the library in two in a very Belgian way. Volume 1, 3, 5, and 7 was in one university,
2, 4, 6, and 8, and another. They separated the orchestra with the Flemish-speaking violinist
and the French-speaking violinist. Oh, wow. Crazy country.
Amazing you say that, because we were just at the law faculty, and there's those double staircases.
Yeah. And there are kind of two staircases right beside each other. And my friend asked,
why was it built like this? And it was like, oh, because the French students and the
Flemish students didn't want to interact, so they had to have separate staircases or something.
It's amazing you should say that. When I visited Vienna with my father, he showed me two staircases
going to the medical school, and the Jews were asked to take a different staircase. It wasn't built
for that purpose. And then the Nazis already at that point wanted to go up the staircases
that they had designated for the Jews, and there were huge fistfights. Father spoke to me about that.
That's a whole other story. They went from Vienna to Mexico. And then, since you were mentioning this,
for many reasons, my father became rather restless and decided he wanted his children to get a European
education. And so very much wandering Jew kind of way, we went from country to country, including
back to Vienna, where my mother started to speak German with a French accent. We went to Dusseldorf,
and to Zurich, and to Lucerne, and then finally to Belgium, Brussels. Why Brussels? My father would
have told you because Brussels was central. I'm not sure central to what, but it was central.
And so we lived in Belgium, which is not the place where my mother was happy, not the place where I would
have really wanted to grow up. Though, interestingly enough, I think a lot about Brussels now. It comes
back in my mind. And I was invited by a Pan-African literary festival to come to Brussels last year to give
a keynote speech, which I did do, so I'm not consistent. So you do speak. You do give speeches.
I do give speeches on the notion of what it means to return.
That's quite powerful.
Yeah, I remember telling a friend of mine that I would do this, and he said,
don't forget what Bob Dylan said about going back. You can always go back, but you always can come back,
but you can't come back all the way. And so I mentioned all of that and spoke in a pan. I was
nearly the only white person among all those people who, for whom the idea of home, of course,
was much more complicated than for me. They were from the Congo and from Senegal and from all kinds
of different places. At any rate, yes, I did grow up in so far that I grew up. I did grow up in Brussels.
It feels interesting that I came back here to talk to you because I associate Belgium with you,
but only in the past few years, I've had some memories or images of it. And so it feels a little
bit richer, but for some reason, I seem to remember you moved around a lot, even once you were here,
didn't you? Or did, or is it more like I'm thinking of you reading lots of books or?
No, reading books is a way of moving around, but it wasn't that. You're absolutely right. I studied in
Louvain. And then I went after I studied philosophy there, I went to Paris. So I studied in Paris and
in the real heyday of the waning of French intellectual philosophical greatness in some
way, right? So right after all the big philosophers. Well, I studied with Foucault and I studied with
You studied with Foucault. I didn't know that. Foucault wrote to me my letter of recommendation for
Princeton. What? I mean, I knew you knew Levy and all those people. It was two lines long.
What did it say? It said something like,
The premises of Holden Graeber's work on European nihilism seems to me well-founded.
Wow. That's like a blurb you should be using.
Yeah. It's like a blurb. I don't know where the letter is, but I am positive.
That's incredible, Paul. Wow.
In Princeton, the professors were impressed, not by me, but by the letter I got.
Yeah, that he wrote. I mean, that's probably very unusual. So I think I feel like, okay,
maybe this is wrong, but I have this image of you as like a teenage boy,
reading a lot and also moving around a lot. Didn't you walk a lot or maybe we used to talk
about walking a lot or driving or hitchhiking? No, no, no. You're right.
No, you had this kind of restlessness too, right? You said your dad was restless.
Very much. And still now. So my father believed, and I'll use the word he used, my father believed
that it was immoral for a boy to travel any other way than hitchhiking before he reached the age of 21.
So, and my mother didn't agree with my father. Where did this come from? This was just his big goal.
Um, from his own past, from thinking, from thinking, and I, I owe my father my ability to talk.
That's a big thing.
Because I was able to touch anyone.
I just lost your sound right when you said you could talk. There you go.
Yeah. Um, I, a little joke from your dad there.
I know. I think he, um, he believed very much that, that, um, that you need to be able to talk
to anybody and hitchhiking is a wonderful way of inventing your life. You know, you tell all kinds
of stories, some true, some less true. And so I hitchhiked and I actually went to Vienna with my
father. I went hitchhiking. He went by train and I was there earlier than he was because I went on
these autobahns in Germany that was where people used to drive 200 kilometers an hour and picked him
up at the, I know, and picked him up at train station. And he thought I had been on the train
and, um, that I just ran out to, to greet him.
That's beautiful. So is that really how you learned how to talk? Was that like a lesson in
how to converse with anyone?
This is the owl of Minerva taking its flight at dusk. It's me, uh, believing it's me making up a
story about how I learned, you know, I have, I have these.
It does force one. Yeah. It's a good one. It's, it's probably, there's probably some truths to that,
but I did, I did, and you, it's amazing the memory you have. I really amazing because
what I did when I was 14 or 15 years old is I walked from the Lac de Constance to the Lac Le Mans
in Switzerland by myself, having read Reiner Maria Rilke, read the letters to a young poet.
I took it to heart and I imagined that, um, that one had to be alone. And I took a backpack and for
three weeks I walked from one part of Switzerland to the other 300 and some kilometers on my own,
sleeping in huts one night and in tents another night. And so I did lead, I did lead now having
children. I realized to what extent I led a somewhat, a friend, less solitary life. Um, my friends being
books and music and, and really I was completely devoid of any understanding, any understanding.
Knowledge or, or any, any contact with, um, popular culture. I mean, my wife Barbara is always amazed that
I just know nothing. I have a wonderful t-shirt with a cover of, uh, an album by Joy Division that somebody
gave me. And I, I mean, I just didn't even know it was that. There's always been something of, of the
solitary. I actually wanted to ask you about this next when you were talking before, because you
studied philosophy. I studied philosophy. I, I understand what it is to get lost in books and
be solitary and walk. I think that's why I remember your stories because we, they were similar to mine.
And it's a really solitary space, but yet you're also very voracious, gregarious, and so on in your
public life with conversations. And you can, I could never hitchhiked across anywhere at that age when I was in
that philosophy bubble. So how did, how did these two worlds come together?
I think to some extent, perhaps I was less in a bubble than you. Okay. Um, maybe my bubble had little
holes. Um, I, I always also loved the contact with people though. I don't think I had very many deep
friends. And I think friendship perhaps is something that I've developed later in life.
Um, I, I feel like now I have some friends though. I would, I would say that the idea,
the notion of friendship is tremendously important to me. I don't think I've been particularly good at it.
Um, but I do, I do create, I think I do create the illusion of friendship
and proximity through these conversations. Well, I feel like you can go very deep with people.
Um, but yeah, why, why do you think you're not a good friend? Is it that?
I think I don't maintain contact enough. I mean, um, you know, it's, it's really a pleasure to speak
to you now, but it's so odd that if we had something in common, why, why didn't I stay in touch with you?
Yeah. I don't know. Well, I mean, we didn't, we both didn't really, I think you,
No, I know. I mean, I'm not, I'm not actually, I'm not even, I'm not saying why didn't you stay in touch with me?
No, no, no. I'm not, this is not the, but I'm, I'm illustrating it because I'm talking to you, but I would say
this happens often.
Yeah. I, I, I feel it about you. There's something about you that goes very deep, but also,
um, it's not that you turn away, but I don't know. Is there, are you, maybe I think I tried to put it
back into the books, right? Where you can go really deep in the books because you can close the book at
the end or something, or, you know, the image. Yeah. There's some, there's something about not
having to maintain that depth in a consistent way that allows one to go deep. It's hard to maintain
that stuff over time and space. Uh, I remember from your time in New York, I mean, that takes a lot of
energy and it, it gets, you know, people just assume it will happen. It's not an easy thing. It's not an easy
space to create. Right. So I don't know, maybe that's part of it too, that you just energy wise,
it's very hard to, once people know you can go there, they think you should just always be there
in that deep space. Maybe that's so interesting. It reminds me of, of what happens when I'm quiet in
places and people wonder if I'm okay. Um, which is, which is a very, uh, peculiar kind of reaction,
but I understand it. And, and it, it probably does have something to do with the notion that
a conversation for me is performative and, and it isn't, I'm not, I'm not quiet. Um, I bring my body.
I'm very present. I'm, uh, I'm, I'm present. I try to maintain the space also in terms of
what you mentioned earlier, the silences. I try not to fill them at all. I don't mind the discomfort,
but I think like an actor who might be on, on stage, they might be off, off stage. And so I,
I think there's something of that, that happens to me. Um, and you know, without, uh, using you as
my psychoanalyst at this moment, there probably is in me, um, a fear, um, of intimacy.
Yeah. I was going to say that earlier, but I thought it, if it's true, you probably wouldn't
want to hear it. Well, now that I've said it, I heard it. It's better that you said it. Yeah.
So I, I think there's, there's something about that. And when I brought up Adam,
I'm sure he'd have a hundred things to say about that, but there is something whole getting,
you know, this week, I'm speaking with Werner Herzog again on, on Saturday.
Is it like the 20th time or what? I think you met him too. And I met you about 20 years ago.
About the 20th time. And I, I understand that we have an accent that is not utterly dissimilar.
So, um, you know, we, but you know, with, and his, the subject he chose is the future of truth,
whatever that might mean, which is kind of fascinating.
You always have interesting subjects. What was the one 20th century, something.
What's the 20th century mistake, which was, yeah, you can look it up. It's actually favorite interview.
Oh, great. It was published by Michael Ondaatje in, uh, in brick magazine,
brick, like, like a brick, you can see it. It's online. I think you'd enjoy it because he has
fabulous things to say. They're really interesting. Um, but you know, one thing you wanted to bring up
in your preliminary comments was what happens in, in conversation and what, what is it that, that,
that conversation reveals. And I've come up, as you know, I'm a quote, a maniac by profession. And
there's, there's, there's, there's a line that I adore Andrea, which is, um, a line from Tristo Tzara,
one of the founders of Dadaism. Um, and he says that thought is made in the mouth.
And I love that. I love that. It's probably not true completely because it's made in many other
places, but it is also made, if you think of it in a, in a philosophically Greek context
of the dialogues and the whole notion of what happens, or if you think of it with
Bakhtin in mind and the dialogical imagination, and you think of the coming, you know, the exchange,
I think something happens when we talk to each other. We are human beings are creatures who talk
to each other. Yeah. I think I would say that makes sense. If you understand talk as an embodied
act, it's movement for me. That's why I brought up the stuff about walking. And even with Herzog,
the way he creates worlds or spaces or landscapes, this physical, mental, emotional kind of way that
we move for me, that's what thinking is. And I guess speaking like language and conversing is,
is a form of movement through a space, isn't it? I mean, do you think about that when you're
doing your conversations that you're actually in a landscape? Yeah.
I'm writing this down because I love it. And one of the titles of a conversation I had with Werner,
you can find all of these things online, uses the word landscape.
Oh, great. I have to hear that one.
That's the title. You'll find it.
But I think you were already talking about that even in New York with him.
We were. And in a way, I'm still talking about it.
Yeah, it's similar.
I have, I haven't progressed. You know, in many ways.
It's just that, yeah, these things change and it gets deeper.
Yeah. And there's more to talk about.
No, I think so. And I think body language matters to me enormously.
And so, for instance, yesterday, I was speaking to the man, to the man who's organizing
the conversation with Werner, and he works for the Thomas Mann House.
Thomas Mann lived in Los Angeles, the Pacific Palisades. Do you ever come out here?
I do sometimes. Yeah, I haven't been there in a while. But funny, you just bring that up,
because I just met, I actually just met this person. He's not, I don't know him so well,
but he was just saying he's going there for the, the Thomas Mann House now has fellowships,
apparently, or something. Yes, who is that? I can't remember his name. It was at a conference
thing, and he was just telling me he's going to go to the Thomas Mann House.
Well, you should look into it, because you could maybe get a residency there.
Yeah, I should look at that.
You should look at, look at it, look at it. But you know, so he asked me yesterday, so
we're doing this at Red Cat, which is right next to Disney Hall, a little black box theater,
about 300 people, which, you know, sold out with Werner literally in two minutes, two minutes,
literally, I mean, gone. It was the same thing at the Royal Festival Hall, where there were 3000
people gone. He just intrigued people forever. And he asked me, so how would you like the setup?
And I said, I'm glad you asked. I want two chairs, two tables, and I want the tables,
the chairs to face each other as much as possible, without, you know, being like this, but like this.
Hmm. Open to the audience.
Because I want to look into the eyes of my opponent.
Ah, opponent.
I didn't use the word opponent, of course. I don't believe he's an opponent.
But I, I, I want something interesting, though. You guys do have a bit of a, it's not a sparring,
but there's, we do have a sparring.
Yeah, well, there's something, you know, competitive almost, in a way.
Yeah, even with just quotes and words and, yeah, ideas.
Of course. Yeah.
And, you know, yeah. And I, you know, I will, I will use for him the wonderful line he has,
which sounds like Hölderlin, but isn't. He says, the poet must not avert his eyes.
Oh, that's great. Who says that? It sounds like him, though.
It's Hölderlin through, through Herzog, through Kurosawa.
Mm-hmm.
It's, you know, various people have said it.
Mm-hmm, Hölderlin, I love him.
You don't, you know, but I think it's, I think it's, I think it's right.
I think it's correct.
You've had these amazing conversations with Werner since I first met you, which, as I think
we said before we came on, has been over, been a long time. So you've been having these conversations
with him regularly. He's not the only one. There's kind of, if we made a list of everyone
you've talked to, it would sort of be a list of like the most influential people of the past
decade or something, right? But how did you get there, Paul, from traveling around,
hitchhiking, studying philosophy with Foucault? I mean, did you envision this path? Did you have a
vision? What was the landscape?
I think, you know, when I studied law and philosophy, I abandoned law very quickly.
It wasn't cut out for it at all. Studied philosophy with all these fancy people. Because I was born in
the United States. I had an American, I have an American passport. I was born in Houston, Texas,
where I spent four very important days, a memory of which is slight. We moved.
Four days? Oh, I didn't know it was that short. Days, days, days.
So your parents came from Mexico to Houston, had you, and then left.
Left. Just had me because I had a medical condition, RH negative blood condition. And they decided
my father didn't trust the medical establishment in Mexico. He was right.
Had me in America, had an American child, perhaps partly because he couldn't come into America during
the war, which is another whole story. But then got back to America by having a child who is American.
And then it became quite, quite obvious that jobs in Europe, teaching would probably not be many
with how how impossible, let's say, in France it would have been. So off I went to do a comparative
study of comparative literature departments, hitchhiked around the US to go to various universities,
Princeton and Yale and Harvard and Penn and Michigan and God knows what, got into Princeton because of
Foucault's letter. Studied complete there, then taught at various fancy universities
studies for a while. And I think, I think by somewhat by necessity, because I wasn't cut out
either for the publish or perish. I think I'd rather perish than published.
You mean the whole academic, you have to publish papers, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, the politics of petty difference.
Also the find your niche and stick to it. You know, you can't, you can't hitchhike in the academic
world. You can't hitchhike. And you know, again, my father said, the more interests you have, the more
interesting you are. And I think I developed kind of a rapacious appetite for many different things.
That doesn't fit well in academia in terms of...
It doesn't. It doesn't. And you know, I, I, I never really managed to specialize in anything,
even though I wrote about Walter Benjamin. And I, I, I did it because I had to in some way.
And I've never, I've never been able, you know, this coming week, I speak on Saturday with
Werner on Monday in New York at the Ford Foundation with Ruah Benjamin. And on the
following week with Rebecca Solnit. Three different worlds connected by,
by the fact that I'm speaking to them. And it is true that I was a jolly good fellow at the
McGee, where I was supposed to write my, my dissertation into a book. Instead, I met Barbara
and spent more time at the, at the farmer's market buying fruit that I found and delivered to her
so much so that she thought that I was thinking she should begin making jam. And so then we, we got to
know each other a little bit there. And then I, and then I worked and then I started this adventure
of speaking gigs at LACMA, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. And seven years after doing that
and speaking to a lot of people there, the president of the library in New York called me up and came to,
came to LA to recruit me, which made Barbara very unhappy because she didn't want to go there already.
And he said, I would like you to oxygenate the library.
That's a very important phrase from New York years.
Yeah. And then I, I would say, you know, as you probably recall, I would always say before
I brought somebody on stage, I would say my goal is to make the lion, yeah, elevate.
The lion's roar.
Roar, exactly. So I changed the oxygenate to roar.
But you also would like say you wanted it to float or levitate or something to levitate
and when successful to, to make it levitate. And so I started to talk with all these people and,
you know, six or 700 people later.
I, I think if you do look at that list and it's a list I need to make at some point, I never have.
I think one would discover a lot of important voices.
That's for sure. I can, I'll put a partial list somewhere or other for anyone who listens to this.
But what's the through line is what I was trying to get at. What was it about being interested in
philosophy and literature and then the conversation? I mean, you just kind of skipped that. You started
doing these conversations in LA, but obviously like, what was the, I mean, it wasn't just fame.
I think there might be something about you that's drawn to not necessarily fame, but people who are big.
Yeah. You know, I think there's something to do with fame though. I'm, I'm, I'm worried about that.
I always remember the wonderful line that Rainer Maria Rilke used in his book on Rodin.
He said that fame was, but the collection of misunderstandings that gather around the new name.
And I think there's something about that, which is true. I think there is something,
if I have to be honest, that I'm impressed by when I get to, you know, speak to, um, to
Jay-Z, Jay-Z or Mike Tyson or Laurie, or, or Vanna. But there's also something in me that is really
interested in, um, in somehow unpacking people's thoughts and bringing them to, to be
honest. I'm good at that in a way that, that most people are not good at it.
By that, I mean to say, and it's very prepotente. I understand the boosterism
and the fact that there's a lack of, of humility in my saying this, but what I know, what I know how to
do, I think when I do it well, when it works, it doesn't always work. There have been marvelous
failures, but when it works is create an atmosphere or a space where people feel at ease to,
to bring out the multifaceted nature of human interest and not just, you know, writer writes
book and pays penance by coming to the library to present book, but there's much more,
there's much more to it. Yeah. It becomes a sensory exploration or something. I mean,
I really do. I think so. Yeah. I really do want to try to like, like, think of it as a landscape that
somehow you get people to move through together or link to their own trajectories.
The trajectory. You know, it's, it's, it's hard to, it's hard to know exactly what led me to do what
I'm doing. But I, I do think it's, it's an ease with speech. Though I have a speech impediment,
which, you know, used to be stronger, but still is there. My list is still there.
That becomes part of the charm is, or is part of the charm, isn't it? That you turned what
might have been a weakness into a strength in a sense?
Maybe, maybe, but I, and I speak funny, you know, my, my youngest son who spent a lot of time,
who now is at UCLA. So we went to the East coast and he went to the West side.
Oh, you have two sons.
I have two, but my oldest son is unfortunately, um,
plagued by be having gone through addiction, uh, drug addiction.
So I know that that's touched me too in my family. Oh yeah.
Very hard.
You just have to persist to try to open new paths and stuff.
I, but I don't know why we got onto the boys.
I think you were going to tell me something else about something your son said or said.
Oh, that I speak funny.
Yeah.
That lisp thing.
He spent a lot of time during, during the pandemic at home and got to know me better
and realized that I have an accent. He hadn't quite realized it as much. And he also realizes that I
really mispronounced not only everything, but have strange, you know, a strange way of putting words
together.
But I think that that's one thing that makes you really good at what you do too, at least from an
outsider perspective, is that you have all this things that are familiar to many different people,
but also many things that are unfamiliar and all these different languages and countries. And there's
all this movement and also there's all these other emotional and philosophical and literary
landscapes that you visited and you can sort of mesh it all together and bring it close to whoever
you're talking to. At least that was kind of the feeling I had in listening to your conversations and
things that somehow you'd had covered so much space that you could always link some interesting
path to their path that they hadn't thought of before.
And you know, the conversations that are successful is when a brother, father, mother, sister,
a friend, a lover, a husband, and even more so the subject says,
I said something I've never said before, or I made a connection. And I suppose what you're saying is
true. There's a, for me, there's a, there's a folly of contiguity. There's a possibility
of bringing together in a way which I have been unable to do on a page. I'm able to do it through
speech.
It really is like an exploration getting to the edge of something. And then, I mean, isn't that what you
like about reading too, in a way, is that it takes you somewhere to an edge or a different sensory
place, a different mental place. It's all the same thing, in a way. Conversation can do that
even more powerful.
And I also think that conversation, particularly in our time now, it seems like I've chosen a
profession, or at least I had a profession until recently, we can get into that in a moment.
That is very much in need. In other words, I think it's not, it's not something that is done
frequently. And partly, my ability to do this is different from most ways in which this is done,
because either it's done in an academic setting, which I'm sure you know very well, where you go in
here, people giving papers, sometimes fabulously, I mean, my goodness, I've, I've heard extraordinary
lectures, no doubt about it. And I've heard some extremely good conversations. But usually, there's
something rather stayed about them, and a little bit stale about them. And I try to bring in
everything I've got, which includes most, most importantly, a kind of, of listening that makes people,
people listen. And then another, another part that I try to bring up whenever I can,
is a level of humor. Humor is very important, too. I've often said that I don't think I could
ever love someone whose adjectives I wouldn't share. But I also think I couldn't love someone
whose humor I didn't share.
I don't think I could ever love someone who has a question you asked her before you like when you
were thinking of getting married. And you have to remember it at some point. I remember you used
to talk about there was this one question. Oh, she had a question whether with I like Gabrielle Garcia
Marquez. Oh, was that it? Okay, I think so. But I think you had a question too. I think there
was two questions. That sounds familiar. But I have a very good memory. I studied memories. I can
remember the times we met. I just don't remember the last time we met. I seem to think maybe it was at
Grand Central at that that kind of cool Campbell room or something. Maybe there doesn't exist
anymore doesn't. Ah, so we can date it to at least that the closing of that. But I don't know if that
was the last time. Surely it was in New York before you left. We haven't seen each other in California. So
and you haven't been here or I haven't seen you here. And I've been living here. So
And here here for you is Berlin. I live in Holland now. But I was in Berlin mostly.
Where do you live? Utrecht?
I bicycled through much of Holland all the way up to the Afslödeck.
Oh, wow. All the way up there to the islands that you could take the ferries around and
from Brussels. Yes, I did. And I went over that bridge on the Afslödeck and I went all around from
Rotterdam to Amsterdam, all of that. Very cool. On a bicycle the whole way?
On a bicycle. Well, I had a girlfriend in the south of France who was quite a bit older than I was.
And I bicycled from Brussels all the way to Aix-en-Provence to see her.
That's very... Crazy, romantic.
It's very romantic. Yeah. See, that gets to something about you too, right? These big gestures
that are really coming from the heart. There's that Thoreau quote I always thought about. I'm
sure I told you before this, that reminds me or that you remind me of that enthusiasm
is a supernatural serenity. I think it's Thoreau. Yeah. Enthusiasm is a supernatural serenity.
It's interesting because, of course, Emerson, part of that whole group of people, said that nothing
great was ever achieved without enthusiasm. It's a great...
But I think it meant it in the etymological sense of enteos, which literally means to be
transported by the gods. There you go. Transport, right there. It's this movement and transport,
being transported. Movement. Movement. Do you feel like you need to put your energy somewhere?
Well, you know, when I interviewed Pico Ayer once in Jamaica in a festival called Calabash,
a wonderful festival where you're in front of 2000 people on the beach and the backdrop is the
ocean. I quoted this wonderful line from an essay by George Santayana in The Philosophy of Travel.
He says that Aristotle talks about plants being firmly grounded in the soil,
but man, Aristotle says, has the intelligence of locomotion.
So again, this idea of movement, this idea that I would probably talk to Werner about of traveling.
You know, he doesn't like the notion of walking. He says, I travel on foot, right? The notion of
traveling on foot, which he shares with Chatwin, this whole notion of movement, of movement and of
filmmaking as a kind of nearly a something you do with your body.
It is. It's embodied.
Yeah.
Cognition is how we make our way through the world. Like that Santayana book is really interesting,
right? I think plants are moving, but they're not moving in the same way. And it's really interesting to
think of thought as locomotive locomotion. I would say literally that's kind of true. And
so if you put that into context of something like, let's go to New York, right? That's where we met. So
New York Public Library, when you were there, these events, this space, you said you wanted the
building to levitate. And I remember walking in, they were often at night, just kind of after sunset,
and you sort of walk, you're walking into this amazing building on 42nd street around sunset time.
And then you walk in and there was a kind of sensory ambience. I don't know how much you had to do with
that, but there would always be music playing. The lights were in a certain way. It almost felt like
you'd kind of come to a nice party with the lights and people mingling. The stage would be set up in a
very particular way. And I mean, there was a kind of cognitive space being created there. A landscape
that everyone was sort of participating in, it was participatory sense making or way making going on.
I don't know how much of that was conscious. But when I think back on it, I remember that that
movement and it all became part of the conversation in a way. Did you think about all that? Or was it just
you were just in the moment? No, no, no, it was very much prepared. Very, very. I mean,
you picked up on all of it. The music was tremendously important to me when it was the wrong music,
I got very upset and people who worked around me couldn't stand me. The light was very conscious.
I was always upset by how cold the room was. So I always ask people to make it warmer.
The images were Werner was very, very instrumental in that. Actually, this time around, he doesn't
want us to have any film clips because he wants me to talk about him as a writer and as a poet.
So no images will see. I've never done an event without images with Werner. So it'll be interesting
to see how that works out. But know that they were very much there to, you know, when I had
Christopher Hitchens, it was important for me to play a snippet of a lecture that Isaiah Berlin gave
during his years that Hitchens took the class at Oxford or to surprise Harold Bloom with Walt Whitman
reading. And, you know, this was also it was a wonderful way also of creating again movement,
creating something extra territorial, as it were. But, you know, and you use the word way making,
which is, of course, a very interesting way of thinking of it as, you know, a path,
which seems to me really what I'm trying to, I've tried to create the path through through words to a
person. So you go from beautiful. Yeah, it feels that way, you know, through through our connection
now. But I wanted to ask you what it's like to listen and what how because we talked about how
you learned how to talk, we can say it's from your father in a way from hitchhiking, maybe just also from
you being who you are. But the listening part, is that more your mom's influence or interesting,
you know, my mother, when I was 11 years old, said to me poorly, we have two ears and one mouse,
probably because I wasn't listening. Right. And as well. And so I've discovered this was through social
media, somebody wrote to me and said, you know, this line of your mother's is not your mother's.
It goes all the way and I can send it all the way back to the green. There's a long history of that.
Listening for me is really, it's a form of attention. It's a bit like what Simone Weil talks about when she
says that attention is a form of prayer. It's really, it's what we do when we really are with
somebody is pay attention. Listen, it's so important to create that space where you just lean back.
Actually, mostly, I don't lean back, I lean forward. And I bring, you know, I know I do this. And
sometimes, you know, people have wondered about it and that some of it is, is conscious and some of it
is unconscious. It's a mix. That you lean forward in your chair when you're talking to people.
Yeah. And so it also creates a space where people, when you used to come to the Barters Forum, the big
one, there would be five or 600 people there. Wild. It is wild. And, and that's interesting too,
about the listening because you create a, that you listen in a certain way that your listening
changes the way the room listens in a way. Did you figure that out? I mean, it was that part of
the, I think it's, that is again, very it's I become the medium or the midwife or the, I think that
if it's really so interesting to listen to this, see an example of it on stage and do the same.
And so people paid attention.
It changes the attention. That's what it does.
It does change and it changes the focus awareness. And I'm sure that some people also, I know,
I'm not sure. I know some people would sometimes think of themselves as a person who would be on
stage in my place. A little bit like when you go and see an analyst, there's a form of projection.
You would like to become the analyst, the person who listens. Yeah. And that's since you, I rubbed
some people the wrong way. Anyway, what were you going to say?
Well, no, that's exactly where I was going to go because there's a dance, isn't there between the
listening. You're also kind of guiding, as you said, you're using words to create a path to someone,
but you're also sort of opening this path with whatever it was like 600 people. But sometimes you
interrupt people, or I remember maybe we had a conversation once about someone criticizing you for,
for talking and not just letting the person talk. But I've noticed with really good
interviewers that they do interrupt at key points. Have you ever thought about that?
I have. And I think there are two sides to it. There's one where I hold a silence for a very long time
and it really can become uncomfortable. Barbara, you know, sometimes will say,
you know, that was a bit much pause was too long or something too long. Sometimes the pause actually
really brings about things that without the pause wouldn't come about at all. And sometimes I think
the interruption can be of two thought two kinds. One is interrupting the thought where you lose,
you interrupt and you break the person's thought pattern. The other one, which is of course more
important and better, is the interruption that brings a person closer to a deeper understanding of
what they were trying to do or brings them back away from the digression upon the digression back to
maybe just the digression that brings them back to the point they were trying to make. Though, quite
frankly, I don't believe too much in too many points. I believe more in the randomness of whatever it is that
might happen. And I think Adam says that when we've had, when we've had a really good conversation,
we really don't know what we're talking about. We've sort of lost, we've lost the thread.
Did you give people kind of an outline of what you're going to talk about? Never, never, never,
except politicians who always wanted it, but never. And, but I would do this thing where I would
call the people I would be talking to or have an exchange. For instance, yesterday with Rua Benjamin,
and we had a half hour conversation yesterday where we touched upon things we might talk about.
That's all. And with Werner, I wrote to him, but he hasn't yet written back. I said,
the future of truth, we're talking in the context of art in a times of crisis,
perhaps it might be interesting to think about the present moment and what's happening,
some of the calamities that are happening around the world now. And particularly,
I think that the Middle East is important. The relationship Germany has to Israel is of course,
extremely complicated. I just give this as an indication, but what Werner and I will talk
about I don't know quite. Do you ever get lost, Paul, to talk about the present moment a bit too?
Where are you now? All the time lost. Lost in what way do you mean? In conversations that you're
having with people, but also in a bigger picture. Do you ever get lost? Yes. Off the path you thought
you were going to be on? Not digressing necessarily, but really? Yeah. Yes, I do. I've gotten lost also
in knowing, you know, how to find my way. And I get lost quite simply because I have no sense of
direction. Oh, yeah. I have no sense of direction. None. In New York, which is a city where one wouldn't
get lost very easily, Andrea would forcefully walk with absolute conviction in the wrong direction.
Unless the GPS in my car tells me turn left and tells me exactly, I have no sense of where to go.
So I get lost in many different ways. And right now, where are you? That was the question, too,
in your life. Well, in my life, I do want to, I somehow do feel compelled to tell you. So I came
out to LA, as you know, because of Barbara, in some ways. I say in some ways, not because she wasn't
enough of a reason, but because I had been at the library for over 14 years. And that's twice a seven
year itch. And maybe it was time to put an end to that. It was magnificent there. If I had stayed on
more, it was magnificent, but it wasn't because the last few years were sort of getting old. It was
great in probably in the years when you came, the first six or seven were filled with an incredible
energy, one that I also had more of than I do now. Came out here. I'm on the board of a foundation
called the Onassis Foundation, which is a Greek foundation founded by Aristotle Onassis. When his
son died in a plane crash, he created this foundation for public benefit. And there's a cultural
component of it in New York. There's a cultural component of it in Athens. And I said to the president
of the foundation and his wife, Aphrodite, I said, we should create a part in LA, we transport goods from
one port to another, let's transport ideas to the Pacific Rim. They thought this was magnificent.
I created something called Ola Onassis LA, where I was going to do all kinds of cultural events. I did
a few and then the pandemic hit. And I created this daily podcast, which you can hear called
The Quarantine Tapes. And so 250 programs later, a little over a million people, over a million people
listening. You know, everybody from Henry Rollins to Sonny Rollins to Myra Kalman to Pico Ayer to
Werner to so many people, blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, lots of blah, blah, blah. Roseanne Cash,
I'm forgetting all the people who I spoke to, but a lot of them. And then about a year ago,
the president called me up and said, you know,
we're going back to the cradle of civilization. It was his word.
Yeah. So Andrea, for the first time in my entire existence, I am jobless.
And I don't know what I'm going to do next. I, I, I'm going to go and see a doctor now to make sure
that I still get in on our health plan, which ends in two weeks. So you catch me at an interesting
moment. I'm speaking to a few people. I'm wondering whether to create something on my own.
I don't think that's necessarily the wisest thing, because I don't think I'm disciplined enough
to create my own outfit. So, you know,
I'm okay. I'm kind of confident that something will happen. I'm not a spring chicken anymore.
I'm not a summer chicken. I'm kind of an early autumn chicken. You know, I'm not young anymore.
I'm not a wunderkind anymore. I'm not a kind and I'm less of a wunder. And so this is a moment which
is difficult. The hours between two and four in the morning are not great. But I keep the night
company. Keep the night company. There's the line. Yeah. Remember that. I remember that. Yeah.
You see, speaking to me today, it's like speaking to me back then.
I hope so. Because I mean, I don't think it's the same, but there's definitely continuity and
you still have all those gifts and you've been giving to a lot of people for a lot of years.
In a way, that was what I was trying to get at by asking you if it's hard to hold the space.
You know, I guess you're entering a new space now.
I am. I am entering a new, I mean, to use the word you so beautifully used
and which maybe it's a way for me to think about it. So you've helped me also through this
conversation, through a conversation, we help each other, which is another, it is, of course,
a therapeutic aspect to speaking, but there's also one of kindness and generosity, which is also has to
do with space. And so not to lose the thread of the word that you used, which maybe is what I need
to look at now, is it's a new landscape. Yeah.
And
I don't know, it will, it will, I mean, geographically speaking, it, I think it needs to remain
LA at least for a while, because of our young older son, because of Oliver being at UCLA, we might as well,
benefit from the fact that he's close by. But there's a mortgage to be paid. And,
you know, they have financial considerations, which are sort of devastating. And there's no,
because also cost us so much, you know, I mean, that's crazy. I know.
All of our savings disappeared. I mean, all.
So you have to do something and a new landscape is there.
Maybe you have to learn how to read maps. I mean, that more metaphorically, but
we've been talking about, I mean, you, you have this richness, right, of paths, and you've opened
up paths for so many other people. And there's, maybe there's some way you can get a, like a little
bit of a view of yourself and where all these paths that you've opened might already be leading
somewhere or other. There's definitely a perspective there that no one else has. So I think the question
is how do you best in this day and age communicate it? I don't know what the answer is, but I'm sure
the people around you know. And by the way, in this day and age is really an important part of
what you're saying, because it's probably a little bit different in Europe than it is in the US. But,
you know, there's a reckoning happening here. I'm white. I'm older. Now, on top of it all, I'm Jewish.
You know, where do I fit? The problem of fitting has always been a problem for me anyway. But now,
there's that there's that added not fitting. And people are coming not to the rescue because we
can't be rescued. But for instance, on Sunday, nobody knows this except for Barbara and now you.
So you have a way too, by the way. Yes. On Sunday, just before I go to New York,
a group of people are going to have a phone call with me on zoom to see how they can help me.
Wonderful. So people are people are thinking we can't leave this man
jobless. Maybe it goes back to the thing we talked about at the beginning to about it's hard to be
have friends and friendships. And it's scary to be to go deep and be vulnerable and this kind of thing.
I mean, maybe that's the landscape that you're entering now. And maybe that's the place that all
this stuff that you've I mean, I think of that backpack and Bruce Chatwin and this kind of I don't
know where all that that comes in. But, you know, talking about landscapes, you've got this backpack full
of stuff. You've been on all these explorations. Maybe now it's the time to open up your conception of who you
are and see what other people see and maybe be vulnerable a little bit. Maybe that's the lesson.
This that's what this is in a way. You don't have to hold the space. Somebody can help you create it.
You know who owns Bruce Chatwin's backpack?
I think I think I saw it in a movie or something with Herzog, right?
Werner actually has in his home. Ah, yeah.
And he brought it once on stage when I think he brought it to Barcelona, where we spoke,
but I'm not sure. And he has it. And Bruce was Bruce Chatwin was so sick. And Chatwin and Werner
went to visit him. And Bruce said to him, I want to put on my backpack. And I mean, he weighed like in
delirium or something. He weighed 80 pounds. He was dying. Oh, gosh. It's in his movie about Chatwin.
Yeah, that must be what came to mind. Yeah, that's where you saw it. And he he actually
said to Werner as he was dying, take my backpack.
Hmm. So it's so interesting. You should bring this up.
That's very strong, because that's what it is. Yeah, maybe you need to give your backpack to
someone. You're just beginning. You're still pretty young, Paul. And yes, you have all this.
I mean, you're not young, but you're not old. There's a lot of years left to give.
When do you think I was born? I'm turning the age of a song of the Beatles.
The one about will you still love me? Will you need me when I'm 64 64? Oh, my gosh,
that seems so old when I was a kid. It seems so old. And I'm that age.
But there's wonderful. There's something wonderful about it. I mean,
you've you've you've been alive. You've experienced life. And we need that right now. We need people who've
experienced fully experienced life say this because I got a message the other day from this doctor
who's the head of neurology and palliative care at Cedar Sinai. He wrote a message, a kind of a fan
letter saying that he's been following what I'm doing and would love to create a series with me
on the notion of care. What does it mean to care? And that's beautiful, beautiful with learning to
care. Yeah, we've we've been having these these exchanges. And I've met a few people through him.
And we've had these dinners. And recently I told him how worried I am, you know, financially. And he
said, you know, you will find a job. Just continue to do what you're doing, which is to live fully.
You have such a rich life. That's so interesting. But of course, you know, it's
there are also practical issues I have to address. Well, I think this is the artist, the reason,
emotion, passion artist. This is the hard thing. This knowing life is so full and feeling it in full
and going with it. And then also, there is a practical side, I mean, that we have to deal with.
And yes, there is a flow, you can get into that space where you're surfing both of those things.
I think part of it is this, like working with it, right? This is how we this is how we find new
landscapes and create new paths. And it's not like comfortable. But when you were just talking,
I had this kind of vision of participatory environment, like I was describing with the New
York Public Library. It's well, it's very, you know, you were talking about it, the sensuous
feeling you had getting in the threshold you passed when you got your ticket and you walked in. And
sometimes you would even have drinks and there was something happening there. And the whole feeling of
it and choosing your seat and the person next to you. And I mean, there were a lot of things that
were that happened in that space. And for me, yes, yes, there is also the fact that Barbara talks
about this all the time, she always says, you need to go back to an audience. The podcast was good.
But an audience is better being, being on stage about it. Yeah. And I love it. And I feed off it.
I think that's why it's better because you're different than you, you really have to listen to
yourself and living in full. It's not about what everyone else thinks is cool right now or what
everyone else wants. You're unique. You have all these different ways of seeing the world. And part
of the charm is the kind of thing that might be peculiar and in the world. It's just the peculiarity
that isn't peculiar to you, you know? And part of that, I do think I remember those moments of the room
being alive. And I don't think you need to try to create that, but see where the environment is,
where that's created for you. I think there's a grace to it. It's just who's going to open that
space or where is that space? It already exists somewhere, I'm sure. And we need it. We've had
too much Instagram. We want it and we need it and we have to find it. And, you know, to find the
charged space. The other day I'm doing this series with Occidental College, which is a college out here in
LA, which is well known because Obama went there, but it isn't well known. And they have hired me to
do these various things. So there was the first event and now there's Rua Benjamin in New York and
then there's Rebecca. So you're working, you're not jobless. I'm doing these little things, right?
But I spoke, I launched the series with someone called Alok, who is a they, trans non-binary.
It was fabulous. I mean, the non-binary way of thinking about the world is really interesting.
And we need non-binary ways of thinking about the world.
We need some non-binary media or conversations. Will we set another time to talk?
Yeah. No, I just feel like we need to talk again because I,
not only have I enjoyed it, but I think it's, it's, um, I thank you for it.
Yeah. And I thank you. It's very helpful for me. So I would love to talk to you.
But I, I, I feel like grouch remarks again. No, thank you. No, thank you. No, no, no, no.
You remember that. No, it's actually helpful. Um, I feel very, I feel
this goes back to listening. It's something that they say in America, right?
I feel heard, right? It's something that is said. So, and it's not something that often happens. I think
I'm more, and it, it has to do with pleasure also, you know, that's a good word too.
Yeah. It's very good word. It's, it's about, you know, giving and getting and sharing and what,
you know, what the balance is there. Yeah. It's equilibrium. Yeah. Equilibrium or, um,
you know, Adam, Adam doesn't believe in balance. Um, and I, I understand that
being off balance. And I think that goes back to your line of, of peculiarity and
following your inner demon and following, you know, following what matters to you, not what
everybody else is telling you. Yeah. If you can get clear, that's, that's the path.
And anything that you feel, you know, I love homework. So things you think I might read,
or if you have thoughts about my future glorious life, let me know.
You know, you could speak a book. Have you thought you could just speak a book into your phone
about your father or I'll tell you what life or I don't know, all these conversations in my mind.
So many, many people have told me about writing a book. I've had famous agents wanting to be,
I'm sure, but maybe you could speak a book. And I think I should speak a book. Yeah. And I had the
thought, um, in speaking with you that I should be speaking to you for the book. Just think about
that. I could do a little chapter by chapter conversations
because you ask very good questions. And I also want to talk to you about waymaking. I'm just
interested by it. If you have things about it, maybe you can give me a general idea when you send me the
links. I just, I feel there's something there that is close to what I've been thinking. I mean,
the fact that I caught up caught on that word, you just said it once. And that's another thing,
right, is, is in conversations. So somebody says something. And through conversation, finding a
word. Do you know, um, Alva Noe? I know Alva Noe because he came to interview, um, William Forsythe
and he stayed in touch. You see, this is another thing. Yeah, it's very, I just looked at his book
again because he came to a conference in Heidelberg and I just missed him and I thought,
ah, his stuff is probably interesting to look at. It probably is. And this is what happens and it's
what we were talking about. Exactly. There's all these connections filled with references
and sometimes it makes sense. And I don't know things. I don't know things. I'm so far from being
an expert. Nobody's an expert. I mean, that's not the point. And, you know, um, Adam has a very
interesting book, uh, about experts and, and, and the short, short-sightedness of it all. The only
time I want an expert is if I'm able and I want somebody to take care of something. Exactly.
Then you need an expert. You don't need them to know Heidegger. You don't. A huge hug to you.
Yeah, a big hug to you too. We'll speak sooner. What a pleasure. Amazing. Thank you, Paul.
Yeah, it was wonderful. Thank you. Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
