And, you know, I'm going to give a talk next week probably on, you know, sort of the early
history of work on the hippocampus, kind of the background to the emergence of the cognitive
math theory, kind of what the field was like in the 50s and 60s and 70s, and, you know,
how it all came about, you know, how, from my perspective, you know, all the pieces came
together, so to speak, historically.
Edvard said-
That's going to be interesting.
Are you going to film that or something?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Somebody will probably.
Hey.
You know, Edvard said, you know, the students here, they don't know anything that happened
before more than like 10 years ago, he said.
It's a long time ago when you're 20.
Yeah, so last year.
Yeah, right.
So last year I gave, you know, three research talks here of one sort or another, but this
year I don't have-
Oh, three in one year.
You were there that much last year?
I was not there in one month.
I gave three over the course.
Oh, I went one month.
No, no, no.
I think I gave two.
Yeah, you gave a bunch.
I gave a couple of talks.
I gave my research talks.
This year I don't have anything new to say about research specifically that I wanted
to talk about, so this is going to be my presentation while I'm here as a history talk, which I'm
working on a fun, putting the pieces together and trying to reconstruct the causal chain,
you know.
Gosh.
I'd like to at least read that if you don't publish it somewhere, because that's probably
very interesting to see how you put that together.
Yeah.
Well, so much of it flowed through Montreal and, you know, and then places-
I know.
We talked about it.
Yeah.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
This is the history that I've been talking to you about.
Anyway, so-
Speaking of history, today we're going to try to talk about this really difficult word,
representation.
Dare I even say it?
But yeah, in terms of cognitive neuroscience though, so for all the people who might be
thinking we mean it in other ways, because you can talk about representation in so many
different ways, whether you're in art or philosophy or whatever, but we're going to talk about
a little bit philosophically, I think, but mostly through sort of cognitive neuroscience,
right?
Yeah.
So I guess I was thinking today, I just kind of play like the student instead of trying
to pretend like I really understand all this, because I was looking at your class, which
I was just trying to find, but yeah, in any case, there's a class you taught like a long
time ago, right?
A couple-
10 years ago, I gave that, but I mean, most of the stuff that's in there hasn't changed
because a lot of them-
No, no, not at all.
And even some of it I realized had become kind of popular again, like when you were
sort of, well, we'll get to questioning certain aspects of what is representation and you
need a perceiver to see the representation, right?
In any case, before we get into all that, let's start with just cognitive neuroscience
like you do, because I was thinking, it's really interesting, right, and I think for
people who are trying to follow this, like why do we focus so much on the brain?
And I think in those notes, you kind of start with it's been that way forever, right?
Like what are we, why are we trying to provide a brain-based account of cognition?
I mean, is it really just like simple, like, OK, we just feel like we're in our heads
because all our sensory organs are so located there, you know?
Yeah, I mean, if you were to take a kind of a Barclay stance, and John actually did this
at the dinner, he was being somewhat obstreperous and he said, you know, there's no world out
there, right? I mean, it's all constructed in our head, basically.
And so, I mean, if you take that kind of a position, I mean, it's all inside our head
and we're creating this whole external world, you know, which may or may not match up to
what's actually out there.
I mean, who knows?
It better match reasonably well, otherwise evolution would have squashed us.
But yeah, so, I mean, it's inevitable that, you know, you think about, you know, how is
it that we understand and comprehend the world so that we can behave so that, you know,
so that our behavior, which whatever one thinks about the notion of representation,
it's hard to it's hard to say that the brain has nothing to do with behavior.
Right. I mean, it's got it's what makes us move.
You go back to movement, right.
So, I mean, we move because our brain, you know, tells us to move and we move the ways
our brain. Yeah, but we also have a body and we I mean, it's not disconnected from the
body. So I guess it's just like you move into the mind body problem.
But it's just this feeling we have, right, of our experience of the world feels like
in our head, doesn't it?
Yeah, we can't get away from that, it seems to me, no matter what philosophical position
we take. So, so with that, you know, as a as a starting point, you have you have to
think about, well, how how does it come to be that the brain models, let's use that
term, you know, represents, you know, the outside world in a useful way, you know, so
that it can guide, you know, guide our behavior going forward.
There's really doesn't seem like there's any alternative to that position.
So it's not, you know, people think about, well, so what is how does the brain represent
the world? How does it how does it do that?
You know, there's no other way there's no other way to think about, you know, strikes
me as a scientist. There's no other way to think about behavior.
Yeah. So if we just think of people coming to a kind of awareness of themselves, then
you have this feeling like you're sort of in your head and the representation there in
that really early sense is just that it's almost like we we can sort of have these
images of ourselves or we can sort of hear our thoughts.
Right. And so that feels like it's some kind of we're representing the world in our
heads. Right. In a very simplistic way.
Yeah. And you ask if you ask a five or six year old, which I've done this with my
grandkid and, you know, you ask them, you know, whether their thoughts come from the
way that, you know, it's in the point in here.
Oh, that's fascinating. Yeah, exactly.
I mean, they understand, you know, it feels that way exactly as you say.
So we so we I mean, but there's OK, I mean, I can leave it at that except to say that
there's you know, there's a couple of different facets of this representation problem.
I mean, one of them is how does it do it?
You know, and how does it you know, how how do we represent the world and how are those
representations used? All the kind of mechanistic questions about it.
But then there's the more complex question, which I don't think I certainly haven't
made any progress on, which is, you know, why does a particular kind of brain activity
represent a particular thing?
I mean, why is it that activity in visual neurons in the visual system actually represent
visual phenomena? I mean, it's that it's kind of the hard it's the consciousness hard
problem. But it isn't just about consciousness.
It's simply, you know, how come certain forms of activity represent certain things?
Kind of. That's the deep question, you know, for me.
Yeah, well, I just I think it's like we all have this.
Fascination with becoming aware that of our own thoughts in a way, and then they don't
feel physical, right?
Absolutely. They don't feel physical.
That's a very we're physical and we're experiencing them physically.
But from that vantage point, it feels like something not as physical as, for example,
just to touch the table.
Right. So it's like your little five year old
grandchild, you know, feeling about it.
And yeah, yeah.
But so there's just mind body problem of how can this happen?
Right. How can this physical body or this brain give rise to that sense that even
your five year old grandchild has of self?
Right. Right.
It feels very mysterious.
It is very wonderful. Right.
It is. And we get confused mind, is it consciousness?
All these words we use in so many weird ways.
Right. But when it comes to trying to study the brain,
you know, like actually thinking about what is reality, so to speak.
Right. That becomes like if we just I think I don't know how you feel about this, but
I think it's a very bodily experience of of cognition and representing the world.
Of course, the brain is paramount.
But let's just say we're going to focus on the brain and how this mental experience
arises, what the brain's role is in it.
And then we bring in this world represents.
Right. So what we're trying to understand is different kinds of reality.
Isn't that how you say it in your talk?
Like there's a kind of current reality right now where I'm having thoughts and then
there's this thing called memory, which is the fact that I know there was a reality
yesterday or that the states recently.
Now you're in Norway and all of this.
And then there's the future, right.
What you talk about is like a prediction.
We can the brain can do all of that, you know, and and but but of course, mostly we
get to describe what we're thinking about in words.
Right. But we know from a variety of perspectives that the words we end up using
separate from words or a form of behavior, of course, but a very specific form of
behavior, they never quite capture what it is we're thinking about.
I mean, you know, we get as close as we can.
But, you know, any anyone who's kind of thought introspectively or tried to think
deeply introspectively knows that they have some thoughts and they're never quite
successful and never 100 percent successful in getting exactly what it was they were
thinking into words.
Words are really good.
They're better than grunts and and but, you know, they still don't quite capture
the nature of what it is of thought.
So what goes beyond language, I guess, is seems clear.
So whatever, however clear, I think that's really hard.
I think it's clear.
I think I mean, obviously, there are images and there's good evidence for this.
Actually, Nancy Kanwisher and Dara Sauer talked about this in their can in their
public talks. It is pretty clear that, you know, that you can you can separate out
language from thought.
I mean, many thought a lot of thought is language, but not all of it.
So so, you know, that means there's some deeper.
So the representations that we have in the brain are not just words.
It is no kind of lingua franca.
There's no fedorian.
What's the language of thought then?
It's not words.
So the language of thought has something to do with this issue of representations.
You know, how is the I mean, I think it's clear if you've read all these papers and
studied all this. But for just people who haven't, you know, it seems like your
thought is connected to either words or images.
Yeah. I don't know if you have an example or like easy kind of way to show.
Yeah. But anyway, I mean, I think the data certainly from data suggest that the two
are not totally overlapping.
And that, again, just points to the you know, there's some somehow the brain is
representing information in a way that is useful, that you can use to generate
language that you can that you use to generate behavior.
And it must match the world close enough so that, you know, you survive in the
world and the species survives, so to speak.
And and so how does it do that?
That's that's kind of the core question.
You know, what's you know, and so the earliest default was, well, let's look at
vision. You know, you say, OK, we know that an image of what's out there in the
world, you know, is kind of reflected upside down in the retina.
Well, OK, that's it.
Problem solved.
Yeah, you know, it's just like a little movie playing in our heads.
You know, we have a picture on the retina and we have this right.
And it's this movie playing basically.
And and that's how we represent the world.
And of course, that's complete nonsense because, you know, that was watching the
movie. Right.
You have this infinite regress of a little person in your head watching.
Yeah, exactly.
Screens. Yeah.
But of course, people thought that for a long time, they actually thought that
that was a plausible story, basically.
And that's how it feels again, you know, back to the five year old experience.
That's how it feels. And and that's one of the reasons why for for decades, maybe
a century, people were all twisted up about the about the fact that the image is
inverted on the retina.
It was like, wow, this is a serious problem.
How does that, you know, how do we deal with the fact that we're watching
everything upside down all the time?
Like, you know, and, you know, you can find hundreds of papers probably, you
know, written trying to, you know, address this, you know, the really hard problem of
the of the inverted retinal image and how the hell does the you know, does the brain
solve it? It's completely meaningless, of course, because there's nobody inside
looking at the at the image on the retina.
It's got nothing. But we just take that for granted in a weird way for so long.
So that picture in the head kind of story that, you know, that I think it was called
an idola or simulacrum, I mean, there were words that people put, you know, that
you just the brain just creates a replica of what's out in the world inside your
head. But it but it completely in the end becomes pointless because this default,
you know, to the homunculus, you can't get away from it.
That problem doesn't go away, by the way, no matter what theory you have, there's
always a problem of a decoder.
I mean, who's who or what is doing the decoding?
If any, if anything, I mean, there are some people who would argue that, you know,
there isn't a decoder, it's all just a continuous loop between the environment and
the and the brain, basically, you know, and there isn't a single decoder, it's all
just connected to it's this kind of that's the embodied cognition approach,
essentially, where everything you do is sort of coupling to the band is immediate
coupling. You don't have to think about a decoder because it's all part of a and,
you know, by the way, that may not that that may turn out to be a pretty good
story in the end.
Yeah, yeah. I think it's part of trying to figure it out.
But it's also like that's kind of the question of representation in a weird way,
too, is because like, as you say, I think in those slides, or you've said in other
work, you know, like, we often do that same make that same mistake that people are
making for so long of thinking there's someone in the head.
But we forget that we're the scientists looking at the data that we've just gotten
from the brain. So we forget that we're decoding it.
Somehow that step gets like taken out. Right.
So it must be in the brain in the same way it's in this little image of a of a
screenshot or something that we've taken.
Like, oh, it's but that gets confusing, too, doesn't it?
That's the fMRI or the or whatever we're looking at isn't actually in the head like
that. Exactly right.
I mean, so we as experimenters looking at, you know, unit recordings or fMRI or,
you know, multi unit recordings or these calcium or whatever we're looking at, you
know, and we and we connect up certain patterns of activity in the brain to
certain behaviors.
Right. You know, we just assume that those patterns, we see those patterns and we
see the fact that they're connected to these things.
But inside the head, how is that happening?
Basically, I mean, the inside part of the head is not looking at the data the same
way we are. We're seeing all the data.
Right. Any given part of the brain is seeing only a fraction of the data, so to
speak, that we can look at as experimenters and we jump to conclusions as
experimenters. Oh, well, you see this pattern of place cells firing.
It means, you know, such and such.
Well, you know, is there any part of the brain that actually conceived that pattern
of place cell firing in the same way we can see it and use it in the way that we
think it's being used or not?
Not probably, not I mean, even using language to talk about it is weird because,
of course, they can't like observe it in the way that we do with our senses or
something. Maybe there's some kind of pattern, sensitivity or something.
I don't know. I mean, what's happening, I mean, what's happening now, it seems.
I mean, all the that lecture kind of brought, you know, ended at the point where
people were saying, well, the brain obviously represents information in some sort
of a distributed code, a population code that's that is generally accepted.
There may be, you know, rather unique exceptions where a particular cluster of
cells, you know, has a very unique function.
And you can say a small number of cells, you know, do the whole job, but mostly
it's vast arrays of neurons in some population.
What do we do with that at this point?
I mean, again, it comes to the issue, where's the decoder for that for that for
that population and what how do we connect up the population story, which is
what everyone talks about now to this issue of this higher level issue of
representation? Right.
And that's what's happened in the last 10 years.
So all the stuff that I didn't, you know, that I now think I'm just not expert
enough about, but which I hear a lot about here and which I heard about in the
Kavli talks, especially Doris out, you know, it's about this.
It's about the kind of structure of those of that population of the people
talking about the geometry of the structure of that population and the
possible. Yeah, et cetera, et cetera.
And that's kind of where the field is headed now, and that's outside my zone of
comfort. That's why I said I don't want more to add now, because I'm I'm
sufficiently I'm not I would say not sufficiently sophisticated, but like I
say, I'm not at all sophisticated mathematically to understand, you know,
the kind of stuff that is being done now that points out the kind of consistent
geometric and these are not this is not clustering or topography in the way that
one sees in the visual system.
This is simply the kind of possible states that this multi vectorial kind of
collection of cells can take, you know, that that somehow serve as the way it
represents, say, an object or something.
Kenneth Harris was here just the other day.
He gave a talk on what I would say was like representations in the visual
cortex. And it was all about, you know, the population code.
And the bottom line of what he was saying was that.
If you that the the excitatory neurons, the population code in the excitatory
neurons is very high dimensional and captures the specific features of the
sensory input of the visual input.
The population code of the inhibitory cells is low dimensional and reflects kind
of the context, you know, or the modulation of and those two things kind of playing off
each other. You know, you might want to check out Kenneth Harris's work on this
stuff. He's at UCL.
So, you know, the folks here in Trondheim are on all are kind of very much on the
issue of this, the tourists that, you know, the the manifolds.
So as I understand it, a manifold is a kind of is all of the possible states that a
representation can take, let's say, in the grid cell population.
You know, there are constraints on the on where in the state space that population
can be right. It can't be everywhere.
It can only be on this torus because of the nature of the and the torus, you know,
which kind of constrains the possible states, the population code can take, you know,
how it can represent whatever is representing that shows up.
What they're showing here now is that that shows up by day nine or ten in the rat
pup before they are moving around in the world, before they've seen anything.
They haven't explored. There's been no there's been no they've had no experience yet.
But the prewiring in the system at this torus kind of, you know, sort of reflects the
manifold of the cells that are available.
And it's already there by day.
So so what that tells me and I think what it tells the Moses as well is that some
aspects of the way we represent the world are are given, so to speak, prior to
specific experience, although specific experiences can subsequently influence the
way this thing works.
The kind of really pure Kant, you might say, the Kantian the built in structure, you
know, constrains the representation.
And, you know, that's where the grid, that's where the grid cell kind of property
comes from. It comes from whatever that constraint is that kind of determines the
possible states that the population can take as a collection.
So I don't understand any of that stuff.
I mean, I hear it, but I have intuitions about what that tells us about how the brain
represents. I mean, that's going to be a part of the answer to the story of how the
brain represents.
So it goes one step beyond this notion of a distributed code.
I mean, so to step back into that lecture, I mean, I went from talking about the
retina to talking about the topographic maps that what finds in the visual cortex.
Again, it doesn't matter that the the input to the to be one is arrayed topographically
from a from a representational perspective, from a cognitive representational
perspective. Again, nobody is looking at it.
Right. But the fact that it's done topographically has obvious computational
advantages. I mean, you know, things that are near each other may be part of the same
object, for example, you know, pixels, voxels in space.
I mean, so to speak, I mean, there's there are some real advantages to having a
topographic code represent, especially the spatial aspect of things.
You don't get this in the auditory cortex.
You only get this in the visual cortex.
You get this in somatosensory cortex and so on.
You don't get it with olfaction. You don't get it with taste.
You don't get it with audition because they are the they they're it wouldn't serve
the same purpose there. You're not talking about things that are nearby in space.
Let's let's let's like to find this a little bit, because this is a really
interesting part of the history of trying to understand cognitive neuroscience in
the way we just brought up and getting to what you were just describing of this
population coding now and thinking more in terms of.
Even maybe that embodied idea of something ongoing that we're representing,
and so the brain is not necessarily representing.
But before we get there, the topographic map, I think, is a great place to kind of
like sit in this for a minute, because so we started with we have this feeling of
mental, physical, internal, external, and then external.
And I think you talk about Plato and Aristotle and this kind of debate.
Is it internal? Is it external?
Yeah. And then we get to dualism and Descartes.
And but really what we're trying to figure out is like where what's happening here?
Is it with something was just all in our head from the beginning and in terms of the
way you described the the rats that are born, right?
Like, is everything like that given to by God?
This this is the this is the argument that Busaki is basically has joined.
I mean, this the inside out versus outside in approach.
I mean, is either or which I'm against the either or, but it's got that is right.
That that's clearly right.
So I think I may have already told you that Mary Peterson and myself and Drew Maurer
and Sarah Burke in University of Florida, they were former students of Bruce McNaughton
and Carol Barnes. We've been working for several years now, just slowly working and
working our way into trying to spell out a hybrid.
A hybrid between the inside out and outside in approach to thinking about how the brain
represents meaning, you know, it's essentially that the question we're talking about
today. We have made very little progress so far.
I actually don't think we've talked about that yet.
And that's really interesting that that's going to have to be another subject.
I need to read up on that because I really feel like holding the paradox.
That's how I say it philosophically is like I think the hippocampus is like trying to
help us do that. Right. Because you can't go in either direction all the way.
You need both. So how do we do it?
And it's it's hard to think about, you know, that can't be one or the other.
It can't be an either or somehow.
Or it's both. I mean, yeah, it's like it's a it's a new way to have to process this.
I think that's it's that I think all this research that you're involved in, at least
from my perspective, is showing us a way to do that.
But it's very hard because you have everyone in their own camps trying to kind of prove.
And that's part of the process itself.
But I don't want to get too distracted away from the topographic maps yet, because this
word map is really important.
I think it can kind of like lead us because and there's this very cool thing in case
people don't know. Is it Penfield who came up with the sensory or the sensory homunculus?
Was it Penfield who kind of mapped it?
You've probably seen it like a picture of the brain and there's this weird creature.
Yeah, that's the somatosensory homunculus.
I'll show a picture of it.
But basically what that's showing is that in the brain, most people's brains, there
are certain areas that are associated with certain parts of the body.
Right. You can sort of it's not like map is a tricky word.
We could get into that. But more or less within the brain, as it's developed with the body,
there's a certain part that's got a lot of attention towards, for example, the hands or the lips or or so.
Well, I mean, what we're not what we're finding out.
That was what the Kavli Prize was about, was the face systems.
It's usually more than one area.
I mean, the sensory homunculus that Penfield pointed out, you know, would make you think
that, you know, there's this one place in the brain where the face is represented.
Well, no, there's about seven or eight face patches, it turns out, you know, of of increasing
degrees of complexity, you might say, and an increasing degrees of invariance.
When you get to the sort of top of that hierarchy, you have a system that is representing a face
no matter which angle you're seeing it in and so on.
So so but basically, yes, the brain has these somatic and motor.
I mean, the motor system is the same. Right.
And that's so important what you just said, because I think even in a lot of ongoing
neuroscientific study, it's still taught in the old way, not in the way you just said.
And that's a huge, big difference, right?
That there can be many different places where this is happening.
But it doesn't change. That's the either or, too.
It doesn't change that actually there is associated regularity.
Right. I mean, this is not a map like in this way we thought.
That's the localization kind of argument, basically.
You know, what is the face system localized to one part of the brain?
The answer is no. We now know it's distributed and, you know, into several.
But within but each of the patches may have quite a very specific function and may be
specialization within each of the face patches.
It's not as if all these patches are equivalent, you know, and they're all doing the same
and collect. And it's not. Yeah, it's not like they're changing all the time.
So I think like to try to connect it to what we were talking about before, you know,
we come into we're trying to understand how the things that we are aware of our
experience are related to life and how the brain is doing it.
And so, for example, with this map, you can kind of understand that certain sensory
input with certain parts of the body, of course, like if you hurt that part of the
brain, for example, in that individual, then it's going to affect that part of their
bodily experience of the world and movement.
Undoubtedly. Right. Exactly right.
And all this. So that's the connection.
Right. Yeah, that's the connection.
But things like that are all relevant to this.
And Ramachandran has done some really lovely work on about this kind of stuff.
Right. So what do we make of that, though?
I mean, again, that's a you know, that's sensory monoculus that Penfield, by the way,
he's part of the history lecture that I'm putting together because Penfield even goes
back to McGill, too. Exactly right.
He was a critical link between the neurosurgeon who did the surgery on H.M.
And Brenda Milner, who ended up studying H.M.
and Sue Corpin, Penfield was the critical link.
He brought in Milner, right?
Or he brought well, he he brought in Hebb, who brought in Hebb, who brought in Milner,
right? Brought in Milner, who brought in Corp, who sent Corp into work with Milner on
one. Yeah. Yeah.
And Penfield is part of the story, which is kind of cool.
Yeah. Right. So that, you know, that, you know, that, too, is a little bit like the,
you know, image on the retina.
I mean, we don't, you know.
Yes, the brain is organized in that way that there are these topographic maps, so to
speak. They are distorted visual system.
There's even distortion within the visual system is, you know, asymmetries and all
kinds of eccentricities and so on.
It's not a kind of a flat map, you know, that accurately represents the 3D structure
of what we seem to perceive as Euclidean world.
That's not the way exactly, but it's roughly topographical because that there's real
computational advantages to that.
And the same must be true in the somatosensory maps.
There must be there's got to be computational advantages to having, you know, those
things represented in neurons near each other.
I mean, for start, then you're then this becomes a wiring issue.
Right. And I think I mentioned it and I don't know that I mentioned it in the lectures,
but I probably in the chapter that I could never that I didn't manage to get the 1980
chapter, you know, the the computational advantages of of of having things close to
each other involves this sort of minimum minimum wiring constraint, you know, which
evolution presumably prefers.
You want to have things that need to talk to each other as close to each other as
possible. You also need to have long range communications because, you know, et cetera.
But to the extent to which you can have nearby things that, you know, that are
functionally near each other, that, you know, that's that saves extra wires, which saves
metabolism, which, you know.
And by wire, you're talking kind of like Hebbian synoptic.
That's like a separate issue.
No, this this is just an issue of of development.
I mean, when you're when the brain is developing, I mean, it takes it takes.
So they're literally connected with by synopsis or how do you think a lot of energy
to to to make connections between neurons and the and the greater the distance between
two neurons that are meant to talk to each other, you know, because they have some
similar some similar function, the more energy electricity.
Yeah. So you're literally talking about I'm really talking about the connection, the
nearness in space.
Yeah. The nearness in space, you know, is a is a big advantage from, you know, all of
the things being equal. It's a big advantage to have things near each other if they're
doing if they're doing something similar.
That's why the absence of any topography in the hippocampus initially struck people
as this is so crazy.
Basically have the neurons that represent two places in the world that are really
close to each other in the world.
They may not be anywhere near each other in the hippocampus.
They could be, you know, it's random, you know, it seems like, you know, there's been
some argument about that. But so the hippocampus was this non topographical map.
That's what made it so kind of cool initially in the context of what we knew about
visual maps. It was something that, you know, it's not only visual, it was known early
on that it was more than just visual.
But, you know, most of the experiments default to vision.
You mean the rats moving around the world that sees what's out there, blah, blah, blah.
And yet the way this the way the brain mapped it wasn't topographical.
And that I think that's part of that either or holding the paradox coolness of the
hippocampus, too, that we that everyone's having to deal with that.
But this is very interesting because let's like, OK, so this this idea of top
topography is quite amazing, right?
Like this was an amazing thing to figure out that within this organ in our body.
Yeah, probably different for everyone.
But as you develop, probably you come with certain regularities that everyone shares.
But as you develop certain parts of your brain are going to correspond to certain
parts of your movement and your sensation and the body parts.
Right. And that's fascinating and so cool.
And then we thought of that as a map, right, that you can map this on to a brain.
And this is where the representation gets confusing because topography doesn't solve
the problem of representation.
It doesn't solve any of that stuff we were talking about.
But it starts to seem like now we have a representation.
But actually, we've drawn a diagram, which is the representation of kind of being able
to create another third thing, which is a kind of map of like, OK, this part of the
brain corresponds to this part of the body.
But then, like we were saying, people start thinking there's a map in the brain.
And this gets kind of confusing.
That's exactly right. Exactly.
I mean, it solves no problem at all.
I mean, it solves the mechanistic computational problem clearly, but not the
meaning problem. That's not the meaning and representational problem.
So, I mean, a lot of the work that is being done is really focused on the mechanistic
problem. I mean, how is the system doing, you know, creating these maps and how are
these things being and how are these things used and so on?
But how do we know? Like, how is this experience that right?
Like, yes, we found that wonderful correspondence and that tells us something.
But to then think, oh, well, that's what's happening.
That's how we have this little movie in our brain.
No, it's too it's too confusing.
But, you know, we don't have this little.
We don't have that. And I don't think quite honestly, I mean, I certainly don't have
any really clever ideas about it yet.
You know, I know this week there's going to be a visitor here who's who is from
Israel, a guy, Yoram Burak, who collaborates with with Edvard
Moser and probably my Brit as well.
And and he's a former student of of
Sampolinsky. I can't remember Sampolinsky's first name.
He's really one of the grandfathers of computational neuroscience.
You know, I'm a lot of papers are coming through my mind now.
Trying to sort of figure out how a tractor networks and how all these things end up
representing. I mean, that's really what they're trying to get at.
But but they're really working on the mechanistic issues.
I mean, how does it do the job that it does?
And they don't really unless to maybe until you'll liquor them up a bit.
They don't they don't want to they don't necessarily want to talk about
the meaning question. I mean, how does this set of activities come to
represent something in the way of meaning that thing, you know?
Now, how does it result in kind of experience?
And I mean, we don't even have to get into that.
But it's interesting that you bring that up, because, right, I think
you know, we're kind of jumping around.
But we got to this idea of it not being a map in the brain.
But for a while, we sort of thought, OK, there's like a little picture in the brain
and there's a topographic map and there's an image and so on.
And through the now we still confuse all of these words,
even thinking about computational representation in the brain is a similar,
I think a similar mistake to thinking of maps in the brain.
But it doesn't mean the word map or the word computation is like wrong.
It's just that we get confused, you know, about.
I don't think that is the problem at all.
So you get so you get somebody like Tim Barron, you know, is arguing
that some kind of a geometric six fold representation
is the common code for the way the brain represents information.
It's going beyond the, you know, building off the grid cell notion,
you know, and how well the grid cell population tiles the whole environment.
You know, he's jumped.
He's taken that idea and sort of said, well, you can find this kind of six
fold representational structure to the to the population code again
all over the brain. He's arguing.
And I think I and I talked to John about this as well.
And John, we also think that he's probably gone too far here.
But even if that were the case, even and you think about the grid cells, I mean,
what is it about the that particular computational structure
that causes it to mean what it means,
you know, or that we think it means, so to speak, that it that it what it means
is something about the structure of the space that the that the
animal is moving around it.
Totally. This is great.
This is great, because I think, too, that he's gone too far, so to speak,
and trying to be so specific about the six fold, so on and so forth.
But what I like about his work in that Tolman Eichenbaum machine
is exactly that he puts Tolman and Eichenbaum together, because
I mean, we kind of skipped over like so thinking about maps.
And then I think in your lecture, you go into sort of feature detection
and contrast and Hubert and Wiesel and all this.
And it's kind of moving more towards where we are now population coding, right?
Where you're you're looking at regularities and so on and so forth.
And I bring that up.
But then also the Tolman Eichenbaum, like I would like to hear
your perspective about like those not fit together.
You know, I can bomb this idea.
And well, what's the idea?
What do you see as the core idea in the in the in the Tolman Eichenbaum machine?
What is it doing?
Well, I mean, I think I would need to think about that a little bit more.
But I'll tell you what I'm trying to get at here in terms of this conversation.
So Tolman is associated with the cognitive map, for example,
or the idea that like when a rat is moving through its spatial location,
that's also a kind of knowledge, so to speak, and that we could map it.
I mean, I'm I'm now giving him words he doesn't necessarily use.
But in the same way we draw these little homunculi kind of things,
we could probably do that with certain individuals or certain rats
in terms of how they're moving through space
and how certain parts of whatever is happening in the hippocampus is happening.
Right. And it gets way too confusing.
I'm not saying it's a sixfold this and that and that.
Tolman didn't care about that.
No, he doesn't care.
He was not into the brain.
Tolman was just talking about the cognitive structure.
But that moving through a space is a kind of knowledge, right?
I just think that's an obvious kind of thing that we can say.
The knowledge that Tolman claimed was the knowledge,
the kind of what leads to what knowledge.
I mean, what Tolman claimed was that the animals form a kind of a mental map,
a map of the world, something like a map of the world in their in their head.
Something like parts of the brain being associated
with regularities in the way we described with the topographic map,
but not so hard and fixed as that.
But something like that going on.
If you pushed him, he might have said that.
But he really didn't ever talk about the brain.
Yeah. But that same kind of idea, right?
That as you develop, of course, you kind of associate certain regularities
with certain whatever functions.
Yeah, that would be the modern way of talking about it.
So that's the Tolman part of it.
Tolman talked about the representations
that our brains must be forming and the fact that they can be used
as in predictive mode, that, you know, a good way to say it.
And that basically they tell the animal, if I do this,
then the following is going to happen.
You know, you know, he he connected all of those dots cognitively, right?
Which is which is great, because that's kind of like a map, right?
Because you use it in order to sort of infer where you're going to go.
That's why I built on that.
Exactly. And that goes into the beautiful book, which we've discussed.
We put that as a starting point.
But so what?
So now tell me about the Eichenbaum part of it.
OK, well, this is what I don't think.
I think I'm missing something because I feel like there's a lot of controversy
or fighting about something.
I don't know that I really understand Eichenbaum totally
with this idea of association.
But I guess what I what I think is kind of clear
and what I like about the Tolman Eichenbaum is that we can understand.
We could probably find some way.
I don't think anyone's found it.
But to understand that the same way that we study how,
for example, we move through physical spaces
and that all of this that we've been talking about,
there are regularities and we could probably find maps.
And I mean that external maps that we draw or computational models that we make
is what I mean by representation, that we could also do that with other spaces.
Like because we're setting what a space is.
You set the little room for the rat,
but you could also set a little knowledge space, so to speak.
And for me, it's still all regularities that we've learned
and you're still moving through a space in a similar way.
I don't mean that like the way we move through a room
and the way we move through a book are going to look the same.
But there's probably some kind of pattern or regularity
towards how we could understand those processes that is the same.
That's how I see that connection made in a nice way.
But I could be wrong.
I mean, I don't understand what Eichenbaum is so controversial about.
Well, I think the controversy comes from the fact that, you know,
this idea is built on the kind of Eichenbaum
and Eichenbaum and Cohen, really notion of relational memory, you know,
and the brain is coding these relations, you know,
and the hippocampus in particular is a relational memory device.
So that would be this either or thing, right?
So that then precludes all the other stuff we're talking about, is that?
Well, not really, because I mean, they may think it does that.
I don't think it does.
But it seems like people take it that way.
And then I can understand the controversy, I guess.
I think it's the it's I don't think the idea is so much as
so much controversial as vacuous.
OK, well, what what is the idea that because I think I'm missing what that is.
The vacuous part is that
is that Eichenbaum talked about this as a as as one of as one
piece of the kind of brain's function.
This relational device, right?
You know, the hippocampus is is specialized to kind of create these relations,
you know, and it does it for space and for all these other things as well.
Right. That's the point you're making.
The problem is everything the brain does, not just the hippocampus,
everything the brain does is relation.
There is no non relational part of the brain.
It does not. It's a nonsense idea.
Every neuron gets inputs and is relating inputs from multiple sources.
There is nothing that is non relational.
It simply is not a it's not a useful explanatory idea.
So to the in my view and also John and I are very strongly in agreement on this.
There's there's just no it doesn't help you.
Everything is related.
So that he's saying that so is he saying the hippocampus
is main purpose is to relate?
Yeah, his yes, uniquely so.
OK, and there are other parts of the brain don't have this kind of special,
you know, ability to relate things to each other is the is the is the core
of the icon bound cone relational idea.
And that is built into this Tolman icon bound approach, you know,
that that you have this unique relational device.
But that's crazy.
The whole brain is a relational device.
Everything the brain does is relation.
OK, see that I didn't get it all that it had to be a device that's relational.
To me, it was much more of a theoretical,
very much grounded in
the things you start with in your book, with space and how we how we understand
space and as you said, as you said yourself, they're talking about it
as an association machine.
The Tolman icon bound machine is a machine that makes associations.
But but that's an association is just another word for a relation.
It's and the brain is in the business of of everything is associative.
There used to be in psychology this kind of big distinction
between associative and non associative learning,
as if there could be such a thing as non associative learning.
Right now, I think it's still talked about as if as if associative.
I mean, people don't talk the way I agree with what you're saying.
But this is confusing because when in all brain research,
we don't talk about the brain as being like that.
Yeah, no, that's the reason why there's this controversy that some people
are kind of taken up by this idea.
Oh, that's a really cool idea.
You know, you've got this special relational associative device,
the Tolman icon bound machine, blah, blah, blah,
without actually kind of digging deeper and, you know, trying to say, well, OK,
what's the rest of the brain doing?
Is it doing non associative things? What does that mean?
Every part of the brain is doing associative things.
There's no there is no distinction.
Otherwise, you know, otherwise,
the brain would just be a bunch of isolated wires,
you know, going from in and out, but there'd be nothing else going on.
It's I agree. But we don't we talk about associative memory
as if it's one kind of memory.
We don't talk about all memory as well.
What I'm trying to do is what I'm trying to tell you is that so-called
non associative memory, which were things like habituation, sensitization.
They're not non associative.
I agree 100 percent, but it's not the way you're taught that, you know.
So I can just imagine a lot of people aren't even understanding
that that's what he's saying, you know, because you're right.
That the objection I'm making is not one that is widely
kind of mooted in the, you know, in the in the literature at this point.
But sooner or later, people are going to realize that it's a vacuous
that this idea, I think they're going to realize that this is a vacuous idea.
It doesn't get you anywhere.
I don't think it's vacuous, but I think it's not like an answer.
It's a for me, it's like a tool to rethink
some of these things, like even, you know, tolling.
I love tolling in these different kinds of memories, but we do need to do
some rethinking about how we categorize all these memories and things.
And I guess like being a little bit kind of, you know, not really under.
I haven't studied.
I have studied I can bomb and all this from an angle that I
from which I want to see things, right?
Not and everyone's doing that.
So I can see how this gets incredibly confusing.
But to just not try to stick it to to to like a theory,
I think what's interesting is like for me, and you might really disagree
with this, is like, that doesn't seem so far from a cognitive map
in the Tolman sense of like.
Like, I wouldn't say, for example, that, OK, we're just just because
we can understand that cognition is that when we are moving through a space,
that is also a kind of knowledge.
Then we just say, OK, everything is movement and everything is knowledge.
I mean, we could also kind of do that, too, right?
And that would be vacuous.
But instead, if you really look at at what's being said there
and you start to understand.
There's actually very big, huge differences
in terms of these parts of the brain, or even if not, right,
even if some other part of the brain could become something like the hippocampus,
it would still be interesting that the brain itself, some in some way,
is developing some kind of regularity
that can then be used in many different situations to.
Yeah, I believe, however, that every part of the brain is doing
what you're just saying, that that is not unique to any particular system.
That's just the way the brain works in every part of the brain is extracting
is engaged in extracting the regularities
from the input patterns that it receives, basically.
And and those input patterns necessarily include relational information.
They have to. They always do.
They're not about like one point in space.
They're always about things that that involve relations.
So my problem with that approach is that it doesn't seem to me to add
any useful explanatory power to the to any other story.
That one, you know, that one it's, you know,
it's basically gets back to everything is associated.
You know, everything is associative.
And, you know, that again, the philosophers were OK with that idea,
you know, that the brain works on the basis of associations.
That's that's what it does.
And it is not this part of the brain that works on the basis of associations
and extraction of statistical regularities and so on.
It's every part of the brain is doing exactly that.
That's kind of incredible.
I mean, I think if you take we don't have time to go into all of your work,
but the things we've talked about in other discussions together
and the reason that I believe this whole kind of toll on through you,
through the Mosers, all the stuff that you're now celebrating there,
I think at the in Trondheim,
I think this is incredibly important because it does show us something
that does tell us something about what we were trying to talk about, about
how we can be in the world and experiencing the world.
And that's like a continuous thing.
Does absolutely it does.
But we're back to the kind of inside out versus outside in.
And why does it have to be either or?
I mean, this is the right.
And what is the what is the magic sauce
that is going to help us understand, you know, how both of them,
both the internal structure, like that shows up at day ten,
you know, independent of experience and the actual experience
that the organism has, which actually then refines the shape of the Taurus
and refines and then the grid cells emerge after the Taurus.
Maybe it is something like the association, though.
And I don't mean that in a vacuous way, but I mean,
connected to all the research you guys are doing.
It is start to think of the brain in that way.
It is. And you think of it in that immediate sense
you brought up at the beginning.
Actually, we get somewhere really new and beautiful.
I hope you're right.
But the problem is to go back to representations
is we can't get rid of that, trying to find it in the brain
or find it in the world.
Right. Instead of understanding
association as a process that can't be
isn't represented in the brain or the world, but we can represent
with the books we write and the computational models we make.
And I mean, the notion of a representation in the brain
may just be a slice through a moment in time
and that the representation is really some combination
of the structure of the brain and the structure of the of the world
and the inputs from the world to the brain and the and the tight coupling
between those two and the and the kind of compromise
between those either or positions is figuring out
how that coupling works, basically.
And when you say, you know, this activity in the brain
represents X and X about the world,
then something about the world is, you know, part of that story.
It has helped create that, you know, that's that set of brain activities,
either phylogenetically or androgenetically.
And, you know, the answer is going to be found somehow in the interactive
kind of reentrant, you know, recursive sort of language
that the brain uses, you know, to sort of interact with the world.
And that's kind of what we're working on in trying to figure this out.
Is the the the middle the middle ground has to be,
you know, somewhere between those two.
And how does it and how does how does a particular network
come to have the meaning that it has?
We're no longer talking about patches or maps,
but, you know, an entire network or population of cells,
how do they come to mean what they mean and and how do they come to have
the power they have to to generate behavior, so to speak?
And it's got to be some interaction
between what's out there in the world and the experience the organism has
and the and the kind of the prewired structure of the system,
which was prewired because of millions of years of evolution,
you know, that built it that way because it actually worked in the world.
And so it's got to be connected to the world in that way.
Another free device, basically.
The point I was trying to make about
what I come out was that no matter how you think about this,
it's going to be an associative device of some kind.
Right. And so, yeah, yeah.
And that's that might be the contribution that I'm thinking he's bringing,
because I don't think we talk about it like that.
And I don't think it's actually vacuous to talk about it like that.
If you if you bracket it in a lot in the way we're talking about,
if you just say, OK, the hippocampus is little device in the brain that does this.
OK, that's and it does it through this and this and this.
OK, then we're getting like that's not going to help us.
I'm open to that possibility. Yeah.
But I see I do see a way that those things aren't.
There could be help helping each other this tradition
that is, you know, so important to me that you guys are all there are doing.
And what he was trying to say sometimes in probably almost a cartoonish sense
about about there being a way in which
this is happening in all these different contexts, you know.
That's how that and how does that work?
But you know what? What?
You better not. We've we've run out of time.
I know. I know.
We have to go. I have to I have to quit now.
So we can.
Yeah. So we can pick this up again, you know, next month.
You know, we can set up another talk in Tucson.
Yeah. Well, you can I read your your talk that you're going to give there?
Maybe I will.
Or some part of this history thing.
Yeah. Or or or send me some of the stuff
you were just talking about the hybrid stuff to that.
That's not ready. That's not ready.
Well, then maybe your talk with you or something.
Talk, which is really a different thing is just interesting history.
I can say that once I have the PowerPoint finished, then I can send you this.
Then I can, you know, and I think a lot of it on the slides.
I mean, some of it, some of it won't be.
But most of the most of the story will be on the slides.
OK, that would be great.
Yeah. OK, let's do that.
Done with it. I won't be done with it for another week or so.
But when I'm done with it, I can send it to you.
And I'm in I'm in research mode, so I'm going to be I'm finally staying still.
So when you get back and settle, just let me know.
We can back the second of October so we can set something up
for the middle of October. Yeah.
We're out in a month from now. OK, that would be perfect.
Yeah, sounds good.
It was fun there. Oh, yeah.
Always fun. Send me the paper.
