Hey Timo. Hey Andrea. Nice to be here. Welcome to Love & Philosophy.
We're just gonna have a little chat here about your work and research. Natalie. I'm all ears.
I'm here. Yeah, where are you? I'm actually based in Switzerland, in Lausanne, the French
part of Switzerland. You're working on a PhD, right? That's part of what we're... I'm working
on a PhD. It's been already four years since I embarked on this intellectual journey with
highs and lows, let's say. Started pretty much randomly. I applied at a position at the Swiss
Post, the national post company of Switzerland. And they were interested in hiring me within their
corporate learning and development department. And they saw that I was, let's say, intellectually
inclined and said, Hey, why not start a PhD kind of with us in synergy with us. And I received the
challenge of basically see how to kind of, what would be ways to apply artificial intelligence with
corporate learning and development. So people development, learning, all that huge space.
Kind of, I like to use the, to borrow the terms from design science research, where you have a problem
space and you have a solution space and you try to bridge the two. That's kind of what was suggested
to me quite early in the process of doing the PhD. And within those two big fields that I arbitrarily
tried to categorize within cognitive science, I tried to find my niche and what I was most interested in
is how can somebody embark on a personal development journey by themselves.
I do want to say there's this notion of scaling self-actualization, which is kind of what got us
to decide to just have this little conversation. So these are really interesting terms, scaling
self-actualization. So I just wanted to mention that before, before you say, but yeah, I would like to hear
what happened before you started the PhD? What were you studying? What were you thinking about?
Does this come only from a sort of academic or business sense? Is there something personal
involved in this too? Because you know, you're working with technology, you're working with a
possible political or business model. You're working with therapeutic, psychological issues. So I
wonder in your own life, what threads brought you into that?
A very good question. That's, it's actually kind of all those threads that you mentioned kind of
joined together to give me a sense of purpose. I was, it was, well, a few years back, actually,
actually just before I was applying for that position at the Swiss post, where I was kind of
at a low point in my life recently broke up and I felt a bit purposeless and somehow all the stars
aligned to kind of make that one North star that I want, that I was seeking kind of light up. And I was
trying to pursue that North star. What do you mean by that? North star is that scaling of autonomous
self-actualization. That's the best I can do at the moment to phrase it. Somehow it, yeah, it goes
into that direction that well, I see the potential to apply technology for one's self own kind of one's
own well-being. So that's what I was pursuing because well, at the time I was really going down
the rabbit hole in psychology because only a few years before that I discovered the work of Jordan
Peterson completely by happenstance. I was browsing online gag, looking at memes and suddenly this guy
with a Kermit frog voice
appeared like all over the place with a meme about, with his interview about Kathy with Kathy Newman.
And from there, I discovered all his lectures that was posted on his YouTube channels. And that just
opened up a bit the realm of psychology, something I was always interested at, but kind of from a
distance because my background, both academically and professionally, it's more business administration.
I did a bachelor and a master's degree in business administration. I was working for a few years in a
larger multinational company based in Switzerland, kind of worldwide famous company. And I was always
approaching stuff more at the economical or business point of view, a systemic, more large scale and
something was missing. And that's where I kind of discovered the whole realm of psychology. And that
took me down on this path. So it was Jordan Peterson, really, that sort of, that was when you first
started with all the psychology. Yeah, he's my gateway drug into cognitive sciences. Yeah, this is really
interesting. This is very, because I mean, when I was studying philosophy, I studied neuroscience and
philosophy. And so basically when I was in these cognitive science departments, you couldn't mention
the name Jordan Peterson, because some people just thought like it was, it wasn't real psychology or
something. I mean, he's a psychologist, he has papers and, but there was something, I think it was around
that same time when you discovered him, there was a crazy hype about him. There was a lot of controversy.
So yeah, I struggle with that a little bit. I, you sent me some things from him and I hadn't listened
to him. Someone that I was dating actually once gave me one of his books, The Map of Meaning. And
that was a long time ago, but I was glad that you sent me these podcasts and that I listened to him.
I listened to the one with him and Carl Friston and Frivaki. But in any case, it was very interesting,
very relevant. But I wonder, like, what was it about him that really drew you in?
And just out of curiosity and out of trying to dispel some of this weird dichotomous stuff where
you can't be interested in someone like Jordan Peterson and also study some kind of very heavy
academic philosophy. I don't like that and I want to get past it. So for me, it's interesting to think
what this actually, this sounds like it really did something very good for you. So I just wonder, do you
remember what that was? Was it like waking you up in a way or something to some other ideas or?
That's a very good question. Yes, that's what I would, it kind of woke me up. It activated me,
it put me, it confronted me to loads of stuff that I haven't really been confronted to or kind of
willfully ignored in my life. So more personal issues.
Yes, more personal, I would say, and relationships and also the beliefs I had in the sense that
I would say kind of during my late teens and twenties, I was rather, let's say, progressive,
liberal in the American sense of the term. I was also liberal in the English sense of term,
classical liberalism, and I was trying to figure out stuff. And I had quite strong,
kind of, I had weak beliefs, but strongly held. And he kind of opened up that kind of, he put a lot of
doubt in my head and what brought me to kind of be taking him seriously as well. That interview of
Cathy Newman, just the way he conducted himself, how well-spoken he was and how he received all the
attacks from her because that was her job. And he really calmly just stayed at the level of like
reason and logic and start citing and really that intellectual integrity that kind of spoke to me.
And from that, I discovered all the other material that he had and where it was way deeper. And the
more I went into it, the more I questioned myself. And it was just more about like, okay, yeah,
let's take personal responsibility. And it allowed me to reconceive loads of stuff in my life and
gave me more, I'd say, purpose, more realism. It was more practical. It allowed me to see my own
situation more pragmatically and kind of, okay, I have to take ownership of my life and how to do
that. And it's interesting that you mentioned the dichotomy because well, since then he's been
wildly famous. He's a household name and there is this dichotomy about him, the people who hate him
and the people who love him. Yeah. And that's not helpful. Exactly. That's not helpful. The thing is
that we have to put him in context of kind of in which context does he speak about which topic. And
based on this, well, you can take stuff and leave others. And what kind of baffled me was how
simplistic and superficial the conversation about him is. Whereas, well, all his material is available
through internet, which is kind of, I'd say, something that is a first in our history. Let's
say that so much material of such quality is freely available at that scale so that everybody can just
go back to whatever the source material is and check for themselves. But that's very demanding in
terms of time, in terms of cognitive resources. So a lot of people just stay at that level of the
dichotomy because, well, it's a simplification of your worldviews.
Yeah. This is interesting. I didn't know we were going to get into Jordan Peterson,
but actually I think this leads to a lot of the other things, but it's kind of almost like when
something is too popular or too many people who aren't in the know, like studying philosophy like
it, then it must be wrong, which seems almost like the opposite of what the point of psychology and
philosophy should be, should probably be access and healing and connection and so forth.
But there's also, there can also be this peril, which I think all these guys have probably felt
in a way of once you're so famous and so public, you can start to take yourself a little too
seriously, or it's really easy to get lost. And then you have all these people listening and looking
at you and so on. But what struck me when you were talking, you said something about the Kathy
Newman, and I can't let that go because I don't remember exactly what that was, but I feel like it was
something about women, wasn't it? That conversation? It was a whole conversation that was a very,
let's say very, I wouldn't say controversial topic, but very contentious topic in the sense that it was
about mostly the gender pay gap in the UK. And he was interviewed as a social kind of as a social
psychologist in the sense that kind of, he was bringing a lot of social study kind of
sociology studies about like large scale effects of personality and how does this play into the wage
gap and so on and kind of, yeah, that was what it's what it was about. And what I like beyond kind of
beyond the topic itself, which is actually kind of merits its own deep dive into really trying to
understand what's the reality and watch what should be said, what should not be said, what's relevant,
what's not relevant. It was more the confrontation from like two, two people, and she was really in attack
mode and trying to corner him. And he was calmly dismantling all her arguments and responding calmly
with a lot of facts and good arguments and reasoning and trying to put things in perspective
while staying calm and also witty and also a bit humorous. It was his presence, right? His presence is
sort of palpable on film of his calm demeanor and that he's really taking in what she says and able to
respond. And I think that's why we won't get into this gender thing because that's just too much.
I could start to feel, what is he talking about with women? It really is hard to kind of open the
space and let everyone talk. But I think what you're saying that I want to go towards now is that it was
a time of your life when you didn't feel like you had much control and you didn't feel like you're maybe
being present in that sense. And you saw this person who was, and you wanted to know how he got,
like, what is that and how do you get more? I feel like a lot of, especially maybe men,
I don't know if that's good to say, but there, that was a time when I think a lot of people felt
very powerless. And also when we start to think about self-actualization, that is like a demonstration
of it. It could be seen as a demonstration of it, that someone is so poised and calm and present
in that way. Does that resonate at all?
Well, it's definitely something that I wanted, therefore, to emulate. It was something I was
looking up to. I was just discovering him. And from that, I also discovered kind of a lot of other
virtues that I kind of dismissed earlier in my life, willingly or unconsciously. I don't know.
And yeah, it certainly appealed. What kind of virtue?
Well, more like, let's say personal responsibility. I was mostly looking at stuff from a systemic point
of view and organizational point of view. I was working within a large multinational
in the fast moving goods industry. And a lot of my thinking went into, well, let's say environmental
issues. And I was just kind of trying to reconcile between, okay, what an organization was doing,
the production, the logistics, kind of the scale of just like the human activities, what's,
what impacts that has on the planet and kind of on ecosystems. Let's not talk about the planet,
but, and trying to reconcile with also the motivation of people working in those larger
companies because I was within the corporate learning analytics department. It was mostly
about governance, let's say, and there it was about like large scale population within a company.
It's about 300,000 people worldwide and trying to do strategic planning. And that's where like,
okay, just, okay, trying to go into, okay, we have a position, it's called medical delegate.
Why do they have a turnover kind of, kind of two year tenure and a high turnover rate. And then you
go into those, like, it's a bit of a segue, but you go into, okay, the profession of medical delegates,
there is a strong regulation in some markets, less in others. And that's where the reality is,
okay, those people, they were working for two years within that company,
building their portfolio of kind of network, their portfolio, their skills, their experience,
and then they moved into another industry that was similar, but where it was less regulated,
or there is more financial incentive. And therefore they, they moved out of that because of that. So,
that brought back to the psychological reality. And I was just trying to make sense how the world works
and was way too overwhelming. And therefore I stayed at the level of, I wouldn't say victimization
personally, but more like, oh, everything is doomed. We're screwing up the planet. We are producing
way too much. Everything, there is an inertia, anything is doomed. And I was like, and there's
nothing that can be done because the power in play are too strong. And it removed the sense of agency
from my life. And unconsciously, I was therefore suffering from that throughout the years. And
suddenly I was at the point of my life where I kind of had to reconceive stuff.
That's really interesting that you bring in the ecological, because I think that happens a lot
when we get involved in environmental issues and we really start to see what's going on and what it's
really like, that it can just become, it's easier somehow to just get, be overwhelmed and feel like
there's nothing we can do. And it's interesting for me to think about that kind of a feeling and the
environment and the ecological connection. And then also this business corporate environment that you're
describing where it's almost like we have to play roles there. You develop a kind of role
and then you play it in that environment. It's very different from this authenticity that I feel
like you noticed maybe in Peterson or something where even if you hate him, you feel like it's authentic
or something. So I don't know. It's interesting to think about you being in this corporate environment,
but also obviously you had a connection to the environment that starts usually with a very personal,
emotional kind of connection. Were you also kind of playing a role in terms of the business
side of things? I'm trying to get at the ideas that I think are motivating a lot of your work now,
which is this idea of trying to be better, not only as the scale of the individual, but within the
societies that we're part of and within the ecologies and the ecosystems that we're part of.
I guess you weren't feeling that connection at the time or I don't know.
I wasn't, or I wouldn't say I wasn't, I would say kind of it didn't reconcile with other aspects of
my perception, my understanding, because just to bring some nuance and balance to what I had,
what I just said at the same time, there are also so many amazingly competent, but mostly also
authentic and motivated and good people working in those in that large company. And also just
thinking back also what that specific company brought to the world, to different people.
It's kind of difficult to reconcile stuff. And especially then more in my private life in
discussions, suddenly just evoking the name of the company with conversation with people. It was
immediately that dichotomy of like, oh, I love their products or like, oh, they're the evil incarnate.
And kind of that's, it was a struggle for me to kind of, to not feel a lot of cognitive dissonance in
that sense.
And therefore I, at some point I was like seeing that, okay, I was operating
in two different realms and there was no connection in between. And that's where kind of personal
crisis without going into the word trauma led me to kind of better understand myself. So I did a lot of
work on myself with, with therapists and that led to a better understanding of myself. And that opened up
just the fact that, okay, I was completely disconnected from my emotions.
Let's not exaggerate, but let's go with, with that metaphor of I was, I had that dichotomy of at the
same time as some, I'm somebody very sensitive, very emotional. And at the same time, I'm very say
logical and intellectual and kind of, yeah, pragmatic and rational, let's say. And it was, there was a
dichotomy there. And through the work that was initiated in my personal life and in my intellectual
explorations, it slowly built those bridges. And then throughout the years, I was struggling with
just like reconciling those things, but it led to a much more granular worldview. And that's where I just
like spotted all those, it's a bit easy to say that, especially the, considering the title of your
podcast, but those dichotomies, those dualities that were split, that were isolated, that were not
connected. And that led me to open up the complexity, which actually say I'm still trying to recover from,
because even at the same time, it was burning off a lot of dead wood, using a Peter Sinian metaphor.
It was, yeah, completely changing me. And now I'm still trying to up my new self. And that led me to
those intellectual inquiries and where I'm really fascinated about like the, yeah, the capability of
self-transformation. And from that, I went into the whole ecosystem of those brilliant scientists
that are freely available, kind of, that you have a direct connection with them through podcasts. And
kind of, that's how I went into this space. What you're saying resonates a lot with me. There's
all these different landscapes that we live within or scales at which we live. As you were saying,
there's always this kind of dissonance between what the corporation stands for in terms of,
even in other people's eyes, what you're trying to do, being an individual or being just associated
with that. I think it's very similar to what we're talking about with Peterson too, where that's
probably a lot of the resistance people feel. They don't want to be like lumped together with that
energy or that group of people without even understanding what they're, what that group of
people is. So there's always these kind of strange scales that we're trying to
somehow make sense of, like put together. We don't really, I feel like that we don't realize
that it's okay to have many different kinds of landscapes that you're involved in and to maybe even
be a little bit different in each of those landscapes, but to still be able to kind of look
at all of those and reconcile them. It can be very hard. And also when you go deep into the psychology
and you start to have your own feelings and emotions that are very strong, that can be kind
of hard too, because when you go back into those other environments, I don't know if you ever feel
it, but it can feel like, oh, how do I be that person in this environment? I guess you had therapy
yourself and that can kind of help bring all these different worlds and scales back together again. But
when you're thinking about designing some technology that can help people do this, and do you see that
as one of the goals of self-actualization? Is it trying to bring all these different scales and levels
and selves in a way, even our individual self, our corporate self, our ecological self? Is it a way of
helping us understand those as separate, but also part of maybe one process? Do you think about that much?
All the time. You kind of, yeah, you put your finger on exactly the essence of kind of the
questions I'm wrestling with. And there, I mean, from what you just said, it's about like, well,
identity and between, let's say your personal identity, social identities, because at the time,
my master's degree and my master thesis within my master's degree was about the mentor-mentee
relationship within a, let's say, startup context through the lens of social identity theory.
And that in conjunction with the discovery of Peterson's work and lots of other work and so on,
we're going into the realm of psychometrics with also the big five personality traits and all sorts of
other psychometric dimensions, tools, measurement, whatever. This really helped me to
reconceive the world from more kind of from a subjective in the sense from a human dimension,
rather than from a system or ecological point of view about the technology. I see really the power of
technology to help on that self-transformation, self-actualization journey. So I'm going to try to
open a bit some topics without too much so that we can still somehow close them together. All this,
I would say, kind of comes down to one word that I really try to build as a brand, which is
ipsaity, which is, I think it's a Latin root. I think it's a concept used mostly in philosophy. I cannot
claim that I fully understand it yet, but it's basically what I try to brand my whole venture on.
So define it for us, from your point of view. Ipsaity is ipsaity, from my point of view,
there's an official definition, but my point of view ipsaity is like the quality of you being you.
So it's what makes a person unique and that linked in terms like circumambulation in the Jungian terms
of, and also religious term of circling around the sacred object, the concept of self-actualization,
where it's about self-transcendence, Jungian terms of individuation. So it's all the question, okay,
what does, what does make me? And just asking that question and going a bit more into that direction,
you realize that, okay, what is me and how is it not changing constantly? And that's where you open
also the dimension of biology and neuroscience. And you realize that, okay, your cells are completely
changing and transforming on a daily basis on a, I don't know the scales, but yeah, it's constantly
changing. Everything is dynamic, right? Exactly. And so that's the question, okay,
but still there is a sense of selfhood and having kind of studied that in my master thesis from a
social identity lens where it's highly dynamic and trying to just understand that. And at the same
time, okay, what's still that, that I, that sense of myself and observing myself being different in
different time, different spaces. It's kinda, it's highly complex. And the more you try to understand it,
the more you see the complexity and it's just overwhelming. That's where I discovered also,
kind of, it's something I discovered when I was 18 through the work of Jacques Monod,
one of the founder of modern biology, the concept of entropy, kind of, it's not him that coined this,
but through him, I discovered that. And through the work of Jordan Peterson and a very specific
blog post, I discovered also the concept of psychological entropy. And I was just some,
that really spoke to me in the sense that, okay, conceive psychological entropy
as a multiplication of possibilities. And since you have multiplication of possibilities,
you don't know which to choose. And therefore there's no clear path forward to come back to way
making. And therefore you are more stuck and kind of having suffered from crippling anxiety.
It was always something that kind of, I never could properly define it, but suddenly through loads of
stuff happening on internet, I suddenly came about that word of crippling anxiety. I, because it's my
second language in English, I always conceptualize crippling as handicapped, whereas actually crippling,
it's just like, it blocks you, it freezes you. And just that, that, that link between, okay,
psychological entropy and let's say freezing, crippling anxiety, uncertainty, not knowing where to go.
Oh, that just, that spoke to me in that. Let's stop there for a second. Yeah, please.
Because this is, you've, this is really fascinating. And I don't want to go over all that too fast,
because what I hear you saying is, it's almost like there's so many cells, so many options,
so many possibilities, the more you become aware, and the more you learn, it seems to kind of
computationally explode. And there is a kind of feeling of entropy in that there is an entropy,
like, you feel like you're always trying to keep, minimize, to talk about minimizing surprise or
something. You're always trying to kind of minimize it enough to survive, but also that can become this
crippling anxiety of either you don't know which path to take, you don't know how, what is the
through line that is yourself as you were discussing, or even just this, I think also what you're bringing
out is just this becoming aware of yourself as a subject and how that can almost be a crippling anxiety
at first until you learn how to deal with all these selves and possibilities. It's very delicate,
real psychological stuff. But something I really wanted to bring out was what you were talking about.
What is it that's the continuity of self? Of course, this is a huge problem in philosophy
and psychology and neuroscience. You can look at it so many different ways, but how I've come to think
of it lately, and something I'd like to talk to you about as we get into this idea of entropy,
and kind of where I see you're going as we talk about what you're doing, is that it's a pattern
that's similar. Not necessarily that your body's staying the same, as you said, all the cells are
changing biologically, everything's changing. But there are kind of patterns that are similar and
that overlap. Even the me that's in the corporate environment, the me that's with my friends, the me
that's with my husband or lover, you know, there are still always patterns that are similar, even if
there's a lot of divergence. And as you know, with this idea of waymaking, what you say is really
resonant, because each individual, just because you're a different spatiotemporal position that
comes into the world, you're going to develop in a unique way. So there is something unique. There's
no question about it. There's going to be a way in which you're moving and making way that's unique to
everything else around you. And there's some way in which sharing that becomes very meaningful.
But first, you have to get through all the stuff you were talking about. And we need help with that,
don't we? So yeah, I'll just like, how did you start to deal with this crumbling anxiety
and this idea of entropy, which can seem like something we want to push away, but we kind of
have to bring it closer first, don't we? So that's kind of what therapy and what I think your technology
can do. But I'm just wondering, yeah, maybe start there, like back there.
For sure, spot on, in the sense that, well, let's conceive it in the sense of a journey within a
landscape. At the same time, I was like, I was opening, kind of, I was opening up the exploration of my
ecology, of my environment, of my spaces, that increased dramatically
the entropy, because I was suddenly more aware of everything that I was not aware of before I was
not conscious enough. And something, just maybe putting a pin on it, since also this podcast is
about love and philosophy. Well, we men, very simply put, we are mostly activated, or we become conscious
because of women, or thanks to women, let's say. And kind of, that's kind of what happened to me.
But therefore, I was suddenly, it kind of activated me in the sense that it led me to try to be even
more aware. But that drastically increased my entropy, my uncertainty, my anxiety. And while I was exploring
the understanding of that complexity, okay, why is this happening to me? What's happening? At the same
time, I received also, through the same work, the same people, the same intellectuals, the same, yeah,
the same spaces, I received also the, let's say, the solutions, the tools. And that's where I just came
across this, it's incredibly simple and elegant framework that can allow me to just make sense of,
okay, not completely disintegrate into a puddle of possibility without any sense of self or unity.
It was the Maps of Meaning from Jordan Peterson, to go back to him, which is really something very
simple. You are at any point in time and space, you are in point A, and you want, which is the
unbearable present, and you move to, and you want to move to point B, which is the ideal future. And you do
that dynamically, constantly, infinitely, and along the way, well, therefore, in order to move to point B, you put
in place a sequence of behaviors. And that's just the simplest framework of how we operate psychologically,
based on him. Then you complexify it a bit in the sense that along the way, since you put in place
sequences of behavior to move towards point B, well, you encounter something that is salient
in your affordance landscape. And what you encounter, you very quickly conceive it either as an obstacle,
and therefore opens up all the cascade of psychophysiological consequences, or you perceive it as a tool.
And same thing. And then comes in, and so that's already kind of, that allowed me from that very simple
complexify a bit, and then conceive it even more kind of simply, but it was a tool that helped me just navigate
this, like, oh, I want to move there. Because at the moment, it's unbearable. Whether I want it or not,
I want to always to move to point B, in the sense that I could be in the most comfortable situation,
lying down and whatever, at some point, I'm going to be thirsty, or hungry, and I want to move towards
something, or just like micro moving my muscle, because it's slightly unbearable. So and that's where
comes in the word of dukkha, I think, from Sanskrit about life is uncomfort. Yeah, discomfort. Yeah,
discomfort. Thank you. And so this framework just allowed me to navigate that opening map of the
ambiguity, uncertainty of the psychological entropy that I had. And that simple framework then allow me
to move into even more solution spaces, in the sense that then it was at another level of analysis,
this is more philosophical, even, I would say, theological, the notion of chaos and order,
and that you are the agent that traverses chaos and order, and that within order, there is a potential
for chaos, and within chaos, there's a potential for order. And just that infinite cycle of that
dichotomy that we kind of I would say intrinsically naturally go towards, you can still move beyond
that dichotomy, while not being completely overwhelmed by the infinite complexity of reality.
You got a way to kind of go step back and see yourself as moving in a landscape, this can be just
so helpful as just a way to conceptualize that there's space around you. Because in those moments,
you can feel so trapped and like, as if there's no way you can get out of that discomfort. So it can
just be so helpful to even imagine it, okay, I'm here now, there's a lot of space around. It reminds
me when I used to feel depressed as like when I remember being at the beach, and feeling kind of
sad and thinking, I think I even must have read this in some Buddhist texts, but looking at the ocean
and seeing like a little boat, and thinking, okay, that's my problem now. And there's this huge ocean,
and how helpful that was to just be able to conceptualize
this landscape in that way, which reminds me of the ship of Theseus. Do you know this?
I've heard it quite a lot recently. So that's another synchronicity. It's been over the past
month, I think I heard it three times on three different podcasts, but I haven't looked into yet.
But okay, I'll do a very brief, you should look into it. But yeah, you remind me because there's,
okay, it's a philosophical problem. Basically, there's a ship that starts, I'm going to generalize,
but it's an old ship, right? We're back in the day when there's like wooden ships, and it's going to
travel around the world. But of course, it starts at one point, and it's going to come back to where
it started. But along the way, of course, it has every single plank has to be replaced at some point,
because it's the water is seeping in. And so on every crew member at some point has to be replaced,
too, because it's a very long trip, it takes forever. So by the time it gets back,
every plank has been changed, every crew member, there's really nothing there that was originally
there when it started. So how is it the same ship? I think that speaks to what you were saying about
the self, how do we know it's the same self? But that's also kind of the answer I have is that it's
the same pattern, right? The pattern is the same through that whole shift, and it's dynamically
changing the very minutiae parts over time and space, but the pattern remains. And I think that's
an interesting idea to juxtapose with what you were saying about, you sent me this Peterson paper,
and you reminded me of that, too. I think it's from like 2012. And he's talking about entropy as
uncertainty emerging as a function of this conflict between all these different worlds, or I think
he puts it in terms of affordances, right? You have all these possible behaviors, perceptual affordances,
and that's where the uncertainty comes, which is kind of what you were expressing, too. And it sounds
like it gave you a way to conceptualize all of this, and to start to reconcile these different scales of
self. And also it gave you access to other people who had been through it, and to possible other
trajectories that you could see the regularities of those fitting with yours in a way so you felt less
alone. And there's all these kind of layers of how it can help. So that said, I want to know what's
this grateful chatbot in the paper? I read a paper of yours, and I'll link to that. But in that context,
what's this grateful chatbot? Just maybe briefly, what are you trying to do? And because to me, it
sounds like you're trying to do something like this gift that you received from this access of technology
and openness in terms of Peterson and probably others. Definitely. So to link that back to really
from the very deep and very abstract and very philosophical, it helped me to conceptualize,
it helped me to navigate, but I was still stuck with, okay, what should I do? Because despite suddenly
constraining the possibility to, let's say, my immediate possibilities, the immediate possibilities were still
almost unending. And there was like, okay, I need to point at something following his suggestion.
That's where I also discovered, kind of suddenly stumbled upon a interview with Elon Musk, where he
says about like, okay, first principle analysis. That's why I went deep into really, let's say,
the kernel of our psychological functioning or waymaking with that maps of meaning. And I was like, okay,
I need to do something about this. And that's where the sudden realization of, okay, I want to
scale autonomous self-actualization. So let's start with scale. Scale is about like, how can we,
well, scale it up and scale it down. Then it's about self-actualization. And then scaling is mostly about
technology, let's say. Self-actualization, no, sorry, then comes autonomy. The thing is that, okay,
autonomous, you want to do it by yourself. And then the self-actualization. I would simply put,
conceptualize that every self-actualization, self-transformation, development, growing,
learning, go through a conversation, whether it's a conversation with yourself, with other people,
of or with, let's say, an abstract third party, whether it's an object, a landscape, a deity, whatever.
The thing is that all those conversations have huge entry barriers for loads of people,
whether it's financial. I mean, a coach, a personal coach is very expensive. There is time in place,
but that's just the financial piece. Then there is the cognitive limitations, the emotional limitations,
the cultural limitations, all those barriers that makes it quite harder for people to go into that
conversation about their own transformation and development. So that's where I see, okay,
you need the mediating agent. And that's where I was starting to discover technology on the technology
front. Chatbots became very huge and there was more and more buzz about it. That was back in, let's say,
2014, 15, 16, and so on. Even kind of really when it was like, I'd say at the height of hype before 2022,
it was, I would say in 2018, 19, it was really like one wave of chatbots of conversational agents.
Before chat. Then I was, yeah, before, that's way before that. And there I saw that, well, chatbots
would be a great way because it's interactive, it's dynamic, it's similar to a conversation,
whereas it's not a text because that's also very cognitively demanding for lots of people.
It's not a conversation audio because the technology was just not for speech to text to speech and so
on. It wasn't really there technologically. So I was like, okay, let's go with no code solutions,
meaning that I don't have to code because I don't have a technical background. So let's build a chatbot
that would mediate. And therefore I just explored and tried to figure out a way to design this so
that it's still dynamic without having to parameterize every single thing in the conversation
and how to take into consideration the complexity of human. And therefore I tried to build a no-code
solution and I based my first experiment on a gratitude intervention protocol based on Andrew Huberman
the Huberman Lab podcast's exploration of the literature around gratitude in neuroscience.
He derived a very easy protocol that takes less than five minutes, completely free, very easy to do.
But even there, there might be barriers to do that by yourself. So that's what I wanted to do.
I tried to build the technological infrastructure for this, but suddenly now there was a huge shift
in technology with the event of ChatGPT in the large language model. And now it just opens up to
possibilities that were not possible before, at least at that scale, at that level. And what I'm trying
to do now is to, instead of going from very precise stuff and try to build from there, taking a more
holistic approach and technologically, what I aim to do over the coming year and I guess years,
because it's quite an endeavor is to build what's called technically in the industry of artificial
and kind of generative artificial intelligence, a RAG pipeline, a retrieval augmented generation
pipeline, where it's about enhancing the reasoning and let's say, computing, processing a capability
of a large language model. And now even large multimodal models from Google, open AI, whatever,
like all those, this space is completely transforming itself constantly. How can you enhance those
capabilities with more knowledge, more cognition, more structure while being adaptive and be personal
and allow for autonomy. And that's where my simple solution, but actually that opens up a huge complexity
is, well, let's build an ontology. So it's basically a representation of a reality
structured in, let's say, a graph, a knowledge graph type of technology, where it's just nodes and edges
of concept being linked together through language. Let's say a pizza is cooked in an oven, is heated by
either gas or is heated by wood and so on. So that's a very simple ontology.
Let's build an ontology about self-development, self-actualization of personal development,
of human development. But at the same time, how can we ensure that this doesn't go into
combinatorial explosion or goes into a false route that is like a dead end.
And that's where I hope to build a second ontology that will kind of bound the knowledge
of that large language model in order to constrain them to remove the relevant ground and see things
more saliently in the interaction with the coachee for personal development. So very simply put,
an ontology that is about cybernetics, which is about helping the machine navigate through the immense
knowledge that we have over the whole history of mankind and beyond about human development
and an ontology, which is about the knowledge about human development. The interaction between the
large language model and those two ontologies would help to have a more productive, tailored
conversation about development with the coachee. So that's what I want to put in technically, but also
let's say conceptually by just starting to build that. And that's what actually has been done
by science, let's say over the past hundreds of years. The thing is that now, instead of human
doing that, the machine can do it by itself, hopefully. So simply put, that's what I aim at.
That last part is kind of tricky for me. This machine can do it by itself because as I understand
it, you would have to train these algorithms. I mean, even if it's GPT, it's always trained. And the
information is often coming from many different sources. And that's why there's still like this kind of
entropy or, I mean, you don't really have the entropy in the machine, but you have this in the
relationship, you still have the entropy because there's always kind of differing views still coming
in the training data. So I kind of wonder, first, I should say, I love this idea because
to have something you interact with daily in a way that's not static and that's kind of helping you
actualize in the sense that you described seems like no brainer, definitely a good idea.
But also dangerous in this way that I was trying to describe, because if the training data is only
coming from you for your interaction, you're going to end up in loops, aren't you? No matter how smart
the AI is. So I find, I wonder if I'm just missing something or like, have you thought about, yeah.
Is it trained from therapists like in real life? Is it really, are you really disconnecting it completely from
the human coach? That's the, that's the, let's say the problem space that I want to find solution for.
And those are the challenges in the sense that, well, first of all, we have to
go beyond the dichotomy of, is it good or bad? It's neither in the sense that, well, it's one solution
to a very complex problem. And it's one, what I aim at is an artifact and therefore it's an object.
And therefore it should be considered either as an obstacle or as a tool to come back to the
Petersonian maps of meaning. So this is very pragmatically, it's just one tool in the arsenal
of a person to navigate their own, let's say, conceptual landscape. That's where I see it's when
the rubber hits the road that is actually kind of in those details that it's the challenge, but
conceptually, well, I perceive large language model. So this new form of generative kind of this new
form of generative AI that we have available now, I see them as both a knowledge engine and a reasoning
engine. And without opening up all the complexity and technological complication behind,
I see them as they basically were artificial brains that were trained on everything available
to the people that trained them. And through this, because people are using it somehow,
it is sufficient for people wanting to interact with that machine. So I consider like they have
been trained on, let's say, everything. It's incomplete, it's biased, who cares?
What I want to do is use those capabilities to just crunch through every piece of knowledge that we
have available about human development and build an ontology upon of that. And there,
my own assumption is that another ontology about cybernetics, since it has been well studied, putting
the principle of cybernetics into a, let's say, another large language model that would be
specifically trained or fine-tuned or constrained by this would allow a more targeted and relevant
usage of that knowledge. And we couldn't go into loops or we could, could go into opening up the
possibilities. But that's where cybernetics should constrain it because it's based on a goal to achieve.
And therefore it should always find a way to either open up or close or open up and close and through
the iteration. And it's very conceptually and pragmatically, I see loads of solution, but kind
of that's where I'm at. And that's what I'm pursuing as a challenge, let's say.
That's interesting. So you have to find a way to build in, it goes back to what we were discussing
in terms of entropy. In a way you have to find a way to build entropy into the system, but not to the
point where it's going to crash the system. So in terms of cybernetics, it's almost not like a loop.
They call it a loop, but it's not really a loop. It's more like a spiral. You never,
you come back, it's that pattern thing again. It's the same kind of pattern. You're coming back
to the pattern, but you're observing it and you're, it's changing each time. There's a little bit of
entropy that comes in that you have to deal with and in dealing with it, you grow and change. It's that
very delicate kind of spiraling that I think you could build into an AI.
And I think one thing I do want to bring up is that you start with actually the group, right?
You talk about how to build like resilient and adaptive public relationships and systems.
So maybe that's a way too, that if you're starting with a complex system, if you have a lot of input
and a lot of different systems, human systems, working with it in that way, maybe that's already
kind of at least a solution in the short term and in a way to kind of work it out so that when you get
to individual, you have a lot more entropy, good entropy. Sometimes entropy sounds such a bad word,
but sometimes that uncertainty of one system is the certainty of another. So when you have this
group of people, you do grow and help each other. So I don't know, that's just a lot of kind of
thoughts, but I guess before we go, what would you, like, what do you really want for this? I think it
goes back to the boat. I think you said you want it to be kind of like the captain's first mate or
whatever, helping the person navigate through the waters or something. Do you still see it like that?
I see the, let's say the social landscape is a fleet of boats navigating the ocean of transcendence.
And that technology, that artifact, the tool would be the first mate of a person's, of a person's boat.
And they are the captain of their own boat of self-actualization to come back to the metaphor of
Scott Barry Kaufman. That technology would be the first mate. So it's not the, it's not the, in the driver's seat.
It's just a help along the way. It's the first mate. And then that's on the individual, because I start
from the individual, but then it trends kind of, it translates into, well, the social landscape that we're in,
and everybody's on their own ship, but those ships are navigating the same water. And that's where you
open up the whole other can of worms and complexity and challenges. And in the paper, I try to highlight
where I would like to go next, which is a public sense, making a social landscape sense, making
rather than it's, let's say an individual sense, making machine or tool or artifact. So that, but that's
even more broad and future oriented. And I'm definitely not there yet. I have my conceptions,
my ideas practically and conceptually, but let's start with the individual.
Well, it would certainly be helpful if we, if you or someone could help us design some sort of
technology that could help us step back in the way we talked about that a lot of the sources of
Peterson and others helped you step back and see yourself as part of a landscape.
I feel like with our, in terms of the political and social environment, we kind of are stuck in
these trajectories and it's very hard to get everyone to collectively step back and see that
there's many other trajectories. There's many other ways of being in this water and this ocean of even
getting to the same place in the ocean. So I feel like you're heading in that direction of a way to
give us that kind of a perspective. So I wish you a lot of luck with it and we'll have to talk about it
again once you've proceeded further. But last question, if you think about yourself back in
that moment when you were needing some, some help navigating your boat, how would this have helped
you ideally? Like, what would you have done? Would it have been a daily thing where you're talking to
the chat bot daily or like, how would you imagine that, that, that you back then?
Back then, obviously I had the vision and let's say fantasy of being Iron Man, Tony Stark and
discussing with Friday or with Jarvis and just having somebody that would, that I can converse with,
that would help me to put things in perspective to kind of put, yeah, see where I, oh, you're going
into that direction. Are you sure? Is this logical? Does it make sense? Hey, be careful. You need this,
be careful. You need that. Hey, there, you're doing your job. So everything that let's say people
would bring you, I hope a machine can, no, everything that you would hope to get from other people,
you would get also by the machine just in order to, to ensure the minimum to be able to function more
properly as a human being and also being, yeah, feeling more wellbeing psychologically. So that's
what I, so I would see interacting with it daily and just a companion that helps you ground yourself
and helps you figure out stuff and helps you navigate, yeah, navigate to that really, that
companion that would help you understand the point A you're in, that is unbearable, what you should do to
move to the point B, to understand which point B you want to aim at, to make stuff irrelevant, even
further irrelevant that you think are relevant, but actually are not, or on the contrary, all the things
that you think are irrelevant, but actually should be relevant, make them relevant so that you can have
a more, a better path. So it's really a navigational aid. It's a GPS for your conceptual landscape.
That's how I would phrase it.
I actually like that a lot better as thinking of you as the captain of your ship and you have a crew,
but actually this isn't one of the crew members. It's actually a tool or even maybe a smart ship
that, that helps you in that way. So that kind of shifts it. And then it becomes a facilitator for
your human relationships and your human life rather than something that you're just waking up and spending
your day with this AI machine. I mean, that, that could also be the, that you just get stuck in that
relationship, but actually what you just described is more like a facilitator, almost like an emotional
sort of GPS as well. But it's, I think, is it right? The main facilitation is between you and your ecology,
all the different scales of beings that you're interacting with, not just you, yourself and the
machine. Indeed. Definitely. Yeah. That's yeah.
Okay. Well, that's great. Well, I wish you lots of luck and thanks for reaching out and sharing it.
It's really been interesting for me to even just to open up to Jordan Peterson. That was important
thing that I hadn't done yet. So thank you. My pleasure. Thank you. It really helped to better
phrase my own stuff at the moment. So thank you for this. It's been a really engaging conversation.
Thank you a lot and looking forward to the next one. Yeah, me too. Be well. Thank you.
Thank you.
