Hey everyone, it's Andrea.
This is a conversation I just had with Bernardo Castro.
I'm actually posting our first conversation later this week and I already had it ready to post.
And then I was just writing with him about that and some other things.
And we decided to just jump on and have a talk about everything that's happening in the world.
As I just got back from the United States and from voting, I'm just going to post our
conversation, just raw as it is.
I'm still trying to understand everything that's happened.
And maybe you are too, and maybe it helps to just hear us talk about it off the cuff
without any kind of notes or whatever.
We just had a few things we thought we'd talk about and we talked about them.
That was what we did today.
It was all very impromptu.
And I really appreciate Bernardo.
He hung out for three and a half hours to talk about this stuff, even though I think
his back was hurting and who knows what else.
So we both hung out a while to talk about it because it feels important to just talk
and try to understand what's going on and how we feel about it.
And I send you all a lot of love no matter where you are or what side you're on or
what's going on.
I hope we all find good ways together.
Honest ways, authentic ways, motivating ways, exciting ways.
So here it is. Here's Bernardo and I talking and talking.
All right. I think it's all good.
OK, so I already asked you how you are in the aftermath of all that is going on in
the world now.
Yeah. How are you, Bernardo?
Given the circumstances and the times we live in, I'm doing all right.
And my little microcosm here in my family, my friends, my life is doing OK.
Of course, I am worried about the world.
Yeah. Were you shocked by what happened in the U.S.?
Recently, on November 5th?
No, I think for those paying attention, the writing was on the wall.
I had a hope that things would go in a different way.
Not that I was cheering and supporting the other side.
I think, unfortunately, Americans found themselves in a situation where you had to
choose the lesser of two evils.
But evil is a strong word.
Do you really mean that? Or is it?
No, I just use the word because it's part of a normal expression.
I don't mean that.
Evil, true evil, insinuates itself in a way that most people would never use the
word evil for when it's beginning to insinuate itself.
That's what we've seen historically.
True evil, when it begins, doesn't look like evil.
It looks even reasonable.
So maybe the word is applicable here, but it's not the reason I used it.
I used the word simply because it's a normal expression used in daily life.
Yeah, but it gets used a lot.
And I guess it also gets to this dichotomy thing that interests me a lot
based on these themes too.
But, and I do wonder about your views on that because I think it relates to
everything that's going on now.
Do you believe there's this good and evil in a really absolute sense?
There are these things that happen in the world that we call evil, right?
That's an empirical fact.
Is the word evil the appropriate one?
We can have a discussion on that to do what we mean by evil.
Do we mean fundamental evil or do you mean something that because of ignorance
ends up doing harm, but it's not fundamentally evil?
So those discussions we can have, but in colloquial language, this stuff we
refer to generally as evil, that stuff happens.
Look at Europe right now.
Great evil is being done.
Completely innocent people are being killed for absolutely no good reason
other than to push the geopolitical, mystical hallucinations of a dictator.
If you, if the word evil is not appropriate for that, what is it appropriate for?
So evil does happen and it insinuates itself very seductively in the beginning.
How do we deal with the fact that from different positions, the word is defined
differently though, because even the situation that you just brought up from
the position that you and I are in, I know exactly what you mean and would agree with
you, but if I were in the position of the people doing that, for example, I don't
think they would agree with that.
And they might even have very legitimate from their point of view and their
development reasons to say maybe that where we sit right now or someone else is evil.
So that's a very confusing and hard thing to deal with and talk about.
How do you think about that?
I think it's very dangerous that we find ourselves in a relativistic moral morass
in which we say that good and evil are relative and there is no truth.
It's all about points of view.
I don't think that is valid.
I think there is a reality to human suffering that when it is imposed on someone
unfairly, it should be called evil.
And that's an absolute thing.
It's not a matter of point of view.
We have all experienced injustice.
So we know, we all know what I mean by that.
The problem is that since we are conceptually thinking monkeys, we tend to
replace the rawness of certain absolute reality with internal narratives.
And we lose sight of the direct acquaintance with the reality of an evil
deed where we replace that direct experience with conceptual frameworks
and narratives that sort of muddle the waters, makes everything unclear.
And we think that's the reality then that lack of clarity belongs in the world
instead of just in our own minds, our own narrative making about the world.
Once we slide down that slippery slope, we get into an abyss in which there
are no clear moral guardrails.
You can justify anything by telling yourself an appropriate story about it.
So I'm sure that Putin doesn't see himself as evil.
He thinks that he is ensuring the future safety and prosperity of the Slavic peoples.
And that the price to pay for that, even though it may be very high in terms of
the direct suffering and murder and torture of the Slavic peoples today,
we may calculate that in his fantasized conceptual hallucination, that is a worth
price to pay for future generations.
Of course, that's a delusion.
Putin is engaged in mystical thinking here.
He thinks that there is such an entity as Russian, the Slavic peoples that is above
the actual lived reality of the Russian and the Slavic peoples today.
And there is no such other mystical entity, such an abstraction that makes it
worth to pay a horrible price in the concrete real life today.
It's not there, but one can delude himself or herself to think along these lines.
Hitler thought he was bringing the German peoples out of misery.
It's not that I don't agree with you on these things, but I find that it's very
hard to nail it down.
Do we just end up saying, okay, we just all fight for our position?
And in the end, it all comes out in the case of Hitler, for example, like over
time, it becomes clear to most people what that really was, right?
And so we could maybe think that what's going on in the world today, over time,
it's going to become clear because it is evil and there is this kind of, these
regularities show themselves with time, but you brought up narrative a lot in
there too, and that's a word like with the US election that's been used a lot.
And you know, there's all this kind of, everything's about the narrative and how
strong your narrative is.
And as we know, like you just said, Putin probably believes his narrative and
there's some kind of weird thing that happens.
Maybe you could say what you think about this, but as I see it, that people really
believe in their narratives and therefore they, there's a power to that
convinces others that they're true.
And I'm not sure just rely on this time and that history will tell,
feels adequate either.
It almost feels, yeah, I wonder what you think because I'm someone who I don't, I
do believe with time, the truth comes out and I'm not a person who wants fighting.
And I would don't say if you're killing people, it's already on the side that I
don't want to be on, but of course there's exceptions.
That, that sort of narrative too can have its trouble.
So I guess I just wonder how you deal with it because it's a paradox that we
have to hold, but I think it's hard to hold that the more you believe in your
narrative, even if it's wrong, the more you're going to convince others it's
right often.
Yeah, I agree with you that ultimately the truth comes out and you might then
ask, why don't we learn then historically, which because our lifetime is so short.
We are mayflies.
A lot of young people alive today have no relationship with what happened in the
1930s.
They never met someone who was alive as an adult in the night, like I did,
because those were my grandparents.
They were alive at that time.
I heard the stories.
Some of the people telling me the stories told me as, okay, look at that.
How could you be so foolish?
And other people in my youth, oh, the old people of my youth, they had seemingly
plausible and reasonable justification for what happened.
And to their into their old age, they thought it was justified what Hitler did,
what Mussolini did.
So I was exposed to that.
I remember real alive people very close to me in my life who experienced that.
But if you talk to an 18 year old today, it's it's very abstract.
It's something far in the past.
And of course, in the absence of at least an indirect relationship with that, you
may have to learn all over again.
And some people who maybe did have a relationship with that, maybe they didn't
have a close enough relationship.
People my age, maybe they didn't have a close enough relationship.
Maybe they were far away.
They were in another continent.
And so they they didn't retain the warning that the ability to detect the
warning signs, they don't become emotionally alarmed enough when those
warning signs repeat themselves, that they can anticipate where things are
going, because their original relationship with the historical learning was not
close enough.
They were not close enough to those experiences.
So that happens.
But yes, truth will come out and every three generations we may have to learn
it all over again.
Now, narratives, I think the greatest danger of our age is the surrender to
the pernicious idea that all of reality is just narratives, that there is no
such a thing as truth, as facts.
This is how people are being manipulated in the early 21st century.
In the 19th century, manipulation was done by the creation of an alternative reality.
In other words, it would just lie to you.
And I'm not talking only about Soviet Russia here.
I think it's important that we in the West also recognize that the liberal
media has lied and manipulated us for decades.
This whole thing started, forgive me for going on a rant now, but this whole
thing started because the entire Western world, the Allies, after they beat
Germany, they learned from Germany because Germany invented propaganda.
And in the West, we realized the power of that, the power to manipulate people
and how it could be used for profit.
And so the discipline of public relations started.
You're talking about like Bernays and Freud and all that connection of kind of...
That came before that, but studying the human psyche to the point that you know
how to influence it for manipulative purposes, the Nazis were very good at that.
They basically invented propaganda at large scales.
That's how they got their people to do what they did.
What is that exactly, do you think?
Is it knowing more than the people that you're trying to swing one way or the
other and using kind of emotional tactics?
Is it just as simple as that?
Because sometimes I just feel like it's a stance, right?
It's, for example, like music.
If you hit certain chords, you're going to elicit certain feelings.
And yeah, it was just that realization, do you think that that's possible?
And so they had power because the other people hadn't realized that yet.
Even if you realize that this is what's been done to you, it still works because
we are all human psyches and the human psyche has the ability to turn in upon
itself and study itself.
And if you make that your life, your study, you will find out many methods to
effectively get us to buy certain products, to want certain trips or to vote in a
certain way.
So we learned that from the Germans after the war.
And that has become public relations, propaganda, marketing, things that we
consider acceptable.
And the liberal elites have employed that onto their peoples for decades.
And it's important to acknowledge that even if we, I mean, forget MAGA, that
election already has happened.
It's water under the bridge.
But even if populism in general is something that we do not agree with, we
have to acknowledge that the root grievances are valid.
And it's not only this.
It's not only that we have been manipulated and lied to by liberal media,
liberal elites for decades, which we have.
It's not as evil as people portray it, but we have.
There are other reasons.
It's almost like a habit that everyone's in.
Even people who use social media assume the stance of that's what you have to do
in order to participate in a very, there's degrees, of course.
But do you know what to manipulate?
Yeah.
But even something like, I don't use social media so much, but I always hear
people talking about like on Facebook, you basically are putting your, what you
want other people to think about your life on, on there.
And that's a very gentle kind of a manipulation.
And it even has some effect of helping you feel better about your life.
And it's completely understandable and so forth.
But I guess what I'm saying is just is infiltrated to such a degree that it's
almost like we assume that stance is the only kind of stance you take when you are
trying to somehow have some effect or agency over the way people see you.
I even don't think that is too dangerous.
I think it's psychologically dangerous in the sense that it could lead you
to depression unnecessarily, but we are narrative making monkeys and we are
not going to be otherwise anytime soon.
And it's part of what it means to be a human that we experience reality through
the intermediation of narratives that started happening 30 to 50,000 years ago.
And when we started thinking symbolically, when we started replacing
direct empirical facts of reality with symbols that represented them, like
words, like paintings, when we started replacing reality with our own symbol
we erected this wall of narratives between us and the absolute facts of reality.
So what we experience is, in fact, how our narratives are modulated by reality,
not reality.
There is always this layer of narrative making in between.
And that's part of what it means to be human.
It's not good or bad.
It's just the way it is.
I think what is incredibly dangerous is when we say there is no reality behind
the narratives.
There are only the narratives.
That's the post-truth world.
And it's a much more pernicious world because its effect is to reinforce that
which it is meant to combat.
So what is the original grievance is we have been lied to and manipulated for
decades.
Is this true?
Come on.
Who has looked into the facts would deny this.
You can have a discussion on to what degree we have been lied to and
manipulated, but that we have been lied to and manipulated, it's a fact.
And then we, upon waking up to that, we become angry and we try to combat that.
But in the process of doing it, we have fallen into the trap of not trying to
find out what are the true facts, but we've become cynical and now we say,
you know what, there are no facts because until today it's all been a lie.
My entire lifetime, it has all been a lie anyway.
And how can we dig the facts?
It's impossible to dig the facts.
Everything is too complex.
So we fall into the trap of saying there are no facts.
And that's a reaction to being lied to.
The problem is that you just ensured by denying the existence of facts,
you ensure that you are much more manipulatable than you were before.
Because before, the attempt was to see the facts behind the lies.
Now, because you don't believe in facts, you don't even try to do that.
So now, it's a matter of who can manipulate you more effectively,
not who can tell you the truth.
Because if someone tells you the truth, you will not recognize it,
because there is no such a thing as truth.
And you will just go for the manipulator that is most capable of grabbing you
through the doors of your most basic instincts, your biggest prejudices,
the one who mobilizes your primal energies most viciously.
That's the one who you will follow, because you are no longer even looking
for the fact. And if that works, as it's proving to work, it's contagious.
Because even the ones who in principle would be willing to tell you the truth,
they now realize they will lose if they do that.
They realize that's not the game to be played anymore.
Now, the game is how can I be even more manipulative,
more effectively manipulative than the other guy?
How do I do with that?
So what populism is teaching all politicians is that it pays off to lie
and manipulate, which is precisely the reinforcement of the very problem
that mobilized people to react against the moral elites to begin with.
And that, to me, is the greatest catastrophe.
It's to see people who have a legitimate grievance growing about dealing
with that grievance in a manner that only reinforces the problem they fairly grieve
and which may bring about, and this is not exaggeration or alarmism,
but it may bring about the end of human civilization.
Because once you lose not only access to truth, but once you lose truth as a value,
as something to be desired, as something to be aimed for, if you lose that,
if you lose the desire for truth, you can only be manipulated from that point on.
You can no longer be treated with respect.
You can no longer pass moral judgment on things,
because not only do you not have a relationship with truth,
you don't even think you should have.
You don't even think it exists.
There is no such a thing as truth and facts.
The example of the US election, which is water under the bridge, right?
We're not trying to resolve anything there, because it's resolved.
One won, the other one lost.
This is it for the next four years.
But to pick that as a learning example, I heard a lot of people online say,
yes, Trump lies, but at least he's an honest liar in the sense
he knows everybody knows that he's lying.
So now you get the concept of an honest liar.
Wow.
Because he lies so much and all the time.
Everybody knows that he's lying.
So at least that, at least we go for the liar that everybody knows is a liar.
The moment you slip down into that hole,
you become unable to pass value judgments anymore.
You cannot pass judgment anymore, because you've lost entirely.
Your relationship with the fact and truth.
So you can't pass any judgment.
And in a democracy where every vote counts the same, this is a catastrophe.
Gosh, you touched on so many things that I've been thinking about.
First of all, just that there is truth and how hard that is to prove in a weird way.
And I almost think of it like a blockchain, right?
Like things really are happening and there really are regularities and it really is continuous.
So if we could actually trace all of these paths and trajectories of all the decisions we make,
there is one way it happens, right?
Even though there's many possible ways it could have happened.
For me, that's a very simplistic way of putting it.
But I do think there's a way in which that holds.
Even if memory, sometimes we all forget what really happened and so on.
There's a kind of intention that actually is blockchain or a path of links
that can be followed if only we knew how to do it.
That's in the sense that I think, okay, the truth does eventually come out because
it's just there and all of that's going to eventually resonate.
Whether it's like that civilization has to end in the way you just said
or whatever it is, it will all come out and we do all feel it too.
You were talking about the liar that's honest.
This is something I would like to dig into and I don't know how to understand.
That bothers me, not necessarily the results of the election but the mood
or what has happened in terms of what is acceptable but that isn't acceptable.
I don't know, it's all about trying to hold the paradox.
But here I'll just give you an example and then maybe that helps.
But with this election, I, for example, want to trust and believe in truth and all of this
and you want a party that can tell you that kind of stuff.
But then when they're using the same tactics as the party that's lying all the time,
even though honestly, it becomes very confusing.
For example, I've gotten emails from both sides of the campaign
because I like seeing how everyone's talked to.
On the side that's supposed to be honest in the real way, not an honest liar,
the tones are just, I can hardly read them because it's always asking me for money
or screaming about the end of the world is going to happen so we have to save it.
It's like this tone which is just very much using the tactics of the honest liar.
But it doesn't work because they're supposed to be the honest.
Do you know what I'm saying?
So there's something very difficult about it
that one side that's supposed to be honest takes on the tactics of the other
and therefore you do end up feeling as if there's no truth and as if there's no meaning.
Look, there may be no truth in political discourse today
and going forward this will be worse because what we have learned over the past eight years
is that lying and manipulating works.
The more crass and obviously you do that with the least subtlety,
the more you just try to latch on the most primitive emotional reactions that people have,
the more it works.
In the short term.
Yeah, I learned that over the past eight to ten years.
We've learned that this works.
Politicians do what work because elections are set up as a contest,
as a competition to be won or lost.
Politicians will try to do what wins
and they are learning now that that crass manipulation works better than subtle
manipulation, which is what we've had before.
So everybody will start doing that because
and they will even morally justify it to themselves by saying
if I don't do that too, the evil guys on the other side will always win.
So I owe it to my constituency to do what works in order to save the world.
And of course, that's precisely how the world goes to hell.
When everybody loses their moral grounding for
I will use the word they would use for pragmatic reasons.
I wanted to say something else, but I've lost it now.
Look, I think the most important distinction for us to make is that
although there may be no truth in political discourse,
there is such a thing as truth.
Whether it is in political discourse or not,
whether it's captured or reflected in political discourse or not, there are facts.
And we tend now to think, and this is a propaganda tool.
This is what Russian propaganda does.
And populism in the West is picking that up directly from Russia and using it in the West.
What they will try to convince you of is that even if there is such an elusive thing as truth,
it is so difficult to access that it might as well not exist.
And why do they do that? Why do they want you to believe that?
It's because if you lose your relationship with truth, you cannot pass judgment,
and you become even easier to manipulate than you were before.
Because before you were just misinformed. Now you don't even want to be informed.
But the fact is that we can access simple, obvious truths.
If we don't make it too complicated in our minds,
we can access some basic facts that, if we develop a relationship with them,
it will make it less likely that we will destroy ourselves.
For instance, let's just connect to things that are very accessible and they are important.
Number one, there is such a thing as truth.
We may not know what it is, but it's there.
Number two, we should want to access truth, because otherwise we are operating in a fantasy
world that somebody else created for us for their benefit and not ours.
If we don't want to live in a manufactured world that was invented to benefit somebody else,
then we should want to access the truth. That's the second point.
The third point is character matters. Decency matters.
If you are a conservative, like I am, people think I am a liberal in the US sense.
I'm a liberal conservative, which in the US is a contradiction.
But in the Netherlands, you know that there is no contradiction here at all.
It's one of a landscape of 16 major political parties in the Netherlands.
If you are a true conservative, like I consider myself to be, then honesty is important.
Character is important. Doing the right thing is important.
Not lying is important. I only learned that people lie.
After my father died, I was 12 years old. Then I realized that people lie.
I thought, this is amazing. This is a superpower.
Did they try to convince you it was all okay or something?
My father died and suddenly I was more exposed to the world than I was before.
I was growing up and I turned 13, 14, and I realized that people just lie.
How did you realize that?
Because people say something and you look at the facts and it's something else.
Of course, people are lying, right? I didn't grow up in an environment where people
lied and I didn't. My father would confront me and say,
there was no other thinkable option but to tell the truth, whatever the consequence would be.
What I'm trying to say is that populism is latching onto a conservative mindset,
but it is also betraying that conservative mindset.
The basic values of conservatism are well-grounded in truths that are accessible.
They are not complicated.
The truth of acting with decency towards your neighbor is not a complicated truth.
Your neighbor is another human being like you, it's a fact.
They suffer like you, it's a fact.
These basic truths, there is truth.
We should want to access the truth.
Other human beings are like us.
Decency and character is important.
Moral values are important and not complicated moral values.
Very easily accessible moral values.
Don't do it to your neighbor, something you don't want done to yourself.
Don't be evil. Don't be destructive.
Don't be an ass. Be decent.
These truths are accessible and we can pass already a lot of political judgment
through these simple accessible truths.
It doesn't need to be a complicated story about
the statistical abnormalities of vaccine trials.
It would be nice if we could access those truths as well.
But usually we need to trust authority to access those truths
because we may not have an education in microbiology or biochemistry.
But there are other truths that all of us, each and every one of us,
are perfectly capable of accessing and we should not lose sight from those.
They do not require the intermediation of narratives.
They do not depend on storytelling.
They are very immediately grounded in humanness, in being human.
We should not surrender the truth, the accessible truth of our humanity.
We should not become less than human.
And if we do that, I think that is sufficient to prevent a catastrophe already.
But we are so taken in by all the narratives, including the narrative,
that there is no such a thing as truth.
Or if there is, it's inaccessible, that we become very easy targets for manipulation.
And true conservatives are now acting as the antithesis of conservatism.
Conservatism is not about being dishonest.
It's not about lying.
It's not about committing crimes and being convicted.
Conservatism is not about treating your neighbor like an enemy.
This is not conservatism.
Whatever it is, it's not conservatism.
It's a knee-jerk emotional reaction to a true misdeed of governing elites.
That was true.
We have been lied to and manipulated.
But you don't solve that by going for the guy who is lying and manipulating you even more,
or the woman who is lying and manipulating you even more,
who has convinced you that facts don't matter, that what matters is a narrative.
That is the road to hell.
And why do I say that?
I'm not saying that because I'm an alarmist.
I'm saying that because I'm a student of history.
And this isn't even ancient history.
I've known a lot of people who were alive as adults when this stuff happened.
Let me give you an example.
It will be an example that would be comparable to the U.S. election.
But I would do that only for illustrative purposes.
The U.S. election is a done deal.
I don't think people online are telling me,
what should we do now?
We should keep fighting.
I'm like, no.
No, that's not how it works in a democracy.
Once the results are out and they are fair, and these are fair as far as we know,
there have been no massive irregularities, this is it.
You fight the battle or the battle is going.
When the battle is over, there is no more battle to fight until when it comes up again.
But I'm using this only for illustrative purposes for the sake of other elections
happening elsewhere in the Western world in the coming four years.
When Hitler came to power in 1932, he was not the Hitler of 1939
that started the Second World War.
He was a firecracker, but the German governing elites at the time,
they thought he was harmless, that they could keep him under control.
They could build guardrails.
And that was the whole rationale for why he was appointed Prime Minister of Germany.
And then proceeded to completely change the rules of government in Germany
in order to create a totalitarian party, which was the Nazi party.
The Nazi comes from nationalism.
And he hired people who are very good at that, like Joseph Goebbels.
He was very good.
Yeah, and he studied it.
And he really looked at himself and studied the voice.
And it was a complete performance that he created to get that effect.
Yeah, Hitler, he studied his movements.
He would photograph his movements to study them afterwards.
He studied his tone of voice.
He could use voice amplification through electronic means
for the first time at large scale.
Yeah, exactly.
We don't think about that.
The microphone and actually...
Not social media.
No, but using it like what we were talking about earlier,
hitting those emotional points in order to get that feeling
that it does have a physical effect, even if you can counteract it.
Yes.
And people will think that I am inventing this,
but you are probably a student of history and you know that I am not.
The main theme of Hitler's campaign was to make Germany great again.
Maybe these words were not used, but that pretty much captured...
They had suffered World War I, so they were giving money
and they were the losers and they were looked at in a terrible way.
And that was all about what that propaganda did.
I hadn't thought of it in those terms, but yeah, it was about saying
you're not a loser and you're strong and we're going to show them.
Yeah.
So an injustice had been committed to the Germans.
People that was a treaty of Versailles that was incredibly unjust for the Germans.
So much monetary compensation and...
Oh, other things even on an ongoing basis.
In Western Germany, the French had the right to go in and take coal
to heat their houses in the winter and leave no coal for the Germans.
Today we talk about factory jobs.
Others can come in and take our factory jobs
and we can't heat our houses in the winter
because we don't pay our salaries.
So the equivalent of that was taking coal away from the Germans.
If a French officer would pass on the street
and you're a German citizen, you had to remove your hat.
If you wouldn't do that, you would be beaten up.
You'd be lynched on the streets by French soldiers.
So the Germans were humiliated people.
That's the word humiliation and being inhumane, really,
as if the people weren't human.
They had a sense of lost dignity, which is what a lot of people in the West
have for good reasons.
This is not a hallucination.
Liberal elites have treated heartland people with disdain for decades.
This is not a hallucination.
This has really happened.
So that sense of being disempowered, disenfranchised
and of losing your dignity was very palpable then as it is now.
The point I want to make is how one can use or misuse
legitimate grievances to manipulate a whole people
into doing something that is good for that person
and not for the people themselves.
Because that's exactly what Hitler did.
So he prayed on the true grievance of loss of dignity of the Germans.
He prayed on the fact that inflation was very high in Germany,
that people couldn't make ends meet.
They would get their salary in the beginning of the month.
And then at the end of the month, it was measurably less.
But Hitler, who was not originally a politician,
he wanted to be a painter, but although he was technically clever,
he didn't have any creative,
he didn't have that extra thing that characterizes an artist.
Yeah, he didn't make it to art school.
He didn't make it to art school and then he became a corporal
during the First World War.
When the war ended, he thought it was a humiliation
for the German people.
After the war, he continued in the sphere of influence of the army,
even though he was not a member of the army anymore,
until one of his previous commanders asked him to infiltrate
communist party meetings as a spy.
That's how he got into politics.
He was informally asked by the army to be a spy.
And that's how his political career began,
because he realized that he could speak well.
And then later on, his whole platform was based
on this gut emotional reaction of the German peoples
who wanted their dignity back.
And he realized there was a tremendous collective psychic power behind that.
True grievances are things that if you can manipulate,
they give you enormous power.
You can play people like marionettes,
because that emotional force is unstoppable in the human psyche.
If you can channel it in a direction that favors you,
you're the country is now they are your servants now.
So Hitler deliberately focused on channeling that
and trying outwardly trying to restore dignity to the German peoples
and speaking from their point of view,
speaking with anger because that's what they felt.
When people are angry and you speak with anger,
you connect with the speaker.
Nevertheless, despite it being a clear in your face form of manipulation,
it still works.
And in the case of Hitler,
it was even more plausible than in the case of Trump,
because Hitler was a man of the people.
And Trump was born in a golden crib as a product of the elites of New York.
So it is less plausible, but it worked still.
It still worked.
So we have historical precedences for all this.
And this is why I'm so worried about the future,
because the echos are uncanny.
Hitler tried a pooch before he was really elected
and he hardly served anything.
He was convicted of insurrection.
It's a criminal thing.
I hadn't thought of that also as parallel.
But his jail cell was very nice, right?
And he was getting letters and writing books.
Didn't he write his book in jail?
Yeah, he could receive friends.
He basically had free lodging and meals.
He wrote this propaganda book or something.
Yeah, yeah, right.
My struggle, my struggle.
And when he came to power, people also thought,
no, the system is robust.
There are guardrails.
He can't just do what he wants.
His worst instincts, we can manage them.
We can keep them under control.
And then he became the Hitler of 1939
with no guardrails, with complete control
over all three branches of government.
He controlled the courts.
He controlled the legislative
and he controlled the executive.
Oh, gosh, another parallel, close parallel, almost parallel.
The man of the people who was angry and populist,
but people thought cannot be so bad, right?
He has been around for 20 years
and yes, he tried an insurrection,
but only a couple of people were shot
and killed.
It was not a big thing.
He hardly served any time anyway,
although he was convicted.
And probably now it's,
he shouldn't have served any time at all
because he was trying to do the right thing,
even though it was against the law.
Who can trust the law anymore in Germany,
given what's happening.
The government is now our enemy
and an enemy of our enemy is our friend.
That's how the thought goes.
And throughout it, nobody understood
what it would become.
Otherwise, it would have stopped.
Once people began to understand it,
they tried to kill Hitler 32 times,
if I remember, and they never died.
There was always a strike of luck.
For us to heed, what it tells us is
the way to combat these things
is not through crime.
It's not through taking them out.
One, it doesn't work.
Two, even if it did, the next guy is worse
and will feel even more vindictive.
The whole thing would just become reinforced.
You start creating martyrs
and mobilize those ugly energies,
which are human, but are dangerous even more.
That's the reason of my concern.
It's historical parallels,
and Hitler is just one,
and people will say,
oh, you're exaggerating.
When people in 1932 started raising the alarm,
that's exactly what they were told.
You're exaggerating.
He's just an army corporal.
He's a silly guy.
He's not even very intelligent.
What could he do?
What can go wrong?
That's my concern.
I'm not saying that this will happen again.
I literally pray every night to be wrong
and for the people that are against me to be right.
But no, I'm very concerned.
Here's what bothers me too.
In a way, I feel like Kamala did take the high road,
so to speak, in terms of
not that she was perfect
and not taking on those tactics,
but I do think there was an attempt
not to fall victim to that pattern
that obviously seemed to be working
in terms of using those propaganda tools.
However, the campaign was built on
saving the country from basically
what you just laid out,
but not laid out in that way.
While at the same time,
this attrition that I think you're describing
had already been taking place
because we'd had four years with him
in the United States,
and the world didn't end.
And there's some kind of weird attrition
and also acclimatization that's happening
where he's become so normal
and that spirit has become so normal
that it's very easy not to take seriously.
But at the same time,
it's still very attractive
because it's entertaining.
There's this element of the truth
can be boring or it's not.
This is about time
and hopefully we can talk about that in a minute
because these different nested layers
of time matter a lot.
But in the moment,
these tactics are more exciting.
Everyone's on their phone looking at TikTok
or these like very short little videos.
So time-wise, I think we're very addicted
to these entertaining, quick kind of zaps
of things that get our attention.
And all the stuff you've been talking about is true,
but I'm not sure the time feels different.
It feels like a lot of people
aren't really taking the time
to realize they're being manipulated.
And if they do realize they're being manipulated,
it doesn't really seem to matter as much
because of the way the time is moving so quickly.
And so, yeah, I don't know.
I guess just, do you think it's like attrition
and this where we just get used to it?
It's almost like the frog in the water.
I don't even know if that story is true
and you turn it up slowly.
It seems to be happening at once
that we've gotten used to it.
And also we still need more and more hits of entertainment.
Trump is going to be much more entertaining
in the next four years.
That seems to matter a little bit.
In certain unconscious,
I don't really know about the term unconscious,
but in ways we haven't thought about.
These things happen slowly.
The metaphor of the frog in the water,
the water gets slowly warmer,
but the frog doesn't notice it
because it goes slowly until the frog boils and dies.
Historically, that's how things have happened.
That's how the French Revolution has happened.
That frog was boiling very slowly until it blew
and the royals were killed.
And then 100,000s of people were killed by the guillotine.
If you change the temperature quickly,
the frog jumps out, but if it's slow.
It's also what de Tocqueville wrote about in the US, right?
With the sheep in the pasture,
this mentality that over time people just go
with the temperature of the water.
Democracy is the least bad form of government
we have figured out so far.
There is nothing better than it
because any other form of government
starts conflating the person in power
with the institutions and the country.
And once that conflation happens,
now you're back to feudalism and dictatorships.
And the end of those is not pretty.
And the people are not going to have a good future.
We know that historically too.
But in democracy, every vote counts the same,
whether the person who votes is thoughtful or not.
And we are not going to change that
because that's just the spectrum of human beings.
Some people are impulsive,
other people are less impulsive.
It's just the variability of our characteristics.
And there is nothing good or bad about it.
It's just what we are.
It's just how we are put together.
But because a lot of people will not be thoughtful about it
and they will vote irresponsibly.
Which is I think why the other side
takes on those tactics, right?
In that emergency situation,
it feels like you just have to do everything you can,
which means you just take on the propaganda stance
in order to try to just convince them
because of what you just said.
In an emergency situation, yes.
But even outside the emergency situations,
governments calculate that the true reasons
for some of the stuff they do
are too subtle and nuanced to be communicated.
And they will be misunderstood
and exploited for the wrong reasons.
And therefore, governments don't explain certain things.
I'll give you an example,
which is worldwide applicable now.
In the whole Western world, it's applicable now.
We have enormous frustration about illegal immigration.
This is not only a US issue.
It's perhaps an even bigger issue in Europe,
Western, Central and Eastern Europe.
It's baffling to us that governments are so slow
to tackle illegal immigration.
By the way, I am against illegal immigration
because I am against everything that is illegal.
I think if we think that something is positive
for the country, we should make it legal
and then implement it, but not implement it
until it has first been made legal,
even if it leads to delays.
So I am against illegal immigration.
I think the frustration people feel
in Western Europe is real and valid,
but they are not being told
why governments are so lax about immigration
because the story, it's not even complex,
but they think it's not simple enough
for a political message,
which has to be a sort of impel format.
And the reason for that is that we are having
an inversion of our demographic pyramid
for the first time in human history.
It's not that we don't have enough people.
A hundred years ago, we had a lot less people
and we were fine.
So the problem is not that we are becoming too few
and therefore we need immigration to compensate.
That's not the problem.
The problem is the inverted pyramid.
For the first time in history, all of history,
there soon will be a lot more old people
than there are young people.
And through all of history, it has been the opposite.
You have much more younger people
than you have old people.
And that's a healthy demographic pyramid
because it's the young people
who take care of the old.
It's the young people who pay
for the pension of the old.
My pension contributions today
are going to the people who are retired today.
They don't stay in a pot waiting for my retirement.
That's not how the economic game works.
So when I retire in 19.9 years
and I'm 69 years and nine months,
when that happens, there will be a lot less
people in their 30s contributing to my pension.
There will be a lot less people
who are nurses in hospitals
to take care of me when I get sick
and when I need to stay a week in hospital.
There will be a lot less people to clean my gutter,
to do my garden, to do maintenance.
And that is the problem.
The problem is not that there are few people.
The problem is that there will be a lot of old people
and very few young people.
So in that situation,
which is not talked about openly by politicians
because it's considered a difficult message to give,
when Angela Merkel, Mama Merkel,
who used to be the Chancellor of Germany,
when she saw one million educated Syrians at the door,
young and educated,
it was like Santa Claus had just come.
It's the salvation of German industry.
German industry now suffers from three problems,
all of them equally bad.
Chinese competition, higher energy prices
because of Russia's vile invasion of Ukraine,
and lack of workforce.
We don't find people to operate the machines,
to maintain the machines,
to do the jobs that we need to be done.
So when she saw the one million there,
she thought, my God, that's a Christmas gift,
a present from God.
And then, of course, the message is,
oh, we Germans, we are nice people.
We care about other people, so we will let them in.
That's also true, but it's not the reason
why a politician takes a major political gamble.
The reason she did it is that she saw something
that she knew couldn't be just sincerely
and openly communicated with the population
because they thought people are too unthoughtful,
too dumb, too gullible to be included
into a mature conversation about future problems.
And then, of course, it's still backfire
because you can't just bring a million people in
just like that.
There is no culture acclimatization,
and then it went bad in the Christmas of 2015.
I was there when that happened,
when these gangs of Syrians started men handling women
and abusing women.
There was one rape.
So that's not how you do immigration anyway.
I'm not defending what Merkel did.
I'm actually against it.
I think she made a major mistake there.
I am against illegal immigration.
I don't think it should happen.
But I understand the rationales
for why governments are so lax
in forcing immigration rules.
Amongst people who study these things,
people are looking at the future
of different Western nations.
The U.S. is considered to be
in the most enviable position of all Western nations
because the U.S. has a ready source
of immigration for young people
coming from Latin America.
The U.S. has raw materials.
The U.S. doesn't even import oil anymore.
It's a net exporter of oil.
It imports, but it's a net exporter.
It exports more than it imports energy products.
So the U.S. is in the most enviable
and sustainable position going forward.
And one of the factors for that
is that it has a ready source of immigration.
Now, why don't governments have
that adult discussion with us
and stop thinking that everybody's stupid?
What has happened in the U.S. recently
is not going to improve this situation
because the lesson that the others are learning
is that flat out in your face,
lying manipulation works.
So now the chance that they will engage
in a thoughtful, mature conversation
with their constituencies is even lower.
Maturity is down the drain.
Adulthood is down the drain.
What we have now is teenage politics
that appeal to raw emotions
and not reason, not fact, and not truth.
It's entirely based on manipulation.
It's going to get worse. Why?
Because obviously it is working.
And even the people who would rather not do that,
they would justify to themselves,
looking in the mirror, that they have to do it
because otherwise the other side,
the evil guys will always win.
And that's how the world goes to hell.
We would try to out-compete each other
in dishonest behavior.
And we will still morally justify that
because the other side is more dishonest.
And the other side is thinking the same.
The other side is thinking the liberal elites
who have been in power for decades,
there has to be a reaction to that.
We cannot let that game keep on going.
It's ridiculous.
They have to pay a price for this.
They have to be put in their place.
So we will vote for the rabbit deranged hyena
and destroy the system.
Some people may think like that.
Others think that inflation was so high
they can't pay for their groceries anymore.
They have to vote somebody in who is different.
All the thoughtfulness is lost in these dynamics.
For instance, every political or economic cause
produces an effect with a delay.
In geopolitics, that delay can be several years.
In economics, at least a couple of years.
No economic decision today
has an economic effect next month.
That's not how it works.
The systems are too complicated.
The impact of a new action
has to just tram it through a complicated system
until it produces an effect on the other hand.
And that takes time.
So people are now judging governments
for the effects produced by other governments.
For instance, the whole world was suffering from inflation.
That's still an echo of the 2008 financial crisis
and things that happened later.
But governments are being judged from day one
for the inflation that's happening at that moment.
We don't think retroactively.
How did we end here?
What was done to end here in the US?
I was alarmed by how many people
on my social media feed were saying Trump.
There were no wars in Trump's government.
So Trump's decisions are conducive to peace.
He was saying that.
So everyone else was saying it.
He was pumping it into social media.
Yeah, it works.
And people will repeat it.
People believe it because it sounds reasonable.
But it's plain to anybody who thinks about it
that one of the key causes of the Ukraine war
was the fact that in his first term,
Trump weakened the Western alliance
and severely weakened Western deterrence.
And that's what people lose from sight.
Military deterrence prevents wars.
If we were to stop military spending tomorrow,
there would be a world war very quickly.
Because we are not alone in the world.
Western values, the Western alliance
is not alone in the world.
There are the other guys, totalitarian dictatorships,
totalitarian systems that we want to have
very large piece of our pie.
You have to have a very strong military
in order not to use it.
In order not to have wars.
And look, this has worked for 80 years
in the European continent.
We have not had a major land war
in the European continent for about 80 years.
Yes, we had the Yugoslav wars.
They were terrible.
They were catastrophes.
It's a shame that they happened.
We must do everything we can
to prevent those kinds of conflicts.
But they were not a major land war
at the scale we are having now in Ukraine.
Why did the Ukraine war happen?
Because Putin thought he could get away with it.
NATO was weakened.
The Western alliance was in disarray.
There were disagreements.
Trump threatened to even leave NATO
and Putin saw an opportunity.
Now, once he sees the opportunity,
of course, it takes a couple of years
to prepare an invasion like that.
Things don't happen immediately
in economics, in politics, in geopolitics.
We have to think with a lag.
You have to build the lag into your conclusions.
And that's what people don't do.
It's understandable why people don't do that.
But that doesn't mean
that they don't have the moral responsibility.
They still carry the moral responsibility.
I think what Trump did carries moral responsibility
for what we are facing in this continent right now.
Military deterrence stops conflicts.
You don't create peace by dismantling deterrence,
by dismantling existing alliances
that have maintained peace for 80 years,
which is an empirical fact,
despite all the tensions in this continent where I am
and which all of you came from,
if you trace your history far enough.
We're all immigrants.
It's a fact that we had a lot of built-in tensions here.
And we were solving those tensions
as they should be solved through commerce,
through diplomacy, through talks,
through changes of law,
through international agreements,
until one country thought that takes too long
and I see an opening.
The West is weakened.
The West is in disarray.
I can get away with genocide.
And here we are.
And there is another danger.
A populist tends to be impulsive.
Populism is an impulsive movement
that the populist politicians
that are in a position of leadership
arrive in that position
because they are the best politicians
to mobilize the people along their lines of thinking.
And the best people to mobilize their population
through emotion like anger,
the need for revenge
to be one upon the other guys
who have lied to you for so long.
The best way to mobilize people
through these raw emotions
are impulsive people.
Impulsive people speak the language of emotions.
So they are the politicians
that find themselves in power.
And in populism, that's what you find,
impulsive politicians in power.
That character trait is such
that you can easily find yourself
in a situation in which
you have a populist politician
who is sincerely going for peace.
I have no doubt Trump sincerely wants peace.
I have no doubt about that at all.
It's not part of his agenda to start a war.
It makes his life more complicated.
But because of impulsiveness,
not only his but many other populist politicians,
post-truth politicians,
in their efforts to bring about peace,
if they perceive for a moment
that the other state actors involved
are not respecting them,
not taking them seriously,
poo-pooing their efforts
or offending them in some way,
they are liable to instantly switch
to the other extreme,
which is to show you
that I've got a bigger rocket.
If a situation of tremendous
geopolitical tension in the world today
with a liberal thought of nuclear weapons
impulsiveness is incredibly dangerous,
particularly when you don't really
have checks and balances anymore
because you control all branches of government
through a policy of loyalty above reason.
This is incredibly dangerous.
I can see how we aren't seeing that side of it.
I mean, a lot of people think
like Trump and Putin go together
or all these people,
the macho kind of personalities,
like they're going to team up
and somehow become buddies.
But the danger is actually more the opposite,
that there will be impulsive
kind of ego manipulations going on.
There are other dangers.
You can force peace.
The U.S. has enough leverage
to force peace on anything
anywhere in the world.
But that's just a semblance of peace
because what you did,
you bottled up a conflict
that will flare up again
at a much larger scale
because both parties will have time
to reconstitute and rearm
even better than before.
And the whole thing blows up again.
Tito enforced peace in Yugoslavia for decades.
Tito enforced it.
The tensions were all there.
Nothing was fundamentally resolved.
No grievance, no disagreement.
Nothing was resolved.
You just enforced peace.
You can bottle up the Ukraine conflict now.
Are you solving it?
No, it will blow up again.
It will be maybe 10 times worse.
So that's the other danger as well.
I wonder though,
because when is the last time
that you were in the United States?
Was it recently or?
A couple of years ago.
Yeah, because it feels different there.
I'm always shocked by it.
And when I actually enter that atmosphere,
things always look very different to me
than they did when I'm here in Europe.
There's something about even like
going back this time and you just,
I felt it is a kind of country
that's looking at the things
that seem to be in the optics
of the Trump administration.
In terms of like money
and in terms of what I was saying
about just this overall spirit
or habit that many of us have
of looking at that third space
that you were describing
that we've made with language
and art and videos and stuff.
Mostly it's via videos now
or it's via podcasts or YouTube.
There's this other kind of world there
that is very hard to distinguish
the choices you're making in reality.
And I guess that connects
to what you were saying about truth.
But I think it becomes,
it feels much more complicated there
and also much simpler in a way
that there's not all this philosophical mediation
that emotional queuing
is actually working on a really immediate
and fast level that seems at a pace
that's hard to even notice or stop.
Like it just, without maybe
some kind of a big disaster
or I don't know.
And there's also this feeling of
that yes, I know Trump might not
think he's telling the truth
or he might, I don't know.
But there's this honest liar
kind of thing about it.
But there's also this feeling
which I heard from a lot of people
of yeah, he's getting better
and he's gonna change.
And there's actually some truth.
Like if he actually did become
a person who cared
and put other people first,
he would have an incredible amount
of power towards doing good things.
That's actually true, right?
Because he really could.
He really is in the position
where a lot of people would follow him
if he really decided
to do good things in the world.
It's really true.
And I heard a lot of people saying,
well, he's gonna change.
Now that he had this death threat
and he almost died
and there's that story too going on.
So I feel like it's in a way
much more complicated than it seems
and also much more immediate
and visceral and emotional
and opt the advantage.
I think even the people who vote for him
are now realizing, okay, we did what we did
and he has complete control.
Yeah, what did we do?
What is this?
Nobody knows.
Of course, they would spin
a positive narrative.
I sincerely wish that narrative
turns out to be true.
I sincerely wish that's what will happen.
But this was before the vote.
This was when I was talking to people
about their vote.
Even people who had voted for Biden
and now we're gonna vote for Trump
or something that it was almost like.
From here, that seemed crazy to me,
but when I went back into the country,
I don't know, it almost like
you go into the atmosphere
and I understood it better.
And I understood that kind of confusion
between him being familiar
and that feeling like you could trust it
and it was gonna turn in a good way.
And also, of course,
all the other underlying layers
that we think we've come farther
in the States than we have
in terms of what people will vote for.
Yeah, I don't know.
It just felt like
there's so many complicated themes.
In some ways, we've progressed so far.
I could tell you stories of things
when I was a kid that now are normal
in terms of more justice
and fairness and acceptance.
But then on the other level,
there's all these very real emotional threads
that I think are actually
making the decisions
in an immediate kind of way
that has nothing to do much
with contemplation or...
Yeah, I don't know.
Oh, yeah, that's very human.
The final week of the campaign,
I followed the words of both candidates.
And people ask me,
which broadcaster did you use?
They're watching CNN.
You'll be manipulated.
No, forget this.
I'm listening to the words they said.
I'm not listening to political commentary.
I was appalled by Trump saying
that this Cheney should be shot in the head
with nine barrels pointed to her face.
I think those were the kinds of alarming statements
that overshadow any other possible rationale
you could have about the candidate
for the leadership of the free world.
It just overrides everything else.
You don't need even to look at the competition,
whether the competition is good or not.
That's a disqualifying attitude to take.
And that happened after both attempts at his life.
So I do not see any sign
that his empathy is growing
or that he will put the interest
of the people above his own.
All signs I see are warning signs.
Every more or less level-headed person
he worked with in his first administration
actively campaigned against him.
There was only one exception.
I do not see any positive signs,
which doesn't mean that it won't be positive.
It may be positive,
despite the complete lack of signs that it may be.
And that's what I hope.
Now, I think we should also not be too naive
and put all the blame on the lies,
the deception, the in-your-face emotional manipulation
of legitimate grievances.
We should not put the blame
in the lack of thoughtfulness of voters.
These are all facts.
But if we don't also look to the other side
and understand that part of the failure
was the inability of the system
to produce a plausibly positive alternative.
And I don't want to insult Kamala Harris or her voters.
That's not what I'm trying to do.
But I think the only alternative to populism
is a political movement that for the first time
actually be sincere, honest,
and treat people like adults,
as opposed to using forms of political manipulation
and propaganda that we've learned in the 1940s.
I'm sorry to interrupt you,
but that's exactly what I was trying to say
with those emails and things that,
although I think she did that in certain ways,
there's a difference between the person
and then this third mediated space
of all the stuff that you get in social media and so on,
which I love what you're saying about,
just can we just be direct about,
here's the reason we need immigration
and can we just treat people like they can handle it?
And for me, that's what I wanted in this election
and what would have showed the truth
about certain statements
that like the ones you just said from Trump,
which are just overwhelmingly wrong and people know it,
but they don't hear them or see them that way.
They just think, oh, it's just crazy stuff
and he doesn't mean it.
Because there's no clear contrast of just the truth,
because the truth seems so hard to say.
And because those tactics are the ones you're still like,
you hear the same tone in maybe not her,
but in the people that are representing her to you
and in these other ways.
So that also adds to that
where it just doesn't seem like there's a contrast, right?
Yeah, but just being like treating people,
coming honestly, why is that so hard
to just treat people like in that way?
It's hard because you think that you don't get enough airtime,
that people not give you enough attention span
for you to actually make your case.
It's hard because our political parties
are in a kind of a competition game.
In the ideal world, you would say what you think,
regardless of whether the polls are telling you
that the population agrees with you or not, right?
You would say what you think and then people decide
whether it's in agreement with their views or not.
But what we have now is politicians adjusting their message
according to the polls.
So they're trying to say what they think.
The people want as opposed to what their knowledge
and their awareness of the situation informs them about,
which is what they should do
because vote is an instrument of trust.
It is impossible for each and every one of us
to inform ourselves to the degree
that our representatives in Congress or in the executive
can inform themselves about the relevant issues
because it's their job to do that
while I have to go to work every day
and you have to go to work every day.
We are busy with other things.
So we outsource a study of the relevant facts
to our representatives
and then we try to trust their judgment.
But politicians know that's not what we do.
That's not what we do.
What we do is we think we can judge better than them
and we will vote for the candidate
that tells me what I want to hear.
They're going to send you a paycheck more or less
was the message.
Yeah, we are not outsourcing that job
of evaluating the mountains of data and facts and rationales
that we can't evaluate ourselves
because we have other jobs.
That's not our job.
It's their job.
We don't have this mentality of outsourcing trust.
We think we know better.
That's an example of the Dunning-Kruger effect.
We don't know enough to understand
that we don't know enough.
And that leads to a vicious circle.
We think we know better.
And politicians know that.
So that's why they don't treat us as partners.
They don't just give us their rationale
based on what they know for what they want to do.
They try to win instead.
And politics has become a game.
Like a football game in the stadium.
You root for one team.
You root for the other and you see who wins.
And if Books is going to publish a book
precisely on this theme, a fantastic book,
it's coming in a few months.
That's why we are not treated as adults.
For the current chancellor of Germany
is trying to treat people as adults.
He's going to lose the election
because he has also not been very effective.
His government is a bit of a mess.
Different members of government
are trying to do different things.
There is no coordination.
There is a lot of incompetence there.
But he did try to tell the facts and it has backfired.
I think we should try.
Somebody, some political movement
should have the courage to once at least
try to say it as it is.
Right now, their calculation,
let's stick to examples.
Let's take immigration.
Their calculation is the following.
I want to win.
I want to stay in power.
What is the worst of the two options here?
Option number one, I do not enforce immigration rules
but I will make sure that in four years
there are enough nurses in the hospital
and then I will suffer a backlash for immigration.
But if I don't do that
and then really enforce immigration rules,
a few years down the pike,
people will end in hospital
and there will be nobody to take care of them.
And that will be a massive national scandal.
They will think the country became a third world country,
a banana republic.
How can it be?
My father needed surgery
and they couldn't operate on him
because there aren't enough nurses in the hospital,
incompetent government.
They think the latter would be worse.
So they take the fallout of the former.
That's the calculation.
I think a political force should emerge
that just tells people here are the facts,
here are our judgments of the facts,
it's our job to spend our full time
looking at this fact,
analyzing scenarios, gaming it out
through simulations
and here are our conclusions.
And therefore we will make this choice
instead of that choice.
Let's try to treat people as adults for once,
for once, as opposed to just doing PR
and playing a game of who is better
at manipulating the public.
I think if we try to do that,
the result may be surprising
because we just haven't tried in 80 years.
We haven't bloody tried.
You just gave an example of that someone who's tried.
Here's what I think.
I think that's totally true
and at the same time it's not either or
because I think there's still,
there still needs to be some kind of
performative aspect to it.
Can you be performative
and attention grabbing
in a way that's also presenting the truth?
Because I think we need like both
because it goes back to that
just physical reaction
of what gets your feeling
and attention and emotion
and most people are gonna go with that.
So can you be an honest person
and still create your message in a way
that is emotional in that sense?
I feel like we seem to think
that if you're doing that
then you must be evil, right?
If you're using propaganda
and that feels like maybe that's not right either
because why shouldn't we try to,
I mean, I talk to myself too
because I'm one of these people
I don't wear makeup.
I'm just like very, oh, always as I am.
And I've started thinking maybe it's like,
maybe you do owe people something
in a way to help them keep their attention
or maybe I need to rethink
that if you're trying to look a certain way
or put on a certain performance
that necessarily means
you're not being authentic or true.
Maybe those two things aren't either or
and maybe trying to separate them
is also creating these more of these divisions
to where like this inertia
is pushing us into certain kinds of categories
that we can't break out of
because the truth doesn't have to be boring.
It's fine to polish the message
so long as you treat people as adults.
Otherwise you're feeding the opposition.
I'll give you another example.
It is true that the COVID vaccine studies have shown
could have terrible side effects.
By the way, that was true
for just about every other vaccine humankind has invented
and which are directly responsible
for the massive improvement in childhood survival
that we've had over the past 150 years or so, 100 years.
It is true catastrophic things
happened to certain people.
It is true that vaccines were not 100% safe.
Studies have shown that, plenty of studies.
But instead of having this adult conversation
with the population and saying despite this
the statistics and the models show us
that if we deploy the vaccine
then certain people have terrible side effects
but if we don't deploy the vaccine
hundreds of thousands more will die
we think that we should bite the bullet
take the risk and vaccinate.
And we think you should choose to be vaccinated
because your chance of dying of COVID without a vaccine
outweighs your chance of having a serious side effect.
It is a risk.
You will be taking a risk
but you'll be taking a risk either way
by vaccinating or not vaccinating.
And all data indicates that the risk is lesser
if you do vaccinate.
And then you vaccinate and you have terrible side effects
you've been treated like an adult
you knew what the stakes were
you knew what the rationale was.
But if instead we tell people vaccines are always safe
which is what happened
you're feeding the opposition
because of course those cases
in which the vaccine was not safe
they will pop into the media
and then the other side will tell you
look they have been lying to you.
So you always hand gifts to the populist demagogues
by not treating the population as adults.
Okay I agree.
What about this though?
Because we're not like
so if you come on and you say the truth right
then and you say both sides
then you know one hour later
maybe you're going to see a sound bite
where you just see one side presented.
And so then that is going to be spread everywhere.
This happens right?
And then it's also become a sign of weakness right?
Because that's the presentation of Trump
is a very self-help oriented thing
that sort of says you must always say
what you want to happen
and you never concede that you've done anything wrong
you never say anything bad about yourself
you never admit to doing wrong.
Like your language itself
every little detail is always on one side
which is the side that you are right
and that things are positive.
He's very much followed that playbook
which is a self-help playbook
but it could also take it to extreme it is.
And he's schooled in that.
He learned from that some of the teachers
of that self-help philosophy as young.
He's very much doing that in the most direct way
and if you just come with what you just said
and you say things as they are
at least in the short term
all that's going to happen is
he's going to say
it doesn't have to be him
but it will get said
they said this
and it'll just be half of what you said
that was taken
and that's the only thing anyone will ever hear
and at least most people.
And so the narrative
we're back to narratives
has been completely changed
from the way that you've put it into the world.
Now if everyone was doing that over time and time
maybe in over time
it would change the pattern
and what is now accepted as normal would change
and hopefully maybe that's even what's happening
but if we just look at the short term
people who try to be honest
don't get the honest thing that they said
represented in that third world media land.
Look in a normal situation
there will be facts.
You will make publicly available
as an honest government
that treats the people as adults
they will put the entire story out
publicly available to everyone
and then what you describe will happen
but there will be also those voices
calling them out and saying
he showed you only half the clip
here's the whole thing available
in the USA.gov website
whatever it is
and through social media
peer to peer criticism
will work out in a way
that eventually given some time
like you described
everything will go back to the original statement
because the original statement
will be fully open
and social media will ensure
that through these self-checks
and self-criticisms
that the truth will emerge.
Why is it not working right now?
It's because it's well crafted enough
to preemptively insulate
the dynamics I just explained
and the way they preemptively
prevent this dynamic from happening
is by denying the very existence
of truth or fact.
It's by...
There is a political philosopher
called Vlad Drexler
who has a very nice YouTube channel
he has explained this ad nauseum
in a very accessible way
but the game here is to say
whatever you will see
even if you see the complete original statement
you cannot trust even that either
because there is nothing to trust
and how do they do that?
They do that by inserting
conflicting messages into the airwaves
that's what Russian propaganda does.
Soviet propaganda would present you
an alternative reality
but an internally consistent one.
Russian propaganda would tell you
it is A, next day they say no it's B
and then next day it's C
and A and B and C are all contradictory
and the idea is that it will cause you
to throw your arms up
and give up on the very idea
that truth exists
or that you can ever hope to learn it.
So that's the mechanism that is used
to prevent what I just described
otherwise what I just described
would eventually work
even if it took time
but people are now manipulated
into giving up on truth as a value
even if you can't access it
at least you want it
now people have given up on their very idea
of there being something
that was actually true
that something that was actually said.
But it's for that exact reason isn't it
that there's something very strange
like I always think
if people understood
that they're being manipulated
and if they understood
that they need to check
double check everything
that would change a lot of this
but how do you really
if you're just in the moment
being stimulated
and going with your stimulation
you don't really
most people aren't going to take the time
to go check on US.gov or whatever
and first of all that whole thing
is going to have to be controlled
by people who are doing the right thing too.
There's so many layers to it all
that I guess that's what I was saying
about maybe we need
a performance kind of aspect to it
because you're going to have to start
right with the emotional
and somehow that at that level
you're going to have to introduce
this way of being able
to hold the paradox
and being able to say
nothing I hear is 100% true
and there is truth right
you really can't trust anything you hear
because it's coming
from a particular perspective
and there is truth right
how do people get that
you need a sound bite almost
that message needs to be somehow understood
it's not an easy one.
Populism is very well crafted
those people know what they are doing
so they are actively preempting
all of those alternatives
we are discussing now.
I'll give you another example
if you abandon the very value of truth
all that is left for you is to destroy
there is nothing to construct
because the foundation of construction
is a foundation of what is true
right what is good.
That's a really important point
which I it speaks to all these crisis
right like meaning crisis
meta crisis
poly crisis
all this crisis.
You vote in someone
because that's someone you think
is going to destroy
the system that you've come to hate
you're not voting to reform
or reconstruct
or rebuild
you're voting to destroy
that's the human emotional
and primordial gut emotional reaction.
Are you voting to identify
and become more confident
you mentioned humiliation earlier
which I think is a very
much a motivating force
I'll tell you a story really quick
I'm sorry to interrupt you but
you want to go ahead
and finish your point first?
No no no I want to hear.
Okay I was in a cab
I had a lot of interesting cab conversations
in the states right
or Lyft or Uber or whatever
and one of them was a young man
who he had voted for Kamala
he was I think he'd been in the states
like 15 years
and but he was telling me
most of his friends had voted for Trump
and that he was shocked
and he was also telling me
that how he'd had a person
get in his car recently
before the election
who had pretty much harassed him
was grabbing his hoodie
and knocking his hat off
and telling him he better vote for Trump
because you know he's an he
basically also accusing him
like where did you get this car
did you steal it
I've I've been I was born in America
and I don't have a car as nice as this
so the two things in that story
that I think are important
and I wonder how it fits
with what you're saying is
the macho thing
and that people feel
like they don't want to be humiliated
and they want to feel powerful
and that's what's being represented
by that macho mindset
which is disgusting right
and it's the same reason
he couldn't believe the women
had voted for Trump
because in his mind as he told me
like how they're treating women
as if they own them
but that's very real
and it works that power
of if you feel weak
or you feel vulnerable
or you feel insecure
identifying with someone
who tells you they're strong
and you're strong
do you know what I mean
we handed it to them
because I'm again in the Netherlands
this is perfectly coherent
in the US
it's a contradiction in terms
but I'm a liberal conservative
I believe in values
I believe in the Netherlands
we say norms and values
traditional ones even
if they're not wrong
we keep whatever has worked traditionally
we should keep on doing it right
that's why I'm a traditionalist
I'm not a traditionalist
in the sense of sticking to costumes
that were terrible
and refusing to reform them
that's just blindness
it's stupidity
but I like to hold on to what works
so I'm largely a conservative
for US standards
and I therefore see that
because in the US
there are only two options right
there is no space for nuance
there are only two drawers
you have to classify everything
in only two drawers
because of that
a lot went into the other drawer
the liberal drawer
it was exaggerated
I think the origins of the
what we call the woke movement today
were based on decency
and their respect to human freedom
if some people are born with male sex
but psychologically
they belong in the female gender
who are we to tell them
that their experience is wrong
and who are we to force them
to live in a way
that's not natural to them
as long as they don't infringe on my freedom
I shall not infringe on theirs
as long as they allow me to live as I want
I will not infringe on their right
to live as they want
this is a very conservative discourse
right the preservation of individual freedom
but it went well over the top
and that was a gift
that the left hand over to populism
it's the exaggerations of woke
we've got to the point
where even though maybe no politician
ever actually said this
but the idea has come to dominate
the airwaves now
that according to woke
men and women are equal
they have equal rights
they have equal value
they are complementary
but to ignore a biological difference
and the difference
in certain mental dispositions is silly
statistically those differences are there
and that was a gift to the other side
because they can misportrait
they can misuse it to convey this message
that they are after your manhood
that being a man is not a bad thing
that all maleness is male toxicity
or toxic masculinity
and although none of this
was actually said quite in this way
because of the exaggerations of woke
we handed over a gift to the other side
to portray things in this way
and that has made young men
and when you are young
you are insecure
let's be honest
you're still testing your sexuality
most people are insecure
and there's are afraid of things
that's just how it is
you create this threat
that the other side handed over to you
like a gift and you use it
to create a threat
that plays exactly on male insecurity
young male insecurity
something that seems to invalidate
their very malehood
and they will react to that
and then people will leverage
that Jordan Peterson has leveraged this liberally
saying traditional values and malehood
a lot of that I agree with
I just disagree with how blatantly misused
it is misused
so the other side bears a responsibility
because of the exaggerations
the extremes and the inability
to provide a truly viable alternative
it is not difficult to present someone
who will appeal to people's humanity more
than an orange overweight
unhinged angry man
right it's not difficult
to find an appealing alternative
to something like that
but I have to say I don't
I think that's not helpful or true either
to like it's something I've done too
is just think of him in that way
because he's not
he doesn't appear that way actually
in the states to the people
he's not a joke anymore in that way
which is a shock for me
when I went back there
even to me he doesn't appear that way
he's very familiar
and he's not monster-like
which is much more dangerous
than it was eight years ago
he was you know
when I say an angry man
I don't mean a monster
when I say deranged I don't mean crazy
but when somebody goes on television
says his political opponent
should be put against a wall
and shot from nine barrels
if that is not somebody
operating without guardrails
then what is it
when a political candidate
for president of the nation
of the world's most powerful nation
does not have enough moral guardrails
to not call for the assassination
of a political opponent
if this is not deranged what is
of course he wasn't calling
for the assassination
no he was
literally was
but people say well it's just Trump
it's what he does
he doesn't really mean it
so you think he was literally saying
no I don't think it's a fact
that's what he said
honestly I haven't watched him actually say it
so he said that
Liz Cheney belongs in front of nine barrels
he literally said that her place
is in front of an execution squad
he said the words
it played back it's there
he said the words
now you may say
he doesn't really mean it
it's just Trump being Trump
that's how Hitler was seen in 1932
it's not only that phrase
there's so many phrases about so many things
but I guess what I'm trying to say is that
it's so shocking and so awful
that you don't take it seriously
it's some kind of weird spiraling kind of movement
where it's very hard
like it's almost some reason
I think of in dead poet society
with this movie which I like
when the woman's son actually dies
and she doesn't accept it
it was always really hard for me to watch that part
like she acts like he's still alive
because some things are just so
glaringly awful or wrong
that you can't process them as what they are
I feel like there's something like that going on
again I'm not saying that Trump is Hitler
I'm drawing parallels here
because the parallels exist
and the fact that there are parallels
doesn't mean that everything will go now
the way they went after 1932
they may
but I'm not saying that's going to be the case
I'm just justifying simply my concern
when Hitler was campaigning in the election of 1932
which by the way he didn't really win
the Nazi party was not the biggest party
he was just the one that was eventually selected
to lead the country after talks of coalition and all that
but that's how people reacted
he had some extreme statements
that people thought
it's just the corporal being the corporal
it's just that he's full of passion
and he really cares about the dignity of the German people
so he says these things
but no he's never gonna do that
he's not going to do that
until he did
and the way he started
even then right
even when people knew what was happening
they didn't see it
when he actually started doing that
and he actually started doing that against his own people
he killed the leader of the brown shirts
which was his own political movement
but because the guy was growing too powerful
and too visible
Hitler saw him as a threat
killing is
and that happened to Putin as well
killing is a wonderful way to solve your problems
because it's a definitive solution
when your problem is what another person is doing
killing is addictive
once you get that path of solving your problems by killing
nothing else is as good
nothing else is as immediate
as complete
as sure
and as easy to do
and that was the downward spiral of Hitler too
as it was a downward spiral of Putin
who started killing in the early 2000s
political opponents
journalists
and all that
when Hitler actually started doing that
the effect was then
oh yeah he's doing that
but he has been saying for years that he was going to do that
so at no point there is that moment of alarm
because when he's saying it and not doing
oh he's just saying it
but when he's actually doing
oh but he said it all along
that's okay
people get got used in Russia to Putin killing
for 25 years
20 years
people got used to that
they started killing 2004 I think
journalists in Saint Petersburg
and in the beginning was it really him
he denied it
and there was legitimate doubt
by the fifth assassination it's okay
then there is somebody who is not Putin
and who's killing every Putin enemy
by coincidence
but then it was like it's already the fifth or sixth time
yeah that's what he does
you know what I mean
yeah then it's become too removed
it's not
yeah
you can't even
no point to get an alarm
alarming point
and when the second world war started
with the invasion of Poland
the invasion started before the invasion of Poland
right
when Hitler annexed Austria
the population welcomed him
not everybody
but the ones who didn't make it
there wasn't a resistance
films that conveyed the news
and then they invaded the Sudetenland
which is a part of today's Czech Republic
where Germans lived
they also didn't fire a bullet
so that started normalizing things
and then they invaded Poland
which was by treaty linked with France and the United Kingdom
so both had to declare war on Germany
but then nothing happened
it was a fake war
war was declared
but nobody was shooting at the other side
and Poland was invaded from the west by Germany
and from the east by Russia
Russia started the second world war
together with Germany
but of course what they call the great patriotic war
didn't start in 1939
that part is not in their history books
they started in 1941
when Germany invaded the Soviet Union
that's when the great patriotic war started
that's what Russian children are taught
they are not taught
that their country started the second world war
as an ally of Russia
invading the same country from the other end
so what was the tipping point do you think there
and does it relate to what could be the tipping point here
in terms of recognition of it
there was no moment of great alarm
the opposite
because now the narrative is so different right
if you stop there
if we just follow that thread
then it seems like we're going to get to a point where
Hitler owns the world or whatever
and like we are just continually accepting more
and but at some point it turned the opposite way
to where he became the kind of most evil human in the world
and after the war
yeah but why
at the end of the war
we didn't know there were concentration camps
so it was more the physical effect of soldiers seeing that
and telling the story of it and
yeah and then time and retrospective
and the power of retroactive scientists
you know it's 2020
but as those events unfolded
nobody was alarmed
the reason why there were six million Jews
killed in concentration camps
is that even the Jews
who Hitler was overtly saying
overtly saying a vermin are the enemies within
should be cleaned up
even they didn't take that quite serious
even after the night of broken glasses
when Jewish businesses across Germany were invaded
and broken rioted
even then people thought
ah just a thing of now
it's just a thing of the moment
if we stay quiet
we don't need to run away
because that's what I mean
it's so that to what Trump was saying
or to these other things that it's
we can't see it
and we can't accept it
but we never do
when you are witnessing
witnessing history in the making
you don't have the context
that allows you to see what's actually happening
we prefer to believe in an optimistic scenario
because it creates a reality for ourselves
a reality of narratives
in which we do not have to take very difficult action
and so the Jews didn't have to
didn't need to run away
because it was just a thing of the moment
it would fizzle out
the western world went to war
because at no point
they really understood what was happening
when England and France
the United Kingdom and France declared war against Germany
that declaration was just in a piece of paper
nothing happened
no shot was fired
Russia and sorry
Poland was carved in two
half for Russia
half for Germany
that was Hitler doing something similar right
just going along with what everyone wants
and saying yes
and doing what he wants
contrary to what he said he would do
and at every turn
people would think
yeah this is bad
but it's not going to get worse
and then it gets a little worse
and then people say
ah this is bad
but it's not going to get worse
in the second world war
it only actually happened
when Germany invaded the low countries
in the north of France
and then the British expeditionary force
was cornered at Dunkirk
and then there was the Dunkirk evacuation
only then we realized
shit
this is actually a war
and the Germans will now try to invade England
and even at that point
the US was saying
we are not getting into the war
it's an European thing
it's not going to affect us
we are continental country
on the other side of the world
why are we going to send our youth
our young men to die
in the fields of Europe
it's not that
it's not our problem
it's not going to affect us
until guess what
Pearl Harbor
and could it have been prevented
if people had seen the signs
yes
but that's how history has always unfolded
we slide dreamily into war
every time
we never say
oh it's going to get really bad
no we think it's bad now
but it will fizzle out
and we coat it up
we put warm towels on it
because it makes us feel more comfortable
because we want to focus on our lives
as they are now
and then I'll get your kids education
now pursue your hobby
make sure that you have enough money to retire
and pay your medical bills
we don't have time and energy
to start thinking about
what we have to do
to prevent the next world war
and that's why we slide gently into that
we always did
it's only when something happens
it disrupts your day
if you can't watch TikTok
or you can't do all these things anymore
or you actually see the violence
then it's disruptive
no way that's going to change
yeah Andrea
we like to believe what connects
with our most basic emotional reactions
I'll give you an example
of how this is done
the political system in my country
in the Netherlands
is an example for the world
16 countries
16 parties
and they all get seats in government
more or less
and they have to do coalitions
and it's the coalition
but having to understand the other side
and make compromises
is the blood of our political system
there is no space
for extremist approaches
because even if you win the election
you're not government
you will not form a government
because nobody will want to govern with you
which is happening
has happened in Austria
has happened in the Netherlands
despite that
even in a political system
that's pretty good
if in the last election
there is a party here
there is a populist party
it's the PVV
it's an extreme right party
here at Wilders
it is the blonde guy
who people say is the Dutch Trump
I don't think there is any parameter of comparison
but I understand why people would say that
but it's flashy in the way we were talking about
it gets your attention
he gets your attention in a similar way
he gets your attention
but he's not similar
he says things that are morally inadmissible
like taking entire so-called ethnic groups
in the country
and singling them out as criminal
no, the reality is not as simple as that
and he says these things
because he knows it's a hook
that grabs people
by their most primitive emotions
and mobilizes
so to give you one example
of how these things are done
if you were a careful enough voter
before the last Dutch election
to actually read the platforms
so if each party puts a written platform online
that platform is then scrutinized by experts
that build a website called the STEMvisor
voting, I don't know how to translate that
it helps for you to vote
so it asks you like 50 questions
what your position is on 50 questions
and then it will show you
which political platforms are closer to your opinions
they put it in a graph with all the 16 parties
and the ones that are closest to you are highlighted
and then you can see what their platforms are
so every political party has to put those platforms in writing
what do they plan to do online
we can all access that
and I went through the trouble of reading
the platform of the proposal
the document of this party
and there is one point where they say
the Netherlands is handing over dozens of our F-16 jet fighters
to fight a war far away
instead of defending our own country
which is what these fighters were acquired to do
we should not do this
we should use these fighters to defend our own country
reasonable right
and it appeals to people's emotions
like why am I going to make my country vulnerable
in order to defend some people far away
it takes 18 hours by car for me to get to the front line
which for you guys is like going to the next state
yeah I think people don't realize how close it really is
now what that document didn't tell you is the following
the Netherlands is a very tiny country
surrounded by a bigger one, Germany
if foreign troops get to our borders
we already lost the war
so we have to prevent them from even getting to our borders
by helping the countries that surround ours
because we are so small
if foreign military is already at the border
and only then we start fighting
we already lost
it's gone
it's only 18 million people, a tiny army
and we have a limited number of airfields
limited number of fighter pilots
because we are the size of a city
we're the size of New York
the Grand New York area
that's the Netherlands
those fighters, those F-16s
were already in the secondhand market to be sold
because we had already bought F-35s
and we just don't have pilots and air bases
to have the F-16s and the F-35s
nor is that militarily required
we can't have it
and even if we could
that's not how the military doctrines put together
so we were already getting rid of those F-16s
and that's why they went to Ukraine
they wouldn't be defending Dutch borders anyway
because we are acquired
we acquired F-35s
but that's not said anywhere in the
that's not said in that document
now they know it
of course, Wilders has been in parliament forever
for many years
he's not stupid
he's not that impulsive either
I wish every
and I say this in a qualified way
if every outer right-wing politician
were like Hurt Wilders
our problems would be less
because despite his rhetoric
he's now in government
and he stroke a reasonable compromise
with other parties
and all the vile aspects of their program
are not implemented
and he accepted that
and he's even being accused of
betraying his voters
because some of his voters
really wanted him to do stuff
that was outright racist
and morally unacceptable
but he's not doing it
and he agreed to a fairly
maybe not ideal
but a fairly balanced government program
but I've heard other people say other things too
I think, I guess
a thread through a lot of this
we just, I wasn't here for it
but you probably know more about it
but with the football match
there's this big thing
that happened in the Netherlands
relative to the war
and there's a lot of controversy, right?
and I've heard people say
what you just said about Wilders
but I've also heard the opposite
but I think the through line
that I wonder if we can look at
is this us against them
or there's always an enemy
whether it's
and it's usually the foreigner, right?
whatever, however you want to name
what that is
or the enemy within
or the enemy within
that's how you manipulate people
you select within the border
you mean within the psyche
of course, of course
but that has always been done
in Germany, it was the Jews
the enemies within
that's what I mean
that's the thread, right?
and that's also in the States
why that was the main thing that I heard
was like I just told you
about the guy in the taxi
he was mad that the immigrants
had better cars than him
and he was born in America
which is a kind of a story
I didn't tell you
but the guy said when he dropped him off
the guy had four nice cars in his driveway
so it wasn't even really true
but it's the story
that the immigrants come
and then they take everything
that belongs to you
and they're doing better than you
which is very different
from the way you are presenting
why we should have immigrants
but I think the thread is that us, them, you
like this
that the enemy is the reason
that you're feeling bad
whatever you're feeling bad about
or the enemy is the foreigner
and that's why you're suffering
and if we just get rid of that
everything's going to be okay
this story is the story
of all the things we've been talking about
how do we address this story?
what's that about?
the thing about this is that
rely on certain things that are true
you can lose your job to an immigrant
who will accept a lower salary
and that is a problem
but then they use these
but does it depend on the immigrant?
I mean it could be AI
it could be someone who has a better job
is it always through dichotomies?
of course it can be a change
in the industrial process
that renders certain skills
no longer relevant
you don't need to have the skills
of making paper manually
like you needed to 200 years ago
so you lose your job because of that
because an evolution of technology
because of AI
because of the immigrant
because of geopolitical
but also what you were saying before
that we need people to do these kind of jobs
that other people don't want to do anymore
there's even a kind of weird judgment
or elitism in that very notion
that we have to take a million immigrants
and to do all the jobs
that nobody wants to do here anymore
the play is
you start from facts that are real
and then you draw
the absolutely wrong implication from that
that's how you are manipulated
how do we get people to understand
that's happening on a wide level
and would that change anything?
I can give you how I wish it could be done
and I can answer you
based on how I think it will happen
what will happen
it goes back to the philosophy of history in Hegel
and we learn through the dialectics of history
we learn by making the wrong choices
and suffering the consequences
the problem is that we don't live long enough
for all of that learning to be conveyed
to the next generation
things happen too fast
and the next generation largely has to relearn it again
but not to the extent of the previous one
a small percentage less
and then they pass some of that on
to the generation after them
who have to relearn most of it again
but not as much as the previous
and slowly after going through this spiral
multiple times
fucking up multiple times
paying the consequences for it multiple times
eventually centuries from now
we'll be more mature
that's how it will happen
if we make it that far
if we make it that far
because now there are plenty of nuclear
and conventional weapons around
to just end human civilization
not the planet
not even the species
there is always the Australian Aboriginal
who will survive
the African Bushmen who will survive
the Northern Inuit that will survive
but civilization may end
we may end it
so if yeah if we make it that long
I think we'll learn it that way
I wish that reason can prevail
through the much more extensive forms
of communication and record-keeping
that we have now
the second world war is still remote to us
because in my youth
it was just grainy black and white images
very few audio
so it was basically words
on the pages of a book
very far removed
but the moment 100 years from now
people can watch this video in 4k
with our voices our realities
and they see yeah
these are people just like us
they look exactly like us
they're facing issues just like us
now the recorded memory
will have much more emotional appeal
than the abstractedness
of medieval paintings and drawings
or even early 20th century
grainy black and white film
yeah in a positive way
that dialectic I think
that spiraling movement
actually we are becoming
what I was talking about before
this kind of blockchain
is becoming more and more obvious
because there's so much documentation
and it's so hard to erase it
and if you know
if you really want to do the work
you can figure out
what's been manipulated
and I guess that'll get easier
and easier as time goes by
so maybe it will be easier
to not find the whole truth
because everyone's going to have
a little bit of a different one
but the regularities that really happened
but this time thing is interesting
and it comes up a lot of just
how do we stay motivated
if it's all going to only matter
hundreds of years from now
or not matter at all
because I think that speaks to that
go with your immediate feeling
and the impulsiveness
that's dangerous and all that too
can we have some kind of paradigm shift
in terms of the way we think of self too
is there maybe there's a whole other way
of living and understanding meaning
and stuff that isn't stuck
in these ways like
why do we have to always think
of the foreigner and the opposite
and like this theme
that keeps playing out
and just like killing people
and what is this
why do we have to have this
can't we I don't know
it just feels like
to accept the dialectic of that
I just wish that we could
I think outside the dialectic itself
could be something a little bit more
regenerative not focused on opposites
understanding the world is not dichotomous
or maybe you think it is but
no I think most of it
is a matter of degree
it's like saying that I am either
a liberal or a conservative
I reject that profoundly
you're very good at holding paradoxes
analytic idealism is itself
it's not a paradox
it seems to be a paradox
if you that's the point of the paradox
right if you hold the paradox
you actually get to
what's not a paradox
there are certain things
that are true paradoxes
if I say this sentence is not true
if it is true then it's not true
and if it's not true then
oh then it's true
exactly but if you hold that space
then you have both things
existing as they are
you don't need to decide
on one or the other
and you understand that
it's not an either or situation actually
I think the seeming paradox
between conservative and liberal
is just flat out false
there is nothing paradoxical there
at all the moment you start
elaborating on what these words mean
you realize that there is no conflict
it's not a paradox at all
the story that it is
has been sold to you
I acknowledge that
but anybody who looks more deeply into it
will see that there is no paradox
there is a there is a party
in my country called VVD
they are the liberal conservatives
and it's not a problem
for any Dutch person to understand
that this is not a paradox
it's just a narrative
has been created in the US
in which it is
I think you're assuming
that a paradox means
it's irreconcilable
and I'm saying a paradox
is a signal that it's already reconciled
yeah I think if you really look into
what a paradox means
and what Zeno and everyone
it's basically alerting you
to things that seem oppositional
but actually aren't
which is exactly what you're saying too
so it's that dialectic movement
is what I'm trying to get at
because and why I brought up
why there's always an opposite
and we're always fighting
the foreigner that's against us
I don't know if you disagree
but it does seem like we were
we seem in these ruts
these dualistic ruts of
it's always one against the other
and we can't like understand
that there's this complex nestedness
going on that is actually a portal
into a very much more interesting way
of living and finding meaning and
all of that but we instead
we're fighting an other
that's never really an opposite
so we can never resolve it
yeah I think both extremes
in this space are to be avoided
one is to say everything is black and white
it's just not true
the other is to say everything is relative
there is nothing absolute
that's just as dangerous as to say
everything is black and white
you are lost in both cases
because you will overlook
all the subtlety and nuance
that actually constitutes
what we call life
and you will completely lose
your ability to pass reasonable judgment
value judgments on what's going on
and therefore lose your ability
to vote in a sane way
I think to say nothing is absolute
doesn't mean nothing is right or wrong
I think there's a difference
it just means everything is always ongoing
there's no end
so how could you have an absolute
but you can have a right and a wrong still
it's just that or do you
I'm not sure if this is not
contradictory what you just said
I think there are certain things
that constitute what we call evil
and there is no moral relativity there
I was outraged when JD Vance
the other day was saying
yeah there's American leaders
they pick sides in the conflict in Ukraine
we shouldn't pick any side
as if the thing were relative
as if the Russian story
the Russian narrative
were as much based on morals
as the Ukrainian narrative
as if you couldn't discern there
who is the good guy and who is the bad guy
I think that morally irresponsible
and abhorrent
one country crossed
internationally recognized borderlines
to invade another
and kill and mangle and torture and rape
the other country
the one invaded is defending itself
no there is no moral relativism here
there is an absolute there
one country infringed international laws
and spread terror into another
this is not relative
moral relativism is dangerous
when you start using it
to justify anything
because if you lose moral grounds
to this degree
you can no longer pass judgment
I guess I just
I don't think it's relative
I don't think it's relative
but I also don't think
it's absolute in the sense that
from every position
it looks the way you just described it
even if we could somehow understand it
as that all of us
it's going to take different kinds of ways
of understanding it
so there's not going to be one absolute way
in which that's going to become clear
and there's not going to be one
one story for why that's clear
even within that spectrum of it being true
it's not absolute
because there's going to be
so many different ways
in which it's going to be understood
and that doesn't mean those ways are wrong
but it does not mean that it's relative
that it's just because
it could be understood
from a million different ways
then therefore there's no right or wrong to it
I think that's very hard to understand that
that's like a different way of thinking
to understand that
do you know what I mean?
but if you just say it's absolute
then it's just for me
you could prove me wrong
I just feel like that's playing into
the same way that our language is set up
so that we're always
putting ourselves on one side or the other
which means we're always going to be fighting
and there's always going to be like
ways to say that what we're fighting for
is the right thing
and what they're fighting for
is the wrong thing
in dialogue that the other side
is not going to take seriously
I think we lose our souls on both extremes
we lose our souls and we say
it's reality is too complicated
there is no solid moral ground
everything is relative
we lose our soul there
because now you may find a justification
for why a criminal can invade the house
of an old retired lady
and rape her for the whole night
and then slit their throat
and set the house on fire
from his point of view
because of his education
and the way his genes are put together
and the neurotransmitters in his brain
and the abuse he suffered
that and I understand that
I understand that
no that doesn't mean it's right
that doesn't mean it's right
if you understand why that happened
you can even say more
correctly why it's wrong
correct correct
we must understand evil
but we should not use this need
to understand evil
as an excuse for evil
or an argument to say
everything is too complex
everything is relative
therefore there are no absolute moral judgments
I think we lose our soul there
we equally lose our souls
when we portray everything
as a black and white moral call
without nuance
you're either liberal or conservative
now you lost all nuance
you lost any hope of a sane political discourse
the moment you do that
so I think in both extremes
we lose our souls
we have to recognize that
most things we have to make choices about
are nuanced
subtle and complex
you cannot see them as black and white
at the same time
that we have to accept
that there is a moral ground of absolute
because if we lose sight of that too
we also lose our humanity
because now we start being able
to create a narrative
to justify anything
it's like the simplicity things
that you brought up right
of the categorical imperative
or the golden rule
or these like very basic
would you do unto this person
the way you want to have
is this how you want to be treated
it's a very simple kind of way
in which you can understand right or wrong
if you allow
but that doesn't mean that
understanding the narrative
of how someone got to a different place
and the coherence
because it's coherent
I think we confuse that coherence
with it must be okay
and that's not right
but you can still understand
the coherence of the narrative
and how it happened
and you need to
without because it's coherent
doesn't mean it's sanctioned
right now that's a very big confusion
I think even in the states
where it even translates into
he got elected
so he must be okay to be elected
because you can understand
the coherence of it
it happens all the time
but how do you get that apart
the coherence doesn't mean
it's legit it's that it's valid
yeah yeah
so we have to understand evil
we have to understand
why serial murders do what they do
we have to understand
why psychopaths act the way they do
we have to understand
why narcissists do what they do
we have to understand
but understanding doesn't mean
that it has valid moral ground
it's different than to say that
because we understand
then it's also relative
it's a relative judgment call
relative model
no I think if you really understand it
it's not relative at all
it's it becomes much more clear
that it's not relative
yeah let me give you an example
it infuriates me to see discourse online
about why the only way
to help Ukraine
is to call for talks
and to sit and have a conversation
with all sides
all sides have a claim
have a story a narrative
that they think is valid
so let's come together
and discuss and try to solve our issues
this is a very
it's a liberal discourse
that has been co-opted
by the by populist demagogues
and it's also sorry
but it's also really doesn't understand
the narrative of what's happening
in Russia and Putin
because it's assuming they're going to go
that's going to work
and that's not at all even close
to the regularities by which
even sitting down and discussing and kind of
it's more what you're saying is correct
but it's more complex
that I want to get across
I want to get a message across
through a metaphor
what I just said is entirely equivalent
to the following scenario
I was speaking
I'll be speaking to men now
because I think this has more appeal to men
since it's men that are promoting this story
you are a man
and you are in your house
in your neighborhood
and you have a kid
you have a cat and a dog
and your wife
and you're there in your house
living your life
you're not infringing with
you're not going across the borders
of your property
you're not bothering your neighbors
you're not causing any trouble
you're just there having your life
in your house
and occasionally you talk to some friends
that maybe your neighbors don't like much
they don't like those friends of yours
but you're just talking to them
and it's your life
it's your freedom to do that
whether your neighbors like it or not
the point is you're not infringing
with the ability of your neighbors
to live the way they want
you're in your house living your life
and then a gang of criminals
kicks your door down
invades your house
they rape your wife in front of you
they pour gasoline on your cat
and set your cat alight
just to watch your cat running desperately around
and knocking against walls
then they shoot your child
and throw your child through a closed window
through the glass
and then they start setting your house on fire
with you inside
and then your neighbors come and say
we should all sit together
and have a conversation
because the people who invade your house
they also have their point of view
they also have their grievances
and what we should do now
is not to help you defend yourself
defend your loved ones
defend your property
what we should do now
is to bring all of you together on a table
so we can have a discussion about it
this is what it means
that's what we are saying
that we should do to Ukraine
their women are being raped
their men are being killed
their country is on fire
their pets are on fire
and we are telling them
they should sit and discuss
what would happen in a society
that is grounded in basic morals
what would happen is the following
we will help you kick them out
and put down the fire in your house
and save your loved ones
after we do that
now we will have a conversation
about prosecuting crimes
and preventing this from happening in the future
by having a dialogue amongst all parties
in this order
that's the order in which you do this
if you don't want it to happen again
and if you want to be morally grounded
and we lose sight of that
because we make things more complicated
than things are
we all understand what I said
when it relates directly to them
their house
their loved ones
their person
but somehow when it gets into geopolitical abstraction
and nations and economies
we lose sight from basic moral grounding
and I think that is the end of us
if we relativize everything
just as it is the end of us
if we make everything black and white
if we do the latter
it's third world war
if we do the former
there will be no boundaries
there will be no justice
and human life will be disastrous
yeah I'm glad you
I was gonna ask you
I'm glad you added the last part
because it's not that sitting down
and discussing it is a bad idea
but to ask in that very powerful story
you just told
while that's going on
and still happening
to ask people to sit down
and discuss it
while it continues on
maybe even in the same room
that you have to watch it
but you're going to just sit down
and talk about it
is more the case
and how it must feel
and how insane it is
right it's not that saying
we could discuss it
and try to talk about it
but you're not going to do it
while it's happening in your house
you're going to defend yourself
and Andrea you could say
not even the Biden administration
was helping Ukraine
as much as they should have
so everybody's in the wrong here right
and then it comes back
to a point we discussed before
which is governments
not treating us as mature adults
the Biden administration
was not telling us
why it was playing this game
of helping Ukraine just enough
so Russia doesn't win
but not enough
so the problem is actually solved
why did they do that
they never explained this
because they think people
will not understand it
they think it's too complicated
and they think it will be misused
in social media
so I will tell you the story
I'll take the risk
I'll stick my neck out
and I'll tell you the story
that politicians don't want to tell you
the war that is coming is against China
and it's probably going to happen
before the end of this decade
and the reasons for
that's a whole other discussion
and I'm not going to pass
judgment on that
it's likely going to happen
the US's play is
Russia is a geopolitical
counterbalance to China
if Russia is weakened
or unstable
China just takes over
vast swaths of land
in the far east of Russia
including the old Manchuria
Vladivostok
which is now a major Russian metropolis
what used to be China
they would take all that over
they have access to much more oil
today China imports
about 80% of their energy
and they can only do that
because the US Navy guarantees
the safety of commercial lanes
across the seas
so most of China's energy
comes from the Middle East
through the Strait of Oman
which is patrolled and vouchsafed
by the US Navy
which is the only Navy
that has worldwide reach
the Chinese Navy is bigger
in terms of the number of vessels
but they are all small vessels
they can't go very far
the US Navy is the only one
that has worldwide reach
if China
so that's a deterrence against China
because if China
tries to take the wealth
and the prosperity of Taiwan
which we helped them build
and steal western technology
that is in Taiwan
such as ASML lithography tools
which I worked on for 15 years
which we cannot send to China
if they do that
there is a very simple way
to defeat China
you just make sure
that they don't get their energy
and you can do that
far away from China
and you close their ports
50% of their food
comes from abroad as well
if you close their ports
you are in a situation
in which 400 million people
die of starvation
within three months
so China is deterred
because of all this
if they take large swaths
of Russian territory
that's a very different story
so Russia is an important
counterbalance to China
that's why the Biden administration
doesn't want Russia to win
because if they win
the next in line are NATO countries
like in the Baltics
and then now the US is in the fight
and they have to be in the fight
because Europe is responsible
as a sort of symbiotic partner
for a large part of US wealth
and prosperity
and all of you would feel it
in your pockets very quickly
if Europe falls
there is a symbiotic relationship
between us
all of your semiconductors
are made with Dutch technology
and that's just one example
of the symbiosis
so it will be much more expensive
that's why they are
in this charade now
they cannot let Russia win
but they cannot destabilize Russia
because the real war
is still coming
so why don't they just explain
this to people
because that's what the theory
of democracy is
a government is accountable
and a government reports
to their boss
which is the people who voted them
the people who gave them the job
reports to their bosses
the people why they're doing
what they're doing
and you treat people like adults
and the reason why Trump wants peace
at any cost with Ukraine
that's not deranged
he too is not telling you
the real reason
is because he knows
the real conflict
is coming with China
and we cannot afford
to have Russia disintegrate
into 15 different states
armed with nuclear weapons
most of which have
incredible natural resources
that will make a war with China
a lot more difficult to prevent
because what prevents war
is deterrence
it's not flowers
and holding hands
and singing the kumbaya
that's not what prevents wars
what prevents wars
wars is deterrence
the U.S. has deterrence
China is trying to eliminate that
by expanding their military presence
in the South China Sea
why are they doing that
because they really think
they are historically entitled to that
no it's because if they get control
over the southern China Sea
they will have control
over certain commercial choke points
like straits that go
between Indonesia and Malaysia
these are narrow straits
that they depend on
to get their food and their oil
if that is not under their control
the U.S. can just close those lanes
and then they're screwed
and that's the U.S. deterrence
that's why they're doing
what they're doing
that's why the U.S. is doing
what it's doing
Europe is much more clear
in this respect
because for Europe
a rampaging mafia state
like Russia rampaging Europe
directly affects our security
and for you guys in the U.S.
it only indirectly does so
in time it will completely compromise
your ability to have a prosperous
and secure life
just like it happened
in the second world war
in Japan and Pearl Harbor
threats to the west coast
in California, Oregon
all those states were threatened
the same thing would eventually happen again
but not at first
that's why U.S. politicians
are more pragmatic in this regard
than people like us here
we were much more directly threatened
but now that there are North Korean soldiers
on the European territory
fighting a war
now for us it's like
the two conflicts are merging into one
for South Korea too
if these soldiers are gathering experience
here testing weapons
learning how to fight wars
it's a threat to them
so the South Koreans are now going to Ukraine
that's how world wars are constructed
one step at a time
this is why this stuff is happening
but the government
either side in the U.S.
there are only two sides
not 16 as here
but governments either side there
they are not telling you the whole story
they are both busy at figuring out
what's the best way at manipulating you
and right now the best manipulators
are the ones who won
previously the best manipulators
were the liberal democrats
that's how politics is done
because politicians do what works
not what is right
that's powerful
what you just laid out is very powerful
and even knowing all that
I'm gonna have to think through it a bit more
because a few of those things
I really hadn't made those connections
but knowing all that
you're very passionate about Ukraine
it's because it's just wrong, right?
where is that coming from for you
even if you understand all those dynamics
and what could happen
and where is it back to the good and evil
and knowing which side you want to be on
and second to that
I wonder if someone asked you to come on
and be maybe they even have a consultant
or work with the government
and try to help on these problems
do you think there's a way
you could say yes and help
or is it that the whole thing is just
like you can't possibly enter into it
and do any kind of helpful thing
or I guess more in the states
do not necessarily in the Netherlands
but oh no in the states I'm not a US citizen
I know but I'm saying no
there is a way I could possibly say yes
I'll leave it at that
for me in Ukraine
it's first and foremost a moral issue
a gang of criminals
has entered somebody's house
raped somebody's wife
set somebody's cat on fire
killed somebody's child
and in my mind that moral issue
has overwhelming precedence
over everything else
but I still have pragmatic reasons
for why this should be stopped
in this day and age
if a state consolidates a game
by infringing international law
the precedence that this creates
is devastating because it will tell
other potentially rogue states
that this may pay off
this may work
that it may pay off
to invade another country
kill pillage
destroy and rape
get away with it
and still have a profit
so I think it's very important
that this precedent not be created
and that moral relativism
and geopolitical pragmatism
does not get in the way
of preventing this precedent
from being created
because it starts a domino process
if it works once
that's the lesson it teaches
rogue states and they would do it again
and if it pays off again
they do it again
until one day that wave
and knocks at your front door
and even if it doesn't knock
at your front door
human decency should still bring us into action
even if we don't get directly involved
for me that's the key point
that said I understand
the Biden administration's
tightrope balancing act
help enough so they don't lose
so Russia doesn't win
so we don't create that precedent
but don't help so much
that you destabilize Russia
I think morally
morals are not for this tightrope balancing act
I think morality tells us
we have to get those criminals
out of my neighbor's house
as soon as possible
and before more rape
before more killing
before more suffering
and then we sit together
and see what to do
about preventing it in the future
that's not what they are doing
because they're being geopolitically pragmatic
just like JD Vance and Trump
are geopolitically pragmatic
about the real conflict being elsewhere
I think that is morally reprehensible
but I understand it
I don't think it's right
but I understand it
and I understand
you don't see it's a trolley problem
I think you don't
no it is a trolley problem
is it okay
it is a trolley problem
so either way it's
because even if we do what you want us to do
exactly then there are going to be repercussions
that create more of that possibly
in other places
I recognize that if we help Ukraine
to the point where we get the criminals
out of their house
that would be profoundly destabilizing
to the Russian government
which is a mafia government
so I don't mind if that government collapses
because it's a mafia state
but I recognize that destabilizing
the current government in Russia
will not produce a follow-up government
that is stable
it will probably break the country up
or prevent them from being a counterweight
to China's presence in the Far East
and that could complicate the situation
when it comes to preventing a war
with China through deterrence
and create a much bigger problem
that may lead to even more suffering
more catastrophe
may even lead to a limited scale nuclear war
I don't think there will be a full scale nuclear war
but a limited scale nuclear war could happen
which would be catastrophic
for many countless millions of people
so I recognize that
it is a trolley problem
but I have moral imperatives
that seem to overwhelm my thinking in that regard
when I see my neighbor's house on fire
and criminals inside
raping and pillaging and torturing
and setting them on fire
my sole moral imperative
is to stop the carnage first
and then think about the rest later
but I recognize
I may be the one who chooses the train
to kill one person by changing the tracks
I think we can just find some way
to change the complete trolley thing
at some point
get out of these
that too is that dichotomy
that I feel like we need to lift out of
but nonetheless every action
has some repercussions
and I definitely can hear people
in different countries
that I know sometimes listen to this
saying we have this in our country too
can you help us
because people are treating people badly
in a lot of places
and yeah it just gets
there's trolleys everywhere
and before we could get into that
but there's a layer here
which we haven't talked about
which is the kind of close to you too
the way that technology is changing this
and the layer of algorithmic war or change
and of course now a lot of this
isn't in the hands only of nation states
and countries
some of it's in the hands of individuals
who own satellites and space
and things that can change stuff
so I wonder if you've thought
about that much too
or if you see this as a like
a shift in power dynamics
on that level too of where
a lot of what we're talking about now
depends on power being in traditional places
but if we think of it algorithmically
and in terms of technology
that's changing too on different levels
even on the level of
I think this election
in the United States was heavily influenced
by podcasts
you know by who did
or did not go on this or that podcast
and by which particular kind of personality
is swaying popular sentiment
this is not new
maybe it's Joe Rogan now
but it used to be Walter Cronkite
a few decades ago
Walter Cronkite
both parties would have went on
and Joe Rogan
there was a kind of feeling that
oh we can't go on
we can't
I'm going back to when Bernie Sanders
remember when Bernie Sanders was on Joe Rogan
and it was wonderful
and Joe Rogan even I think was like
oh I like this guy
and probably was going to even endorse him or did
and everyone on the left was like so mad
not everyone
but a lot of people were so mad
that Bernie went on Joe Rogan
you know
because you're not supposed to cross the line
and go over to that macho side
and that trend played itself out to where we are now
I'm cartoonized making it cartoonish
but it's that dichotomy again of
I don't think that was true with Walter Cronkite
maybe it was
I don't know
I think it was
yeah really okay
I think subtle manipulation was enough then
now it's not enough anymore
so things are much more visible
but I think media organizations
have always either openly
or secretly endorsed
certain political streams
and not others
and worked towards one thing and not another
but this is the reverse of that
it's not Joe Rogan endorsing
the party itself
not wanting to be aligned with that kind of a thing
so it would be like
I understand too
it made the same choice
is that also always been around or
would someone have chosen not to go on Walter Cronkite
because it was too left or right leaning
because I think that's the reason
a lot of people didn't engage with
this sort of side of Joe Rogan
which also extends to people like Peterson
and there's a whole kind of way in which
there's not a lot of nuance there
because of the machoness
or because of how visceral
the reactions can be for certain people
and I'm not saying one way is right or wrong
I completely understand it
but it just feels like something's
a little bit different there
but maybe not
maybe it's just amplified
no there is a difference
there is a real problem
there is a book that talks about it
I forgot the name of the author
the problem is called techno feudalism
in which
techno feudalism?
yeah in which major technology organizations
media organizations
which are now merged with technology organizations
they may exert the powers of state
they may have power
commensurable with the powers
that only the state should have
because in democracy
the powers of state are given by the people
but in techno feudalism
those powers are garnered in a different way
not through vote
that's why feudalism
but they end up defining the future
or the path of nations
as much as powers of government
and that's an issue
for democracy to survive
technical feudalism has to be combated
you cannot have one person
sitting on top companies
that are so powerful
that they can do their own foreign policy
or take decisions
that only states should decide
in democracies
because nobody voted for them
in an election
they just got lucky
or were good in business
that doesn't mean
that they should have powers of state
so that's an issue
that's a real problem
and i think we should
and our legislative power
should pass laws
that prevent the accumulation
of that kind of power
beyond a certain level
and people will say
oh it's socialism
it's all a matter of degree
there is a point
where you have to say
individuals cannot become
more powerful than their states
because at that point
you no longer have a democracy
at that point
you have an autocracy
or maybe even a meritocracy
which sounds nice
but it's still not democratic
because you may have reason
the ranks in the corporate world
through merit
but not the kind of merit
that would give you
democratic powers
in other words
you may not have worked
in the interest of the people
but solely in the interest
of shareholders
and that's fine
if you're a corporate leader
but that shouldn't grant you
powers of state
because the process
of getting those powers
are very different
based on different values
different criteria
and they shouldn't be mixed
so there is a case to be made
against wealth
beyond a certain level
and against the powers
that are comparable
to the powers of the state
as far as defining
the directions of the country
inside
and also in terms
of foreign policy
there is a case to be made
that we should legislate
that risk away
and I would support that
if the effort is made
of course in the U.S.
that effort will not be made
at least during the next four years
but maybe in Europe
something can be done
in that regard
and maybe something can be done
even in the U.S.
in the future further away
but I do not conflate
what I just said Andrea
with media personalities
having sway
because I think
that has always been the case
it's just that there was a time
in which the manipulation
was so subtle
that we thought
they were not biased
but they were
and that's the most dangerous bias
is when you are being manipulated
in a certain direction
and you don't even see
that's what's happening
I rather have Joe Rogan say
maybe too late
but he did say at some point
and or strong
if that was already the path
which he was falling
in a very subtle way
appealing to a young man
I rather have that be open
and yeah
just to be clear
I wasn't criticizing Joe Rogan
because I think Joe Rogan
is doing what Joe Rogan is
and does and that's
you can have your opinion on that
but I was more thinking about
again I'm thinking through these
beyond dichotomy
and trying to get
but it just that railroad
rutting that I was talking about
has become so powerful that
I feel like there's something
about Joe Rogan
and that side that
and Jordan Peterson
and all these people
who identifies
is familiar to a huge section
of the voting population
and you said we should take
grievances seriously
and I think that means
taking that seriously
that's happening
it's been happening
and that's something about
that isn't recognized
in a way that isn't reactive
and I'm talking even to myself
because I remember
when all this stuff happened
with Jordan Peterson
and the woman
and it's visceral
and it's you feel like
you have to take a side
rather than somehow
look at this differently
and yeah it just became
I think it just
it seems like it accelerated
whatever all that was
towards becoming more of itself
and less of a dialogue
less of what's the real grievances
and how do we talk about it
and more you can't possibly
associate yourself with that
because it's fascist
or something like this
which just doesn't make
a lot of sense I think
I prefer a world
in which media organizations
explicitly endorse
or the opposite
political candidates
and provide a rationale
for why they are doing it
like the New York Times
has always endorsed
certain candidates
and provided an editorial
in which they explain why
Scientific American endorsed
Kamala Harris
in the last election cycle
and they provided
long editorial explaining why
so did The Economist
I prefer that
to a world in which
media organizations
manipulate implicitly
through reporting bias
and pretend that
they don't really have a position
pretend that they are neutral
while their editorial decisions
are clearly
or maybe less clearly
but effectively
biasing the population
one way or the other
I prefer a world
in which opinions are made clear
and they are all overtly
on the table
so we can judge people accordingly
I chose to
not go to the Joe Rogan podcast
if I'm invited again
I made the choice
I think Joe Rogan
had the right to endorse
I think it is correct
that he made that endorsement
explicit instead of
through hidden manipulation
but it's also an endorsement
that for me
is morally reprehensible
and I do not want
to associate myself
with where that kind
of movement is going
look the summary
of my position is the following
the grievances are legitimate
but the reaction
to the grievances
are going to exacerbate
the problem that led
to the grievance
in the first place
as opposed to solving it
that's the problem
and that reaction
not only exacerbates the problem
I think it's morally reprehensible
because it does away
with this very clear
moral foundation
that is not subtle
is not relative
it's not complicated
it's just plain human decency
and an appreciation for truth
truth as a value
and that's why I choose
I think that's wonderful
but not but Bernardo
that's so important
what you're saying
that to me
maybe I'm being idealistic
but it sounds like
you were invited
to be on Joe Rogan
and you said no
I completely respect that
but what if that audience
could have heard you say that
and they haven't heard
that from anyone else
or because Bernie Sanders
was a big hit on that show
and made changed a lot of
I remember someone in my family
who's definitely not
didn't vote the same way as I
wanted to vote for Bernie
after that
should we put each other
so because I'm this way
I should only talk
to the New York Times or this
or because it's very tricky
because maybe if you
went on that show
then it seems like you endorse
what he's saying
but the people who would listen
to it would know you don't
then I don't know
I just am I being too idealistic
to think yeah
I'll explain to you
I didn't say no to Joe Rogan
I did get an invitation
years ago
and my reaction was not yet
when I go to the U.S. again
and then I went to the U.S. again
and I didn't contact him
so it was the
we left it open
and I never said a direct no
to him
so that's where
I was coming from
today I'll not say anything
but if I get an invitation
today I would say
okay this time it's an explicit no
I don't want to do that
now why do I not want to do that
this will sound precious
in this day and age
I want to reach people
who will take my
philosophical story seriously
for the right reasons
I do not want to reach people
who will almost certainly
take me seriously
or even believe in me outright
for the wrong reasons
and in this day and age
people just want to be heard
and taken seriously right
there is something in me
I do not want to reach people
who will believe me
for the wrong reasons
I actively do not want
that to happen
and I've suspected
I will not say I knew
who am I to know anything
I suspected
that in the Joe Rogan podcast
I would be believed
for the wrong reasons
what would that be
can you tell me
what a wrong reason would be
as your audience may know
because it's not the first time
we talk about it
I am an idealist philosopher
I think there is an external
real world
but it's mental
and I think materiality
is not a thing
it's a representation
it's the way we represent
the things we perceive
but the things in themselves
are mental processes
the whole world is mental
there is no materiality
at the foundational level of nature
this is a very anti-mainstream position
not anti-mainstream
but it contradicts the mainstream
which tells us the opposite
it is matter that really exists
and mind is just a representation
that arises within material constructs
it's just a sort of a digest
of material activity in the brain
that's what we call mind
that's what Daniel Dennett used to say
materialist philosopher
who died not long ago
so the whole thing about my philosophy
carries this
or may be perceived as carrying this
rebellious attitude
against elites
against the mainstream
something that will stick up to the man
who will put the elites in their place
or even because it's a philosophy
that tells everything is mind
it may be construed as a philosophy
that denies absolute truths
it's a philosophy that foments the thought
that everything is relative
it's my reality
you are in your reality
I have mine
truth doesn't exist or doesn't matter
it may be construed that way
in fact it doesn't say that at all
it's a philosophy that says
there are real facts
they are mental
but they don't depend on my or your mentation
they are mentation out there
even if you were not here
they would still be where they are
these are real objective facts
there is such a thing as truth
and such a thing as falsity or lies
they are not relative
but I suspect that my philosophy
would be appreciated
under certain political currents of thought
certain social currents of thought
and feeling
that would play into these things
that I do not support
I do not support relativizing reality
I do not support post-truth
I do not support relativizing moral
I do not support being anti-mainstream
for the sake of being anti-mainstream
I think mainstream materialism is false
because it's materialism
not because it's mainstream
if the mainstream is reasonable
I am all for the mainstream
I am for reason
not against the mainstream
I'm simply for reason
so I judged at the time
and my judgment is stronger now
that it's dangerous to reach people
who will believe you for the wrong reasons
because the effects of that belief
will be the opposite
of what I'm trying to achieve
in other words
there will be a wave of misunderstanding
that will snowball
and create a monster of my own making
that doesn't represent
what my philosophy is all about
is not consistent with my philosophy
so for me it's important to know
how to reach people
and to reach the right people
I've never convinced anybody of anything
everything that has happened so far
is people who already know
or think that my philosophy is true
when they read my philosophy
it gives them the words
it gives them the conceptual apparatus
that confirms what they already knew within
I never convinced anybody
of something they didn't already know
intuitively within
so those are the people I'm trying to reach
because the effects of reaching the wrong people
who will believe me for the wrong reasons
and I'm not blaming them for that
it's just normal human stuff
human dynamics
but because I understand it
I carry the moral responsibility
to at least try to prevent it
and therefore to try
to the extent that I can make that judgment
to not reach the people
who will believe me for the wrong reasons
wow that's really a strong thing to say
and it actually puts a lot in perspective
of what we've been talking about
because it's not that spirit
of just do what's going to get you the most attention
or money by selling books
or money or it's really thinking through it
and I don't know
for some reason it makes me wonder
first of all I want to say congratulations
on analytic idealism in a nutshell
very cool
and you put it so clearly in the beginning
what you just said
which I think is very important
because yeah it's like this is what it is
if you're going to go any further
anyway it's really great
but as you were talking I was wondering
was there ever a time in your life
you might have gone that way
of wanting the
just going with the inertia of attention
and maybe even that you would have voted
more towards that
or have you always
I don't know
was there ever a time
you might have thought differently about this
in a radical way
a way that
I won't say you would vote for Trump
but closer to that
angry
in the Netherlands a couple of times
the liberal conservatives
no I don't think
there was a time in my life
in which I would have voted
for populism
populism and both truth
is the antithesis of what I stand for
I stand for truth
analytic idealism stands
for getting closer to truth
for reforming mistakes
once they become clear
not for denying truth
or relativizing everything
or outright and deliberately
manipulate people
that's not what I stand for
and I never stood for it
so no I don't think
there ever was a time in my life
in which I would have been susceptible
to that temptation
it's not even a temptation for me
I will not say
that there was never a time in my life
in which I wouldn't have done something
just to sell more books
because in the early days
this whole philosophy thing
is not something I ever planned
I was happy in the corporate world
climbing the career ladder
helping produce amazing technology
that fulfilled me
it's what I wanted to do as a kid
it's what I was doing
it's what Bernardo Castro was and is
still all about
this philosophy thing happened to me
parachuted into my life
out of some place
in my inner mind
that I didn't even know existed
it's like an imposition
it's a distraction
it's a daemon kind of connection
or is it connected to the daemon?
absolutely yeah
that's what I call it
because it doesn't seem like it's me
it's something that is imposed on me
and there was a time
but isn't that more you in a way too
than that other?
it's not Bernardo Castro
no it may be more my real self
but that's what I mean
without the yeah
maybe that's what people refer to
when they say your true self
maybe that's what it is
I don't know but it's not Bernardo
the true self doesn't need the self
but anyway sorry that was another tangent
it's not Bernardo
it's not the thing I identify with
it's not the narrative of you that yeah
yeah so in the beginning
when these first five years
when this was imposed on me
my inner attitude was the following
I needed to do this as fast as possible
no run
burn this through as fast as possible
get to whatever I need to get
achieve whatever objective
it thinks it needs to achieve
so I can free myself from it
as quickly as possible
you wanted you didn't want it anymore
I wanted to get rid of it as soon as possible
so the way to get rid of it
was to have an international bestseller
and settle the metaphysical question for humanity
so I could go back and work with electronics
then I would have done that
because that's how I felt
today I have accepted
that this will always be a theme of my life
there is no freedom from it
it will always be there
and I mean it's not going to go away Bernardo
yeah I'm not in a hurry
to get rid of it anymore
so I'm more thoughtful
I am less stupid
but there was a time
in the first five years in which
I don't know whether I would have
gone to any podcast
or do whatever against my moral judgments
I don't know whether I would have that
but I could
maybe I wouldn't
but as far as I know today looking back
I can't guarantee that I wouldn't
but you can get a little bit of a sense
of how people in the moment
make those little choices of
just do whatever is most expedient
you can understand how that might start
that inertia and then you're
I don't yeah
yeah yeah I know
I understand
that it's very important
or at least very tempting attractive
for most people
to grow their egos
become rich and famous
as you guys say in the US
like rich and famous
as if they were the same thing
they're completely different things
don't know why they come together
why do we need to be famous
but provide some kind of egoic validation
I understand this
I am personally a natural introvert
I am an extrovert by adaptation
I am a natural introvert
I personally do not feel any need to
get tremendous public credit
or be exalted
as a differentiated human being
who is great or whatever
to be very honest with you
I find this very uncomfortable
I find being flattered
very uncomfortable
I know I cannot act upon that discomfort
because people will think it's arrogant
if I go and give a public talk
and then people come to me and say
you're great
your philosophy changed my life
so please answer
I would smile
and I would thank them
for sharing that with me
and I would sign the books they bought
I will play the role
because I know I would be
misunderstood otherwise
but to me that's the worst part
of any public event
is being flattered afterwards
it makes me uncomfortable
now people listening to this
you don't need to feel guilty
if you ever flattered me
I'm a grown-up man
I'm 50
I can deal with it
then no problem
I'm not hurt
no I'm not feeling bad
but I never had
finally answer your question
I never had that motivation
of doing something
because it would flatter me
or make me famous
this is foreign waters for me
I know it exists
I know it's part of what being human means
because most of people seem to have it
but it's not something
I can personally relate to very much
I first never struggled with ego
I mean I get
and then I know those are different things
but because a lot of this
the root of it is pretty simple
to go back to your
what you were saying at the beginning
about their simple answers
and there's also simple troubles with this
a lot of it is wanting attention
wanting love
wanting power
feeling not wanting confidence
I think it's very much true
that the people who are the strongest
and the most powerful
and the most confident
we rarely see that much
unless they're forced to
unless they have to take on the role
maybe in a way that you're describing
where you just like
it's not that they went out and
we're seeking it
in the way that we associate with those things
because really when you're most confident
and powerful you don't need to seek it
and seeking it is going against
kind of whatever that daemon spirit is
but that doesn't mean
we don't have like ego issues right?
Oh of course I struggled with ego
I don't take well to being disrespected
and that's a reflection
of there being an ego in me
otherwise who is there to be disrespected
right it would just not matter
but I don't take well to this day
less now but especially when I was younger
and I was climbing the ladder
in the corporate world very early
I was 33 years old
I was promoted to senior management
which in most U.S. companies
would be a vice president position
Was that at CERN?
Where were you then?
Were you at CERN?
I was at ASML
ASML okay
Yeah so you were
but you were already so successful that
yeah anyway I'll let you continue
Okay still I didn't take well
to being disrespected
What was disrespect for you?
Was it similar to what bothers you
about what's happening in Ukraine?
Was it some kind of inhumanity or something?
Or it seems connected to the reason
you don't like to be flattered
There was once we were having
a meeting with a customer
and somebody contradicted
what I had just said
that was an issue
that became a problem
I escalated it
that became a problem
and I dressed it in pragmatic language
it didn't help us get that customer
but truthfully if I'm honest to you
and myself it bruised my ego
I took that as disrespect
or if somebody is bringing their dogs
walk in front of my house
and let their dog poop in my front yard
oh I react explosively to that
I have an ego in that sense obviously
obviously to me right
knowing that I have those experiences
I know I have an ego
but it has never been an ego
that sought fame, visibility
fame and visibility
tend to make me rather uncomfortable
when I wrote my first book
I wanted to write it under pseudonym
but because I didn't have a platform
back then my publisher said
look we believe in your book
but you're a starting author
if you're going to start
what is already a very difficult journey
to market your material
if you're going to start that already
under the veil of a pseudonym
it will make it so difficult
to market your book
because you can't give an interview
like we are having right now
unless I wear a mask
and you go to a public event
and they said no
if you want us to publish
you have to put your name
and I agreed with that
but my original tendency was
I don't even want to be known as the author
and if it would be
you don't want to be seen
you'd rather not be visible
yeah something like that
yeah I know I'm keenly aware
that I am just the carrier of something
that doesn't...
yeah I was about to say
if it's really what's moving through you
though you can separate those things
yeah but and I do
you've come to figure that out
my faith still has to be there
because I'm the carrier of the thing
and I know I never had the temptation
to do the talk circuit
or the podcast circuit
in order to be famous
or in order to sell my books
I was never financially dependent
on selling books
thank goodness financially
and have been okay for a while
so I don't have that concern
and I also don't have great material ambitions
meaning if I had
a hundred million dollars
in my bank account tomorrow
very little would change my life
I would still be using an eight-year-old
oh that's beautiful
iPhone XE 2016
I would still be driving my Volkswagen Passat
from 2014 10 years old
I probably would still be living in my house
which is a nice house
it's a freestanding house
for Dutch standards
it's a pretty high level house
for American standards
it would be an average house
it's made of bricks not of wood
but in terms of size
it would be an average house
with an average backyard
so very little would change
so I don't even have the motivation
to be rich let alone be famous
I wouldn't mind a little more money
to guarantee a better pension
than I would have
if tomorrow I didn't have an income anymore
I could make it
but not as comfortably as I would like
so I wouldn't mind a little more money
but I wouldn't know what to do
with a lot of extra money
and I don't feel comfortable
with a lot of fame either
to whatever small degree
I am known publicly today
that already makes me uncomfortable
especially now that I'm becoming
better known in the Netherlands
in the beginning it was good
because I was known in the UK
and in the US
and I was living in the Netherlands
so nobody would recognize me
in a restaurant
the other day I was eating
in a very nice restaurant in Eindhoven
and it's a very small restaurant
it's a Michelin two-star restaurant
so only half of tables
so everybody who is there
sees whoever else was in there
and I was there quietly having my
once a year very nice meal
which one of the few indulgences
I give myself is once a year
a very nice meal
Was it for your birthday?
Wasn't your birthday recently?
It was my partner's birthday
was for a birthday
and the one happy birthday
to your partner by the way
yeah that was several months ago
while again okay
but then it was the first time
it happened to me in the Netherlands
that I was not even in a public event
in the Netherlands
it was just I was in a restaurant
a pretty exclusive restaurant
there aren't many people there
at the end of my dinner
the people in the next table
who probably recognized me
the moment they entered
I was already sitting there
and they said
you're Bernardo Kastrup
we very much appreciate your work
and I was like
I was happy that
yeah that's nice
that's a nice thing to say
it's a nice thing to say
and I'm happy that my work
has had a positive impact
yeah
but there was another thing in me
oh shit
this is the beginning
starting
yeah
and I very much appreciate
being just one more of us
I find it so I mean
I was around fame really early
and it scared me
it really scared me to see
first of all how lost
people could get by it
and trying to keep it
even though the people around me
weren't like that
they were very grounded
but you're in that world
and you just
it just felt weird
but also what you're saying that
I've always had trouble
even
it's hard to be seen
like I don't like people looking at me
and that feeling of
if you're going to go out
in your neighborhood
and people
you can't go anywhere
without being recognized
it's weird
but lately I've thought
maybe there's something wrong with that
and it connects to your daemon thing
and letting things flow through you
and I've started to feel like
maybe I'm
I was taking myself
a little too seriously
to be so concerned
but then I don't know
because privacy and being sane
are very connected to me for me too
so yeah for me
I've spent a long time
thinking about why I am like this
because most people
don't seem to be like this
they don't have a problem
it's almost the opposite
yeah and I'm like
why do I have this problem
so I spent years
thinking about it
and the conclusion I arrived at
so far
I may change my mind
as we go forward
but the threat I sense
is to be robbed of my humanity
because when you're
just a normal person
there is no question
of your humanity
you're just one of the gang
you're one more person on the streets
one more person
having to make ends meet
at the end of the month
you're as human
and as fallible
as everybody else
as susceptible to failure
and to error
to mistake
as everybody else
and that I find extremely soothing
because it doesn't place
a heavy weight of moral responsibility
on your shoulders
you carry the same weight
everybody else carries
and you are within that web
of human mutual reassurance
when you suffer
and the other people who suffer
console you
and the year later
you are one of the people
who are suffering
and console another sufferer
so you are surrounded
by your own kind
that's reassuring
comforting
and when people start
looking up to you
they just not
I don't say that
they do that maliciously
it's not what they are trying to do
but the fact is that
kicking you upstairs
I experienced it
as being robbed of my humanity
and being invested
with a weight of responsibility
that is incommensurable
with my fallibility
as a human being
and that's what makes me uncomfortable
this elevation
this exiling me
like kicking me away
from the web
of mutual human reassurance
so you feel like
they're distancing you
from what you need
which is just to be connected
to humanity
yeah I am fiercely connected
to my humanity
I will instinctively
and emotionally react
to false but perceived threats
to my humanity
and being elevated
as the wise philosopher
the one people want to listen to
that's a huge threat to my humanity
is it a threat
if you don't take it seriously
I mean if you
are you worried
you'll start believing it
no it's just that
you can't connect anymore
because people aren't seeing you
they're seeing
no I can I can connect
the fear is they can't
they will not treat me
they're not connecting
to who you really are
precisely
yeah they're seeing an image of you
precisely
they are seeing
their own projections
and I went to the point
of discussing this
with a therapist
you'll probably be
listening to this
and because I talked
about this before
but this got to a point
where I started actively
trying to prevent projections
by exaggerating
on my fallibility
by by exaggerating
on all the ways
in which I'm playing human
so by talking about
your weaknesses or something
yeah yeah
you mean publicly or in books or
yeah yeah I've exaggerated
certain things
oh please guys
the audience don't start
going scrutinizing
all my previous interviews
it's subtle stuff
it's not obvious
yeah I'm starting
I see a little bit
but you're you write
in so many different voices
you're I don't mean
the same voice
but you can be academic
you can be conversational
you yeah
but this this therapist
told me Bernardo
the more you try
to go against people's tendency
to project on you
the worst you make
because now oh
look how modest he is
he's the real deal
he's the real master
you know what I mean
it backfires
that's so true yeah
and so he
you have to be an arrogant
jerk
if you really want people
to treat either island
that's terrible though
that goes against everything
we've been saying
this whole conversation
so I don't
that goes too much against my nature
I couldn't play
I'm not good enough an actor
but look it reminds me
of something I remember
reading in spiritual traditions
when I was like a kid about
I don't know if it was Jesus
or the Buddha
or I was always trying to
understand these things
and one of the stories was like
I don't remember
I'm sorry everyone who knows this
but some spiritual figure
says in some texts
that the more
the closer you get
to being present
or being enlightened
or whatever the terminology is
in whatever text I'm talking about
the more solitary you are
or the more lonely you are
lonely isn't the right word
but something similar
to what you're saying
I think in terms of
not feeling as connected
even though you're 100% connected
yeah I heard this
I don't have that problem
because I'm not enlightened
I guess there's something
I mean I've heard it also
in academia or in philosophy
where I think it comes back around
I guess is what I'm saying
because I don't really think
that's true what I just said
I think it's true for a while
because you start to
it's almost what we were talking about
with the people
who are doing the propaganda
understanding the way things work
more than the people around them
and so there's a kind of like
a power thing
and it might seem like that at first
when you delve into philosophy or text
because you seem to be
getting some information
that others don't have
or it seems to be separating you
but then the further you go into it
it becomes the opposite of that
like you're more
you don't understand anything actually
even though you can understand
all these patterns
and even though you have peace
I guess that's what I try to talk about
withholding the paradox
but actually you become more connected
I wonder if maybe you're
going through that process
in a completely different way
but so that it might not be that
that people can rob you
of your humanity in a way
oh no they can't
but they can treat me
as if they're trying to
and that's my problem
I don't think they will actually
rob me of my humanity
I cannot be anything else
it's what I am
they will not change what I am
but your feeling is what bothers you
that you feel like you're not
I don't want to be treated as different
yeah but you are Renardo
we all are
you're giving something different
in the sense that everybody is unique
but that's why we are the same
we are the same in our uniqueness
I don't want to be treated
as if I were in some sense
more or especially unique
or as if I had higher capability
of something
look I am meta conscious enough
I'm self-conscious enough
to know how things can go wrong in here
yeah
no I can't I know
I can't hide from myself my own bullshit
yeah you're doing a lot of checks
and balances
how can I pretend that I don't err
and I don't bullshit myself sometimes
that sometimes I don't react emotionally
in an unfair way
I mean for me that would be the thing
I would feel if I were you
that I wouldn't want people to assume
that I don't have all that stuff
because I'm going to show you that I do
because I'm human
and also there's something scary about it
I mean I've been in a few situations
where people treat me in a certain way
and there's something almost like
sleepwalking-ish about it
and I don't mean the people who are doing it
but if you participate in it
becomes almost like a trance or something
because it's not really reality
there's something weird about it
do you know what I mean?
almost uncanny or something
well I don't really have that problem
in the sense that none of it convinces me
that I am other than the human I am
yeah
I just don't want to be treated
as if I were otherwise
that's what makes me uncomfortable
but I'm very much in touch with my humanity
I have
when I was in the corporate world
it was one of the reasons
I didn't want to leave
I resisted for so long to leaving
and starting Essential Foundation
although people were asking me
to do that for five years
before I actually did it
at work
it's amazing how life just gives you your path
like almost forces you on your path
yeah absolutely
absolutely
my next year's book will talk about it
but at work
the culture at the SML
was a culture of mutual criticism
like we kept each other sharp
we were always looking
for how we were deluding ourselves
what were we not seeing?
what were we-
that's great
that sounds very healthy
yeah so we always poked each other
and I loved that culture
because it kept me very grounded
and nobody looked up to me
even when I became boss
and all that stuff
at the SML
maybe you have a higher management position
but that means
that doesn't mean that you're better
it only means that
you have a certain
number of responsibilities
that others don't have
you're one of the gang
that happens to have
management responsibilities
that's all
I like that way of putting it
that's good
yeah
if an issue would come up
in a board meeting at the SML
that was very technical
and the person who knew about that issue
was the lowest level engineer
the CEO of the company
would pick up the phone
during the board meeting
call that person and say
come up
and that person would take part
in the board meeting
that's great
nobody was better
yeah just different skills
everybody had a role to play
and that was it
and that was very grounding
I had that for 15 years
oh I liked that a lot
so now in the foundation
because it's a foundation around philosophy
and touches on spirituality
even though we are not
a spiritual foundation
philosophy always touches
on the great questions
of meaning and being
touches on spirituality
so I'm much more vulnerable
to being treated in this
dehumanizing
but not dehumanizing
in a way of putting me down
dehumanizing in a way of putting me up
where you have to make the decisions
and I seek to balance it
for instance
by engaging with hobbies
in areas where nobody looks up to me
I'm a computer restorer
I work with two or it will be three
I work currently
with two different museums
one in the Netherlands
one in Belgium
I restore rare
I love those computers
I told you last time
or whenever we talked about
I love those computers
they're retro looking
they're so cool
oh I restore really rare stuff
on that table behind me now
there is a Sol 20
oh my god
home computer
I can completely
that stuff just makes me crazy
to think about
yeah I have a very rare stuff
lens here because I take on
certain restorations
that most other restorers
will not touch
wow
because it's too rare
and they are afraid that
they would you know
screw it up
yeah in that world
of vintage computing
history technology
nobody looks up to me
except it
it's not really a lot of looking up
no I'm a good restorer
so people come to me for that
and then after that
we all go for a beer
and we make jokes
and we talk nonsense
and I can be crass and vulgar
and nobody will raise an eyebrow
because Bernardo Castro
just told a vulgar joke
because I'm just
the bloody computer restorer
yeah so no
that's the trick
is to be in different
not only dependent on
this one little bubble world
you know
where you are super famous
or whatever
did you never look up
to people though
have you never treated
people like that
I always do
I tend to do that
with dead people
I look up to Jung
like Jung for example
with living people
it almost doesn't happen
happens only a little bit
I have three living heroes
five five living heroes
in technology
I don't have a living hero
in philosophy
and that tells you
something about how
I judge the state of philosophy
in the early 21st century
I have people in philosophy
that I'm thankful
for their influence
like David Chalmers
who opened certain doors
in my mind 25 years ago
I'm thankful to him
I think he's a very
valuable philosopher
but I don't put him
on a pedestal
no I don't do that
I only do that
with dead philosophers
yeah in the world of technology
I put five people
in a pedestal yeah
you're not going to tell me
one of your technological
I put Martin van der Brink
who was my more or less
distant mentor for 15 years
he used to be the CTO of ASML
he retired this year
that's really powerful
that you worked for that
place for so long
and you still have such positive
feelings
pretty legit
Martin taught me
to be viscerally
and uncompromisingly honest
in other words
to not give up
until you have looked
under every stone
of your own mental
bullshit landscape
that's wonderful
that sums up a lot
of what's great about
your work for me
he was difficult to work with
because he could be
absolutely brutal
and some people
just couldn't bear that
but I got used to that
brutal because of
truth not coding it
not coding the truth
kind of thing
or brutal with intention
but the intention
wasn't brutal or was it?
no just for clarity
it was on content
not on personality
it was on content
because that matters
if you came to him
with a story that was weak
and full of holes
he would crucify your story
that's so refreshing though
I really trust that
I really like that
when that's part of
being famous too right
that you want people
to still do that
because it's such a service
but if you're famous
people don't do that
to you anymore
yeah but that's what I mean
because I was nobody
I was a kid of 31 years old
when I started working with him
and then he was merciless
Martin is the antithesis of woke
not that he's racist
not because he discriminates
he doesn't
but he doesn't care
about the social coating
he doesn't sugarcoat anything
he is brutal
in his commitment to what is true
and that influenced
my philosophy a lot
because it made me brutal
against physicalism
against materialism
like I wouldn't sugarcoat
why it's bullshit
helped set the tone
of how I speak philosophy
yeah it says a lot about you
but also that it's
because those are heavy words
especially in the context
of everything we've been talking about
and it's really important
that those words are used
like towards authenticity
and honesty
and these kind of intentions
not towards people
or towards like what scares you
or like it's interesting
because I do think
that's part of the attraction
right of the clarity
and also when reading your stuff
you can tell you've done all the work
even talking to you
about these issues
you're obviously quite hard
not hard on yourself
but yeah you don't seem
to talk about stuff
unless you've really looked at it
in a very deep way
which is refreshing
yeah it's perfectly normal
in the way I experience life
you only talk about things
you have looked at carefully right
otherwise you're just
pouting out sounds without meaning
but Martin was one of them
another one is Federico Faggin
the inventor of the microprocessor
and most silicon gate technology
yeah I think I've been in contact with him
he has become a philosopher as well
an idealist philosopher
he wrote a book recently
about consciousness too right
yeah several
efficient foundation published
one of them in english
okay another one is Bill Manch
one of the designers of the 6502 microprocessor
in the 70s
who I also happen to know personally
to have the privilege of knowing personally
Sophie Wilson
the designer of the ARM instruction set
the processor that is now everywhere
everything is an ARM processor now
Sophie Wilson designed that
in the mid 1980s
oh cool I didn't know that
I don't know her personally
I haven't had the privilege
of meeting her personally
but she's a living hero of mine
and we designed the microelectronics
of the ARM processor
I'm drawing a blank on his name now
I wish I could help you but
Steve Herbert
yeah so Sophie Wilson
and Steve Herbert were two in a box
they were designing the ARM
the first ARM microprocessor
that came out in 1985
and it's now everywhere
it's the processor
Steve was doing the micro architecture
Sophie was doing the instruction set architecture
so the two of them
are living heroes of technology
and certainly living heroes of mine
and so paradigm shift or something there
with that
do you think
look they did what you can see in my philosophy
they looked for ways to make things simple
an ARM processor is as good as it is
because it's simple
it took away complication
it took away clutter
which I understood better
but that's what I was getting at
is the paradigm shift that we need right now
is how about getting to that
where that's
because there's something so powerful
and attractive about it
and it's not what we are seeing right now
but maybe even in all these other realms
we've been talking about
that could be
like people could feel that right
what you feel
what I feel a little bit
which I don't understand
the technology well enough to feel it totally
but I know
it's one reason I love those retro computers
I know that feeling of it being simple enough
that you can understand how it works
and still doing even better
and there's something about that
I could be very interesting
if other people understood the power in that
which may be what you're trying to
I know it's not a secret
in the sense that I'm not hiding it
but not many people know
I started an AI company this year
with a group of friends
very clever people
and we are trying to create an AI processor
an AI chip
it's actually a sea of processors
an AI chip
and that will be so simple
so elegant
so optimized for AI
that it will prevent what's happening today
which is AI data centers demanding
enormous amounts of electrical power
enormous quantities of water for cooling
yeah why does it have to be like that
I always wondered
it may cost to train a new
large language model today
you're talking order of magnitude
10 billion dollars
the next one maybe 100
unless you do something about it
and the way to do something about it
is to go back to
the metal level design
because we are so used now to
building on top of layers and layers of abstraction
of things that are already designed
and just adding more of that
because it's faster to design that way
we lost contact with the metal level
with the bare level
now starting something from complete scratch
nobody designs that way anymore
and because of that
we have built up layers and layers
of suboptimal solutions
that we just want to reuse
and so what we are trying to do
is much like what Sophie Wilson
and Steve Ferber did in the early 80s
which is take a step back
let's look at the problem I knew
and let's design something
absolutely from scratch
from the level of an individual transistor
from the level of an individual copper line
a wire in a chip
oh wow that's really exciting Bernardo
I didn't know that's what your company was about
wow
we want to prove that the way to go
is simplicity
not clutter
yeah
sandbagging
not complication
we want to prove that
we can do it so simple
and then if we succeed in that
I'll be in an excellent position
to explain it to people and say
it is not conscious
it is a simple mechanism
it creates the illusion of consciousness
by giving you completely understandable answers
but the meaning in it
is the meaning you are projecting on it
and the meaning that the people
who produce the training set
the texts
the thing that was trained on
the meaning that those writers
embodied in the words
the thing in itself
sees no meaning
experiences no meaning
it's just a natural language interface
to searching human knowledge
but I'm years away from making that case
right now we have to prove
that we can be a lot better
than NVIDIA GPUs
Google TPUs
and the NPUs of ARM
and the rest
once we prove that
then I'll be in a position
to try to reach my real goal
which is not to become rich
because my life will not change anyway
but to enter
it's okay to become rich though
you can give money to other things
and yeah
I can give money to essential foundation
yeah that would be nice
guaranteed
money is good if you give it
so
you do it
it's very difficult to spend money responsibly
I have
I count several very wealthy people
as personal friends
and their main
and they all have their hearts
in the right place
their main difficulty is
how to spend money productively
and responsibly
it's very difficult to do it
but I have essential foundation
and I will not be so rich
that they'll get more money
than I can use
at essential foundation
so that's good
but I want to cement a very
solid position for myself
in the field of AI
because the whole discussion
about philosophy and metaphysics
and philosophy of mind
that discussion is going to go
under the umbrella of AI
and for the first time in history
become a mainstream discussion
as opposed to an academic discussion
which is how it started
in ancient Greece
started in what would later
become academic institutions
but they were the schools of the Greek
so for the first time
in the two and a half thousand year
of the history of philosophy
in the west
in the western tradition
philosophy of mind
what is mind
what is reality
will become a mainstream topic
as opposed to a topic for schools
for academia
so although I am established
as a philosopher of mind
and academia
I happen to have a doctorate
in computer engineering as well
I am in a good position
to independently establish
a strong foothold in raw AI
so if I say something
people respect me
not only because I'm a philosopher of mind
but because I build the AI stuff
I helped build the chip
it goes the other way around too
maybe all this thinking simply
and learning how to
because there's a process of learning
how to clarify your thought process
and simplify
but also to do all this
take in everything in the way that you do
that's not an easy thing to learn
but I can imagine that would be
helpful towards reimagining
what a large language model could be
or what a chip could be
or if you could look at where you've gotten
you could maybe see
different ways to get there
maybe it helps
yeah and my experience
in the community of history of computing
I have in my mind
the entire history of computers
from Charles Babbage
all the way to the first
valve-based computer
the ENIAC
all the way into the home computers
of the 80s
into today's GPUs
and supercomputers
I've been in that world
of semiconductors for 25 years
so having a background
in philosophy of mind
and a background in the history of computer
is indeed useful
if you want to start a design from scratch
without any baggage
without reusing anything
with no sandbagging at all
just from scratch
and you build the edifice
all the way up again
with the knowledge of how these things
were done before
right and wrong
how they improved
so you have all that historical knowledge
and you can apply
so yes it's helpful
and psychologically for me
that goes back to the discussion
we just had about my being a philosopher
and not really being comfortable
with becoming young
it's a great excuse for me
to spend my time
in the obscurity
of an electronics laboratory
yeah keeps you grounded
entertaining my
the desires I had as a kid
when I was a kid
I wanted to be a computer engineer
I'm feeling that
I'm nurturing that again
I'm not doing this alien thing
philosophy that was imposed on me
at some point
and I can do that
without feeling guilty
because I know
that by doing this
I will be contributing
to my philosophical work
because the philosophy discussion
will become an AI discussion
so for me it's a great scenario
I can indulge my true feelings
my true desires
and do it without guilt
I can't connect the dots yet
but even if we do away
with all the isms
and we just look at where we are
in terms of all the different things
we've been talking about
it seems like we're trying to figure out
like all this is connected
the way we're dealing with technology
the way technology is built
and our stance towards
what consciousness and mentality are
and also all of this kind of
what we get swept away by
which is very technologically based now
why we get swept away by it
and like how that all shifts
it does seem really connected
because right now
it seems like a mystery
the way everything works
in technology to people
such that we try to make it conscious
which is somehow obscuring
the fact that it's changing
our consciousness as a tool
there's a very
it's hard for me to connect the dots exactly
but that paradigm shift
I'm talking about
that would raise us out of this
rots of dichotomy
could come just with a simplicity
that could be understood
in those across those levels
in a way that would
just help people reorient
towards how they understand
what consciousness is
and what meaning is
and what technology does to that
I can't give you names yet
but we even have
a well-established neuroscientist
in the group
oh great
because he will be in a good position to say
I understand the brain
I understand this thing
because I'm in this company as well
I understand how this thing was designed
because we've designed it
from the individual gate level
and I can tell you
we have no reason to think
that it is conscious
we cannot refute
that it might be conscious
because we cannot refute
the flying spaghetti monster either
there are very few things
we can refute
what we can say is
whether we have good reasons
to entertain the possibility
that this thing is conscious
of itself or not
and we will be in a good position
if we succeed
to say that we have no reasons
to think that what we've created
and hopefully it will be so good
everybody will use it
and we'll be able to say
we've created it
and it is a mechanism
it's a clever mechanism
produced out of the
aware intelligence of humans
it's a mechanism
a very nice clever one
very efficient
and it will do
all your LLMs
your AI tasks
it will help the world
deal with the inverted
demographic or
demographic pyramid
because if LLMs
can replace humans
saying call centers
then those humans
maybe can be retrained
to be nurses
and you soften the impact
of this unique new thing
in the history of humanity
which is an inverted
population pyramid
we may be just in time to do that
because the critical point
is the 2040s, 2050s
that's when the population bombs
will explode around the world
not only in the west
but in Russia
mainly in China
they have the biggest problem
in Brazil
in the global south
so we are always doing
we're also doing something
good for the world
of course it creates problems
of its own
you may lose your job
to an AI
and that's why I have
having thought about
these issues carefully
over the years
I am a supporter
of unconditional basic income
universal basic income
because
it's a net gain for humanity
that we can automate
certain tasks
so we have more time to live
the way we want
it should be a net gain
so long as
the benefits are equally
spread across the population
and doesn't just go
into the hands
of a few shareholders
that will maximize their profits
by firing people
and still charging
the same amount of money
for what they do
or governments
that will continue to collect taxes
and not give people
a universal basic income
so if we get the social aspect
well sorted
AI is a great net positive
for humanity
it will spare us
from menial tasks
will allow us to focus
on what is important
and to live our lives
the way we want to live
I think that's so true
yeah I think it's happening
people think AI is
a big revolution
and it is but I don't think
it is in the way we think
it's related to what's possible
for us in terms of consciousness
and I think that
that would be a whole other discussion
I just realized we've been talking
really a long time
like three and a half hours
so I should let you go
yeah I have a back problem
that reflect
radiates to my arm
okay let's go
my arm is really painful right now
I need to
oh no you should have told me
Bernardo you should have told me
thank you
sorry
no don't
you shouldn't feel guilty about it
we were talking about important topics
okay I still feel a little guilty
in any case
the point is
yeah I think it has to do with
how we experience consciousness too
and that might actually be
could become
a different experience
within itself
but I'll leave it at that
and is there anything you want to say
before we go
other than that your arm hurts
and I kept you too long
no you didn't keep me for too long
it was important to do this
no I think we've covered
everything we had originally planned
to cover
so I'm a happy camper
thank you
you're welcome
thanks for having me and doing this
I really appreciate you
okay
have a good week going forward
