Design is not a hardcore skill or a soft skill, it's a human skill.
Can you change people's quality of life?
You just have to immerse yourself in all these challenges.
That's the only way to do it.
Every day is like a war to me.
You know, just like, oh, you have credit card fraud.
Your student dorm rent.
Oh, you need, you have health problems.
So for me, these are all ambiguity.
And how do we embrace that?
The funny thing is that you can actually learn a lot of things from
the people you cannot resonate with.
Things go wrong, it's okay to go wrong and it should be go wrong sometimes.
Yeah.
I still want to swim into this and to understand how can I survive and, you
know, like a propel, not just stay there, a panic.
Hey everyone, this is love and philosophy, a podcast that started as my research
where I'm trying to find patterns across disciplines and talk about
things like feeling and consciousness and mind and cognition in ways that
don't have to fit into traditional particular boxes and categories.
And yet are earnest and coming from a real place of trying to
understand ourselves and the world.
And my name is Andrea Hyatt, in case you're wondering how to say my name.
Someone wrote and asked me it's Hyatt.
And today the guest is Shenghong Li.
He's a designer, an engineer, an educator.
He's at MIT.
As you'll hear, he has inspirations from many domains, from first becoming
an electrical engineer to then working as an industrial designer and some of
the best design consultancy firms in the world, like IDO, maybe you've heard of it.
And now he's in the age lab at MIT, working on ideas of longevity and
teaching and getting his PhD.
I always like people who go back to school after having worked and been
successful because I find this just really inspiring and it's something I
did in my own life, so I know how hard it can be, but also how rewarding.
And I found Shenghong Li because he does these little inspiring quotes.
He has like a million LinkedIn followers and he has these wonderful little quotes
he does about what design really means in our lives and really thinking of
design as decoding signals.
So like de-signing, design, de-signing.
It's very interesting to me.
How do we decode the signals of our life and how do we arrange those signals in
different ways so as to have different feelings and experiences in the world?
We talk about some of these things, but also in a more everyday practical sense,
just how some of these design concepts can kind of help you pick up a situation
and turn it around and look at it from different angles.
For example, one incident in his own life as a foreign student in the United
States, trying to kind of make his way.
And he had to have a credit card, of course.
And then there's this fraud thing that happens.
We all know the situation where, and he really wanted to understand it, like
what had happened and who had taken his credit card.
And so he went to the bank to try to figure this out, but that was not an easy
or stress-free process, but in any case, he brought some design principles to
this situation and as you'll hear, it really actually improved that situation
and his day and the way he was feeling and so on.
So it's interesting to think of all these different levels of what we do in our
life, whatever you're doing in your life and how you're learning things that you
could probably apply in other areas of your life or other people could learn
from you, which would help them.
And Shenghan Li tells me a little bit about what human-centered design means
and life-centered design.
And these are interesting concepts to me, perspectives opening up in the design
world, and he talks about one of the projects he did for the Shanghai Library,
a big project, obviously, where he sort of redesigned the whole entryway.
And this was basically a matter of thinking differently about the paths that
each person took as they came into that building or left that building.
So that's incredibly fascinating for me as I work on this idea of navigability
and way-making and just how the ways that we move and the paths that we take
affect what we think of as consciousness and cognition and the practical aspects
of that in everyday design and the way that we experience buildings and place
and space and nature and how all these are nested together.
Everything's designed or it's being designed on some level.
And then on another level, nothing is really fully designed by anyone or anything.
So there's always this chaos, co-creation, entropy, order, paradox, the word
I always have to bring up in every conversation, how do we hold it?
That's what we talk about here, of course, in one way or another.
How does it relate to societal issues and very real problems that we
face or experiences that we have?
In any case, this is a really beautiful conversation.
We just let it go where it wants to go and try to talk about what we care about.
And it ends up with a real emphasis on human connection and design as a way to
help us feel that connection and open to it.
So that's one of my favorite sort of places to get to the philosophical
question that was on my mind when I was having this conversation is how to rethink
this boundary that I sort of had in my mind about the way we design our lives,
what's around us, even our appearance and the way we feel and the way we think
and the way we interrelate with one another.
These seem like separate categories or something, but of course, they're all
mixed up and entangled, or are they?
What do you think?
In any case, I hope you're doing well wherever you are out there today.
If you want to support love and philosophy, you can do it in a million
different ways, just however you would like.
Join the sub stack, that would be great.
Or anything you find would be helpful.
It's always good to fill your support.
And I really appreciate that you're here.
So thank you.
Here's our conversation today.
Let me know what you think.
So I guess we can begin formally now.
So hi, thank you so much for being here.
It's really lovely to have you on love and philosophy.
Thanks for inviting me.
Very exciting.
You always have such cool glasses, by the way.
Yeah.
I have 20 pairs.
20?
Are they, are they prescription?
I didn't mean to start like this, but actually I love your glasses.
It's really like a, a cool design element that makes you very noticeable, right?
Yeah.
It's like, uh, every time I travel, I gather different pairs of glasses
and I mainly got a frame is prescripted and depends on the moon.
You know, if I really like hardworking, they'll be all black.
If it's for fun, for show, colorful sometimes matches my shoes.
Oh, I'm so glad I asked you about that.
That's really cool.
So you kind of wake up and think, which pair of glasses am I
feeling like wearing today?
Sometimes?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Otherwise, like if it's really like no presentation, no meeting, I
just wear black or transparent.
Yeah.
Okay.
Very cool.
I like the idea of it.
So you're a like famous designer.
You worked for all these famous design places that maybe nobody's
going to really have heard of.
And maybe people have heard of.
I don't really know because this audience is so broad.
So I thought to start, we'll get into you and your life, but design,
it's such an important word.
We all encounter it all the time, not the word, but design itself, the
action, the process, whether it's been completed or being done to us even.
But I don't think any of us really think about that word in daily life,
unless we're designers like you, but how would you introduce this word to us
design, maybe just from your perspective?
What does it mean to you?
Yeah.
I mean, design is like, yeah, it's pretty broad, but for me, one way to look at it,
we can decompose the word, right?
Like design can think about decoding signal.
Decoding signal means like we have, we receive so many different types of
signals every day and how do we decode this like, um, signal also that how do
we curate this signal?
So that's literally like D sign.
Yeah.
Design decoding signal.
Yeah.
It's like, that's kind of where I look at it because I know people, I mean,
it's a cliche.
People say everyone's designer, which is true, but also, um, designer,
like the thing more important than designs, creativity, right?
Like you do have that mindset and be open-minded change.
And these are things I feel like we experience every day, especially
now after COVID post COVID.
Everything changed dramatically faster and faster.
Now AI, everything that, oh, how do you keep up with?
And I feel this really ties to the coding signal.
Also, like, how do you learn how to learn?
Yeah, both are one to me.
Is that how you got into it?
When you were a little boy in Taiwan, were you imagining that you're
going to one day be a designer?
My major is actually like a industrial design and electric engineer.
And I really excited and interested in architecture.
I actually didn't know industrial design until I entered the college.
And I feel like I always loved drawing.
So ring tangibility and visualizing the idea is always my, my super power.
And I feel that really helps me to understand different types of
signals, to identify the patterns.
And that'd be super interesting just to, oh, think about how, what happened
like to people and why people upset or why people are super exciting.
And these are so invisible, so like, uh, subtle, but somehow I also feel that's
part of the design, design process.
I love that.
I'm kind of obsessed with this idea of pattern and the pattern that connects,
so to speak, and noticing patterns and regularities.
Was that something you were already doing in some way or other?
I feel like, yeah, I feel, I don't know.
I really, I'm really perceptive.
I feel like I, I just, when I see something, I can intuitively think
about some solutions, so ideas.
And then what I got trained at school or in design consultancy, it's more
about observation skill, design process.
And I really helped me to feel like, oh, how do you, are you a people person?
Right.
And I feel like that, that really helps me a lot, like expand my, my design
capability, because I feel design is not a hardcore skill or soft skill.
It's a human skill.
It's like, especially now, like we're not like, not only celebrate
hero designers, we also think about these complicated challenges, right?
How do you like climate change, aging, which I'm focused on now recently.
And also all these design challenges is complicated.
It's systematic.
So design or designer is like, we tackle, solve the challenges collectively.
Teamwork is important and design is no longer like a fancy term.
It's a verb.
It's a thing that people want to do collaborate as a team.
It's a teamwork.
It's not just about, oh, celebrate hero designers or live
their signature on the work.
Yeah.
It's the last of all that.
It's more about create a condition.
This is really fascinating because if we think about design as patterns, and if
we think about it creatively, and we think about it, like as important to
these challenges that you just brought up, which is basically something that's
affecting us on a really deep level, all of us in different ways, wherever we
are in the world, but if we think about design is important to that, does it
mean that the way we're structuring the products and the environments and
everything we're interacting with is somehow contributing to the way that
we think about the world itself?
Would you say?
Yeah, I feel like, I don't know, sometimes, I mean, people always
looking for optimization, right?
We're looking for efficiency, convenience, right?
And then like, Oh, I'm so glad we have like an autonomous vehicle.
So we don't need to drive anymore.
We just sit on the car and enjoy the scenery.
But the thing about like designs, like some people enjoy the driving experiences.
Some people want to create, find their own path or another example.
I'm thinking about, you know, like a Starbucks, they have like a coffee
master, people have an apron and show you how to do coffee.
And for me, when I bring, brought the client to do like inspiration
trip, to see that services, right?
And the clients, Oh, I want to copy that to my company to create the new services.
And the behind the scene of that is like, yeah, we want to have this
like human touch services, but the difficulty part is like, how do you
create incentives, how do you make this like coffee master feel exciting to
share their knowledge to the client, the customer every day, because they're
not like us, we, we walk in as customer and enjoy the services and walk out.
No, they provide the services every day.
Can you design the right organization structure or incentive
structure to, to promote people?
So they want to become like real master, like different colors, the
print or the pins on their batch.
You know, it's these things that that's like, it also need to
be designed the whole experiences.
It's not about, Oh, we look for, uh, efficiency, convenience.
I think that it's really important, but that's more like a fundamental level,
you know, same as we talk, people talk a lot of this, like people, most
people overuse like a generative AI tools now, like, yeah, you can give
me like thousands of ideas, but I want to know, can you help me to curate
my taste, my lifestyle is a less about design solutions more about, do you
really understand what people needs?
Can you change people's quality of life or just throw tons of ideas on them?
Yeah.
So for you, it's really about the experience of the people involved in it,
not just the consumer, but even the person who's working, the
person who's creating it.
So you're not making these usual divisions that I often hear between
it's all about the customer, for example, or, um, you're thinking of
it more holistically, almost, it sounds like, is that normal in design
or is that a new approach, a different approach?
No, I mean, you're totally right.
Like, um, we talk a lot about like a human centered design, right?
And then human, we easily default, think about users, but now nowadays
everything's we can view as a system, right?
So we're thinking about a system and we have backup house from desk.
So who, who are the service provider?
And these are also human, right?
That people provide the services, like you can't, like, you can't
overwork, you have to think about the ethical issue, think about the culture,
especially now aging society, how do you, how do we raise ageism, right?
And we celebrate multi-generational culture and that implemented design
processes, like, I think humans are designed, it's pretty important, but
now people reflect to think about what do you mean by humanity centered design?
Humanity from humans, like we think about broader, like policy,
organization, structure, culture, right?
And now people promote like live center design or even talk about longevity.
So it's less about, yeah, human, but we also think about other aspects
because now we're really like a whole, we're interconnected for all different
things, not, not just about human or human center, otherwise too ego
driven, not empathy driven process.
I think that's true.
And most people would say, yeah, of course that's true.
There's all these nested levels and it's all very important now to the
challenges you raise, like climate change or our mental health or the way we treat
each other and all of this, but it seems like from an outsider view, it seems
like the, like you come to some agency, design agency, and they are supposed to
serve your, you're going to have a project and they need to solve the problems for
you.
And that usually ends up being about how can this product sell the most or be the
most popular or there's something like that, right?
That doesn't seem to fit with what you were just saying.
Even though I think we're transitioning into a new world relative to all that,
but I don't understand how design is doing it.
Like, because maybe I'm wrong, but I just think of this old school kind of way of
a client goes in, the designer has to kind of make the product the most popular or
sellable or is that wrong?
Has that changed a lot or how do you, how does that fit to what you were saying
before?
No, this is a wonderful question.
I have to say I'm very lucky because my first two job is like design, sorry, work
with design continuum and also ideal.
And then you're totally right because most, I mean, business, like a
fundamentally agency need to make money.
We need to survive and need to be sustainable.
And also another way, my personal experiences at ideal is like, we have the
client came to us and then the business of the agency, at least some office is
not good.
They want to design.
The client came to us.
They say, oh, I want to design the robot that can accompany kids at home to
replace parents.
They're very rich.
They bring money.
We have budget, you guys expensive.
We have budget and then we can do like six month project, even longer.
And then we're as a team, the team leader is my mentor and we don't want to do it.
We don't want to, because the reason we don't want to do it enough because they
are great brand there.
We communicate frequently.
We have the workshop together.
We know what their needs and requests, but the funny things is like, we don't
think the robot can replace parents.
And we don't think that's the right thing to do.
We can design something very beautifully, very attracting and business
successful product on the market.
But the thing's like, it's just not right.
So I was very shocked at the moment, to be honest, because I'm just a
junior designer in the team.
And I realized, oh, wow, this is another higher level thinking about like
social impact, right?
Like why the kids need to be accompanied by the robot and not just parents.
So it's totally like, it's really like disrupt my, my, my learning about
business and design consultancy.
And I think that's really beautiful.
Very huge impact on me.
Yeah.
And another thing I feel like we talk about design and business.
I think they both are super critical, like interconnected because you need both.
You need both what design and what's the other design business.
Yeah.
Because say now I'm working very lucky, working with MIT Aged Lab.
We talk about design for retirement.
We have the great ideas about how we designed people's retirement plan or
financial planning or longevity planning.
If we don't have this like a sponsor or like a client, how do we scale?
Right.
We all just close the door.
Very happy, ready on the post-it notes, very sexy sketches, rendering.
Wow.
And then put in the library, in the publication, nothing we cannot scale.
So I feel like both are really critical and I totally agree with you.
I feel like the company agency, they need to make money, but we have to make sure
that the money can be invested in the right direction.
Yeah.
And then, sorry, another thing I want to say, we, the way we collaborate
with the client is also changed, shifted.
So in the past, basically most people think about including myself, you give me
money, I provide output, there's an input, it's a currency, it's a money,
it's a trust, output is a product, services or experiences, but somehow
because of the complexity of the challenges and also everything moving so
fast, now it's more like a co-creation process.
So we used to like work with one very famous kitchen hood brand in Asia.
And then they came, they worked with us for like more than 10 years.
Okay.
Give me like the sexist, the coolest, like kitchen hood.
I'm going to launch this year.
Give me more like a form and shape.
And somehow at the point we say, no, we didn't do that.
We want to change the whole like collaboration model.
Let's like do co-creation together, inspiration together.
And then you guys bring these ideas back to their team, talk with engineer
and they can come back to us again.
Let's do a second round co-creation.
So it's more like co-evolving.
It's not like a one-time deliverable.
It's like multiple times check-in to make sure our ideas, our insight can
be implemented through their technology, not just like create like beautiful
shape and form and then somehow, oh, we can't do it.
So we just make a beautiful rendering and state that state.
No, no, want to make it real.
So we need that co-creation process.
Yeah.
So that's the second part I want to just want to add it.
That's really fascinating to me because it, it kind of upends or changes the
way we think of these typical roles of client and provider.
I mean, I don't think those roles were ever really very human in a way, because
it does seem that like what we really want to do is create together.
But, um, I guess traditionally there would be certain conflicts about that.
So you've worked for these very successful big companies.
I want to actually hear how you got into that world and some of the projects you did.
But before, I guess when you're already IDO or one of these big places where
everyone wants to work with you, like your boss, then you can say, oh, well,
actually, I don't agree with the idea that your child should be with an AI.
And so therefore I can't create this for you.
But is that also true at sort of, you know, not lower, that's not the right word,
but other kinds of design firms or people who are just starting out or, you
know, that, that don't have a reputation, are they able to do that?
Or are they still having to just take on the project?
Um, I guess what I'm trying to get at is, is this like what design is now?
And I just didn't know.
Is it co-creation or is this like very much for the stars of the business?
Because design, like anything else, there's people who are sought after, you
know, that, that the client wants to work with, and that's a completely
different relationship than the one I was describing before.
No, this is, this is a great, great question.
And also ideas, because I have to say idea or design consult, design
continuum, they have their own reputation in the, in the market, on the market.
And then at the history.
So somehow even our BD process is all, we felt like a design process.
We have to know if the client's the right person to see our value
and can really amplify the impact.
So this is like, that's why they have the Green Foundation and the history in
the past so they can have that kind of like a advantage to, to do, to
say something like that.
I do believe that for normal company or like the company last, like to
have history or that foundation business is also important criteria for them.
So yeah, let's still do it.
And then I can do it with a relative, like a cheaper price, but give you
like a more competitive like design or, you know, solution and it's always a
trade off because I feel like what I learned from idea or another different
design consultancy is like the culture is with your design solution.
So when you deliver the deliverable, it's not just a one-time experiences.
It's like, you, you, you bridge, you partner with your client.
So, so that's, I feel that's really beautiful because you know each other
and the connection, it won't be cut off after the project ended.
Actually, when a project launched, that's the challenges started.
That's the real challenges.
Can you really see the, the performance, the, the final, the, the, is it
like really work, is it valid, is it, you know, is it feasible?
So these are things I, I feel is different than can we see like a long
term goal versus like a short term, just get a business interest.
That's really well said.
And as you're talking, I'm thinking of, for example, you know, some really big
advertising or branding or, you know, altogether projects in the past.
And I'm not sure it really fits very well with design.
Maybe it's more like advertising, but, you know, something like, uh, the
beetle, the Volkswagen Beetle and that whole campaign, or I watched this
movie recently with, uh, Nike and, and Jordan, I'm just thinking of all these
different examples of, of design or brand or, um, things that have really
kind of influenced us in the way we were talking about it in the beginning of
like changing patterns.
Let's talk about you.
How did you end up in these places that were already so, yeah, I guess, well
known or was that your, like, it sounds like you just graduated from school and
ended up in this environment where you were able to do this co-creation.
First of all, is that true?
And then maybe we could talk about how in, in your own experience in a
project, this actually plays out.
Yeah.
I mean, if you look at like people's CV, right, like, oh, these are beautiful
name company, a great school.
And, but actually every, like, uh, things on the CV is really like hardworking
because I don't think I'm a smart person.
I'm just like, we're really hard, super hard.
And I really enjoyed this.
And the things like took a double major in industrial design and
electrical engineering for like seven years.
My parents thought I have some intellectual problems.
Are you have some mental issue or health issue?
Why you cannot just graduate?
Like seven years, you can get another medical degree.
And as I know, I just really want to study very solid.
I want to know the fundamental thing.
And I'm not graduated for certificate.
I'm graduated for real knowledge.
I want to explore.
So after that, I, before I graduate a year ahead, I actually already
start searching the jobs.
So it's like a year long preparation.
And I'm really lucky because I, I don't know.
I really care about people and culture.
So the thing I feel I click with the people, I just want to work
with them or surrounded by them.
And then finally, the, the great leaders and continuum and also an ideal.
So join them same as my MIT journey.
It's like, I apply like so many different labs and I found my mentor, which is
now the director of the age lab.
It's Joe Coughlin.
So he really helped me a lot.
I really connect with him, his vision, his idea.
And then we start to work some exciting project together.
And I feel like really, like you say, like fighting pattern.
And I will say like, more like a finding a pattern, also find the
people you can resonate with and that pattern can resonate and that
can amplify more impact because otherwise it would be like, if I really
like want to work for, to get more money or I can choose like bigger corporate.
Right.
Cause both of design consultants, they have pretty small scale compared
with other bigger company, but I really think people and culture really shape me.
Yeah.
Still shaping me.
So I feel that's really important to me.
That is such a beautiful way to say it, because I really think that's true that
we also have these kinds of patterns that we resonate with as we move through our
life and we do sort of set our own trajectory in a way, depending on how much
we trust ourselves to resonate with that.
So for example, like when your parents were giving you a lot of pressure, I
guess, were you still in Taiwan then?
Or, I mean, a lot of people, a lot of us kind of cave to that and, and we do
whatever the people around us are telling us we should do, or they want from us
because it's so much pressure, I mean, to take seven years and do the double
degree and it sounds like you are actually almost like a perfectionist or
like you, you needed to get in the rhythm, right?
You needed to find that rhythm that you were just discussing.
But how did you have the poise and the confidence and the kind of stubbornness
or whatever to do that, even though it was not the thing that most people around
you were probably saying you should do?
Yeah, this is a great, this is such a real, I mean, great question, because
not just my parents, my friends, my advisor, some people just don't understand
like why you spend so much time on this.
And then it's so weird and rare, like, what the fuck?
It's weird.
And then I have a friend, my classmate, she graduated within four years, got two
degrees, you can do it very efficient.
Like I said, you design for efficient design for convenience versus
design for people.
And I always feel like I pretty know what I want and what I need.
And I know like beautiful things takes time.
Need to be patient.
And if everything goes too fast or too successful, that's not the real challenges.
Yeah, you have to have some difficulty.
It's very painful.
It's so hard.
Like think as engineer, you have to do the P set, problem set.
You have to like sleep early, wake up early, testing, studying, electronic
magnetics or advanced math, calculus, physics versus designer.
Oh, nine hour smoking bar.
I need some inspiration.
So I almost like a live in two worlds all together.
So it's really, it's really hybrid world, but I realized that really helped me to
design things from outside in to inside out, like a mouse when I, when we have
like a physical use physical mouse, I really inspired by this product because
I'm not just designing the shape of the mouse.
I want to design the electronic circuit board.
I want to design how it works inside.
So I can change the shape more flexible, more, more possible way.
Right.
So that's why really inspiring to think, Oh, I need to understand this basic
electronics or basic mechanical stuff to help me to design the whole
structure of the product.
At least I can communicate with engineer.
Yeah.
So, so that, but that is not like, uh, there's no shortcut.
I don't think there's a shortcut, including my now to my PhD is like, you
just have to immerse yourself in all of these challenges.
That's the only way to do it.
Just put yourself in the data.
They get like, Oh, dive, dive into it.
And then you can say, to see the whole picture.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense with, yeah, that your work and kind of just
what I know of you, that it seems like there's a wider picture, right?
That you're, I talk about holding the paradox, you know, as a philosopher
or kind of beyond dichotomy, meaning you embrace the dichotomy, sort of the
power of polarity, but opening the space so that it's not oppositional.
It's polar, it's polarity, but it's not oppositional.
So I feel that in you and in your work a bit, you know, and, and it's not easy
to do like, actually you have these kind of lovely little sayings on your website
that you, you, you make these little beautiful cards sometimes on, on
social media and stuff and a lot of them, but a lot of those are very, you're
kind of holding both sides of things, right?
There's this wholeness or contextuality.
Yeah.
And I guess that's not an easy thing to kind of learn, but it sounds like you,
you've learned it from the start because even with what you're doing right now,
your PhD, you didn't have to do that.
I mean, you already were working in big firms.
You had a big project, which I'd like to hear about, like designing a library, I
think, in Shanghai, and there were many things we could go into a few, but why
would you, I mean, this is another one of those moments, right?
Where most people would look at you and say, Oh, why are you going to go back
and do your PhD after you've already been in the successful world?
And then you have to put yourself in this place again, of vulnerability,
learning, going through all this effort, time, you know, everyone wants
everything right now and this takes time.
Like you said, you just have to do it.
So I don't know.
I mean, I'm just throwing a lot at you, but is it a similar, is there something
in that process of discomfort maybe that's powerful for you?
Yeah.
I mean, I think most people, including myself, we really want to like, uh,
looking for a sense of achievement.
Like people recognize your work, like social norm of great salary.
And you should be a lawyer, a doctor, you know, people have some
like a stereotype on you.
And this is very normal, like in, especially in Asia and like stronger.
Oh, you have great, great.
You should find a stable job when it's the time to get married and having kids.
Beautiful life.
That's the high standard golden rules.
Right.
But for me, like, I actually feel like I love everyone.
I love like sense of achievement, but I think it's more important
than a sense of fulfillment.
You have to feel fulfilled.
And what I mean by that is very simple skill.
Like, um, every time I finished reading one book, I feel refreshing.
And I really love that moment.
Finish the book and take notes.
Oh, wow.
This is the last pages.
And then you sign your name with the stamp and put the date and year.
This is wonderful.
And this is fulfillment.
Is that what you do after you read a book?
Yeah.
That's why that's a wonderful practice.
Every book I have, I guess, I think I did the same.
Yeah.
People have it just like, Oh, I love that.
Oh, that's such a good idea.
Gosh, I wish I'd been doing that my whole life with all my books.
Although I often read them more than once, but still that would be
cool too, to have like double stamps.
Yeah.
That like this one is about exploring the research.
Yeah.
It's like, yeah, it's like, oh yeah, that one's on your website.
I think, or maybe you post it on LinkedIn or something.
Oh yeah.
I just feel like that really helps me to, to realize, Oh, when I read this
and how, when I going to revisit this and that is like sense of fulfillment.
And then for me, like, Oh, why are you back to study PhD?
And really, to be honest for me, like when I back to academia, I really just
want to learn the language for academia.
So for me, it's not studying.
I'm recharging and I, Oh, I understand how you guys publish in paper and how
can we connect like, Oh, I know the language of academia, how you use like
statistic and describe the data with a subject, and then I'm going to apply
that to my work, to the industry work.
So I'm more like a bridge and I feel that's really beautiful.
Otherwise we'll be like, close the door.
This is the CHI publication, how many citation I have.
And that's beautiful, or I'm going to draw beautiful, sexy sketches,
rendering, prototyping, and there's a gap.
And then it should be like, cause for me, design is a supply science.
It's application science and you need to have both.
And then I love my, my advisory in college, they told us designers need
to read a lot because you need to know what happened and how do you
connect it with your design skill.
And I feel I'm working on that.
I kind of recharging learning statistic, how do you write the abstract clarity
and how do you communicate with people from different background in industry?
And you can, we get our hands dirty to really make it real from ideas to implementation.
I see that's very smart of you in a way.
Again, you're sort of taking a few steps back to get a very big picture of this
world that is academia or that is designed from another perspective.
And you're almost like an observer of, of it all.
And it's actually very smart because I know you probably like, they want you
there because you can teach and they give you money and in a way it's like,
you know, a job, uh, but you also have this time to reflect.
And although PhD can be very stressful because you have so much to learn and
reflect on, but yeah, I can, I can see that.
And I wonder about those books.
Are they, you know, cause I, I'm very interested in the books that you read.
We've talked about some of them and, um, have those been sort of markers in your life?
I mean, you put the date and everything.
Are they, do you, not only the book itself, but do you see yourself as kind
of, is fulfillment also knowledge, like learning and developing and connecting
in new ways, is that connected to why you like this reading and so on?
Yeah, I, I mean, the, I think the most important things I, after reading
the book is more about synthesizing, right?
Like we, we, we internalize the knowledge.
And then for me, one of the way to internalize it is through like creation,
through drawing, through design or through writing.
And then now, because I mean, PhD life is so busy.
So one of the easiest ways I writing can synthesize my thoughts.
And I think that's really important because when I, when I wrote, when I reading,
I always mark, highlight the key sentences or quote to make sure I can
feel, understand the context and then that I will distill writing like a
short paragraph to make sure, Oh, this is the thing I read.
What does it connect to design?
I'll always connect to design.
Even like we talk about longevity planning, uh, financial planning.
I reframe as a design for longevity.
So there's still a design element in it.
It's not about, Oh, cause I'm not the expert in finance or psychology.
I'm the expert in design.
So I want to find the connection and I feel that can really apply
to almost different types of books.
I can always reflect to think about, Oh, what does that mean to design?
Right now I'm apply like a grounded theory, constructed grounded theory.
It's from a psychologist or a sociologist.
And then it's, Oh, how does designer do?
We use the post-it notes and that's the coding, you know, physical coding.
And we just didn't know we already use the, the grounding theory in our lives.
How do you cluster it?
How do you constant compare?
And we use that all the time.
We call like synthesizing, downloading and ideal, but there is a beautiful
connection and now other people say, Oh, let's talk about like, uh, boundary
objects, you know, boundary objects that you connect people from different
backgrounds and then use the physical object or not physical object to, to
talk about something, for example, like you put the map, Oh, I look at the map.
I look for the restaurant and you look for, uh, say, uh, uh, where it's like
a front desk information center.
And we use the map to open up the conversation, you know, in academia,
people say boundary object and in design world, we say tangible artifacts.
And there is a connection and I feel that's really beautiful.
To connect this together and somehow that that's what I really
exciting to do it right now.
Yeah, that's gosh, there's so much in there and it makes me think about
the patterns again, right.
And the, and the rhythm and finding, finding the almost gestalt or something,
but not gestalt always sounds so static.
And this is like a living process.
So I guess as you, I imagine you read something and you're almost
learning a new patterning or rhythm.
You're bringing everything you already knew to it.
So for you, it's going to affect you different than another reader.
But then that's kind of wonderful because then you can take that into what
you're, whatever you're doing, your creation, your writing or so on.
So it feels like there's a continuity there, a flow, you know, which is almost
another way of saying fulfillment in the way that you were saying, isn't it?
No, I think this is great.
I love, I recall our previous conversation, talk about like a pattern and flow.
I really love that because that really made me think about, I'm actually now
learning and very good at embracing ambiguity and that's kind of multiple
different flows, crazy, big one, huge, you know, like, uh, people are all crazy
problems, you need problem solving and life is difficult.
I'm an international student.
It's so many challenges.
Every day is like a war to me.
You know, just like, Oh, you have credit card fraud.
Oh, you forgot to pay your student dorm rent.
Oh, you need, you have health problems.
So for me, these are all ambiguity and how do we embrace that?
You know, and then for me, because I work at a design consultancy or some
industry experiences, work on a big, crazy project, like library design.
I get used to it, like ambiguity part.
And for me, these are all part of the pattern.
And I have to like, no, okay.
This is okay to have no answer, but I still want to swim into this and to
understand how can I survive and, you know, like, uh, propel, not just stay
there of panic, no, no, you still have to moving and I feel exciting for that
because that's how challenges comes from every day, every single day, even though
I don't even because English is not my, my first language.
So for me, is that another layer of difficulties?
Yeah, no, I think it's good you bringing that up because it's something people,
a lot of, we don't always think about all these different layers of stress and
tension that you can't dissociate from that rhythm and that pattern and that
creation process, right?
They are all part of us.
We kind of think, oh, we just go where our designer hat or our PhD student hat.
But actually there's this, all these layers that everyone's
dealing with different ones, you know, like you have all these ongoing things,
um, that you're kind of trying to deal with too.
And it reminds me of something I think you wrote in one of those little snippets.
There's little, what do you call them?
Like they're almost like little.
Like a self-reflection.
Yeah.
They're just like little beautiful quotes, but you say them, but one, I
think is like, uh, something about what isn't design.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And then there's also like learning how to unlearn and there's all these, I
have to look at, try to find it in a minute, but a lot of it is about
self-expression, personal action, and this, this kind of, this kind of flow.
But how does that, um, how, how do you find the poise for that?
Do you, do you, is design really life is like, when you, when you, when you get
these alerts, like someone's been, you just told me earlier that someone's, you
have this credit card fraud thing.
Someone's like using your credit card for great little stuff.
I mean, do you, do you bring your design mindset to these kind of challenges
or when, when people don't realize that you're, you're speaking English as a
second language and they assume, you know, there's all these things that happen,
right?
When you're a foreigner, I'm a foreigner here that people just assume things
that aren't your references.
Um, do you think of the, do you bring this design mindset to those kind of things?
Yeah, exactly.
This is what exactly happened.
Yesterday I was like, Oh, it's feels so uncomfortable.
How can I resolve this?
I tried to get a phone call and use their app.
It's horrible.
Like, uh, you wait for so long and it's a AI, you know, it's, it's a chatbot.
So they don't know.
You didn't feel reassured.
So I booked the real time.
You mean like that moment where you realize you've been violated and then
you really need to resolve it, but you can't get in touch with anyone.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like waiting on the phone for like 20 minutes, all listen to the same music.
At least they can change different types of music.
It's better, right?
Like same music feels sleepy.
And then I finally talk and I realized it's not a real person.
It's a chatbot and it's really hard.
Like the only solution they provide or suggest that, Oh, it just like cancel your car.
I mean, that's easy, but I want to figure out what happened.
Why my, my account got penetrated, you know, got my privacy leaking.
So I want to know more about just like cancel my car is so easy.
And I booked the, I make a appointment with a bank closer to me at MIT.
And their location is so popular.
And then the, the, the, uh, manager came to me.
Oh, how can I help you?
And I said, Oh, my credit card got a fraud.
Can you help me to resolve this?
They're too busy.
They have no capacity to listen to what I want to say.
And it's, Oh, just use the app to cancel the car.
And I'm so angry, like, okay, I'm going to change different location.
And then I found a new location, which is the people are so friendly.
Listen to me.
We sit down in the room.
He closed the door.
He's a new person.
And I tell him my needs.
He helped me to check.
In the end, we still make a phone call, but make a phone call together.
It's the same result.
It just like call them, call the headquarters cancer, but he helped me to
make a phone call, we wait together.
We sit together, you know, and that changed the whole experiences and that's
design that's that I told them, Oh my God, I feel so safe.
I feel so supported in power.
Rather than just do it by myself.
So these are like a tiny detail, but as a user, as the customer, people
feel dramatically different.
It's the same result.
You know, I still got my car canceled, replaced, but the feelings is so different.
How do you design that?
Yeah.
Is it like really aiming for like transactional kind of feedback?
Oh, pencil this on the phone.
No, you need to people explain to you what happened and then
they will follow up with you.
And I really think about this whole night yesterday.
This is a beautiful case study.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you laugh in it, but it really is.
And I think we almost have to laugh because we don't think of things in this way.
Um, it's almost hard to talk about with language even that what,
what is really happening there, you know, even when I was bringing
up some of those products, like they're too commercial, but I mean, there's
real reason that we connect with something like Apple or something
like Michael Jordan or whatever.
And it has to do with sharing some kind of connection or emotional
feeling or community.
And like that story you just sold is so beautiful for two reasons.
I mean, one, because it shows how important these things are just for life.
Like that is life, right?
Connecting with people and feeling like you're being seen and trying to
understand something together, even if you can't completely understand it,
that's a good life.
And then the other one, when everyone's too busy and everyone's just like
talking to apps and, um, trying to get to the next thing, the next thing, the
next thing, which feels like what we're supposed to be doing is not a very good
life.
Yeah.
It's very transactional.
Yeah.
It's just so different feelings.
So I'm very happy.
I spent like $10 on Uber to find the real, I spend more money and time,
but I feel happier.
I feel like, oh my God, this is exactly I need.
I, he followed up with me next week.
Let me know the process, how I got a new car for, for how long versus like,
Oh, everything talked to chat bot.
I can, I don't need to spend like $10 on the Uber.
I can just do it by myself, you know?
But I just want to know what happened and the quality and the
quality and the rhythm of your life is better, you know, and that is continuous.
That was the second thing I was going to say is the reason I love that story so
much is, um, it really speaks to what you were trying to say about design because,
and also what I was trying to express about your way of doing it, because you
kind of took a step back again and you shifted the perspective, right?
Like what's another way that I could come at this instead of just feeling
like you're stuck in that situation and you just, you know, you thought, Oh,
well, actually I could go here and it's, I don't know how to express it, but in
my own life, dealing with different problems, I feel like that's always an
almost epiphany kind of moment when you're able to switch out of the habitual
mindset that you're in, you know?
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Yeah, that's, that's, yeah.
I just say, I mean, sometimes I think, oh, when I get older, I feel like,
Oh, I can shift my perspective.
You know, even like everyone has people you don't want to work with in a company
or in organization or in the small group, people have their own circle.
But the funny thing is that you can actually learn a lot of things from the
people you cannot resonate with.
You know, you can, you can look at that.
And then I learned so much when at the time when I was an ideal and design
continued, even now at MIT, some people just can't resonate.
And this is so true.
Like you cannot be like people personals or like a social butterfly all the time.
You have your own perspective, your own value, your own belief.
And somehow people doesn't resonate with you.
How do you deal with that?
And that's the piece of art.
You can escape.
I used to escape or disappear, but now I try to embrace it because that's
ambiguity, right?
You have to, Oh, let's look at different perspective, different
shadow to look at the object.
So you can find another perspective or landscape from that.
Landscape.
I use that, that word a lot.
And again, that's that kind of holding the polarity rather than trying to resolve
the polarity and realizing there's like not just polarity, there's all kind of
other nested complex systems relative to whatever that position is.
Do you remember a time in your life when you recognize that or felt that maybe
earlier in your design career, when you, like what you were talking about with
not feeling comfortable in the situation and instead of running away from it,
just sitting with it.
Do you remember any moments that like, where you learned something
in your career that way?
Yeah.
When I, when I was in college, like, most people don't want to work with me
because I'm like workaholic.
It's too painful.
Like, why are you so serious on this?
Like, this is just a no critic assignment.
And I was like, no, but this is like a, it's the attitude, you know?
So it's so hard.
Like nobody wanted to work with me, you know, like it's too painful.
And then it's okay.
I do a lot of individual work, but in the company, everything's about teamwork.
So we have the great system.
We have like facilitation before the project start in the middle
of the project and post project.
So we know, oh, what are you want things you want to learn?
And are you a morning person, night owl?
And how can we accompany that?
Right.
And which kind of role you want to play?
Are you more like a client management style?
We want to work on your craft or you want to more like work on
the business side.
So we have a lot of like communication and like, you know, just make sure
that everyone on the same page.
So a lot of like a communication, I think sometimes over communicate.
So make it like people know each other better.
And every project I work at ideal is every time with all different
designers around the globe.
So every project, like a new startup, you know, like, oh, startup program.
So every time is different.
Some people are super hard to work with or super hardcore.
And some people are like, oh, very chill, disappear all the time.
So how do you self-navigate and how do you find the anchor of the project?
How do you report back to the client with the confidence?
So these are things like, it just like, oh, it needs to be communicated
in different ways.
And this is like, you have, there's no shortcut.
You have to learn, understand your pattern and also receive what other
people's pattern looks like.
You know, I have, I have a lot of like interesting experiences
with a business designer.
It's so unique, different world.
And we have to work on the same project.
It's painful, but also beautiful.
The results it's great.
You have different perspectives.
Yeah.
That's really important to me that what you just said, because in the
philosophy I do, a lot of it's trying to understand that we all have
different paths and trajectories.
And we might be in the same landscape, but we've gotten there very differently.
And that's why we're approaching the problem differently.
And we even see the landscape differently.
Like we were in the same landscape.
It's real, but maybe we see very different things there.
Maybe what I see, you don't even notice and vice versa.
And I think it can be really hard to share that with one another,
especially when you're really coming from different paths.
But it can also be very, very creative.
Have you had any moments like that in your actual...
I'm sure you have them all the time in your studies, but when you were
working first in design and maybe when you were doing some of the projects,
I don't know if you want to talk about one in particular,
maybe the library or maybe something else where you did notice that
opening to these other perspectives gave you something or gave the project something.
Yeah, the library project is a great example.
It's like a redesigned Shanghai library innovation space.
And you know, the Shanghai library is like a face,
like a front door for the government, for the Shanghai city.
And they want to redesign this.
And I'm very lucky because I used to taught there,
used their space to taught like university students on the grad kids.
And then for four years, so they feel like,
I can be a great person to leading this project.
And it's really like a side project.
So I'm the one person team, but one person team designer.
And I collaborate with the whole innovation space team.
So I have five or six people there from different department.
So marketing, communication, or people do the research or people like leadership roles.
So it's like very diverse, even though we all speak in Chinese,
but people are so different.
The way they look at library, they have different ideas and position.
Because I'm asking, what's the value proposition for a Shanghai library?
Like, you guys don't like a coffee shop, you guys like community hub,
but you guys also close early at four o'clock.
So how people get really, really enjoy the time there,
you guys provide the class in the weekend.
So it's very complicated project.
And then it's a one year long project.
We start from interviewing people who are the lower year customer,
who really use the library a lot, the parents with the kids, and who are the vendors.
So we know there's different voices.
And then in their mind, we try to project how they view Shanghai library.
Is it a community center?
Is it like the hub to connect different people?
Or it's just like a reading center for undergrads, for graduate students.
So pretty amazing research and also design process.
And then we got strongly support from the director,
from the leadership level, from the Shanghai library.
They want to do it well.
So everything's pushed in the right direction.
What I learned from this process is like, I'm the only designer,
but also I'm not design everything.
We co-design together.
Like I said, like participatory design process.
So I host like three design workshop with them.
First workshop with all the leadership team.
So let's bring Lego, the Play-Doh, all the things to co-create the thing,
the corner of the library.
So they have their ideas and we have, we really like present together.
So they feel the ownership of this design process.
I have to make sure their voices got heard for the final round.
The second round, we invite some participants, some local people
who use the library a lot to get their voices.
The third round for the final presentation.
So the whole design process is evolving.
And I use that design process or workshop to really connect the dots,
connect people from different background voices.
Because design is not like, oh, this is a solution, make it happen.
No, no, it's, I propose some ideas they co-create together.
And then I do the final polish, final touch.
And celebrate together.
Otherwise, it's so hard.
It's like, how's that possible?
And most of the design challenge nowadays,
we do like that it's very complicated and systematic.
Gosh, that's so beautiful.
And it reminds me of something else you said,
maybe when we talked the other day or I don't know when,
but about sort of finding a landing place or again,
we were at this kind of landscape and space
that holds all these different polarities, right?
There's something about that of design being not about
a linear solving of something,
but opening a space where different people can solve their problem,
whatever they need to solve in different ways, right?
I think maybe you kind of expressed that at some point when we've talked before.
And that also reminds me of what you're working on now with like longevity
and a lot of the studies you've been doing where you have all kinds of voices
coming in through these questionnaires and so on.
I want to get to that before we close in this context
that we've been talking about.
And also we mentioned before human-centered design
and I want to bring that in
because I think there's also like life-centered design.
I know you told me before there's like animal-centered design.
Maybe there's even plant-centered design, tree-centered design.
I don't know, but I want to try to connect that too.
I want to hear about the longevity a bit,
but also that also seems like design itself
is trying to find this way of accompanying all these perspectives
in the sense that you were just talking about,
like the human, the animal, the plant, and they're all not separate.
So there's all these nested levels.
But first, maybe just what is this longevity?
Because you brought up the financial, there's ageism,
there's all these things that maybe people don't know how to fit together.
Yeah, no, the ideas are designed for longevity.
We actually, after the Industrial Revolution,
I think we mainly think about design for linearity, design for waste.
So everything's like, okay, you have ideas, you design,
you do production, you manufacture, and you ship, and you dispose.
So one way, right?
And then now people think about design for circularity, circular economics, right?
Oh, everything is a circuit like a butterfly chart.
So everything's like from the beginning all the way to the end.
How can you recycle it and to do it again and again?
So try to optimize the material flow
and make sure that we can really use every single material in the design process.
And now design for longevity is like, we're not just talking about circularity.
Also, we shipped it because things or material evolving through times.
So it depends on your personal growth, your life stages, right?
And your health condition.
So that's kind of the ideas is like, yeah, we want to think about the ideas
like design for longevity is like we're trying to think about
the dimension of time is evolving with your personal growth.
It's evolving with your relationship, with your patterns.
They're all differences.
And then somehow the human design becomes much more important
because we don't want the product like know you every single of you.
You don't have no privacy.
We want to make sure you feel safe, you feel like confident to grow
and you have some control and you know what happened.
You can plan and prepare for that.
So humans and design is important because now we talk about people
but also want to talk about bigger issue like our health care system,
our financial system, our social infrastructure.
Because now people live longer but also aiming for better quality of lives.
Right now, why you say people retire at age of 65 or 67?
Retirement is a makeup concept.
So basically like you want to live with purpose,
you know, with a meaning, with a motivation and can designer do that, right?
And that's part of the important reason why I feel design for longevity is super critical
because my parents, for example, my dad retired at age of 52
and he got upset for three years because like nobody celebrates his birthday anymore.
You know, your friends and colleagues are different levels, right?
And then you retire, okay, you isolated by yourself.
Where is our society support, right?
And people say longevity planning, finance is one pillar, like a three-leg stool.
Finance is one pillar.
Another pillar is like family and community and also like your quality of lives,
your like social well-being and these are all interconnected
and we mainly think about finance part.
But actually people, because we're social animals, we need support,
we need friends, we need community.
When you relocated for aging in place or for other places or close to your kids,
the thing you cannot move is your community.
Where's your neighbors, right?
Yeah, you got a better house.
You have better restroom, bigger house.
Everything's safe, anti-slippery, mat, you know, floor,
but you can't bring your park with you.
Where's your like neighbors?
You miss that connection.
I know we have like a AR, VR, we have like a Zoom call,
but the human touch is missing.
And that's why it's super important.
And that's part of the thing I'm working on right now.
Sorry, I talked too much, too long, but that's the idea.
No, you didn't.
That was wonderful.
I wish you'd keep going actually,
because I think that relates to so much we already brought up.
I mean, even, you know, your parents giving you a hard time
when you were a student about hurry up and finish
and hurry up and make, have a good career
and hurry up and make a lot of money and hurry up and retire and hurry up.
That seems not what design, what we want to design, right?
And what you were just talking about seems more, it's this rhythm.
Like, what's the rhythm of your life?
What's the meaning, the fulfillment you brought up that word?
Purpose.
I love that you're bringing all this into,
and it also makes me think of what you just said about the finances.
We try, we think of, everyone thinks of finances,
but as you just kind of showed us, like,
that's not disconnected from community, from environment,
from all the things we mean by human centered or life centered or whatever.
It's weird that we think of it as separate, isn't it?
That we design our financial plan
as if it's not related to all this other stuff.
It's kind of a weird way of thinking.
Do you think of design as also redesigning those weird ways of thinking?
Is that weird?
No, it's like, it needs to be holistic.
It's not like, you know, like, traditional Chinese medicine,
the Western medicine, like, when we talk about,
this is a comparison, like, I'm thinking about traditional Chinese medicine,
it's like, they look at the whole relationship and the vibe.
The whole, you know, things versus like, you're too pointed.
Both are important.
I think, like, for design for longevity is like,
we're not just, we can't just think about the money side,
because otherwise, you're not happy.
You know, what, like, how do you retire with respect, right?
People still want greeting.
People still want to, people celebrate your birthday.
My parents bought a new house, I think, during the COVID.
They all moved to there because the aging in place.
But the thing is like, okay, where's our neighbor?
Where's, you know, where's the part we usually went to,
you know, to hang out with your friends?
And somehow, this makes me realize, oh, wow, this is super important.
Yeah, you can get any material things new, but the connection, the care,
the respect, the motivation, the purpose,
these are things people need some help.
Yeah, it's not like come directly.
It's not like transaction.
No, these are, it takes time.
You know, like, do you have the great therapist?
Know yourself, right?
Do you talk to yourself or like, you just feel isolated?
And I feel the sad thing about people who live in the city is like,
we thought we have everything.
But the funny thing is like, like your podcast name, The Bluff.
How do you, how do you feel love?
How do you love other people?
Everything is like concrete.
You know, in the glass boxes, where's the handshake?
You know, where's like the thing we can talk?
It's just like somehow I feel this missing part,
especially for design for longevity section.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was going to bring up love, of course,
because this is love and philosophy and all of this has been very about philosophy.
But I do think we've been talking about love a bit too,
because that rhythm or that, I don't know, how do you see,
how do you see that word in your, in your work, in design or in life?
These aren't separate compartments either, right?
It's, we don't always talk about it in those terms,
but it is kind of what we want in a way out of this.
Yeah, I feel, I just feel like lucky and hard work for me to find the right person.
So I feel being loved.
People need to be in love and then they can love people.
They can know how to give back.
And I feel like, I feel being loved by my family, friends,
my, my committee members, very supportive.
And then you realize, oh, even in academia or in industry,
you know how to give back to help people who you need.
You know, not just like, oh, very harsh on the deadline or no,
there is something else you can give and talk about it.
And then it could be like work as a family, not as an enemy.
You know, it's just, everything's about collaboration.
It's really connected.
And I feel like that, that people need to feel being loved first
and to give love to other people.
And that's really important.
Yeah, well said.
Thank you.
I mean, you're doing all these interesting interviews for your PhD.
And I guess like all of this comes out in those two, right?
Because when you're here, because you kind of sent out all these surveys
and you've gotten them all back and to connect this.
I mean, you are asking in a way about almost,
it's almost like a psychological quality of life kind of survey in a sense.
Because I guess you see that, right?
That people are hungry for community, for love, or do you?
Or am I imposing that, projecting that?
No, I think I interviewed like 81 participants across different ages.
And they mainly, we focus on people based in Boston, greater Boston area.
And then I'm very surprised that this project,
because we try to design like very safe environment.
It is safe environment, make sure there's no privacy leaking.
It's just everything's safe.
It's just like, you can feel like people struggling all the time.
People like fight for their environment, fight for their health.
And also they're looking for empowerment.
And these are like, people are very vulnerable and fragile.
And they're looking for not just like finance, like support.
They're really actually for finance, like a consultant
to reduce their anxiety about things beyond just money.
Money for them is easy.
Like, yeah, it's just like in and out.
But the feeling, the sense of purpose,
one participant told me that he has to wake up every day before eight o'clock
to keep the days moving.
He's like 63.
And another participant, she's in the age of 67.
She said, I have to make my calendar full.
I have to three things in my day.
And I'm reading.
So, you know, like the purpose is so important.
They say, oh, I feel more busier after I retire
because so many things I want to do.
I want to feel connected.
I want to hang out with a younger generation.
I do like 20 volunteers.
So, you know, these are things that you realize
it's really, it's more than just money problems.
Yeah, because we should say the survey is basically about finances,
longevity in terms of that.
But then all these other things are part of it.
Like, you can't separate it.
And it reminds me too of,
because I've also had people in my life who retire
and then they sort of feel like, who am I?
What's my worth?
Nobody cares about my birthday kind of stuff, right?
And I think that's connected to what we were talking about with the rhythm.
Like, if you took the time to find what the organic rhythm of your life was
and you've been trying to live that and bring that forth,
and of course, that's not easy, but it's, you know who you are, right?
You've said that a few times.
But I think a lot of the older generations, our parents or people today too,
young kids, like you just get pushed into these trajectories
that don't feel organic for you.
You haven't found your own rhythm.
You're just taking on what looks successful and what is safe,
it seems safe, right?
And then you retire and it's like, what did I just do?
Versus someone like who you just described in that survey
who has a lot to do, right?
They obviously had a lot of interest.
It wasn't a cut maybe their retirement.
It was like an opportunity to now explore more and more and more of that rhythm.
So that's interesting too, to think about how that relates
to all these things we've been talking about
in terms of designing your life.
Yes, yes.
No, that's really important.
Like, yeah, what people are looking for and what's your purpose of your life?
You know, are you working for yourself or you're working for the company?
Most people work for the company.
So when you finish your work, you lost yourself.
And you have to work yourself first and then work with the company.
Like for me, I view MIT as my client.
I'm very happy because I work with my client, but also I work for myself.
And that's really important.
You always have like a sense of fulfillment,
not just your identity is not defined by your business card.
It's defined by your work, your life experiences, your lifestyle, your taste.
Otherwise, I tear up the business card.
Tell me your story.
No, I cannot tell you my story because all the story is confidential.
You have to tell your story.
I'm curious about you as a person, not you as a product of the company.
So that's the thing.
It's very different.
And I feel that's why I didn't feel I'm really studying.
I really enjoy my different life stages, transforming and shifting.
It's hard.
It's challenging.
But it's still, I for me, exciting and want to export more.
That's wonderful.
Yeah.
And that's not an easy thing to be okay with who you are and feel like you are important.
But actually it's true of all of us, right?
Because we all have unique perspectives and positions.
And when we can embrace them and dance with them, then if we do bring forth something,
who knows what it is?
Maybe it's something that seems small by these other standards,
but it's not small actually in the big dance of things.
So anyway, I just want to say thanks for what you're doing.
And you've said some really beautiful things today and told us some really beautiful stories.
So it means a lot.
Is there anything I haven't brought up or that is on your mind or that you wanted to say
or that came to mind that I didn't let you say earlier before?
No, thanks for having me.
I think it's wonderful.
I think it's more than just design.
It's like everything connected.
And then I feel like human beings as a whole, it's not like,
sometimes we're just too focused on a specific part and miss the whole picture.
And I mean, things can go wrong and people are human, right?
Well, things go wrong.
It's okay to go around and it should be go around sometimes.
Yeah.
Yeah, you can learn.
Like with the bank thing, that was not a nice experience to have,
but actually it ended up being a beautiful kind of
explication of design, right?
The credit card thing that we talked about.
Exactly.
Yeah, so it's a good example.
Well, thank you so much.
It's been really great to talk to you.
And I brought up those little cards a few times in our talk.
So for the listeners, I'll make sure I put those in the show notes or whatever.
You'll have to, I think it's on your website so I can find it.
And also some of the books that you've been reading.
But thanks a lot.
And I wish you lots of good luck with your work.
Thank you so much.
It's a wonderful talk.
Love it.
Yeah.
Cool.
