Hi, Jonathan. So good to see you. Thanks for doing this today.
Hello, Andrea. Good to see you, too.
So I want to start with talking about your master's project, but you're now a PhD working on another very interesting project, which we'll get to.
So this is towards a PhD talk, but the paper that kind of caught my interest is based on your master's, and it's called Keta Lagoon, Uncovering Suppressed Heritage Practices for Sustainable Wetland Management.
Hope I got that right. You can correct me if I didn't. So I guess just to start, maybe we could just learn a little bit about you.
I know you studied philosophy of history at the University of Ghana, and then you got an MA in Museum and Heritage Studies before you did this master's, which is focused around the Keta Lagoon.
So I guess I would just like to hear about that process, where you're from and studying in Ghana and then coming to Germany to do this.
Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. You did a bit of digging on the internet. I come from Ghana. Yes.
First degree was in philosophy. And in, in Ghana, you have the option of minoring, which means you do less coursework on another subject.
And in my case, it was history. So I would say that I minored in history and majored in philosophy. So that was my first degree. And then after that, I did a bit of tour guiding for a couple of years.
Yes. And you must be aware also that Ghana has some, at least two sites on the UNESCO World Heritage sites. Yeah. And so I took visitors to those places and used my undergraduate knowledge and history to interpret, you know, the history and the culture to people.
And so I got more and more interested in, you know, this museum and heritage stuff. And so that's when I moved to the archaeology department in University of Ghana, which has a program in museum and heritage studies.
So what was the, what were you doing the, what were you doing the tour guide and interpretation and things? Was it at the UNESCO heritage site or?
Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Yeah. So what I did, it was like a free, freelance tour guiding. So I signed up with a couple of agents in Ghana. And so as and when they had visitors, they would call me up, give me an itinerary. And we'd have a driver. And then we'd hit the road and follow me.
Then we'd hit the itinerary. I do the interpretation and so on. But there are onsite guides who also did the talking or interpreted that. Yes. But in between, while we were on the road, lots of interesting things to see. So I interpreted those ones. And if they have sites that we visited, yes, I interpreted those ones also to them based on my knowledge.
So the M in archaeology department further deepened my understanding in museum and heritage studies.
A year still, I was not satisfied. So I got more curious about what is this UNESCO World Heritage in the staff. I started digging. And that's where I landed at ATU.
So like a true philosopher, you were questioning and looking deeper. Yeah. Well, yeah. Sounds like that. So that's how I came to ATU and did the coursework for the M in World Heritage. So whilst I was doing the coursework under the World Heritage Program here, then I took a course on philosophy of nature.
So I got more and more interested. And that's when my MA project shifted to the Petal Lagoon. Then I was looking at the history, cultural stuff connected to the Petal Lagoon. And also how did that, or did that interact with the Ramsar conventions? Especially how the scientists, or the ecologists who worked on the site and drill management and
plan for the site. Engage the cultural and the historical values of the people and the lagoon.
Well, it's really interesting for me. I wonder, had you spent time at the Petal Lagoon beforehand? And like, what was your experience of it before? How did you think about this particular area?
Okay, interesting. Actually, I grew up there. I grew up. So if you look at the Petal Lagoon on the map, it's between the Atlantic Ocean.
And Okuta itself is between the Atlantic Ocean and the Kuta Lagoon is a land stream in between the two water bodies.
It's the biggest wetland? Yes, exactly.
Okay. Yes. So sometimes I pride myself of growing up on an island. Yeah. If you walk a few kilometers, you are either on the other side of the water body that has the Atlantic Ocean, and then the opposite side, the northern side, and there is the Petal Lagoon. So I interacted with that growing up.
Yeah. And then for the MA project, by then, I had specific questions in mind. And so I went there to interact with some of the knowledge holders.
That's an important term, knowledge holders.
So we, but before we get into that, I wonder when you were doing your tour guide stuff and your interpretation, if you were noticing already that there were certain suppressed kind of heritages, or if some of the themes that you end up exploring in the master were already part of that questioning?
Were you seeing that maybe the way the visitors came or the way it was presented by people who weren't from the area who weren't knowledge holders in the way that you mean was different from those who were knowledge holders or had those themes kind of come to mind already?
Yeah, I would say that it was, I became more and more aware of them in the, in the history, in the history course.
Yeah, sometimes you grew up in an area.
You don't question a lot of things, but the, by the time we were taking the history course, a lot of debate had gone on about decolonization, colonization, and so on and so forth.
So some of those readings were present in our history class.
Regretably going back to high school or secondary school, as we call it.
Yeah.
Not much of it was present in, in our readings.
So I became more aware of this suppressed nature of the knowledge holders and their knowledge and history more in the history class.
I was going to ask you if in your philosophy, if you'd had what we might call African philosophy or Africa, you sent me this great paper, which I'm going to link to.
And in that paper he talks about in his education, which was a lot earlier than yours, I'm assuming that he didn't have any of kind of what you're talking about now.
I mean, you're talking about it in heritage, but of the African perspective or African philosophy, it was more Western philosophy.
So I wonder when you studied philosophy, was there more of that or was it the same kind of Western curriculum that he talks about in that paper?
Yeah.
I think it was a blend.
It was a blend of both world.
Okay.
And also most of the African, you know, lots of us like we do, Jachi, and so on.
Yeah.
They had a specific goal.
And the goal was basically to question their own culture and also question the Western philosophy and so on.
So it's what we say is a blend of this world is what they were articulated as African philosophy.
So for example, the paper you sent me, did you read that in school?
Was that what that would have been part of what you were learning?
Exactly.
Okay.
Yes.
Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
Yeah.
This talk about which, yeah, I guess I'm trying to figure out if it was like the philosophy and the history are connected.
They're connected even in your paper.
I started thinking a lot about how the ways we think and the philosophies we build have a lot to do with the actions that we sustain and the ways that we sustain them.
So they're not disconnected, but I wonder in your school, before we get to the paper that if it was already like, so these were the same kind of things in philosophy and in history where they connected or was it different writers or different ways of looking at it or?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Different writers, different writers.
Because, you know, the educational system has most often followed the Western structure.
And then the divisions in the knowledge system also were very present, even up to now, the debates about humanities and the science, sciences and so on.
And I guess the benefit that we had out of those kinds of debate was that they introduced what they call core subjects in the secondary school or high school.
So if somebody who was on the science track, you know, doing the pure sciences, chemistry, physics and so on, there was a common cause, you know, called social studies.
Then there, you had a bit of opportunity to look into sociology and then they had a bit of history.
But by then the historians were quarreling with that.
History lesson be subsumed in sociology.
You know, so there was that thing that was what was called core subjects.
And so it's that the division was sharper, even at the university level, because the University of Ghana was established in 1948 and 1948, Ghana was still under the colonial British colonial system.
So it's the structure was still in place.
And it was in 97 that Ghana gained independence.
And that's where the immense African philosophers who were questioning their own culture and the Western culture, you know, began to articulate their views to their writing and so on.
So the historians were different from the philosophers.
What was key to the African philosophers was that they would go to already written bodies of knowledge, like anthropology, history, and begin to take concepts, practices, you know, from there.
And then to do the actual clarification and questioning from there.
So they were not actually historians, but they were using very much historical sources.
They were using linguistic sources, you know, to extract, you know, the concepts and practices and African philosophy and also using very much Western language in some cases.
In the paper you sent in your paper too, there's this always this interplay between looking back at history.
And then, and within the history is the practice and the thinking in a way of the philosophy.
So I can see there's two different approaches in the way you said, but then it seems very hard to completely disentangle all of that because you know better, but I'm imagining this.
So you have this colonial college university and these kind of set ways, these systems, these paths that people are following, and then people start questioning them.
But they haven't really thought about all these other historical paths that of course are there and important and influencing, but maybe haven't been had, like people haven't focused on them and written about them and created all this literature about them or had they, I don't know.
It's kind of, it's kind of, was it a time where everyone had to re sort of rewrite their own histories in a way in terms of what was externally represented?
Of course their histories as lived are different, but in terms of what's externally represented?
Yeah, I think on that front, there are two shifts in historical writing.
There was more or less a response to the colonial history and some, what some of British historians was saying about African history, you know, because the forms of writing, it's, you know, to use Roman letters, you know.
Yeah, the language itself.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, leave documents and so on and so forth.
This was very, you know, typical, you know, understanding of the British philosophers.
And so standing on that, they say that Africans, you know, had no, Africans had no history until they had contact with Europeans.
And, you know, because it was through the Europeans and Africans and how to write and so on.
So the history, those kinds of writing and so on, what will now become of those things, what they would call history or recognize as history.
Yeah.
But the, there, then the Africans who were trained as historians, you know, also responded to that.
Yeah, one of the interesting thing, one of them said was that, well, Herodotus was recognized as, as the father of history in, in, in the Western canons.
Yeah.
But what Herodotus was doing really was collecting oral histories or oral stories from, from people.
So Africans can also write or collect their own oral, then that should also be recognized as history.
Yes.
I mean, that's Herodotus is kind of what we look to in this Western canon, but there could have been many other people in there doing the same similar thing.
Right.
And, and saying similar things and even expressing that as their language.
It's just that it hasn't been, you know, canonized.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so the other shifts, the historical writing was more or less about national.
No, here, if you take Ghana, for example, the same thing applies to most African countries.
It's more or less a collection of ethnic groups.
And all these ethnic groups can also be recognized as states because they have their own chiefs and their own protocols, practices, and so on.
In some cases, they are sharply different from other ethnic groups.
So here was a moment in 1957 and the 1960s for the rest of the African countries.
And then the president who emerged, all these ethnic groups in the form of what was, or what can be represented, can be said to be a European state or European nation.
You know, so then the history had to be told or written in a way that would unite, you know, the people.
And there they use, yeah, they use the museums, you know, and so on and so forth.
And I think if you read Laura Jane Smith, that's what she sometimes called authorized heritage, you know, discourse.
Yeah.
Although I have some differences on that, but that takes us away from what we understand.
So these were two shifts in the historical and right in the, in African history.
I wonder about that process for you.
What was it like to start to think of that area that you knew so well from a perspective of writing about it academically?
Yeah.
The starting was easy.
Yeah.
Because, yeah, I knew there was something to be said.
But again, one has to touch on a bit of the colonial history and where that's where we may tease out the depression, you know, because there were the authorities had to devise certain ways to rule the people or to govern the people.
You know, one form was direct rule where there was a British colonial officer or commissioner at a local area instructing the people as to what to do and what not to do.
But they were understaffed, you know, so they could not do that all over the place.
And then they came up with another strategy, which was indirect rule.
So there, what they did was to identify certain leaders in the respective community or ethnic groups and then rule through them.
And in these leaders, in most cases were chiefs.
But like I said earlier, you know, it's not homogeneous and not all ethnic groups or communities have chiefs.
And in some areas, they had priests, you know, who are priests of the land or the river and so on and so forth.
And that was their leader.
But in the indirect rule system, the thinking was that there must be a chief.
And so where there was none, they had to empower somebody to be the leader.
And then that starts the distortion.
So knowledge, the connection to water body, the land and so on.
Then the local now had to struggle to find a way.
But there was this dominant, you know, presence of the British colonial authority empowering one over the other.
So for me, that's where the form of suppression was.
So now I knew there was something to engage.
Where do you trace it?
That's where the difficulty was.
Especially when I read the management plan for the lagoon.
Yeah.
So that lagoon was designated or is designated as Ramsar, I think it's in 1988 or so.
Yeah.
But the management plan and the research took off significantly from 1991.
That's when the ecologists and the natural scientists got involved with the research on the lagoon.
So you can have this Western presence coming in and saying, this is going to be a heritage site.
Yes.
So Ramsar convention has, uh, this is our articles.
The, um, that people working there have to observe.
Cause all heritage sites sort of have these rules.
Yeah.
And so on.
And then this convention in particular.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So in this case is what we call the state's party.
So, the states, which is not what, that was formed after independence with political leaders and so on and so forth.
They had to appoint, you know, managers and so on to take care of this.
The case now is under a ministry, you know, that hosts wildlife, you know, resources.
So, and most of the people who end up in these offices with the states are trained in the natural sciences and so on.
So they become caretakers of this water body and then the surrounding areas.
That is quite distinct from the local people, although they are, some of them may be part of the, or come from the local community and so on.
So, but it's quite distinct.
And this is all probably very complicated cause it could seem, there's a lot of what would, I guess, might seem like good things coming in terms of maybe jobs or attention or something to the area, but those could also be bad things.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
So I was reading their management plan.
Then they, we had a column where they talked about local community participation.
So I took a look at it and then given the history that was present in my mind and I experienced that I began to ask, what's, what's the role of these people that I know of?
You know, so, so that I can understand.
First of all, given the nature of the structure where most scientists are not exposed to the cultural sociology and the history of the country or they are trained purely in the natural science.
I can understand why local participation would just be the people who are readily available to take part in the management plan.
You know, so, so that's for me.
It's where there's suppression.
Well, although sometimes I struggle if I should do the worst.
That's powerful what you just said.
Cause I think actually I wanted to read the very first sentence of your paper of the one that was published in 2022.
And it's current efforts to integrate heritage practices in the sustainable management of wetlands and post-colonial nation states assume that these practices have always existed in the forms they are now.
So I think with what you just said and that sentence, we get into a really interesting place because it's not that people are necessarily trying to overlook things or assume things.
Kind of what an assumption is, but what you just said struck me because there's even within this kind of model that we were talking about, it's almost like participation itself means something to the people who have written those rules.
And it doesn't necessarily mean participation at this level of, of actually understanding what the practices are and what the sustain, what the heritage is and that should be conserved.
It's almost like that's getting imposed, but people don't realize it, right?
There's some very weird disconnect going on there.
That's very meaningful.
I think assumption that word for some reason stands out.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah.
So having the depth to go beyond the surface to encounter these knowledge holders, it's I think a methodological problem for, especially for those who are trained in the natural sciences.
And also because the nature of the colonial engagement, most of them had lost a lot of their power.
And if I should say maybe their relevance, direct relevance to the people.
By the time we came up to independence.
So there are layers and levels of suppression, which are not directly obvious to people.
Even to the people themselves who are being suppressed, which is makes it even harder, I guess.
But maybe we can talk about sort of what you are trying to do or what you did do in your master's.
So I know it's kind of impossible to summarize a master's in a sentence or something, but maybe we can make it a little personal.
So you I feel like you noticed there was something going on there.
We don't know what to call it yet. Suppression is probably we can talk about what that really means.
But assumptions that were holding things down, right, keeping things from being seen that, as you point out in the paper, actually could be really productive for the goals of the whole heritage project.
Like the wise use principle, which you talk about or the the very idea of sustainability itself.
So there's this weird thing going on, which you point out in the paper where the or your thesis too, but this paper where there's a desire to sustain heritage and to be sustainable.
And doing that is somehow not actually noticing that there were already practices that are the heritage that were sustainable.
So it's very strange, but maybe you can unpack it a little of like what you kind of had in mind or.
Yeah. Well, I think you've articulated very well.
Yeah. But so, so let me just touch a bit on the Ramsar Convention and then come back to that point.
You know, so the Ramsar Convention itself was established in 1971.
So 20 years after, you know, that's 1992.
They recognize that cultural practices and knowledge holders and so on that leave close to the water bodies should be part of the management.
So at the international level itself, there was that recognition.
And what I'm now discovering is how then to get to the roots of these people that have these intricate knowledge systems connected to the water body.
And elevate that into the management plan that would attain the sustainability that is so much desired.
So this is where the problem is.
First of all, there's, first of all, there's a recognition that is relevant, but then how to get to the root of this.
Yeah. It's where the issue.
I have a specific example of these knowledge holders.
For example, a diviner, you know, so if, or a fortune teller, these are not, these are things that are embodied.
And in most cases, they make an appeal to, you know, non-physical things.
Now that's different from the priests and the discussion about, because one very interesting part in all of this is the way that the lagoon, the sort of male and female deity that it was or is, and how this was kind of completely overlooked.
And then, and then, and that these, you call them priests, I think in the paper, I'm not sure, but these people weren't consulted at all, or like brought into the process at all.
Or, I mean, it's like not even recognized and it's such a, it's the body of water.
So yeah.
Is that relative to this or is this something else what you're talking about now?
Yes.
It's, it's relative to that.
Yeah.
So there were priests, priests, and then a diviner as well.
So they all played, you know, or played different roles.
They played different roles at different times of the year.
Historically, it was important, but in contemporary times,
a lot of power has been taken away from them.
Yeah.
But so my point is if Ramsar sees things that this is important and of which I share.
Yeah.
Then we need to find a way to, to bring them back and give them more visibility.
So for example, if there is a problem, somebody is sick or what are we, or something that's no one or nobody can find an immediate
explanation.
They go to these places, the diviner to find, inquire what's the issue is that they cannot understand.
And they also have festivals.
And in that festival calendar, the diviner also plays a role in determining certain things about deity, about how people have to regulate themselves and so on and so forth.
Now, so those ideas or suggestions that can come out of that practice, how then do they come up in regulating the lagoon?
How then do they come up in the management plan, you know, is where the, I'm trying to get at.
And that is why I think it's relevant and can be, you know, sustainable.
But there is also a very competing, you know, idea or practice, which is Christianity.
Yeah.
So majority as of non-majority are Christians.
So, but some becoming more and more aware, especially when you take the decolonial philosophical project, questioning, you know, these and finding accommodation, you know, between the two.
And so that, that kind of decolonial project that paves the way to bring in the suggestions and practices and the knowledge that these diviners embody into the contemporary management of the lagoon.
This is really fascinating and kind of hard to hold.
It's one reason I wanted to talk to you because it's kind of this beyond dichotomy thing, right?
Because we usually think of this as either or like, in the paper you talk about that you gave me, one of them, there's this notion of historical and modern that's very important, but we don't often think of it like that.
It's more like, okay, there must be people living in this area who still have all of these practices and still are completely 100% following along with the diviners and the priests and they don't know about the other.
Or there's Christians who are completely modern.
And in truth, as is pointed out in your paper and the one you sent me, it's always kind of a mix, right?
People might be aware of both and using them in different ways.
Also, there's this whole historical suppression or whatever we want to call it assumption that's guiding.
And the more people become aware of it, the more things change.
So it doesn't have to be an either or, it could be a dialogue that grows into something better, which I think is what you're kind of expressing.
And a lot of African writers, some of the ones you've talked about are trying to express this, right?
But isn't it hard because people want to either do one or the other.
Okay, it must be that it's the old ways of doing things and that's the right way and we can only do that or it's the modern way.
Or have you felt that tension of how to hold, talk about, like open that space to everything?
Yes, I've felt that.
And it's also very present in the contemporary issues as well.
But if we have to carry out the project of sustainability forward, and if we think that the cultural practices of people are relevant or they can offer us something, then we need to engage that very seriously.
And in African philosophy, there are two, two, and ontology most African philosophers have consensus on.
You know, one is that human beings are relational, you know, and that's where one of the African philosophers turned the cards around.
You know, I think therefore I am right.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, so he turned it around.
I am.
And then therefore I think or I have the potential to think or something.
Yeah.
I am because we are.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, so not, I think, therefore I am.
I am because we are.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Wow.
Yes.
So that changed, you know, or subverts the Western philosophy.
So if we have to carry out this sort of relationality of human beings and accept the mutuality of human beings.
It's and then it elevates the philosophical concept and ideas that these knowledge holders embody.
And if that finds expression into efforts of sustainability, then we are a step forward because that provide a perspective to question what the international bodies, you know, have always underpins, you know, their sustainability thinking.
Because most often, if you think about sustainability, they're talking about economics and economics is thought of in individual terms and profit making and so on and so forth.
You know, so this idea that I am because we are, you know, provide a perspective to question this economics of profit making of maximizing profit wherever you can find it at the expense of the environment.
You know, and the African philosophers also find a consensus to the idea that Africans relate to human beings, yes, but they also relate to the environment in a very unique way or relate to the nonhumans in very unique ways.
So to be African, I think the paper, reduce paper, yeah.
He touched on the view that, yeah, water bodies and some water bodies are deities.
Or they have spirits behind them.
They believe that there is a logical distinction between present humans, the departed humans, the ancestors.
But all these logical distinctions are in a continuum.
So, yeah, we are not only trying to sustain the environment or water body for the present generation, but to a future generation.
And in doing so, you're also to what the ancestors have also left.
You know, so these two technologies, you know, provide a perspective on sustainability.
And the underpinning economic assumptions in sustainability as crafted in the international conventions.
I love this, what you're saying, because it speaks to what I think of as like nestedness, right?
Which is what I was trying to get at too with that, not either or, like, there's all these scales, right?
That we can still learn from our own heritage, for example, and what heritage is can still be learned.
And I really love this, I am because we are.
I think now is a good time to think about that wise use thing, which is like this wise use principle, which is that it should be for the benefit of humankind in a way that's compatible with, like, maintaining the site such that it's good for the ecosystem or something like that.
I can put it in the show notes, the actual thing, but it's mostly the sustainability thing.
When you talk about too, like the SDGs, the sustainable development goals, I think number 14 and 17, you bring up that like what we're trying to do with this whole practice that we talked about.
These people coming in and preserving the site has to do with this sustainability.
So what we want to do is what you're describing is look at this nestedness of history and peoples and so on.
And the way that you present a possibility of doing this is through this fishing practice, which you can say the word again.
I already forgot.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
Atskita.
So what is that?
And maybe then we can look at that as an example of this.
I think everything we've been talking about from both sides, right?
From whoever are the suppressors and whoever they're suppressed or whoever the assumers and whoever are the ones who are having things assumed about them, which is always a dynamical changing nested thing.
But through this example, we can begin to see how it benefits everyone in a way in the sense that you open up.
So first of all, what is this fishing practice in the lagoon?
Did you see it growing up?
Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
So it was familiar to you from the beginning.
Yeah.
So, so many, they are wetland lagoons, you know, so there are trees, all forms of trees that grow around it at the bank.
And so a fisher would go cut the branches, you know, make them dry a little bit.
Then we'll go and dump them, you know, carefully in a certain area.
And then use poles to hold them, you know, together within a certain radius.
And then that becomes something like, if I may say, say that a house, so to say, for the fish.
So these poles hold it, you know, because the lag, the lagoon flows, because it is connected to the Atlantic Ocean.
So it flows, it has times that it flows, the currents can be quite heavy sometimes.
And so the poles hold the branches together.
So after a while, the owner goes, cast a net around it, take the branches out and then trap the fish there.
And then when that is done, bring everything back and then wait for another season.
This takes like a long time, we should say, because they put all the, it's kind of like just cutting up lots of sticks and then you're putting them underwater.
And then the fish are like, oh, wow, that looks like a great place to live.
And this takes time.
So like it's over a year or two years, right?
That the fish suddenly, they're not like suddenly there, they build their little homes there.
And it's a whole little ecosystem that is created, but then all the fish are there.
So you have all the fish you could want right there.
Yes.
But it's a time that I bring up time because I think that's an important point.
Like it's a different time conception too.
Yes.
Yeah.
And also when it's time for harvesting them, they have a way of trapping them.
They can go, if it's the pile of branches at one spot, they can go a certain distance away and begin to beat the lagoon, sort of hit it.
And then the surrounding fish, you know, get find a safe game and then they get trapped there more.
Then that's when they cast the net around it.
Yeah.
Poor fish, but hey, at least they're not getting hooks through their mouths and then thrown back in the water.
Yeah.
So that's, that's reduced the types of signing fishing nets that's using nylon, you know, to fish.
And it's a way to also cut down over fishing.
Yeah.
So that's for me, it's a wise use practice that should be encouraged.
That's been sort of invisible.
I think you use the word invisible with it.
Would you say these are knowledge holders?
These fishermen?
Fisher people?
Fisher women and men?
I don't know if it's women and men, but.
Yeah.
It's predominantly male.
Yeah.
But they are women also present.
Yeah.
I would say they are practitioners.
They practice that, but I wouldn't say, yes, they embody some form of practice.
Yeah.
But they are not necessarily the diviners or the priests and so on.
Purely that.
The diviners and priests, yeah, they can also, or they own, you know, some of those as well.
Yeah.
So that's about the wise use consideration of the Ramsar.
But the thing to say very quickly about the wise use consideration is that in my reading, the focus was on birds initially, you know, migratory birds.
So the focus was on how to make safe spaces for birds that move from one place to the other.
But there again, there are also local beliefs about these birds, which were also not considered.
And also there are some of those spaces where that are considered safe heavens for the birds.
There are also deities there.
So if the deities are recognized and incorporated in the management plan, yes, you can be serving the wise use principle of the Ramsar convention, as well as promoting the local knowledge and belief system as well.
But if you don't know about that, if you haven't somehow opened a discussion about it, then that's that assumption again, right?
You talk about the forest to that.
I mean, this happens quite often that what are considered values or assumed to be kind of universal values that just don't really look at the nuance of what the bird might or might not mean from another perspective.
It's more just a giant category of bird that we need to save or that forest save instead of understanding that from different positions.
What a forest is, first of all, and what a bird is are completely different things and you can't just lump it all together into a category.
So there's some, yeah, just opening that up.
It's like opening up different ways of understanding these terms.
This again relates to the language.
I feel like that's kind of what you're, you're trying to get us to do, to reevaluate almost like our thinking process itself and the assumptions themselves that we're making.
What are the assumptions and then asking, are those true for this particular context?
Yes, exactly.
And it goes again into the core of the discipline, the disciplines that are involved in, in the management of these conventions of the sites.
And so there, the, the, the starting point of Ramsar itself could be faltered because it's, it was more or less led by natural scientists who were concerned, concerned about preserving, you know, save heavens for, for the birds.
So that the starting point was, was a problem, but now it's time for us, like you said, to open this discussion up and incorporate a lot more ideas that can serve the different purposes.
And in a way, going into the sustainability of the water bodies and to, and also for the local people as well.
Because if you think of it in this nested way, scales and everything continuous and that you can't separate all these things from each other, which is, I think what both of us are trying to bring up in different ways.
Then even the goal of preserving birds or creating a safe space for birds actually needs to consider all of this in the longterm and the time aspect, because the people who are there, who are that place.
Are going to be either making this work or not work in the longterm.
Right. And so you can't like, it's that kind of complex systems effect where everything's affecting everything else.
So it's better to take a minute and look at the, these scales.
Now, if we really want to have this healthy wise use future sustainability, because they aren't separate, right.
They're all nested together.
They're all affecting each other.
And I think you show that with the fishing in a sense, because at least, I mean, maybe I'm even reading into it a little bit, but here we have a kind of wise use practice that already answers.
A lot of the problems that we deal with in terms of overfishing the materials that are used, the way the fish are treated, the fish getting completely being gone.
But also in another nested level, it addresses these more philosophical and historical themes that we were talking about.
For example, you bring up something with time, but also with the way that we understand ownership, you know?
So first of all, I already talked about the time with the fish and how it's a completely different conception of time, which fits very well with how we really need to think about nature, by the way, and sustainability.
So there's a lesson there, but also we didn't say it yet, but people put up sort of a flag with, I think like a red or some kind of, there's a way of, yeah.
There's a way of saying, Hey, this is in use, this little community, fish community I've created.
And it's beautiful because so long as you're kind of upkeeping that flag, I'll call it, you can correct me, but that, that sign, that marker, then the people around know, okay, this is in use and we don't touch it and it belongs to whoever.
But if that is left in disrepair or allowed to fall and as it naturally will, and if no one's using it, and it's just a stick going into the water, it's no pollution, maybe a flag.
Then people know, okay, now this area is open for us, we can come use the fish.
So it's somehow beautifully kind of solving, or at least a different way of addressing some issues of community that also we could learn from, right?
But maybe you could say more about that or what you think, if that makes sense to you.
Well, yes, you've said it well.
Yeah, so it's how time is connected to ownership of a particular space in the commons.
If you think of the lagoon as a common that belongs to all the people that are living in the local area.
So you can't say you're going to own a spot in a lagoon in perpetuity.
So in that case, time, and also the pose as a marker of the portions that you own in the common are indicative of the temporality of the ownership.
It's very beautiful. I just have to pause for a minute because there's so much talk now about commons, and it's a very important word that I think we're talking about.
It's an important word that I think we're trying to rediscover in this nested way.
Just the action itself says, this is a temporary caretaking or stewardship or ownership, if you want to use that word of this space.
But even the way it's created the materials and the signage, everything says, it's part of the commons still too.
It's very beautiful.
