Sometimes you arrive in your garage and you realize you don't remember how you got there.
You don't remember to drive at all. Were you unconscious during the during the drive? Of
course not. You were conscious but you are not metacognitive of the experience of driving because
you're mulling your problems or you were thinking about something else. It doesn't mean that you
are unconscious of your driving. It only means that you didn't re-represent it. For an idealist,
the world that doesn't cease to exist is just that the idealist accounts for that world in a
different way, a more sane way, but the world's still there and I'm still alive and I'm still up
to having fun. We fear the process of death. We don't fear what will happen after. That death
is not a given. That is actually derived from a certain metaphysical position called physicalism
which is entirely untenable. Your life has never been, is not, and will never be about you.
Not any more than the life of the apple tree is about one apple blossom. I do not have the
responsibility to make myself happy which is the most overwhelming task that the cultural ethos
invests us with. One, it's impossible. There are way too many variables at play for you to be able
to control them. You cannot make yourself happy. You may find yourself happy because of grace and
circumstance but it's not something that you can force in nature. Parting with that need to make
myself happy, it's like removing a ton of weight from my shoulder. The intellect is still the
bouncer of my heart. It's just that it's a more sensitive and open-minded bouncer now,
but it can still shut the door. Hello everyone. Welcome back to Love and Philosophy where we try
to talk about deep meaningful subjects across traditional either or divides or ways we're told
we should talk about these subjects. This is a conversation with Bernardo Kastrup who is the
executive director of the Asentia Foundation and he set off this renaissance in rethinking what
idealism might be, metaphysical idealism, and his most recent book, Analytic Idealism in a Nutshell,
which I highly recommend. Basically the idea is that reality is mental and for some of you that
might not make any sense. For others it might make perfect sense and feel very controversial.
Bernardo gets all kinds of reactions but he's an incredibly clear thinker and incredibly articulate
person to talk to about many things, especially philosophy. He has a PhD in philosophy. He has a
PhD in computer engineering. He works as a scientist. He works as a philosopher. He was part of CERN,
which is the European Organization for Nuclear Research, in some really exciting days of that
organization. He was part of the Phillips Research Laboratories. It goes on and on,
honestly. He's co-founded a parallel processor company called Silicon Hive.
He works on these really super cool retro computers that I just absolutely love, which you can see on
his website. And he's a philosopher who's putting forth some very interesting ideas. I remember the
first time I really heard of Bernardo. Someone told me that his way of seeing the world reminded
them of something I was presenting at a conference and I should check him out. But he's very
controversial, they said. I'll let you decide if you think that's true or not. But the reason
people do say that is because his idea is that reality is fundamentally mental or essentially
mental. And we talk about that here in terms of consciousness. I sort of frame it around
consciousness because that's the research question that I was contemplating and the reason I wanted
to talk to him. So we talk about what consciousness is, how it gets confused. I wonder if the word
unconscious is even not applicable ever. I'll do another post about that. I'll post that separately.
For now, I just want to let you listen to Bernardo. And I hope that wherever you are, you're doing well
today. If you want to help love and philosophy, there's a million ways and I definitely appreciate
it. But most importantly, I just hope that you can think about this as philosophy as a way of life
and whatever you might want to take from it that helps you. I hope it does. If these subjects might
not seem like they have anything to do with what you're dealing with today, if you're dealing with
some problems, but I just hope that you can feel some love coming from me. And I don't mean that in
a sticky, sentimental way. I really just mean that I'm trying to open my pathway so that it meets yours
in some way that's helpful. So maybe there's something in here that helps. I hope so. All right,
here's Bernardo. Is there anything you want to know before we jump in or anything you want to
talk about today that's on your mind? Let's jump in. Okay, let's jump in. So let's start with
consciousness. All right. I found this Scientific American article of yours. Like a dozen. Well,
this one in particular, it was talking about how people often use consciousness in the wrong way
or a misguided way, or they assume meta consciousness rather than consciousness. And
this one in particular that was about children, about babies and studies that are done, which say
they become conscious at the age of five or something. Which is absurd if you understand.
Yeah, it sounds absurd. But it's not absurd to a lot of people. And I know this word is potent,
difficult, but it is something I think about a lot of the way we use it and we all hear it differently
or have different interpretations of it. But especially this article, when a child is born,
is it already consciousness? I mean, can we go ahead and say any life that's moving or making way,
experiencing maybe in your terms, is already consciousness in some sense? Would you agree
with that? I mean, to think that a newborn does not experience that when a newborn cries immediately
after being born, he's crying completely unconsciously that there is no experience.
It's just a mechanism in there, reducing the sound of crying in order to get help of some form.
I think that that's preposterous in this day and age. I think we are better than that now. Maybe
Descartes could think that in the 17th century, but not human beings in the 21st century, not
educated human beings. Of course, experience is there. I believe experience is the experience
in the sense of a private conscious point of view, a phenomenal point of view that is private to the
organism. I think every organism has such a conscious point of view. Their experiences may
be incredibly simple. The experiences of an amoeba, paramecium, may be incredibly simple, of an archaea,
may be simple, but I think there is experience every time you see life. Why do I think that?
Well, because we metabolize and we know we experience. We know that other higher animals
that metabolize experience, we have plenty of indirect evidence for that in case of cetaceans,
dolphins, or in the case of pachyderms like elephants, other primates. So even observing
life under a microscope, you can see unicellular organisms running away from threats, chasing food.
Amoeba can build little vases, houses for themselves, out of mud particles at the bottom
of the puddle where they live. There's plenty of evidence that everything that metabolizes has
a private conscious point of view from the get-go, from the start.
I agree, but why would you think that in these studies, these are studies in the blog post which
I'll link to, a lot of the scientists are very, I mean, they wouldn't say that it's not a human or
you know, they're not trying to be cruel or something, but they really are sort of
associating it with, I guess, what you would call meta-consciousness where it's almost like
the observer can understand that the thing being observed knows that it's somehow a subject.
Yeah, so I don't think there's maliciousness in people making claims that children become
conscious at age five because there is confusion around the term consciousness. What do we mean by
it? And that confusion goes back to the inception of depth psychology at the end of the 19th century.
Freud and Jung already talked about the unconscious as a psychic space. Well, if it's not conscious,
in what way is it psychic? Well, it is phenomenally conscious. In other words,
it's constituted of experiences, but it is not meta-conscious. What is meta-consciousness?
Meta-consciousness is the explicit awareness of one's own consciousness. It is to know that
one has an experience. One can have an experience without meta-consciousness. For instance,
we are always conscious of our breathing, but we only become meta-conscious of it if I bring
your attention to it. Then you start explicitly knowing that you're experiencing the inflation
of your rib cage and air flowing through your nostrils and so on. Since the beginning, we have
had this confusion. It takes, of course, a while for an infant to become explicitly aware of its
own consciousness. In other words, to know that it is having an experience, but it is experiencing
from the get-go. We mistake this a lot, especially in neuroscience, because the report paradigm,
for the past almost 10 years, there is a no-report paradigm that is evolving.
That may help things a bit, but for the longest time in neuroscience,
investigation of consciousness was based on subjective reports. In other words,
you would measure brain activity in a subject, and then you would ask the subject,
what are you experiencing? Now, of course, the subject can only report on the contents
of meta-consciousness. It can only report on the experiences that it knows it is having,
and therefore we conflate the two. We think that consciousness is reportability. No, no,
no. That is meta-consciousness. You need to re-represent metacognitively an experience in
order to be able to report that. You report the re-representation, not the original experience.
Jonathan Schooler already elaborated on this in 2002 in one of his seminal papers,
this distinction between consciousness and meta-consciousness, which is experimentally
observed, by the way. Yeah, this gets kind of messy to try to really unpack, but you brought
up phenomenal consciousness, which I am pretty sure you attribute to block in the normal way
that he uses it, which is just like experience, we can say, so to speak. Phenomenal consciousness
is that whose excitations are experiences. Right. But for me, this gets very confusing,
especially when someone like a scientist is writing about it, about a subject, because
phenomenal consciousness can often be used in dialogue or in papers to already mean something
like re-representation or representation. Because here's the thing, right? The baby,
what comes into the world, it is experience. It's not necessarily having experience. I mean,
because already when we use that kind of language, we've set something against itself.
Do you know what I mean? So there's almost, for me, a difficulty in that it's already sort of
what you might call dissociation or something, this kind of nestedness of the way that we have
to speak about it. And we can't always catch ourselves, if you know what I mean. So do you
know, does that make sense? I just find this is even trickier than it seems, even after we've
impacted in the way you have. Of course, people will tell themselves that if they can't report
their experiences to themselves, then they are not having those experiences. Well, in fact,
they may be having. In that block's terminology, what we call meta-consciousness would be
phenomenal consciousness plus access consciousness together. When we have those two things together,
then that's what we mean by meta-consciousness in neuroscience of consciousness. In philosophy,
phenomenal consciousness does not require re-representation,
does not require the explicit awareness that you are having an experience.
My friend, Christoph Koch, has a different opinion on what I'm about to say, but I still hold on to
my own opinion. I think at least some cases of blind sight, it's when an individual acts as though
he's seeing, like if you throw a ball at the individual, he or she will catch that ball,
but he will report to you that I couldn't see the ball, it's just that my hand moved
and it happened to catch the ball. I think at least some of those cases of blind sightness
reflect this distinction between consciousness and meta-consciousness. The subject is conscious
of seeing the ball. He or she is experiencing the ball, but that experience is not re-represented,
so if you ask the subject, the subject will tell you, no, I didn't see anything.
Yeah, that makes me think of Gonzaga and those left brain, right brain kind of studies when
the corpus callosum was severed, and yeah, that would be a whole other subject. It also makes
me think of seeing without eyes. I just had another talk somewhere else about with Alex
Gomez-Maron or Marin Gomez. I always get it confused, right? Yeah, and we were talking
about that. I just feel like even that can get confusing because the body is itself already
sensing, and so are we going to talk about any body that sensing is already experiencing?
Let's go to the child coming into the world. That's why I wanted to start it like this.
As we agree, the body comes in, it's sensing. Is that a kind of consciousness for you?
Because I really want to get to what you wrote about Jung too and the unconscious.
It's very hard for me to understand how something can be unconscious. Is it still mental, but it's
just unconscious for that subject or these kinds of things, so you can see where I'm sort of trying
to get to. Okay, let's start very quickly just to clarify the terminology. You could define
sensing as not necessarily entailing experience. So a camera senses something, but it's not
experiencing what it's sensing. If you define sensing that way, then no, sensing does not
necessarily come with experience. But a child, I think, doesn't just sense. A child experiences
what is sensed, even though the child may not metacognize that experience. A child may not
be able to tell itself, I am experiencing this right now. Sorry to stop you, but what's the
difference there? Because I feel like I'm missing. What's the difference between the child is the
sensing, right? It's the body, it's sensing. It doesn't have a sense of self, like a subject,
or even if we don't know if it does, let's assume it. It's building that through sensing. I'm glad
you made that point about sensing, because often in circles with people who are in engineering and
stuff, they use sensors in a completely different way and it can get very confusing. So I definitely
mean how the any body and embodied creature is experiencing the world through that body.
I'm not talking about experiencing perceptual contents without perceptual organs. I'm not
talking about that. I think that's theoretically a lot more complicated if it happens at all.
From the point of view of the reporting ego, the absence of metacognition, the absence of
re-representation is identical to the absence of experience, because the reporting ego operates at
a metacognitive level. Whatever is not re-represented does not reach that level. So from the point of
view of the reporting ego, it might as well never have happened. For instance, for the past
two minutes, you have been experiencing your breathing, but from the point of view of your
reporting ego, you cannot tell the difference, because that experience of breathing was not
being re-represented. So you might as well not have breathed the past two minutes, yet we know
that you did, right? You would have passed that. Well, maybe not. I could hold my breath for an
hour and a half minutes once. No way. I definitely couldn't. Once upon a time, 20 years ago, when I
was very much into diving. Oh yeah, I was a diver too, but still, no way. You can talk about that.
It's a part of my life that I missed. Oh, I would love to talk about that. I missed that experience
of being underwater. So there has to be an ego to be conscious? The reporting ego. A reporting ego
to be conscious? I thought you don't... The reporting ego cannot tell the difference
between the absence of experience and the absence of re-representation of the experience.
Okay, but the child or the body that's come into the world doesn't necessarily have a sense like
an ego yet, but it's still experienced, meaning it's still conscious, right? Well, according to
the research you quoted in the very beginning, from five years on, they have a reporting ego.
Right, but that's the whole point. Until five years, they don't, but they're still conscious,
which is what you kind of make a case for. So for me, that means you can't really dissociate
it from the body. Once you start with calling it a subject or it calling itself a subject,
you're starting that process. But just even if we start in the womb, wherever you want to start,
the body's encounter, which I'm saying is sensory through what all parts, all senses, you can choose
one, the eyes, the nose, whatever, the skin, proprioception. That sensing for me feels like,
or whatever we want to call it, experience and consciousness.
That's not the only type of experience. You can also have experience without intentional content,
experience that is purely endogenous. But just to finally answer your previous question,
the reporting ego cannot see a difference between unconsciousness and experience that is not
re-represented. But obviously there is. In one case, something is being experienced,
in the other case, it's not. You were experiencing your breathing for the prior two minutes.
It's different than if you were, if there were no experience of breathing at all. Now, how can we
gain, we know this objectively in cases like blind sight and other cases that you see in the
no-report paradigm in neuroscience, which sort of began in 2015 with Tsuchiya.
You can see these cases where there is this dissociation between experience,
raw experience and reportability. But to gain direct first-person insight into it,
one has to pay attention to one's own inner life. For instance, to me, many years ago,
there was a moment I realized that I knew something that I didn't know I knew. Not only that,
I had known it for years before. Can you tell me what or it's too,
because I know what you mean, but. Now it has to do with the life of somebody else.
Okay. I don't mind telling you everything about my life.
No, I understand. I wouldn't want to do that either. But maybe, so you just recognize that
you've been operating with that knowledge. Yeah. Okay. This I can talk more directly about.
I can go for a couple of days in pain without knowing that I am in pain. And then when my
attention finally falls onto the pain and I re-represent it, then retroactively I know,
oh, I have been having this experience for the past couple of days. But during those days,
I didn't know I had it. Another experience you can have in dreams. We know this from a study by
Jennifer Vint and others years ago, 2007. Dreams tend to be a lot less metacognitive than waking
life. In dreams, we tend to experience without knowing that we are experiencing. And that's
precisely the reason why absurd things can happen in dreams without alarming us. It's because we
are experiencing absurd things, but we are not telling ourselves that we are experiencing them,
so it doesn't trigger that rational processing. Wait, wait a moment. How can this be happening?
You know what I mean? So these are ways in which you can satisfy yourself from a point, first
person point of view, that there can be such a thing as experience in the absence of reportability
or metaconsciousness. It reminds me of sometimes when you're walking down the street, of course,
you're seeing everything, but you're not aware that you're seeing it. Do you know what I mean?
It just reminds me the other day, someone asked me where something was, and I had no idea. I knew
where it was, but once I asked the question, I'd somehow seen that, even though I didn't know I'd
seen it. If you commute a lot by car, if you drive frequently to work or back home, sometimes you
arrive in your garage and you realize you don't remember how you got there. You don't remember
to drive at all. Were you unconscious during the drive? Of course not. You were conscious,
but you are not metacognitive of the experience of driving because you're mulling your problems
or you were thinking about something else. It doesn't mean that you are unconscious of your
driving. It only means that you didn't re-represent it. And by the way, memory formation has a lot to
do with re-representation. Things that we don't re-represent, we don't remember. We don't form
memory pathways to lead us back to that. Yeah, this is so fascinating. I'm glad you brought that
example up because I think that's a great example. Maybe this can unpack what I'm confused about or
what I'm trying to bring up here because in that, we all know that feeling of driving or even
walking and you're so, so to speak, lost in thought. You really don't remember it. But then you do come
back online, so you can say, yeah, I was there, obviously, because I moved from point A to point
B and here I am and so on. But that was still consciousness, obviously. Well, I guess what I'm
saying is we start that way. In that state, we don't have all this kind of language attached to
our habits and thought and images and so on, probably, because we've just kind of entered. But
for me, that's a similar state. It's still consciousness. So is that different for you,
the baby being born? No, it's experience. It's consciousness. It's not metaconsciousness.
The difference is that you come back online and you know that A and B are connected from where
you started to where you are and the baby's kind of still developing how to come back online or
how to come online at all. Metaconsciousness is coming online. Yeah. And would you say that's
kind of dissociation in your use of that term? Consciousness dissociating from itself? No,
because for the case of an infant, there was never an association to begin with.
So we cannot speak of it. But the consciousness, right? And then your mom and dad tell you your
name and you start to realize, oh, you start to see that other people see you as a subject and
then you see yourself as a subject. To me, that feels a lot like dissociation before there was
something like you don't need the subject to know it was a subject for the dissociation to occur,
which I feel like you prove in other ways or you lay out very well in other sense. But maybe I'm
confusing this nestedness. Phenomenologically, I understand why you are tempted to use the word
dissociation. Technically, I wouldn't use it because it doesn't refer to the same mechanisms
that we allude to when we talk of dissociation. For instance, under IIT, dissociation has to do
with the exclusion principle of integrated information theory. And it's not related to
what you said. But phenomenologically, I understand the temptation. Well, it's still the same
regularities if you want to think mathematically, right? The body is still the same regularities
when it comes into the world. Of course, they're changing like over time and growing and so on.
But there's a pattern of regularity that's still the same that then becomes aware of itself. So
that pattern of regularity to me is sort of dissociated from itself in order to become aware
of itself. This is very Hegelian sounding now. Okay, I understand what you mean. Yes, yes. Because
I think when the infant is not meta-conscious, there is no dissociation. It's just the infant
being the infant experiencing the world without re-representing its own experiences, without
recognizing itself as a subject distinct from its experiences. The infant is in what Freud called
oceanic consciousness. Right, or pure consciousness even. There's a form of regularity to it.
But yeah, there is a quality to that. And then when you start developing meta-consciousness,
it's like you created the mechanism of attention. And evolutionarily, that's a very precious
resource. What you place your attention on mobilizes a lot of cognitive resources. So that has to be
used sparingly. And what happens is that when you're paying attention to something, everything
that is not in your field of attention sort of falls away out of meta-cognition. And meta-cognition
has a glow. It has a psychic strength that it obfuscates everything else that is not being
meta-cognized. If you tend to ruminate a lot, so you place your attention to your thoughts
and your default mode network. It's beautiful to say it has a glow because it is like that. It's
almost like heightening itself or something. Yeah, it's like the sun in the noon sky.
It has a glow that obfuscates the other stars. The other stars are still there. Their photons
are still impinging on your retina. That impingement is still creating electromagnetic impulses that
will go to your visual cortex, to V1. But you are not explicitly aware of the stars because the glow
of the sun obfuscates everything else. The same with the field of attention, the field of
meta-cognition. It obfuscates everything else. It's a very precious evolutionary resource. So it has
to be used sparingly because of that. And as a consequence, there is a lot of stuff going on
in our minds that we cannot be meta-conscious of because it would take our eyes off the ball of
survival, if you know what I mean. It's impossible for us. It would be overwhelming.
That's the reason why there's a lot more going on in our phenomenal consciousness
than the reporting ego will ever know. Yeah, it's like this blooming buzzing confusion thing,
right? You're just sort of totally immersed in it. And I think when people do psychedelics or
something, we get a little hint of that again, of that we haven't patterned our regularity. So
we're just, whoa, and it is kind of too much. You can't really go shopping like that at the
grocery store because you get completely amazed by the broccoli or something. It doesn't work
for normal life. If you look at the mechanism of action of psychedelics, what is the main feature
that we observe in the brain of a person under a psychedelic drug? Lots of things happen, but the
main most obvious measurable thing is a reduction in brain activity, especially in the default mode
network, which has to do with this looping mechanisms of attention. That activity is repressed.
So you have a solar eclipse and suddenly you can see the stars at noon, but the stars were always
there. Yeah, exactly. It's beautiful. It's an incredible kind of thing to contemplate. But
speaking of that, I would like to know when you started to contemplate it. When did you,
as a child, begin to, I won't say dissociate from yourself because that's too, doesn't sound right,
but in the sense that I just meant, start to become aware of yourself as a subject.
Become meta-conscious, I guess. Yeah, I think I was around nine years old.
I remember it clearly because it was a major moment, a major development in my life, an anomaly.
For six months or so, the thought would come to me like, oh, wow, I am not the world. I am not
the houses, the trees, the other people. I'm not that. I am here and that stuff is there. I am not
that. And I experienced this thought as an amazing thing. Uncanny, incredible. Like very exciting.
I would have to say. Well, it's like I couldn't believe it, but it had to be true.
Like almost like you were seeing some kind of alien creature or something or
that kind of thing. Worse than that. Worse than that?
I would get a cold shiver going down my spine, a very physical feeling. Like you feel that electric
vibration, the traversal of your spine downwards. And for a period of six months or so, every time
I would have the thought, I would feel this electric thing, like an uncanny, amazing stuff.
I know exactly what you mean. I habituated and it became normal.
Do you have any idea what could have started that? I mean, I know it's almost impossible, but
you don't remember. For me, I remember it was my brother being brought home from the hospital
that I started to realize, I guess, because it changes the family dynamics. And I mean,
I just remember him, the way it looked like the light kind of on him, they put him on the floor
and his little whatever you call these little things, you carry babies around him. And he was
just sitting there in the light and it was just kind of this weird moment of, oh, that's not me.
And it felt like what you described this. How old were you?
Almost too much. You know, I was three, he's three years younger than me.
He's three years younger than me. It happened very early for you.
Jung had it at nine. He wrote about it in his biography. Sorry, Jung had it at 11. I had it at
nine. Yeah. It's a very uncanny realization. If you ask me what brought it about, I think it was
just culture. You get absorbed into the culture and you start believing in the cultural narratives.
And the cultural narratives tell you the absurdity that you are separate from the world,
which is of course absurd under any metaphysics, idealism, physicalism, dualism, maybe not. But
under any monism, it is absurd. But the whole culture operates under this absurdity that we
are separate from the world. But do you think it does some kind of work for us? Because you know,
what we're talking about now is also really important in our lives in terms of, at least to
me, like that moment was scary. And it's kind of been awful in a way to wake up to the fact that
you've been told who you are. And then you have to figure out what that story was that everyone
told you and then figure out if you really want to be that story, like this whole thing. But at
the same time, all of that was the reason I could now look back at that story and change it, you
know what I mean? And also be kind of present and aware and in the world in a particular way.
So there's an obvious evolutionary advantage for our identifying ourselves as a subject apart
from the world, because if we didn't, we wouldn't care for our survival. If we are the tiger that
is coming to eat us and the tiger is hungry, well, the tiger's got to eat and off we go.
So it's evolutionary advantages. And it's no wonder that the culture evolved around
this evolutionary advantage. Is it true? No. No. Unless you are a dualist, it cannot be true.
It's just not true. It's useful, but it's a convenient fiction.
But don't you think there's something to that too, that it's very hard to really
grasp that in the same way we were talking about earlier of we can't really sense all there is in
the world because it's too overwhelming? I think there's something about that realization that can
be really difficult, right? In both ways. It can be difficult because you want to believe
the story that you've kind of created of yourself or that you're different from everyone else.
But it can also be different because it just sort of throws into question all other
things that you've assumed to be true. In terms of an example. Well, I guess I'm thinking more about
people who would hold very tightly to a scientific worldview like materialism
or to because you want to know the truth and you want to know there's definite separations
between things. And it can be very unsettling to try to think of that differently if you've learned
that paradigm, right? This is why people get so angry about it, right? And they call it all kind
of names and stuff because the language itself has already separated those things to the point
where it's even hard to talk about without getting someone angry if they've built their
worldview on that separation. Does that make sense? Yeah. There is, of course, the psychological
dynamics underlying the development of physical, which is very easy to understand. The psychological
payoff of physicalism is clear. It's historically visible and it's present today for the same
reasons. But it comes at a price, as you're saying. So we have this payoff. As you were saying,
we have a payoff. I think the payoff goes beyond just getting used to it. I think the payoff has
to do with dealing with death. Because if you're a physicalist, when you're dead, then there is
nobody there to experience what happens afterwards. And the fear of what people will experience after
they die is what allowed, for instance, an institution without an army like the Catholic
Church to completely control the continent of Europe for a thousand years. So that has
been the single greatest fear of humankind. What will I experience after I'm dead? And that
greatest fear in history is off the table with physicalism. It reminds me, too, of that shiver
feeling, right? Because that's part of it, too, when you start to realize you're not the world,
as you realized as a little kid. You kind of soon have to realize you come to an end.
You come to an end and things you love come to an end. That's the price we pay. The price we pay
is nihilism. So it's the absence of meaning. This is a secondhand quote, but I was giving an
interview the other day and the host quoted Yuval Harari as saying, life has no meaning. All it can
give you is drugs and video games. So that's a respected historian. He's not a neuroscientist.
He's not a philosopher. So he doesn't know what he's talking about. He's repeating the
mantra of the mainstream. So he deserves forgiveness for that. He's not an expert in the field,
but the mantra he repeated reflects the price and psychological price we pay.
But the game overcomes that price, or at least historically, since middle of the 19th century,
the game has been stronger than the price we pay. That dynamics is changing now because we
now take the game for granted. We no longer realize that our absence of fear about what
will happen after we are dead. We fear the process of death. We don't fear what will happen after.
That is not a given. That is actually derived from a certain metaphysical position called
physicalism, which is entirely untenable. It's the greatest bullshit ever to be taken seriously
by any rational culture in the history of the planet. But we take it for granted. So we think
it's banked. It's in the pocket already. And now the problem we have to deal with is nihilism,
is the meaning crisis, as John Vervecky put it. Yeah, this is really powerful because first of
all, we need to go back because there was a time when you did buy into all this, right? Or not even
buy into all of it, but you were sort of materialist and physicalist and so on. Or inertia,
because everybody around me was, and I was not really paying much attention to metaphysics. I
wanted to do physics, and now my first job was at CERN, and I was much preoccupied with the Higgs
boson and SUSY supersymmetry. I didn't have cycles left in my process or to worry about metaphysics.
But I never was a physicalist thinkingly in the sense that I never affirmed physicalism out of a
conclusion that I arrived at myself through my own thinking process. The moment I started explicitly
thinking about that, it became rather quickly clear to me that physicalism is entirely untenable.
So I want to think about, so I think of you as already like a little philosopher in a way,
because I know the story about you finding Jung because you tell it. The I Ching, which already
you are being drawn to the I Ching, and then of course you had what the I Ching was. Yeah,
but you noticed it. We were just talking about the glow of meta consciousness. So obviously there
were zillions of books there. There were probably a lot of other opportunities and you focused on
that one. And then Jung did the preface and you focused on that. So to me, that sounds like a
little bit of a person who's a little philosophically inclined. And I know there's
reasons for that and maybe we can go into it for that book in that time period. But what's
interesting to me is I saw these really cool computers that you're making. I can't remember
all their names, but they're so cool, like retro weird microprocessors that are wiring themselves
and they just look wonderful. And so I read one of your blogs on there and it says that when you
a kid, you really wanted to build a computer, right? So I really want to understand that,
unpack that part of you a bit because for me, coming out of philosophy and neuroscience and
so on, there's this computational mind and everything's a computer. And it sounds like you
would have been in that mindset of, okay, I want to, if you're trying to understand the world,
but you're obviously really drawn to computers and you wanted to create a computer, and you
were philosophically inclined. Were you assuming maybe if you understood how to make a computer,
you would understand intelligence in a way? Oh, definitely. I actually didn't change my mind
about that yet. I think intelligence is an objectively measurable property. It's about
how cleverly you can manipulate data in order to solve a problem. That does not require the
presence of a private conscious point of view, accompanying those computations that we refer to
as intelligence. That's wonderful. I mean, I want you to keep going, but that's exactly what I was
hoping to try to unstick. Intelligence, cognition and consciousness mind. These also get kind of
lumped together. But first, please, like the computer is a strange word because it seems to
require awareness. Intelligence, I think it's better. You can decouple it from awareness
completely. I agree. Yeah. So you wanted to build a computer and was that disappointing in some way,
or was it wonderful? And then you just decided, oh, now I'm going to kind of start thinking about
philosophy. I know you went back and got your philosophy degree. It's super cool that you did
that. And I saw that you put your defense online, which is just really cool that you did that.
Just as someone who went back to school a little bit later, I think it gives people,
it's a good gift that you're giving. Yeah. So what happened? Why couldn't you figure it out
with the computer or are you still figuring it out with the computer, the intelligence part?
Well, I have a workbench here behind me. Yeah, I see it. It looks great.
Where I design and restore computers. I restore old computers and design brand new computers.
It's so cool. And it's just, I guess you're kind of an anomaly for me in a way, because
I don't often come in contact with people who are so much connected to the computers and also
would start analytic idealism. To me, that's holding, you know, it's wrong. It's not true.
It's not holding opposites in any way, because as you know, mind and matter and all these
intelligence, but it's something very deep to already understand early on.
I see what you mean. You see a seeming contradiction there, a dichotomy.
At least the world would be telling you so. Yeah, I'm not going to attempt to give you
a neat story that brings it all together. No, it wouldn't be true probably.
I don't have that neat story of myself. I harbor contradictions within myself.
And this is one of them. I love to play with the purely mechanistic aspect of a computer,
because a computer is entirely reliable in the sense that it's predictable.
If you know what you're doing, the computer will do what you want it to do, unless you made a
mistake. If it's not doing what you wanted it to do, you made a mistake. There is a clarity to that
that I love. And I think you are right. The quality, the feeling, tone associated with
designing incredibly complicated mechanisms seems to be dichotomous with the feeling and the tone
of contemplating the great metaphysical questions. If that is a dichotomy, I harbor
that dichotomy. And I shall make no attempt to... I actually don't think it's a dichotomy,
because dichotomy is cutting things apart. And I actually think we've cut it apart in a way similar
to the way materialism and these other things have sort of cut things apart in order to understand
them. And the way that you just described the computer, I guess what I'm trying to connect
there is because all this for me is more like a paradox that you can hold and even learn something
from and then you realize it's not a paradox in a wider sense. It's not something that you can
cut in half because then it's not the thing anymore. So it's not a dichotomy. It's beyond it.
But I guess what I'm trying to get at is you are literally modeling things. You were working in
some of the best places that were modeling things as scientists and you were trying to create
computers. That's what I really think of as representation of modeling to understand.
And there's a kind of control and an agency that is very attractive and would, for me,
be a reason why we might end up with that quote that you just gave.
If you take that too seriously and that becomes the only way you can know truth or know what's
real. If you can model it, then you end up with everything is material in that way. Do you know
what I mean? Not necessarily. I think the problem there is that we mistake our models for reality.
We mistake our theoretical entities, which are convenient fictions. We mistake them for the
ontological structure of the world. And there is nothing in science that requires that. All that
is required in science is that you develop convenient fictions in terms of which you can
make correct predictions about what nature will do next. The convenient fictions themselves do
not need to be true. And they have never been true. For instance, there was a time in the Middle
Ages when scientists were trying to account for, well, that's pre-scientific thought,
proto-scientific thought. They were trying to account for electrostatic attraction. Why would
amber be pulled into a rod of, sorry, why would shaft be pulled into a rod of amber if you rubbed
that rod of amber? So they hypothesized that there is this elastic invisible substance called
the fluvium, which is like a sticky, like chewing gum, connecting the shaft to the rod of amber.
And when you release the shaft, it just gets, the elastic pulls the shaft back to the rod.
Never mind the fact that this couldn't at all account for electrostatic repulsion,
only for attraction, and that we could never measure this effluvium directly. We only could
measure its effects. Later on, we kept on playing the same game. When Faraday came around and he
proposed electromagnetic fields, here again was something that was only known insofar as its
effects. The field is a modeling tool. We never grab the field. All we can do is measure its
effects, just like we could measure shaft going, flying to a rod of amber. And then we replaced
those electromagnetic fields of Faraday. Well, we still have one, but now we have 17 quantum fields,
and we can only know about their existence because of their effects. We have no direct
access to the fields themselves. In other words, all this stuff are convenient fictions.
Newton postulated this invisible force that acted at the distance between celestial bodies and
brought them together called gravity, an invisible force acting instantaneously at the distance.
The French loved of Newton for 50 years because they thought invisible forces acting at the
distance, it's woo woo, it's magical stuff. And sure enough, around came Einstein and said,
bullshit, there are no such invisible forces. What there is is the invisible fabric of space time
that bends and twists. And now with loop quantum gravity, no, no, no, no, it's not that. There is
some other convenient fiction. So we have always created convenient fictions that help us predict
what nature will do next. And these convenient fictions have never been true in and of themselves.
They are just modeling tools. You become a physicalist when you mistake a convenient
fiction for a truth. That's the error you make. Or even a model for the thing being modeled,
which is something I think happens a lot, which is what I was actually trying to get to.
It's wonderful that you went there because it's exactly that confusion of map and territory or
the model with what we're trying to model that I think has become very hard to see
for a lot of people. Does that make sense to you? Absolutely. I think this permeates
society at all levels, not only in science, it permeates, for instance, our political views.
We have a model of what's going on and we take that model for reality and we act accordingly.
Even at geopolitical levels, for instance, arguably the greatest evil doer in the world today are
our present ages. Hitler, Vladimir Putin, he engages in mystical thinking. That's very easy
to see based on his pronouncements, the way he talks about history, the way he talks about
Mother Russia today and the future of the Slavic peoples. He is taken over by mystical thinking.
He takes, for instance, the entity Russia, he takes it to be a real entity that is somehow
separate from its people and that's why he can throw the Russian people to the front lines as
cannon fodder and have them all killed because that's for the benefit of this other entity,
Russia, that somehow is separate from its people. Of course, there is no such entity.
Russia exists only insofar as there are Russian people and Russian lands.
This is not the common perception in any country. I think it really connects to that
the way that we almost assume dualism in a way.
Somebody I just criticized, I will praise now. Yuval Manari wrote a book about it years ago.
Our entire mode of cooperating with other human beings is based on taking fictions for fact.
For instance, we believe money has value. Paper, if you burn it, it will give you a
cup of calories. It will hardly warm you up. At best, you can clean yourself with it.
You can't eat it. You can't drink it. It will not protect you from the elements.
It's absolutely valueless and yet we all go for money because we establish this convenient fiction
that money has value and therefore we trade it. We believe in that fiction. Otherwise,
why would you give a perfectly good car to somebody in exchange for a pile of paper?
Nobody would do that. Everybody has to believe the fiction. Otherwise, it wouldn't work.
Everybody has to believe in the fictions of nation-states. I'm not saying that we
shouldn't. We should operationally believe these fictions. But if we believe them,
ultimately, and now we are making a mistake because now it's like taking a metaphor way
beyond its applicability. Operationally, there has to be the state of the Netherlands. I don't want
that operational belief to disappear. Otherwise, we will be in trouble here as Dutch people.
We live in a country in which if we just strike the entire country for a couple of weeks,
half the country is underwater. We can't do that. We have to believe in the fiction of the Dutch
nation-state. But if we ultimately believe in nation-states, in money, and many other
or the theoretical entities of science, now we are fooling ourselves and it's never a good thing
to fool ourselves. I think what you just said is kind of the most important thing we
might all need to learn in a way. It seems very hard to learn it. What I mean is that
we can model things and we can name things and we can do all the structure and scaffolding
via representation, external representation, not like in our brain. That's very important,
but it's not real in the sense of it's a process. It's just our way of understanding a process.
Right. Look, if people listening to this realize they make this mistake, well,
at least you are in very good company because a lot of people with the letters PhD suffixing
their names make this mistake, especially science communicators. They make this mistake a lot.
They are not even scientists. They are not doing science. They're only talking about it.
So they miss out on the subtleties and nuances that practical scientists
are confronting every day. People who are actually doing science, they hit with their
noses against the limitations of their modeling. They realize that you can only stretch a model
so far. But even then, don't you sometimes take it for literal without meaning to? I'm thinking of
in neuroscience labs and we look at these pictures of brains with little things lighting up in them.
There's a way in which sometimes we really take them as brains.
It's almost like this is not a pipe, that picture. We need to see that this is not a brain
because it's really nuanced and hard not to do this is what I mean in daily life.
I think it's even at the root of a lot of meditative practices or the reason to take psychedelics,
some of us, when you're really trying to explore mind because I think it becomes very hard not to
confuse map and territory, I guess is what I'm saying, because it's so nested and so
rich, richly interwoven. It's the unique thing about humans is the ability to create a map and
then mistake it for the territory. There is one thing that is worse than, at least if we are
consistent, we make less mistakes. Even if we believe in something that is not true, but we
are consistent in that belief, we make less mistakes. The problem is that often we are not
even consistent in a false belief. For instance, it's becoming mainstream in neuroscience now,
the understanding that the reality we think we perceive is a modulated hallucination.
It is something concocted by the brain as an entity separate from the mind,
which is itself already absurd. I think the brain is what the mind looks like.
It's not what produces the mind, but let's at least be consistent in that mistake.
The brain is an entity that produces the mind and it's also producing the hallucination that
we call the world. This comes from ideas. Give you one example of a person who talks about it
frequently is a new set. He talks about it frequently, reality being a controlled
hallucination. It's a construction of the brain. Being you, I guess, is the book that makes that
argument in a way. Who did you say? Anil Seth's book, I think it's called Being You.
What you're saying really resonates with me because I've seen younger kids of my friends
starting to take this view of, oh, it's all a hallucination. It's very connected to that
nihilistic sense, too. It's very sexy, though, in a way.
If you go all the way, you make less mistakes because the mistake that people make is to
take the brain away from that reality that is hallucinated. The brain is not a hallucination.
Everything else is a hallucination of the brain, but the brain is not. Why? The brain is an object
just like everything else. It's something that appears to perception. If you maintain
that the reality we perceive is a hallucination, it's concocted by something,
then the brain is part of that hallucination. The brain, too, is being concocted by something.
If you persist in your error consistently, eventually you realize what you did.
The problem is that we are not even consistent in that error, and that's when things really
become messy. I took you away. You were saying that's how we start taking the map for the
territory or confusing the two in a way, right? That makes sense to me that we...
Physicalism is a prime example of this.
What is it, I guess, to try to go back to you? I had this kind of narrative I'm just realizing
that maybe you were working as a computer in this world, CERN, and all this very successful,
I think you started businesses. I know you were really, really successful. You still are. You're
still doing it, which is kind of the realization I'm having now because I know you have this AI
thing now. I'd kind of imagined you'd just gotten sick of it or something and decided,
okay, I'm just going to throw materialism away and go get my PhD and become a philosopher.
Of course, I know that it wasn't like that. You were already a philosopher in a way because
you were writing these articles like the Scientific American one that I brought up.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is how did all this come together? Did you reject materialism?
Was there a moment where you did kind of acknowledge by acquaintance of idealism? Was
there a moment where it became very clear to you that this story that we've been expressing in
different ways was harmful or it needed a counterbalance? Let me first just address,
I think, a suggestion that you made. Maybe you don't even without intending. The fact that I'm
starting another company now, an AI company, doesn't mean that I'm back to materialism or
physicalism. No, not at all. That's what I'm saying. I was making this distinction as if those worlds
were too... You already were holding all these things together over time, but I was sort of
putting them in as if you chose one. Suddenly you realize, okay, no materialism. Now idealism
is the way or something. That happened. My physicalism has not been a part of my life
for many years now. It's a fiction that is lost. It's a time in my... Right, but it doesn't mean
computers haven't been, is what I'm saying. Of course not. Whether it's physical or ideal
or anything else. This thing we experience and we call computers still exist and they're still as
cool as they were before. Yeah, and you're still making them and making stuff out of them. Yeah,
exactly. It's one of those things like you brought up a minute ago where you... I didn't know I was
thinking that until just now and then I realized, oh. Look, for an idealist, the world that doesn't
cease to exist is just that the idealist accounts for that world in a different way, a more sane
way. But the world's still there and I'm still alive and I'm still up to having fun.
For people listening, I'm sort of assuming they know. We've been talking about this materialist
point of view and of course you've started revolutions, I guess, around metaphysical
idealism. Because not too long ago it was just like, oh yeah, everything is monist, everything
is physicalist, everything is materialist. You don't talk about consciousness. You don't talk
about... I'm talking in the scientific circles, right? And now that's changed a lot for a lot of
different reasons. So just for people listening, they probably already know. But that's what I'm
trying to bring up here is this, obviously you weren't satisfied with materialism and I'm trying
to understand kind of why. Yeah. Well, when did that begin to happen? When I was at CERN,
I was in the early team, the first team that started working on what would become the
experiments of the LHC, the ATLAS, the CMS, and a couple of other smaller experiments. I was in
the ATLAS team and we were doing the triggers. Were you getting shivers then? I mean, was it
cool sometimes to just think, okay, I'm here in this world when this is happening exactly this
moment? It's such a wave. You're just right at the right moment. Yeah. It blew my mind that my
first job was my dream job. Yeah. I was really in for a ride at CERN. When I landed there,
I finished my work experience stage. I finished it there and then I started as a... No, I was
officially working for CERN when I was 22. Oh my God. Yeah. So no wonder you
were old enough to have thought much about materialism. Yeah. No, I wasn't having too
much fun working on that. And what we were doing, we were doing the data acquisition system
or the calorimeter, one of the detectors in the ATLAS experiment. And we needed to have a computer
system that was intelligent enough to look at the data coming in and within 25 nanoseconds
make a decision. Is this potentially new physics? Is this the Higgs boson or is this old physics?
Because we had to throw away 98% of the data. The thing produces terabytes per second. So you
can't store everything. And even if you could, offline analysis would take lifetimes. So you
have to very quickly decide what you want to keep and what you want to throw away. And we
developed a system based on our understanding of physics. But in parallel, I developed with some
partners in crime, I developed a neural network, an artificial neural network. Of course, it was
the first option that was selected because at the time AI was considered a black box.
But we knew that the neural network performed just as well, just as well as the physicists
understanding of the data. And that was not commonly thought at that moment at all, right?
Well, people knew neural networks could do a lot. But we didn't have computers fast enough
to really bring us beyond just three layers. So feature extraction, we had to do by hand. Now we
have deep learning. So you do nothing by hand. It's multiple layers. It's a different time.
I feel like that was the time when people thought it was limited or
kind of a done its thing or something. Or was this just before that?
The main issue we had at the time was one, scalability. We didn't have computers that
were fast enough. And two, it was considered a black box. We didn't have the visualization
tools we have today that show you the cuts in the hyperdimensional space where the thing is being
evaluated. So you see what the neural network is doing. You see how it is, quote, thinking.
At the time, we didn't have that. So we knew it worked, but it didn't know how. And therefore,
people felt we can't use this because we don't know how this shit works.
Sounds like today it's back to that. It's just gone accelerated to another level.
There is reason to that because it's not enough for you to know that it works in the instances
you've given it to him, to the system. If you don't know how it works, then you cannot know
that the moment you show it something new, that it will still work because you don't know how
it's doing what it's doing. So we adopted the traditional approach based on our physics
understanding of what's going on. You know, decay physics based on quantum field theory,
the standard model. That's what we went with. But it planted the thought in my head,
I couldn't make a computer that was as good as a physicist in telling me whether it's a
Higgs boson there or not. What would it take to make it conscious now? And of course,
that question is itself based on the physicalist premise, which is consciousness is something
created out of material arrangements. And I knocked my head against that wall for a couple
of years. And I realized that whatever I did, it will only change structure and function,
and it would give me no more and no less reason to think that the thing suddenly became conscious.
And I realized that I was facing that dilemma because I made some mistaken assumption at some
point. And I traced my steps back and I got to the point where I understood that the mistaken
assumption was that consciousness is something that is created out of material arrangements.
And even the theory that that is the case arises within consciousness. Consciousness is the only
given of nature, the only pre-theoretical given. Everything that is not in consciousness
is an abstraction. It's not an empirical given like consciousness itself. And when I realized
that and then my physicalism was off the table, and then I experienced an ontological vacuum,
like my story in terms of which to relate to reality was gone, I needed another one.
It's a very uncomfortable space. I'm sorry to stop you, but this is really interesting because
when you say that, it's not like you're reading materialist philosophy, or were you? Because you
said earlier you didn't really think of yourself as a physicalist. Was it more that you thought
you could build out of materials something like consciousness? Yeah. So really what you were
trying to build was something like intelligence and the way you described it earlier. I had
succeeded in building intelligence. Okay. And you weren't thinking of it like that or were you?
Yeah. Well, I wanted to know, can I add consciousness to this intelligence?
And what would be that extra thing that you were adding with the consciousness?
That's the thing I tried to find for years. And I realized that whatever I hypothesized,
it would be only about structure and function and never about consciousness. Consciousness
either is a miracle or it has to precede all this. And I'm not much for miracles. So I went
with consciousness precedes all this. And then you need a metaphysics to account for the fact
that there obviously is an external world beyond my consciousness. Clearly a world that doesn't
care whether I like it or not. A world that doesn't care about my mourning affirmations or
whatever you practice you have to influence the world. How do we account for that? Well,
that you account by understanding that consciousness as an ontological type
is not only inside your head. Only under materialism or physicalism is consciousness
inside your head. Under idealism, if consciousness is fundamental, then it's your head that is in
consciousness. But you have to account for the fact that your personal consciousness doesn't know
what's happening in China right now and can't change the world merely by an act of volition.
So that's why I pursued the path of an objective form of idealism under which there is an external
world but that external world too is made of mental states akin to mine but they are not mine.
They are out there just like my thoughts from your point of view. My thoughts are mental states but
they are not in your mind. They are external and objective from your point of view but they are
subjective essentially from their own point of view. Same thing for an external world under
idealism. So I built this new story for myself. What was the moment of crisis though? I still
don't really understand because it wasn't just that you couldn't build a conscious computer,
was it? Because you said you had to rethink your whole worldview. So what was the real crisis there?
The crisis was that in understanding that physicalism didn't hold any water because I
pursued the literature as well and I realized that the literature in physicalism is basically
a set of promises. So no matter how many models you make you're never going to
understand the nature of the world. No, you're not going to create consciousness out of unconsciousness
because consciousness is there to begin with. What you have to find is what are the boundaries of
the dissociative processes within consciousness because clearly I am one. I can't read your
thoughts. Presumably you can't read mine so I'm dissociated from you. So finding the boundaries
of the dissociation is the next challenge and we have no reason to think that the silicon computer
represents those boundaries. We do have reason to think that metabolism represents those boundaries.
So living beings have private dissociated conscious points of view of their own. Computers don't. That
was the ultimate conclusion but it took me years to get there engaging with the literature. I read
the physicalist literature. I read the literature on subjective idealism, Barclay's idealism, which
I thought was entirely dissatisfying, unsatisfying. But you like Schopenhauer but obviously not Hegel,
huh? I think Hegel was a wise man but a dysfunctionally arrogant man to the point of
making himself impossible to understand unless you already know in advance what he's trying to say
and then you recognize that then you recognize what he's trying to say but if you don't know
it in advance, Hegel is not going to help you. I think, I mean, we won't go on a tangent about
Hegel but I think he, if you separate the man from the work, which I know we can't do fully,
but I think there's a practice. Like when you're reading it, you kind of get this
understanding, I think, of the kind of thing he's trying to describe. So for me there's a kind of
a way in which you can get it before you get it reading. But I know you're, I see your point.
And Schopenhauer is, you know, definitely going towards idealism in a very different way that I
know you do. Oh, he's a flat-out idealist, an objective idealist, just like me. I'm also
an objective idealist. Yeah, so, but you were already reading Jung, right? I mean, so we've
reached this moment where you, I mean, of course we're a cartoon, it's a little bit of a cartoon,
but you've kind of realized materialism is wrong and so there must be idealism and it must, you
know, and then it's going to, you're going to work it out in your new PhD into analytical idealism.
But I published many books before I decided. Yeah, and many papers. But I'm just, I'm just,
that's why I said it's a cartoon because of course like your whole life goes into this, right? But
it's also not true that you were just kind of a materialist because like we didn't explain it,
but I brought up the I Ching that you found when you were what, 12 or 14? 14. 14 in the bookshop
and there was a preface by Jung and I want to know what about that preface caught your attention?
Because Jung to me feels very much closer to the realizations you were having later.
I don't know if that's true or not, but relative to there must be something that's not material.
Oh, Jung is flat out an idealist, but that's something you understand after you read his
entire collected works, maybe a couple of times. So that that realization came much later in my life
when I was 14. I just read his preface to the I Ching and I didn't know what the I Ching was.
It had a nice cover with lots of these hexagrams. It's funny. I'm imagining it, right? With like,
I'm imagining a green with like gold little sparkles on it or something. I have no idea why.
It's very weird. Blue with yellow hexagrams, but it was a particular edition. There are so many.
Too bad you don't still have it or do you? No, I do have it. Oh, wow. That's amazing.
It's not here. Here are the books I actually use. I no longer use or stash somewhere else.
That's wonderful. You still have it, though. That's like a continuity through time. That's very cool.
Anyway, OK, so why? How did you? Because I can't imagine it. I mean, I also liked Jung very young
and I don't really know why I did. But I wonder if you remember what about it?
Yeah, I remember exactly what caught me. I realized that that book was an oracle,
a means to do divination, to predict the future. And that to me was absolutely ridiculous.
That's a beautiful thing, what you just said. I don't know what you mean at all,
though. How did you realize it's an oracle? You just flip the pages and I think-
But his preface or the I Ching?
You just open a book anywhere you want and you find a hexagram, a description of it
and what it might mean for the current configuration of time and what it might
mean for the future configurations of time. Under the I Ching, time has qualities.
It's not a neutral arrow. Each moment in time has a certain quality and favors
certain events and disfavor other events. So it's an oracle. And it was clear to me very quickly,
just by flipping the pages, this is a bloody oracle. And I thought that was ridiculous.
Oracles are ridiculous, right? Then I read the preface and Jung gives a rationalist hypothesis
for why we shouldn't just laugh at oracles. It may not be what we think it is. We sort of
regard oracles as something flatter and less sophisticated than how Jung understands an
oracle to be. But it was a rationalist account based on the notion of synchronicity and what
he basically says is that there are two orthogonal organizing principles in nature.
One is causality. And okay, that one has nothing to do with oracles. But the other one is synchronicity
in which things that are similar in meaning tend to occur together. And I realized this is an
empirical question. This is not logically fallacious. It may be untrue, but it's an
empirical question. It's something that can be tested. And with that disclaimer in place,
his account is a rationalist account. So here's a guy who just gave me a plausible
rationalist account of a bloody oracle. Was it associated with sort of spirituality
and woo-woo-ish kind of can't take it true? No, there is nothing.
Was it about an oracle that you didn't trust until you read that, I guess, that just couldn't happen?
Well, the story that time has qualities, that different moments in time favor different things,
it was something I couldn't take seriously until I read the preface. And I don't know why I decided
to read the preface, because very quickly, just by flipping the pages, I thought, what the hell is
this? And then there was this preface and I thought, my God, it's possible to give a rationalist
account, which may be untrue, but it is irrational. It's not illogical. It's a rational account
of a hypothesis that may give some substance to it. And by the way, it can be empirically verified.
So that sort of made me realize that Jung was a source of insights that opened doors in my mind.
It sounds like what you've done, what you just described, what you've attempted to do. Maybe I
heard you say it, or maybe I'm projecting or something else. But what you just described was
he kind of laid out a way that people, you in this situation, could logically, coherently,
with robustness, understand something that had seemed like you needed to just be dismissed,
right? Which is kind of what you do with analytic idealism. Lay out the idea that the whole world
can be mined, which is something a lot of people have dismissed. And you do it very rigorously.
Yes, it made me understand that we have to look for our hidden unexamined assumptions
every time we dismiss something on a logical basis. If we dismiss something purely because
it seems illogical, you immediately have to subject that conclusion to criticism
by hunting for all the assumptions you are unknowingly making and which base that conclusion.
So that's what Jung taught me very early, that we have to try to examine our hidden assumptions.
That's so powerful in the context of everything we've been talking about, right?
Because taking this nihilistic or materialist worldview seriously that has become not a means
to understand the world, like a model of the world, but rather the state of the world,
I think kind of comes out of what you were talking about, the fear of death and the fear of
all these things that we're not supposed to explore. Not only death, but also
that what we were talking about before, too, that there might be so much we don't
see and understand around us because we can't handle it yet, you know, so to speak.
We live in our own fictions. We mistake our fictions for reality, certainly in physicalism,
but in everything else as well. And hunting for unexamined assumptions is very difficult
because they are precisely the things that you tend to not look at, that you tend to take for
granted. You don't even know you're making those assumptions. Physicalism is what we call
riddled with unexamined assumptions. And it's not only a psychological dynamic that physicalism
became mainstream. It's changing now. It's not going to be mainstream for much longer. I don't
think even in my lifetime it will remain mainstream because something that is illogical and empirically
untenable just cannot survive for very long. It's just that our lives are very short,
but it doesn't survive many centuries. There are other reasons why physicalism became mainstream.
Look, what I'm about to say is not a conspiracy theory. I'm not saying there is a cabal
that knowingly enforces the fallacy of physicalism. No, but it was a game of social dominance
also that propelled physicalism forward because since the 17th century,
the elites that eventually became the bourgeoisie towards the end of the 18th century,
they vied for social dominance against the clergy, the church, which had been the dominant
social group for a thousand years before, well, more than a thousand years, all the way deep into
scholasticism. And then this new sort of scholarly commercial class that became the bourgeoisie
in the beginning of the industrial revolution, they started vying for dominance against the
church. And in the beginning, the church was more powerful. They burned Bruno at the stake.
They could kill one another. But around the time of the July revolution in 1830 or so,
what was now really the bourgeoisie was in a position of advantage against the church.
And how do you apply the coup de grâce? How do you win the war is by pulling the carpet from
under the church, from under the feet of the clergy. And the way to do that
is to say what the church busies itself with, which is psyche, a Greek word that means mind,
but also means spirit or something religious, metaphysically distinct from the physical.
By that point, physis and psyche were already in the early 19th century, they were equivalent.
Goethe is on record saying that you got to be an idiot to not recognize that everything in nature
must have a physical side and a mental side, a psychic and a physis side. So they were already
equivalent. So the bourgeoisie were no longer losing, but they wanted to win. And how do you
win by saying psyche derives from physis? So psyche is secondary, matter is primary. So what
the church busies itself with, mind, spirit, that secondary, they are busying themselves with
derivative stuff. And we, the scientific scholarly bourgeoisie embodied by people like Darwin,
even Goethe himself was a bourgeois avant la lettre. He was the son of a financially
independent lawyer and he was ennobled by the Duke of Weimar, but he was not an aristocrat by birth.
They, by pushing, by paddling this notion that psyche was secondary and matter was primary,
they completely won the war over social and cultural dominance over the clergy.
And before the 19th century was over, that dominance was clear. It was very clear to Nietzsche
who chronicled that period while living through it and painlessly proclaimed that God is dead and
the basis for all of our morals would have to be revised and people would have to find a new meaning
in life not based in transcendence anymore. God is dead is the famous quote, yes. Yeah, I'm putting
it probably through a Hegelian lens now that I've brought up Hegel, but it sounds very Hegelian to
me in a way or I'm trying to rationalize it or understand it because it sounds, you know,
you could think of that and it's been told in a lot of historical tales of the church just had too
much power because all the mystery, all the death, all the kind of wonder was in control of
the church and most people couldn't read and so they just had a monopoly on that part of the world
which in a way gave people a way to still partake in that part of the world because they could just
be told what it was and how to do it. But then you, so then you know you need almost, not need,
but I can understand like that then scientists, people who are looking into matter or building
machines to try to better understand things would almost need to take that power away in a sense
because what they're really looking at is that stuff even if they don't say that's what they're
looking at. This is usually how it happens in history, you know, if you're a student of history
you see this happening again and again. The movement starts based on a very noble cause.
The church is reserving for itself a power it doesn't deserve, it doesn't, it intrinsically
shouldn't have because the priesthood made themselves necessary intermediaries between
the people and the answers to the great questions. The people couldn't have a direct relationship
with divinity so they sort of grabbed that power and a movement, a resistance movement against it
which is noble. We should applaud it but as it so often happens in history the people who won from
the church instead of giving that power to the people kept that power for themselves and
psychologically that has to do with fluid compensation, you know, seeing yourself as
distinct from the masses sort of gives you meaning and validation and that's what the
scientific elites did and today it's still going on. It's not science that has usurped that power,
it's scientism. Scientism is not practiced by scientists who are slaving away in the laboratory
every day to find cures for diseases and make sense of foundations of physics. No, these are
not scientists in the sense of scientism, they are scientists in the sense of practicing science
people. Scientism is promoted by the priesthood of so-called science spokespeople. Think of
Richard Dawkins, Brian Cox, Neil deGrasse Tyson. Many of these people are not really doing science,
some of them have never done science, cannot say that about Richard, but they promote a
philosophy, a metaphysics that is loosely based on science as a methodology but which goes way
beyond the reach that the scientific method allows you to go in making assertions about reality
and they also tell you what it's all about and if my previous interviewer, Alex from Skeptico,
if he's correct, Yuval Harari is falling for that, he's doing the same thing, he's telling you there
is no meaning, all I can give you is video games and drugs. Okay, they are the new priests, you know,
the winning party usurps that power for themselves, that's not science, that's scientism,
it's metaphysics. I agree and do you think it comes almost, well, I mean, I brought up Alex
before because we talked on Philosophy Babel, which I think you know that show, and he just
wrote this article about it, kind of what you're talking about, I don't know if you've seen it,
about the Ponzi scheme of science or something? Oh, I saw it come, I haven't read it because
this discussion has been going on for a long time. Yeah, well, I won't go into that, but I guess what
I was going to say is sometimes you start as a scientist, as I'm thinking to try to put myself
in the position of Noiri, for example, people start coming to you and they need the answer
all the time and the way you've gotten the answer is this materialist way and it almost becomes that
you have to defend it if you're not able to hold the paradox in the way we've been trying to do,
then you almost start defending it to the point where you almost put yourself in a corner to
where you can't possibly say, oh, actually, all this other stuff does matter after all,
do you know what I mean? There's some weird inertia that people get stuffed into these places.
There are more hidden discussions than the public gets to see, but look, the representatives of the
Church of Scientism, which is a metaphysics, the metaphysics of physicalism, it's only very loosely
coupled to science. These guys, they are not, they are as much the deceived as the deceiver.
In other words, they are being honest. It's not like they know something else is true, but they
keep peddling something they know isn't true. No, they believe the shit they are regurgitating
every day in the airwaves. They truly believe that and at some point, their very sense of identity
becomes sort of enmeshed with that and then you can't pull back anymore. Psychologically,
it becomes impossible to pull back even when you are in a private discussion in which there are
several participants and there is a consensus emerging and the data seems to be very clear and
unambiguous and you're backed into a corner and if you were really an objective thinker, you would
say, well, okay, I have to admit that the weight of the discussion now seems to be shifting to
something else. No, no, no, they double down. They triple down. They quadruple down. They would die
saying that. It's just human psychology. There's nothing to do with reason and evidence. It's just
psychology. It's emotion. Yeah, and it's hard stuff. I mean, the ego, once you make your way,
your name through something, you do start feeling like you have to defend it and it takes a really
big person to be able to see that in themselves and admit it and recognize it. I mean, some of
the best philosophers and scientists do this, but it's, I think, can be really hard. So we've kind
of set up, we know what's wrong with materialism. What is idealism? The world that you've opened,
which is, I won't say it's the polarity of this, but it's showing this is not the only way we have
to go. What is it giving us or even what does it give you or what did it give you back then
in that moment when you started this shift? Well, I didn't become an idealist because it
gave me something in the sense that it made me feel better. I'm too committed to truth for that.
I think physicalism is bleak, but if reason and evidence points to it, then we should bite that
bullet. The world is bleak and that's all there is to it. No, I came to idealism. I didn't really
mean it gave it to you, like made you feel good. I don't think gifts always make us feel good,
but I see what you're saying. It didn't make me feel good at all. On a contrary, I still have a
hard time reconciling myself with the implications of idealism. Yeah, I don't think what you're doing
is easy. Coming up with this, defending this. People think idealism is great. It makes life so
much more positive. That's not how I experience it. It makes life meaningful, but it's a tough pill
to swallow if you really understand the implications. Idealism was the one narrative
that survived my own criticism regarding the empirical evidence we have. Obviously,
there is an external world that doesn't depend on me and more detailed empirical evidence from
foundations of physics, neuroscience of consciousness, and a rational derivation line
which physicalism doesn't have. Physicalism has some jumps in which you're basically appealing
to miracles or to unknowns or to magic, like emergentism in physicalism. Like,
then neurons are not conscious, a hundred are not, a thousand are not, but there is some point in
which you add one neuron and boom, there is enough complexity and now it's all conscious.
That's an appeal to magic. It's giving a label to an unknown, waving a flag saying emergentism,
which has no semantic ground. In other words, it means nothing. You're just talking through your
eyes, if you forgive me, my imagery. And people are not doing that because they want to deceive.
They drink their own snake oil.
Well, they make a really good argument and the argument itself to them feels like it's justified
it. Because the argument seems good from that logical point of view, that Aristotelian kind of
logical sense, then you can feel good about it. So, it doesn't matter that it doesn't make any sense
in real life.
Let's start from the conclusion. And if there is an argument line that needs that conclusion,
it doesn't matter how many miracles there are entailed in that thought line. It must be true
because it leads to the conclusion that we know, right? Should be true.
Right. So, you're in this weird circle of proving what you stated or something.
It's a question, circular reasoning. Idealism gave me a derivation line that requires no
miraculous steps. And that suddenly soothed my eagerness for some narrative that made sense,
some model that made sense, that may ultimately prove to be wrong. But based on everything we
know now and based on the most objective and sincere reasoning we can deploy, it does survive
and does seem to account for the data. That's what it gave me.
Do you think, I mean, because I guess, I don't know if you want to say it better than me,
but we could summarize analytic idealism that everything is mental or then,
yeah, how would you, you will do better than me, but...
Yeah, everything is mental. In other words, everything's experiential,
but not everything is your personal experience. The entirety of nature is constituted of
experiential states, but not your experiential states alone. There is a world out there,
beyond you and me, a world that we inhabit, a world that will still be there after we are
no longer around as these pockets of dissociated mental states that we are while we are living
beings. But that world that would survive us, that will survive us, is also constituted of
mental states. The mental states that constitute the world appear to us as we colloquially refer
to as matter, physical stuff. In other words, the contents of perception under idealism,
under analytic idealism, which is my formulation of it, perception is like an airplane's dashboard.
Imagine that you're flying an airplane that has no windows. All you have are the dials on the
dashboard. You can still fly safely. It's flying by instruments. Pilots are qualified to do that
every day. The dashboard gives you accurate information about the world, but it isn't the
world. It's a representation of the world that doesn't even look like the world. Dashboard
indications don't look like the storm outside, the lightning, the shape of the horizon, the shapes of
the clouds, but you can fly safely through the dashboard alone. So under analytic idealism,
what we call the physical world, the contents of perception, are dashboard indications.
Physicality is not the world as it is in itself. It's a representation thereof, a representation
that we, the associated complexes of the mind of nature, create ourselves and which are then
modulated by the real external states of the world, which are experiential states. So the world is not
physical. Physicality is our cognitive representation of the world, and we cannot access the real states
of the world directly because we are dissociated from it. That's what life is. Life, biology,
metabolism is what the dissociative process in this one field of subjectivity that nature is
looks like when represented on a dashboard. A brain is part of what our true experiential
inner states look like when they are represented on a dashboard. So mind, consciousness, experience,
can we say these are interchangeable in a sense as the primitive?
It depends on how you want to use your words.
They're just words. What I'm getting at is, we were talking about modeling and we were talking
about, do you think of language as a model? Do you think that there's other ways to perhaps say what
you're expressing without necessarily these same terms? Or are you seeing these kind of terms like
mind, consciousness, as kind of like, how do you deal with that? The possibility that language is
already a model. And so are you giving us a kind of way to get there that is only one way or is it
the way? A conceptual model uses language and it certainly does that when it needs to be communicated.
It may even use language as we are formulating it within ourselves. But there are multiple ways of
talking about a model in language, multiple linguistic avenues for trying to express a model.
Some of them are metaphorical, some of them are allegorical, some of them are literal,
some of them are mythopoetic. So no, I don't elevate language to the level of an ultimate truth.
I think it's an operational convenience. It's just one we fall for a lot of times. We mistake
language for the thing we are trying to express. So I think analytic idealism, there are many ways
in which it can be formulated. I propose a few, but I'm sure others can propose other ways to
expand on the exact same model. So Jung, for example, wasn't talking about analytic idealism
in these kinds of terms. And as you show in your book, he's using very different terms. I mean,
we didn't get into how something can be unconscious, but this is like really interesting to me. But
there's all kinds of ways we can turn this around. And in a way Jung is expressing it in a different
way. You kind of show that in the book. So I guess what I'm trying to open up is that
sometimes it feels like we have to choose between all these isms. Rather than like we were talking
about before, these isms are ways of trying to talk about or model or express what can't necessarily
ever be completely 100% modeled or expressed. And I just wonder if that feels comfortable to you,
if you think of it like that. Because you could easily get stuck in a corner too, where you have
to defend these particulars. But even though you're pointing past the particulars.
Yeah, no, I'm comfortable switching language. If I find myself in a place where I'm not
getting my ideas across properly, I'm very comfortable with switching the language. I mean,
different books of mine talk about the same thing in completely different ways. So I use a lot of
metaphors, I guess, sometimes. I've used metaphors in some books, in others, like the idea of the
world or my latest, which is coming out in October called the analytic idealism in a nutshell.
I try to be as direct as possible with as little symbolic content as possible. So now I'm very
flexible about this. What I want people to get is what I mean behind what I say. And the way to do
that is to say what I mean in as many different ways as I possibly can. So people can distill
what is common behind all of those different linguistic approaches. And that's hard too,
because you get called to task by all the people who want to latch on to one thing or the other.
But maybe that's interesting too. But because you do, even your book, sometimes you're talking to
the people who have the knowledge of reference or conceptual knowledge relative to a certain form
of academia where you write papers in a certain way. There's a couple of your books that are
basically like papers, and then other ones which are speaking more the way Jung did.
And that's kind of holding the paradox. They're not dichotomies, I guess. Like for me,
that's a service you're giving to show, because I talk about holding the paradox a lot, of like
being able to open the space and not smush the things together or dissolve them necessarily.
But they don't need to be, you know, there are two different ways of describing the process.
Yeah, I think, you know, I deliberately try to avoid the neologisms as much as possible,
creating new words. And unfortunately, this is very common in philosophy and science as well.
And then you get sort of stuck with that word creation of yours. I deliberately avoid that.
And what I try to do instead is to say the same thing in as many different ways as possible,
because I want people to see past what I'm saying and discern what I mean. That's my way of dealing
with this difficulty. But at the end of the day, Andrea, people bring themselves to bear when they
absorb a message. And whatever baggage they have with them, they will bring it to bear in
their understanding of the message. This is unavoidable. It's unavoidable to me when I am
on the receiving end. It's part of our respective journeys. I just do the best I can. But beyond
that, you know, we are all responsible. Yeah, well, that's exactly what I was
sort of getting at. Because the way I think of all of this, whatever we're doing, this encountering,
living, philosophizing, is we are trying to find a way to understand that perspectivalism of each
of us are kind of on a journey. As you said, there's a certain path. And no matter how shared the
landscape is, we've seen different things on the path. And we're going to understand whatever this
process is that we're trying to understand, we're probably both going to understand it a little
different way. And that's okay, even though we're sharing similar regularities. But I guess that
gets to, do you think of things in linear, like beginning and end? Or do you see all this as
nested in a way? Or like, how do you think of the kind of all of this? Because the dissociation,
for example, can sound like still like we're putting two things against each other. But I
feel like it's more they're connected and they're nested. And like I was describing at the beginning
about consciousness, we nest out of ourselves into meta consciousness. And to me, that can also be
kind of this. So yeah, how do you see that linear mindset? Look, even in psychiatry,
dissociation is not considered a fundamental split. You can have a dissociated patient that
gets cured. His dissociation is resolved. And he realizes that all of his dissociated
complexes were actually him or her. This happens in psychiatry all the time. Dissociative identity
disorder is a very common condition, different degrees, but very common. You talk to any
practicing psychiatrist, and he will tell you it happens a couple of times a week in their practice.
So no, dissociation does not mean a fundamental separation. It's a cognitive thing. It's an
appearance. It's a form of illusion. I think nature is one field of subjectivity. If we
eventually get to a unified field theory in which we collapse the 17 quantum fields plus something
standing for gravity into one field, I would interpret that as that one field is this field
of subjectivity. And the variety and the diversity of the states of nature are just different patterns
of excitation of this one field. So even dissociation is a configuration, a local
configuration taken on by a segment of this one field. It's never a fundamental separation
between us and this one field that nature is. Yeah, I mean, I have to bring up love because
it's love and philosophy. And I guess I'm trying to kind of get towards that in a way that's not
sentimental or that is sentimental in the way that's authentic. Because
if we can think of it as nested and get away from this beginning and end kind of thing, and
we can even bring up this idea of consciousness in the way we were talking about at the beginning,
and that what you were saying about it's crazy that we think we're all separate or you said it
in a different way, but it is all, when we say it's all one, sometimes it sounds like it has a
beginning and end, but it's all some kind of ongoing process that we're trying to understand.
And it seems to me that in a way, these dissociations, you being one of them and
me being another and all the other people, my dog here, and there's all these beings which
could be thought of as trying to somehow, not even trying, but part of this process of dissociation
in the way that you mean it, and I don't mean it in an unhealthy way, though I think it can become
unhealthy, right? I mean, there's a point where it could, but... Anything can become unhealthy.
It's a matter of degree. Look, if my experience, because I live analytical idealism now,
it's not just something I talk about. I have been living it for years now.
My life is informed, but it's my reality. It's the best narrative I have, and I live accordingly.
So I embody my own philosophy. I'm not just writing papers. I don't have to defend any
academic position. What does that do in your life? That's a really strong thing. I want
to understand it. Yes. So I can tell you what it does to me. It doesn't make me want to hold
hands with everybody and sing the kumbaya. No. If I were in Ukraine, I would have taken up arms
right now. If somebody threatens my girlfriend, their boobier responds, which is not holding
hand singing the kumbaya. So that did not change. What it did to me is it heightened
my sense of empathy to a point that is sometimes difficult to bear. It's the recognition that the
subjectivity behind the eyes of someone else is the same subjectivity that is behind your eyes.
It's that recognition. So it becomes very easy to use a colloquial expression to slide into
somebody else's shoes if you allow yourself to do it. And sometimes you're pulled into it,
like when major events happen, like October 7 in Israel, or like the bombardment of Gaza,
or the war in Ukraine. I feel dragged into somebody else's shoes, and it can become
dysfunctional. Because I never had this before, I didn't evolve coping mechanisms for dealing
with empathy. It's not something that afflicted me in my earlier years. So I'm having to evolve
that very quickly now as an adult to be able to deal with it. Another thing it does for me is
the greatest fear of mankind is back, because now I know that the subjectivity behind my eyes
will experience my death and what happens afterwards. Bernardo Castro, this particular
narrative self, this particular dissociated complex, will dissolve. But the subjectivity
behind the storyteller that convinces itself it is Bernardo Castro, that subjectivity stays.
So death is an unfathomable transition in my state of consciousness. Because look, psychedelics only
reduce brain activity. And not even by a major amount. And it's very immeasurable,
it's significant, but not major. And you can go through ego dissolution and you can have
terrible experiences just by a reduction of brain metabolism. Imagine when brain metabolism ceases.
So that fear is back in my life. That fear of how is it going to be? How is it going to feel?
What will be that state? And luckily I have had enough psychedelic experiences. I live in the
Netherlands so I could do that responsibly as an adult a few years ago. I have had enough
experiences to know that after the pain of ego dissolution, there is a space of profound peace,
untouched peace. So I hope that's where it's going to go. But I cannot know because
my brain metabolism never stopped completely. It only ever got reduced by psychedelic cues.
So that is back. Another thing that has happened to me a lot is the crisis of meaning has disappeared
from my life. And now I am like fish in the water. I don't talk about meaning like fish don't talk
about water. I mean, I talk about it because I have to communicate to other people, but I don't
talk to myself about meaning. Questions about meaning don't arise in my mind anymore. I'm
surrounded by it every second of my existence. Every breath I take is sort of percolated with
meaning. It's saturated with it. Nature is looking at itself through my eyes. And that's the meaning
of my existence, whatever happens. And it's always there. So that's great. I am not touched by
depression, by unwe. I know existential despair. Do you feel closer to nature or to people that
you're with? Has it changed your relationships with nature and with other humans or girlfriend
or the people around you? I am more appreciative of differences between people.
I'm a lot less judgmental of people. Not entirely judgment free. I judge Putin. You bet.
I judge him through and through. But I no longer have any impetus or energy to judge people
gratuitously. Like judge best judgment on my neighbors or best judgment on people who think
differently or act differently. Best judgment in regarding how they dress, what car they drive,
how loud they speak, what topics of conversation they choose. I don't have any energy in me to
pass judgment about that. I just experience it. The diversity of this subjectivity is something
to be experienced and registered. That's all I do. I don't have energy for judgment anymore.
Is that because you've been able to surrender to something? Or is it because of clarity?
Or what would you say? In spiritual circles, people talk about surrender a lot as if
it were something you could do.
Yeah. I don't know why that word came up, but I guess it felt like when you were talking
that you... It's not that you gave up. It's not that you won. It's like you see clearly,
but there's a kind of flow or something. To say to see clearly is already a kind of judgment.
And... So you're just present?
Yeah. Great. I pass judgment if I have to, if I am in a position to do so. I have direct reports,
so I have to judge their performance. I'm in a position to do that. I have to, so I do that
objectively as much as I can. But I will not pass judgment on an acquaintance that came to my place
and behaved in a certain way or dressed in a certain way or run too much.
So you don't need to judge somebody to know who you are, right?
If I'm not in a position to have to judge, the energy of judgment doesn't arise. I don't know.
It's not like I surrendered. It's not like I gave up. It was not a choice I made.
It doesn't happen. It just doesn't happen anymore. I don't bother. I feel like yawning.
Why am I going to bother to do this? It's like a waste of energy.
It's always of energy. It's like I feel no need.
Which is true. That's why I say so clearly because sometimes judging isn't... I mean,
there's a difference between just this is the way you see things and you state it
versus like it needing to be referenced back to some egoic kind of thing.
I don't know whether it's more or less clear. It's just how it is, how it has become for me.
I used to judge people. The most difficult thing to deal with for me, at least since the war in
Ukraine begun, is heightened empathy. That's very difficult. It's a very present thing that
struggled with daily. I'm becoming better at it. I'm finding rooms in the palace of my mind where
I can sort of put those things there and close the door for a little while. I visit those rooms
because if I don't visit them, I lose my humanity. I cannot do that. I cannot abstract away from
human suffering, but I found a place for it. I'm finding a place for it. This is evolving in me.
Before that, the most difficult thing to deal with was the fear of the major change in the state of
consciousness that is coming for all of us called the death. Death is not a fear I had before.
When you're dead, you're dead. You're not going to be there.
You didn't have it before?
No, I didn't have it before.
Maybe I shouldn't bring it up, but I just remember that you had a really hard
experience with it when you were really young, when you were reading the
Jung and the I Ching because you were really close to your dad and he passed away.
For me, I'm wondering, am I just connecting that through some wrong way? That age, I remember being
that age and I remember things that happened to me at that age and it's philosophical or I don't
know. Or is it just too much to try to connect those things? I probably have answered this
question both in the positive and in the negative in the past. I don't know. I can also just edit
it all out. It's connected for me to try to understand it relative to why all this matters
because I can tell you this. Before my father died, I already had metaphysical questions popping
in my head. It seems as long as I can remember. I never got a religious education. My mother is a
Catholic, but she never sent me to Sunday school, never forced me to attend mass, meaning I didn't.
I hated church when I was a kid.
I saw her pray a couple of times and I thought that's curious. I didn't dismiss it. I just thought
curious, curious behavior, that humanity is capable of this. That was my thought as a kid.
We're very neutral and impartial as kids, something that the adults in us should learn.
That's kind of what I meant by surrender, by the way, that neutrality. That's the right word,
but anyway. My father's death didn't create metaphysical questions in my mind because I
already had them. You see what I mean? The main thing it did, it forced me to contemplate
my own life. What do I do now? What is this about now? How do I survive this?
Where do I have to go? What do I have to do? That was the main struggle for me and probably
it heightened the metaphysical questions because you always wonder, does my father still exist
somewhere? Yeah. Where did he go? On your own death, I was wondering because I'll just be
really honest with you. I was around the same age the first time a family member died. It was the
first time I ever wrote anything. I kind of wrote this little kind of poem about how does something
hurt you so much when you can't see it or reach out and touch it or something. It was some kind
of rhymey thing. I don't know. For me, those same questions have structured my bigger questions in
a way when I look back. I'm sure I could link it to a million other things, not just that.
This fear of death thing comes up a lot in all of us. In all these things we've been talking
about, it's kind of sitting there in a way making us wonder what's the meaning of life or what are
we doing and how do we deal with this fear. I don't know. For me, it's still something hard
to get a grip on. What I notice from talking to people is that people tend to associate
their fear of death with the fear of oblivion. They're going to cease to exist and that leads
to a cognitive dissonance. Why? Because deep inside they know that's not true. We all know
the intuitive roots of our being because you're connected with reality. We didn't parachute here.
We arose out of reality, so we are part of reality. Those intuitive roots that connect us
to reality, they're very low down. They're not here in the canopy of airy thoughts. There we know
we don't cease to exist. Therefore, because culturally we believe we do, it leads to a
cognitive dissonance between what we feel deep inside and what we believe rationally. That
cognitive dissonance, I think, is partly what accounts for this recoil that people have about
death. It's a kind of, I'm going to die. No, this cannot be because if I die, the world dies. The
world ends. Of course, that's true. If you were to really cease to exist as subjectivity, then
everything would cease to exist, meaning it's not going to be like that. But the fear of annihilation,
that I don't have. I don't struggle with trying to make my life count because I'm going to be
annihilated at the end of it. No, that I don't have. I don't have that.
It's not like this where you need to live forever or be... The reason I bring it, the reason
what I'm connecting it to is when you, I said surrender, but it's this kind of neutrality.
I was asking, what does idealism do for you? I mean it even in a wider sense for
kind of helping or, I don't know what words to use, this materialist kind of track we've been on.
It seems like this offers a way to relax back into, or it's not comfortable, but some kind
of neutrality relative to these questions in a way that helps. I mean, you don't need to fear death,
right? But then you said you still are afraid of death. Of course, it's a major transition in my
state of consciousness, and I don't know how it's going to feel. You bet I fear it.
So is it fear like going on a roller coaster kind of fear?
Well, that's more predictable. It's more predictable than this. I mean, we have these
people who have these near-death experiences, right? I think even if you discard the majority
of it, you are left with a set that is impossible to dismiss. By and large, they seem to be positive,
but not unanimously so. There are people who have a negative and these. And of course,
they tell it already dressed in the conceptual dictionary of their own culture. So if they saw a
reassuring presence, the Indian would say it's Krishna. The Christian would say it was Jesus.
So you have to pierce through all of that symbolism that becomes, that they dress the story with based
on their own cultural dictionary, because that's all they have to communicate, whatever they can
communicate. But underneath of that, I don't think there is unanimity that it's good. So
it seems that it can go either way. So you bet I have anxiety about an unknown that I know is coming.
So you think you might suffer or something? I guess I'm just because for me, I fear other
people's deaths, or I don't worry about my death, or I don't have a sense of fear about that. I
used to. But when people are troubled in my life, it really worries me. And the way that you were
talking about the empathy with, if I watch the news too much, I won't be able to function really
well right now. So those kind of things, I still feel, even knowing the world is consciousness in
a way, and even feeling like people who have died is still feeling present with them and being able
to kind of understand what that is in a way that's kind of neutral. That's peaceful for me, but
thinking of other people hurting and stuff still is very hard. I don't know.
For me too, other people hurting, yes. Other people going through the transition,
we call that the transition, the state of consciousness. No, that's because it's nature,
right? One could argue suffering is part of nature as well, but my empathy makes it bothersome for me
to deal with it. Wow, that's interesting. So it really is that subjective, personal to only you
kind of mystery, right? That you don't know what in the world it's going to be. There is a famous
poem in a rage, rage against the dying of the light. No, that I don't. I don't have any, because
that's raging against the prospect of annihilation. And there is nothing in me that believes in
annihilation anymore. Even if I try to, I can't, I can't anymore. But is some of that just because
you've done so much and accomplished so much and did you already feel that? It's what analytic
idealism informs me of and I really gave it a 20 year long thought. It's not a conclusion I
arrived at lightly and I dug into every discipline that is even remotely relevant to this. I educated
myself in multiple fields. So I can't do more homework than that to arrive at an informed
conclusion. Maybe that's what's so neutral or whatever we're trying to describe that you feel
now. That seems to me almost like the time spent with it and all of that. I mean, you know, that
comes. Look, what I could tell you is I am in perfect peace with the fact that Bernardo Castro
will die. But I am anxious about how that will feel like. Because you don't control it. You can't
understand it or control it. The best model we have, the best safe model we have, phenomenological
model of the end of metabolism is the reduction of brain metabolism caused by psychedelics.
And those experiences can be wonderful, but they can be very difficult too. And we do not have a
clear understanding of the causative factors, the endogenous psychic causative factors that
make it go one way or the other. So because we don't have that understanding, I don't have
that understanding. So I don't know how it will go. So look, I don't think I'm going to be annihilated.
You may say it's presumptuous of you to say you are sure, but I am as sure as a human being can
be that I'm not going to be annihilated. And if others are in doubt, it's their journey. You know,
I have my own journey. My reality is I'm not going to be annihilated. So I'm not raging against the
dying of the light because it's not going to die, but it can become an ugly light. And I don't know
how it's going to be. So I'm anxious about it in the sense that you would be anxious
going to a foreign land without knowing what to expect, without having any idea what's going to
happen. That kind of anxiety. You know, you're going to experience it. You just don't know how
it's going to be. But there are other things that oppress the lives of most humans today,
especially in the affluent West, which have to do with the lack of meaning, the meaning crisis,
you know, depression, nihilism. That is gone. I didn't even notice it disappearing from my life.
That's a huge thing. That makes so much sense to me because it's like you've let yourself be
what you are, connected. And, you know, once we can do that, and I mean it in a really, really,
it's not easy. And it's not like you just do it. But it's such a different way of being in the world
that you can't even really explain it. Well, I tried to do that. Yeah, you try to explain it
in many ways. But I shouldn't be talking about it yet, according to my publisher. But I wanted
to read it. For some reason, I thought it was going to be out earlier, but yeah, it's coming
out very soon. There is a book coming out now, which is a summary of analytic idealism. It's
analytic idealism in a nutshell. In a nutshell. Yeah, end of October. Okay. Straight to the point,
no bullshit, no, no divagations, no, just that. What analytic idealism is. With a little brain
in a nutshell. But there is a book that will come out next year. It's in production already.
It's called The Diamond and the Soul of the West. Oh, wow. So I'm going to say some things now that
I discuss at length in that book. One of the biggest changes for me was the acceptance of
the impersonal in me. Because you see, as an analytic idealist, I understand that I am a
dissociated process in the mind of nature, which is one mind. So it's fundamentally an impersonal
mind that creates, because everything that can happen in nature eventually does. So life did
happen in nature. What is life? Well, it's a dissociation that arises in the mind of nature.
It could arise, so eventually it does. Because that's how nature works. You wait long enough,
everything that can happen will happen. So that's what I am. What that means is that
the personal in me is the product of the beginning of that dissociative process.
But the medium on which it happens is the same medium that was there in the beginning of all
things, if such a thing ever happened. It's completely impersonal. It's the sum total of
existence. So I intellectually now accept the existence and even the preponderance
of the impersonal in me, of those mental processes that arise in me that are not Bernardo Castro's.
They are the stream, the flow of the totality of nature as it expresses itself through me.
Therefore, I will have, using Schopenhauer's word, I will have the will to certain things
that have nothing to do with Bernardo Castro's personal agenda. And we all experience that. We
say, well, I really need to do this, but I don't know why. I just know that I must pursue this path.
That's the impersonal in you. I, as an analytical idealist, I now give myself intellectual
permission to acknowledge the existence of this impersonal flow as it flows through me
and expresses itself through me. And that changes the way you live a lot, because now you understand
that your life has never been, is not, and will never be about you. Not anymore than the life of
the apple tree is about one apple blossom, right? It would be a very neurotic apple blossom, one who
thought it's about me. No, it's about the apple tree. And you are just part of that impersonal
thing. So I understand Bernardo Castro to be the apple blossom. In other words, it's about nature
and what nature is trying to achieve through me. It's not about me. Therefore, I do not have the
responsibility to make myself happy, which is the most overwhelming task that the cultural ethos
invests us with. One, it's impossible. There are way too many variables at play for you to be able
to control them. So you can not make yourself happy. You may find yourself happy because of
grace and circumstance, but it's not something that you can force in nature. And parting with
that need to make myself happy, it's like removing a ton of weight from my shoulder.
I know long-term.
That's not surrender, but I think that's what I was trying to get at with that word. I like what
you said about lifting the weight off, but is it... It sounds like it's something you decide,
right? An army decides it's time to surrender. It's almost like yielding or aligning. It's like you...
It's not an action of me. It happens to me.
But you're kind of letting life flow through you without needing to filter it through Bernardo,
the narrative.
You could say that. So I pay attention to my impersonal inner compass. Where is nature wanting
to go through me? And my job is to accept that and then use my intellectual abilities to make
it more viable or to facilitate that process. So the metaphor I use in the book, the way I live
life now is as a driver who didn't choose the destination. I'm given the destination by the
impersonal, but I'm trusted with navigating the terrain. And therefore I do it with the curiosity
of someone who doesn't know where he's going, but we'll find out. And he's trusted with navigating
it. So which is fun.
I love that. Especially after the story you told about driving and not knowing you're driving,
because that's the opposite, right? It's being fully aware and present that you're driving,
but not needing to know where you're going to go.
I don't choose the direction. I've just chosen a completely different direction from you now.
That's very peaceful in a way. I can feel it. I don't know how to put words on it, but I can
feel it. And I already kept you way over time, but I have to ask the last thing. Does that relate
to love at all? Or how do you see that word relative to this? Is it a word you don't use?
I bring it up because it makes people uncomfortable.
Well, no. We all have our prejudices. I'm no exception to this. I have a prejudice
against sentimentalism. It's something that makes me cringe very quickly.
Me too, but I don't think that word is that. So that's why I try to make this uncomfortable
space because... Yeah, I know what you mean. I'll try to navigate that without falling for the
trap. Love is a fact of nature, just as fear is, and hate is, and suffering is. So if we accept
that all these things are inherent in the potentialities of nature, then yes, love exists.
What I see a lot of people do, especially people in the spiritual circle, and look, I'm not an
enlightened being, and they may be. I'm sure enlightened beings exist. I know of at least
one monk who set himself on fire during the Vietnam War and stayed in a meditation position.
For the 20 minutes it must have taken for him to actually die. Didn't move a muscle,
completely peaceful. No change in his facial expression. That's enlightenment, all right?
You don't do that if you're just fooling yourself that you are enlightened. That's mastery of one's
own mind. That's a direct connection to what is really true. So it exists. Beyond that,
I don't know who is enlightened, but some people who claim or are perceived as being enlightened
will tell you that love is more fundamental than fear, than hate, and then all the rest.
I don't know that from personal experience, and there is no analytic line of thinking that I can
think of that would lead you to that conclusion. Every piece of evidence I know and every piece
of reasoning I trust would bring me to the conclusion that love is as true as all the
other things. So it's as true as hate. It's as true as fear. It is true. It's just not more true
than the other stuff. So this love exists in my life. You bet it. You bet. We get confused
sometimes about it. We mix up love with infatuation. We mix up love with dependency.
But now I'm turning 50, and I think I have earned enough maturity now to know what is
true love, and it's there. It is there in my life. Anxiety is there, and even hate.
I could tell you today I hate Vladimir Putin. I wish that guy wasn't born. And at the same time,
there is a bigger voice in me saying, that's silly. If he wasn't born, somebody else would
have been born and do something like that. Maybe not the same thing, but something like that was
going to happen, was bound to happen because it can happen. And if it can, it will. It would
have another name, another face, different circumstances, maybe a different part of the
world. But it was going to happen. And yes, it's true. And yet I can't help but look at that guy's
face and feel like laser beams are coming out of my eyes, if you know what I mean.
Yeah, I do. I think we all know in some situation or another like that. And I think it's important
to feel it and be able to express it. And I won't argue with you about love being different
from that. But when I listen to you, or when I read you, or when I think about all that you've
done and all that you do in terms of all these kind of conversations you have with people,
writing all the books and stuff, from my definition of love, which is,
I won't try to put it into words, but it feels like that's there. It doesn't feel like
hate is there. Or I know you've said fear is there, but it doesn't feel like...
Love feels different to me as being able to connect it with that flow that I was talking
about of life kind of going through. To me, it feels almost more like that's kind of when
all the other stuff is out of the way somehow, which doesn't make all the other stuff less real
or not important. But just looking at your life from the outside, it seems like that would be
more of extreme and the other things would be more like lenses or obstacles or something.
And I mean, even love philosophy too. I don't mean love in a sentimental infatuation. I mean,
as a motivating movement or something. I identify with people in the world. I
feel very human. Yeah, that's what I mean. Even when you just described your hate,
right? That's coming from a very deep identification. Yeah, I prize it very much.
And one danger that people playing the social role I play go through, and I'm subject to that danger,
is people want to kick you upstairs, if you know what I mean. Name you and label you.
They put you on a pedestal, they elevate you, and therefore they make you non-human.
Yeah, that's what I was trying to get out earlier of how easily you can get trapped by your own
accomplishments. Not you, but one. No, I'm past that. Well, you've sort of built that into your
system. I haven't been that silly for a few years now. No, I'm not going to fall for that trap. I'm
not going to believe myself to be something more than human. I know too much the shit and the
skeletons in my cabinets to entertain that fantasy. No, I think nobody's immune to that,
but I think I'm as partially immune as one can get at this point. I know too much of my own shit.
But others do that, and others kick you upstairs. And this is not a criticism to them. They are not
doing this maliciously. Actually, they think they're honoring you. They think they're doing
something positive towards you. But I feel robbed of my humanity when people do that. So my humanity
is my greatest treasure. I'm going to defend it with tooth and claw. If you try to dehumanize me
anyway, like making me better than human or lesser than human, I'm going to resist that.
That has brought me to a place of contentment. I'm not going to use the word happiness,
especially because in the US, what people understand for the word happiness is very
different than what we understand in Europe. In Europe, I could use the words happiness
and contentment as equivalents. In the US, they aren't. In the US, happiness is something
somehow more effusing, more effervescent than contentment. While for the European,
happiness is just contentment. So I achieved, I landed, I didn't achieve, I didn't do anything.
I landed in a point of contentment in my life because of my humanity, my having achieved a
warm, respectful relationship with my own humanity, which I treasure a lot. That may be what you mean
by surrender. There is an involuntary letting go associated with that. Letting go, that's better.
You're human. You are in a human journey. That's it. That's just nature. So that's just
journey. Let's just go through this without trying to wrestle control of the reins of my
journey from the hands of nature and control everything and assert my personhood, my uniqueness
as if we were Ubermensch, as if we were superhuman like Nietzsche tried and failed for a reason,
because there isn't a better man to try that. And even that man...
No, and he tried so with such heart and it's totally understandable.
That's the last that he left for us. That's his sacrifice. So I am free from the temptation
of trying to control life in the world. I did try it. I tried it for over two decades with the
illusion that it could be achieved. And then I realized it can't. And then I fell into hell
for over 10 years. And now I am reconciled with my humanity, with my role as just
a blossom in the apple tree that controls nothing but has its role to play, just like me.
I don't control anything. I have my role to play and I'm in peace with it. And let's see what's
going to happen next. So maybe that's what you call surrender, but it's not an act. I didn't one day
wake up and say, okay, today I'm going to surrender. It happened to me. I find myself in
this space. Yeah, it's still to know what it's almost like a recognition to, you know, like
similar to what you described when you had the feeling that you're not the world, you know,
but the opposite. Like you realize you are the world, but what you thought was the world is
something different now because you've made this whole journey through all these stuff and you
persisted. And when you were talking, I was also thinking of something I remember reading or
hearing you say about the heart being the, no, the intellect is the bouncer of the heart. No.
Yeah. Yeah. And that would be a whole other conversation to open that up. But
in a way you kind of could turn that around too. There's kind of a way like that
there's no bouncer anymore, right? But you don't need a bouncer anymore.
I think it's there. It's just that it's a very open-minded bouncer.
Yeah. I guess that's what I mean. Cause you say it as if the bouncer is bad, right? Because we
pretend like we use our intellect to say how we think we should feel instead of looking at how
we feel. But you kind of had to confront how you feel. And now you use the intellect to keep
yourself in check or something. I don't know. I wouldn't underestimate the power my intellect
still has in my life. And it's just that my intellect arrived at a place where it can give
me permission for a lot of stuff, but it is still the bouncer. And when do I know that?
When I am exposed, for instance, I run Essential Foundation now. So I have, I'm basically the
curator of what we publish, what we promote and what we stay away from. And because Essential
Foundation now has gotten some momentum, a lot of people want their voices to be amplified by us.
So I am in the position of a sort of a bit of a gatekeeper. Of course, other people digest stuff
for me, but it comes to a point where I say, okay, this we are going to run with and this we are not.
So I am regularly exposed to stuff that I take a quick look at and I think,
bullshit, woo woo, nonsense, scam. We are not running with this crap. This is nonsensical.
And that judgment call is often really intellectual. And sometimes it flirts with prejudice.
Because look, I'm human, right? And I'm in peace with being human. And part of being human is that
you're prejudiced. Well, you have a path, right? Like we were talking about. I mean, you've
come to where you are through certain references, even if you have learned the knowledge through
acquisition or however you put it. I mean, you can't like just do away with the fact that you
read all these books and know all these things and so on. It's going to...
Neither do I want to become the Ubermensch and be completely unprejudiced. I think what counts in
my favor is that I recognize my prejudice and I try to deal with it in a healthy way,
as opposed to being completely overcome by it. So even if I eventually get a hold of it and act
in a non prejudiced way, I feel the prejudice emerge within me at first, requiring the intellect
to go there and say, hey, wait a moment. If you say the same thing in words that you like better,
you may actually be open to this. You just don't like the particular words, the particular
avenue in which this is being brought forth or the motivations people have. You know,
I tell you one big trigger for me that triggers my prejudice very quickly is when people
defend a point of view about what is true because they think it's ethical or because they think it
makes them feel good. There was a person once, I shall not name the person, but there was a
discussion about metaphysics and this person said, I don't like idealism because it's totalitarian.
It's one mind. This is too totalitarian. It affects my political sensitivities. I think it
should be a democracy. And I'm like, what does truth care about your damn political sensitivities,
about what makes you warm and fuzzy and what gives you a cold shiver? Is this a bloody argument to
make to defend a story that really triggers me? And it happened to me the other day, a very
respectable academic who I hold in sincere high regard and was having, we were having a private
discussion. There were three of us. And this academic slid into the notion of we should
promote this because it's conducive to better social harmony. We should promote this as true
because it's conducive to more social harmony. Oh, that triggered me. It's like, why should I
believe something to be true just because it triggers social harmony? If the truth is terrible
and conducive to anarchy and war, then that's it. That's what the truth is. So this can happen even
when the person's story is entirely reasonable and we should promote it, but it's presented to me as
we should promote it because it's good for people, it triggers me.
I can understand that because it kind of is almost a sign that the person hasn't thought
through it in a kind of deep way because it almost sounds like you just role play. You take on a role
of if social harmony is a good thing, we've been taught. And so therefore, if I fit this into that
role, yeah, yeah, I see that. There is even an argument to do that. And it's Nietzsche's argument.
I think it is in the gay science or the joyful wisdom because the word gay now has been
associated with something else. But in the joyful wisdom, the joy for wisdom,
I think it is there that Nietzsche says, why are we all obsessed with what is true?
Why does it matter what is true? We should adopt a narrative that makes life good.
Not what is true. We can never know what is true. And it doesn't matter because
what matters is what effect it will have in life. So we simply should adopt
a narrative conducive to whatever it is that we consider good. He makes that argument. And it is
a very compelling argument. The problem for me is that I am too instinctively committed
to what is true. I do not have in me the ability to adopt a narrative and pretend that it is true
just because it's good in some way. I cannot make myself believe it. Actually, it will create
the opposite reaction in me. Even if it is believable, because I'm forcing myself to
believe it because it's good, something in me will require and say, for that reason,
I will reject it, even if it is plausible. I really understand. There's two things. One of
those could just be the philosopher in you that you need to always question and stuff. Always
criticizing whatever it is, not just like there's a good and we go along with it.
But I think deeper than that, it's kind of the way you've been living your life in this nestedness
that I was talking about. I was saying dissociation, but these many, many nested levels of consciousness
where you can't just go along with something like that because it would numb that whole process.
It's no longer the pattern that even works, right? It's a totally different rhythm.
But the conclusion, Andrea, to go back to how we started this discussion is
the intellect is still strong in me, not in the sense that it's a clever intellect,
but in the sense that it has a lot of decision power for me. It's very influential.
Despite all this, despite my being in a very different place in life than I was 20 years ago
today, and despite my openness, which is there, I am much more open to alternatives that before I
wouldn't take seriously. Despite all that, the intellect is still the bouncer of my heart.
It's just that it's a more sensitive and open-minded bouncer now, but it can still shut the door and it
will shut the door every now and then. It's just, no, no, here we are not going because this is just
nonsense. We are not approaching this. Yeah, I think that's probably a healthy thing, especially
as I've expressed it, I think you've opened your heart quite a lot, right? And to be able to do that,
you need some bouncers. But for now, I just want to say thank you for I've kept you an hour and a
half, or I don't even know what time it is, but longer, a lot longer. And I could keep going
because I didn't even look at half of my questions, but mostly I just want to say thank you for your
time and for what you're doing and that you are open to this whole process, right? And sharing all
this in all the ways, different ways. Thanks for the opportunity. It was a nice talk.
It was. And good night. I guess I can stop this.
