Hello everyone, welcome back to Love and Philosophy, where we try and discuss the big subjects
of life in ways that do not always fit to the usual categories and traditional divides
that we've gotten used to in life.
Today I'm posting a conversation I had this summer with Mina Salami about her wonderful
book Sensuous Knowledge, which has influenced my own work.
Mina is a Nigerian, Finnish, and Swedish feminist author, social critic, and she's currently
the program chair at the New Institute.
She is the author of Can Feminism Be African?, which is coming out next year from Harper
Collins, and we'll talk about that then.
But this conversation is about, mostly about, sensuous knowledge, a black feminist approach
for everyone, which was published in 2020 by Bloomsbury.
Mina is a frequent speaker and lecturer.
She has taught at some of the most prominent institutions in the world, such as Cambridge,
Yale, and she was also at the Singularity University at NASA, which we talk about a
little bit here.
She talks about a bull falling into the water, which was actually the title of her book,
Sensuous Knowledge.
You'll have to listen to know what I'm talking about there.
She's a member of the Club of Rome, the Royal Institute of Philosophy, and so much more.
I encourage you to read her book, look at her work.
Here we talk about some very exciting, important ideas.
For example, Double Consciousness by Du Bois, which I've talked about in other interviews
and written about on the Way and Life World substack, because I feel it's an important
part of the canon of phenomenology that is often not talked about.
And Mina actually changes my view here even more, or expands it even more, because she
applies it to the human relationship with nature and how we are part of nature, but
we also reflect on nature, the nature that's outside of us, but that is also us.
So I really love that part of the conversation, and it reminds me of the movement that Bernardo
Kastrup and I were trying to describe recently in a conversation about consciousness and
also some of the conversations I've had about Hegel.
So there's similar themes here, but we also go into some very new territory.
We discuss automatic writing, for example, and a new way of thinking about meditation.
We talk about the relationship of Jesus and poetry, how birds are the real expression
of freedom.
There's so much in this conversation.
I love this conversation, and it's one of my favorite kinds of conversations to have
where we just let it take us where it wanted to take us, but we still discuss very important
themes of her book that both of us really care about.
Sensuous knowledge is a joy to read.
It's very emotional in a way, it's very personal, but it's also a very academic, rigorous book,
which I think is a hard combination and one that I really appreciate and respect.
And of course, that relates to this idea of paradox, how we might rethink what that word
means and open the space around it so as to expand our thinking and begin to think differently.
If you want to support this project in any way, please sign up at the Substack or the
YouTube or anything that might feel good for you, I welcome.
Mostly I'm just glad you're here.
I know sometimes some of these conversations are challenging.
Some of them are warm and resonant.
It always depends on what path you've come into the conversation from, but I really appreciate
that we're able to explore such a wide variety of topics here while at the same time grounding
them in this idea of trying to think differently beyond either or categories and open up to
an expansive, sensuous knowledge of the world.
The problem that we have in modern Westernised society is that we think of paradox almost
as something negative, rather generative and something that's actually just a fact of reality.
Things are paradoxical.
One of the reasons I think we look at things in such a binary, dualistic way is because
Because we are very focused on the kind of end destination rather than of seeing the
whole thing, the vastness of it.
Double consciousness is one of the most important or valuable ideas, philosophical ideas that
we have as a human species to double consciousness vis-a-vis our relationship to what we call
nature, which we are a part of.
We know the world of nature to a notable extent, but there are things that are mysterious that
we don't know about the world of non-human nature, as we sort of clumsily refer to it
as.
And then we know the world of ourselves as a part of nature, as the human part of nature.
And that is also a kind of double consciousness.
The obvious truth here is that if we can look at the mountain from as many angles as possible,
this metaphorical mountain, the truer and the richer our understanding of it will be.
We will see the parts that are dead and aerate and that will be okay, and then we'll see
the other parts too.
And I start with that story because I guess I wanted readers to immediately have knowing
that the book that they're about to read is written by somebody who perceives themselves
as that second explorer, as I do, especially in the world of ideas and epistemology and
knowledge.
But it was mainly through going into my mind and exploring.
And when I was about, I was probably about seven years old or something like that.
What I'm going to say now is a kind of a trick also for people who are struggling to learn
how to meditate.
Sensuousness is not necessarily about physical pleasures.
It's about a kind of full embodied experience.
In the Yoruba worldview, knowledge is divinity, and it's one of the divinities that creates
the world.
Without it, there is no world making.
If we can look at the mountain from as many angles as possible, this metaphorical mountain,
the truer and the richer our understanding of it will be.
Love is everything.
Actually, love is the superpower that we don't...
Love is the mountain.
Love is the mountain.
Hi, Mina.
It's so nice to see you and to meet you.
Thank you for being here today.
It's great to meet you, Andrea.
Thank you for having me.
So we're going to talk about your book, Sensuous Knowledge, which I just love it so much.
It really moved me on a lot of different levels, and we'll get into some of that.
But first, maybe we should start with the words and maybe then unpack how you came to
writing it.
But first, this word sensuous, it was really interesting to me that you define it in a
different way than sensuality.
This has always been a word I love a lot, sensuous and sensuality.
And you gave me something there with defining it different and talking about Milton and
the origin.
So maybe we could start there and you could explain what this word means sensuous for
you.
Sure.
I also have always loved the word sensuous and sensuality.
So in making a distinction between the two, I don't mean to create any kind of hierarchy,
but I do make the distinction in the book and insofar as sensuous knowledge is concerned.
And the distinction is that sensuality and also anything to do with the senses in that
regard has to do with bodily pleasures.
And whereas sensuousness is not necessarily about physical pleasures, it's about a kind
of full embodied experience.
That is how I look at it.
Now there are countless debates over the centuries or maybe not debates is not the right word,
it's more conversations about the differences between sensuousness and sensuality.
And of course, the two get conflated quite often in the beauty industry, for instance.
Since writing this book, I keep coming across the ways that the word sensuous is used and
to describe perfumes and things like that.
So it is to convey something quite sensual, which at the same time, I think you could
also apply to sensuous knowledge.
I like the openness and the vastness of the word.
And it came to me with quite a thud, this phrase, sensuous knowledge.
And even though, as I say, it is a word that I've always liked, but it wasn't something
that I'd ever thought about writing a book around.
And I'd never paired it with knowledge.
So when the title for the book came, it kind of came as a readymade phrase.
And I knew that it was something that I wanted to delve into and to try and put my finger
on and explore.
I really like this distinction because having studied neuroscience and philosophy often,
or just in general, growing up as a human, you kind of separate the senses as if there's
taste and there's touch and there's sound and there's vision.
So this word sensual or senses in the way that you describe, you go into it more, but
it does already have a kind of, it's almost like a separation in there of one or the other
senses or something, right?
Which is never really like that in real life.
And I think this gets to a lot of what you talk about.
So it makes a lot of sense that you say sensuous because then it's this whole embodied all
of it together.
It's all the senses, as it always is, but we often think of it as separate.
So I just wanted to say that I really appreciate that distinction.
What would it have meant if the book had been titled Sensual Knowledge?
And I just said if it would have connoted that there is some kind of specific sense
that I am referring to, you know, is it like knowledge of sense or knowledge of tastes?
And yes, it is interesting.
I mean, of course, there are instances where we are thinking of one specific sense, and
I think that that's okay.
But yeah, I would go back to saying that when we say sensual, I think we just very much
focus on the senses and sensuous when you use the suffix us, OUS, it implies something
that is more holistic, something that is sort of all consumed by this quality that the OUS
is describing.
I think this speaks like even what we're trying to do now by both of us saying, oh, we're
both are okay, is something that you do really well in the book, which is open the space
for paradox in a way, or what seems like paradox or what might seem like opposites
or might just be different ways of viewing something similar.
I mean, you start with this because from the very beginning, we're grounded in nature and
you're expressing this kind of way of which things can always be seen from two different
ways and those experiences might be very different.
And depending on what they're about, that's okay.
Do you feel sometimes like you are balancing this kind of paradox or seeming opposition
that you're showing isn't opposition?
Yes, absolutely.
And I think that the problem that we have in modern westernized society is that we think
of paradox almost as something negative rather than generative and something that's actually
just a fact of reality.
Things are paradoxical, life is paradoxical, experiences.
And so, yeah, I am certainly trying to convey this complexity that is the paradoxical nature
of experience.
And also, as you point to the kind of multi-perspectival dimension of knowledge, because
in some sense, there is the knowledge that you as a subject perceive, or let me just
speak of myself.
So if I'm trying to grapple with something, I'm thinking of it mostly from my subjective
position, but then I'm also able to think about it from a kind of wider perspective,
like how is that thing shaped by society or by the cosmos at large?
And so there's already that kind of double perspective and then maybe you bring in lenses
of identity, of race and gender, and just what mood you're in that day.
I mean, there's just so many dimensions to the ways that we can grasp at any particular
thing.
And within that, there's obviously going to be a lot of paradoxes, because if I'm looking
at my screen right now and I'm thinking of it just from my subjective experience, yeah,
I can see myself in the screen, I may start assessing what is the light quality or something
like that, but looking at it from almost the perspective of the background of the room
that I'm in and then zooming out further to the whole city that I'm in or something,
it just becomes this tiny little object.
And there's a paradox in-
There's this nestedness too, depending on where you want to look at it from.
But I think, as you were saying, we often think of it as a choice that has to be made,
the paradox, right?
That it's, as you were saying, it's wrong, right?
It can't be both things.
And also that there's only two things that we assume that.
And you talk about this a lot in the book too, which I like, of it being built into
a lot of our language or the Euro patriarch, this path that has been predominant for a
lot of people that it gets assumed as the way it is or something is almost built with
that dichotomy that's not real, but we don't question it or if we're in a certain position,
we don't question it, let's say.
Yeah, it's so very ingrained into how we look at things, which is because, or one of the
reasons I think we look at things in such a binary, dualistic way is because we are
very focused on the kind of end destination rather than of seeing the whole thing,
you know, the vastness of it.
And if, you know, if I'm going to somewhere very specific or I want to understand something
very, and of course, sometimes there's use for this kind of approach to kind of really just,
if we really want to just know the material dimensions of something.
But we kind of apply that to everything.
So if we want to understand politics or power or love or whatever it might be,
we're also going with this very narrow focus into it.
And when you go toward anything with facing it as though it were the destination,
then what you do, like imagine you're traveling somewhere, you have a destination in mind,
you're going to have checked out the weather prognosis, and if it's going to rain,
you bring your raincoat, you know, you prepare accordingly for that destination.
You have specific tools and kind of assortments of equipment with you.
And that's how we're typically going into things that we're exploring.
Whereas what sensuous knowledge is calling for is to traverse into that world with,
I mean, one, a much broader toolkit, because if reality is paradoxical
and multidimensional, then we cannot just come with the raincoat.
We need the sun hat and the sunblock and the welly, like we need all of it, you know.
And so we need the intellectual scientific knowledge, but we also need to come with our
experiential, emotional, spiritual appreciations of how to put our fingers on things.
And as you were saying that about what you pack, I was also thinking of narrative.
That's an important part of your book too.
How we might read some kind of narrative about the place,
and that'll influence where we go and what we see.
I mean, you could explore a city that you've lived in forever from a completely different
mindset. If you've read something different,
then it opens up the way that person saw that city, for example.
But before we get too much more into this, I brought two things up which I haven't
for listeners closed yet, and that is one, how you came to the sensuous knowledge, right?
Instead of how you think about knowledge, most people in terms of what you talk about
as the head, right? You have these two words, which I won't dare try to say properly, but
the head knowing and the gut knowing. But I'll let you unpack it better,
and how you came up with this, or how this hit you with a thud, the sensuous knowledge.
Sure. So the first thing to say is that the prism that I'm presenting with the phrase
sensuous knowledge did not hit me with a thud. So this kind of perspective,
that's the world that I grew up in. I would even go as far as to say that
it's kind of the soul that I was born with. It's the way that I look at the world and always have.
But I've never, I guess I always felt like an outsider until I was an adult,
and I'd already started writing, and then I started to realize that actually,
no, it's not that I don't get what the rest of the world is
on about. It's that I see things differently. And that probably is the very beginning of the
journey of this book, which was in the making for many, many years, even though it
wasn't concretely in the making until the phrase sensuous knowledge hit me with a thud.
Okay. And that happened when I was visiting, I described some of this in the book, I was
visiting the Singularity University and the NASA research camp. And I don't know what it was about
that environment. Other than that, I was engaging with really fascinating ideas and people who care
about ideas like I do as well. But there was a lot of discord, like on some level,
I felt very connected to these people. And on another level, I felt quite terrified of the
worldview. Actually, that's putting it mildly, I felt fucking scared of the worldview that
they were championing. I mean, this is sort of the Silicon Valley. And I realized that's again,
where my two worlds collide. And so I was one day swimming in the pool that was there at the
research center. And that's when this this phrase came almost like, you know, a ball had fell into
the pool from the sky. And I went back to my room and immediately started jotting down my thoughts.
And I knew that it was going to be the title of my book. But the worldview is a Euro bow on in my
case. So my heritage is Nigerian and Finnish. And in Nigeria, I come from the Yoruba people.
But this kind of worldview features commonly across the African continent and in many other
indigenous communities. But in the Yoruba worldview, in the Yoruba worldview, knowledge is
divinity. And it's one of the divinities that creates the world. Without it, there is no world
making. And and this this divinity is called a bond. And when the gods give a bond to the Yoruba
people, they say you have to have two types of bond. And this is a bond already, which is head
knowing knowledge of the head, if you like, or intellectual knowing. And then there is a bond,
you know, which is internal knowing. So in Europe, I would be something like that. So it's like
knowledge of the gut in English, we could say. I don't speak Yoruba, by the way, but this is
through conversations I've had with with people who do. And, and the gods say that, you know,
in order to be wise, one must possess the two. And to only possess one of these types of knowledge
is to only be half wise. And so, you know, even though Nigeria is a, you know, was a British
colony is still a sort of neo colonized country. And so the educational system is not exactly
indigenous. But this kind of cosmological prism was one that was very present to my sensibilities
when I was growing up in Nigeria. And I always was felt called and not even felt called, but I
always just interpreted the world in that way. And when I say in that way, what I mean even
further is through this multi perspectival view, I and I guess it also came from being
somebody who is from dual racial, ethnic, also religious language backgrounds. And so for me,
there was never, there was never a sense of a clear path ahead, which there was for the people,
many people around me in Nigeria and later when I moved to Sweden as a teenager, that was always
the case. I think today in today's environment, it's more and more common that I think most people
almost in at least in urban cities around the world would say that they don't have a sense of
a clear path. You know, life is more confusing now. We're more aware of many possible paths,
I guess we could take. Yeah. And also, I guess with the internet, you know, the way that
not so much knowledge and information and people have more choices that they need to make on a
daily, if not like a minute by minute basis. Or overwhelmed by paths, possible paths.
Yeah, exactly. Even if they're not open to us too, right? It's more we know what's out there in a
different way. But I'm really interested in this because you say everyone around you had a clear
path. Was that, yeah, can you help me understand that better? I kind of understand, but it's more
just people assume that this is what they will be when they grow up kind of stuff.
It's that kind of thing. And I guess, I mean, Lagos, I grew up in Lagos.
Okay, so you were in the city. Okay.
Huge city. Yeah, the world's fifth biggest. And it's a very cosmopolitan city. So there are people
from all around the world in Lagos. However, it was still homogeneous enough for me to feel
different just by virtue of being from also from Finland, and having that multiracial
background. So like my family, my cousins, my aunties, my uncles, people like that,
whose both parents were not just Nigerian, but Yoruba, because we have many different
ethnic groups in Nigeria. You know, there's a sense in which you are going to follow the
customs and the culture of your group of people, which to me was from day one, never an option,
because whose tradition was I following the Finnish?
Because your mom was from Finland.
My mom was from Finland. Yeah. And I never lived in Finland, but I did have a,
like we traveled to Finland frequently. And yeah, as I say, I mean, these are the things that are
like the concrete things about my identity, but I think there was something even deeper within me
that was, that had that sense of not belonging to any specific thing or any specific path.
And of course, it's, I mean, it's been something that has enriched my life in many ways,
and continues to do this thing of always having to, like, I've had to forge every single path
that I've taken for myself. And that's enriching, but it also in different phases of my life was
really difficult. And, you know, particularly growing up, you're always an outsider, you know,
quite fit in. But what it does then to one's approach to knowledge is to, it's a similar
thing, right? Like, there's nothing, I never take anything at face value. You know, people tell me,
oh, so this is how women should be, or this is even the, you know, this is the, I was thinking
just today, to give you a concrete example of something random and maybe a bit controversial,
because the sun is finally out, and I was contemplating whether or not to slap a bunch
of SPF on my skin. And, you know, normally I do, but then I was thinking, wait a minute, I mean,
Africans who I think scientifically have skin that ages the slowest. And also I know that there
are some cancers that, you know, we don't develop in as great numbers and so on and so forth. And
like, we don't use SPF. We use shea butter and things like that, which have some natural
protections of the skin. But anyway, that's just a very banal example of everything that comes to me
is always something that I have to question. Which can be-
You can see it from another perspective, right? I think I've always thought of, I think you use
this and I, like the kaleidoscope instead of either or, that there's this kind of multi-perspectival
way in which you can see things. And as we are using language, it's very hard not to talk about
it as one or the other in all these ways, right? Like we're talking, we're as if everyone around
you had one sort of path and you had a different one. But of course that's not really true. But
in another way, it is because you have this very unique position, which has to do with a lot of
things. Not only that your mom came from Finland, but so it's like something you notice, right? When
you, when it's different from, in a certain way from those around you, it does make you feel
different. Like what you're saying with SVF, I mean, you have another perspective that maybe
other people don't even think about. And then it opens up a complexity of which one is correct or
something or there's, there's a kind of, not, not an isolation, but like you said, outsider a few
times in these more intimate examples of like when we're kids and we're growing up and we feel that
there can be this, where you, you see that you have a different experience. I'm trying to get a
maybe some moment in your life when you started to feel that, or I'm wondering like, did you read
a lot as a kid or are you reading poetry? I know there was music. I'm wondering how that hit you
then and how you dealt with it. Yeah. So one thing to say first is that what we're getting at here
is ultimately a kind of relationship between absolute, what we take as absolute truths and
power. And how this kind of multiple consciousness that came to me, whether it was almost like
imposed by life in a sense, or, or that I also sought out is a way of transcending abuses of
power that can, that can come with imposing a binary worldview on people and individuals
and collectives. So as a, as a child, I was already consumed also actually with
the notion of, of power. I was very, I was very bothered by the power dynamics that I saw around
me that, you know, especially those to do with gender, I could see that women had inferior
positions in society and also the same applied to, to girls and boys, you know, my school and so on.
And, but at the same time, I think, I mean, to identify this, this other dimension of why I was
interested in multi-perspective validity aside from my heritage, it was also because I was really
attuned with the spirit of mystery. And I guess growing up in Nigeria blended itself to that.
But I, again, there, I had had several near death experiences as a child. Some very uncanny ones,
like I was kidnapped and, you know, things, things, yeah. And I myself was just really intrigued by
yeah, by, by things that would be deemed mysterious by society at large. And so one of the ways that I,
I guess that I grappled with the duality between my heritages and then between
the mysterious and the known, which of course I wouldn't have,
or which I wouldn't necessarily have put that way back then was really, I mean, yes, I read a lot,
but it was mainly through going into my, into my mind and, and exploring. And when I was about,
I was probably about seven years old or something like that. And what I'm going to say now is
a kind of a trick also for people who are struggling to learn how to meditate.
But I would play this game where I would challenge myself to see how long I could go
without a thought. And it wasn't until I started meditating as an adult that I realized that that's
what you're doing. I've been doing that throughout my childhood because I would just, yeah. And it
was just about challenging and sort of competing with myself. That's remarkable because that's not
an easy thing to notice that you're having thoughts, right? That's part of what meditation does is you
start to notice you are having thoughts and separate, understand you're not your thoughts.
So it's amazing you already had that so young. Yeah. It just sounds like you had a lot of
circumstances that might've, I don't know, not forced you to do that, but it sounds like you.
I think it was, I mean, you know, if a psychologist listens to this, they might say, yeah,
clearly this child was going through some stuff. Well, I mean, if you were kidnapped,
and that's a big thing to. Yeah. Yes. Exactly. And that was just one of kind of many things.
I also had a lot of happy moments in my childhood, but. Yeah. And in the book you describe a lot of,
yeah. A lot of those too. But also, and then there'll be a moment where you're going to school
and there's dead bodies or something. So that's kind of what I mean too with this paradox and
trying to almost invent a new language, right? That maybe sounds like that was part of that
process too when you were already quite young. It's not that there was just this world or this
world. It was like, there's so many different ways of seeing or being or. Yeah. And this is why when
I, you know, much later came across the work of people like W.B. Du Bois, who wrote in the
early 20th century about what he called. And he was talking about the racial and maybe even
specifically the African-American racialized experience as one in which Black people in the
U.S. developed what he calls double consciousness. I think he defines it as something as like this
uncanny ability to be able to understand the white world and the Black world and the white world.
Right. And later you could say that Black feminists evolved this thinking to, I don't know if anyone
actually writes about a sort of triple consciousness, I'm sure someone does, where
you're also looking at the gendered world. You know, you can understand the female world and the
male world because you're in the position of the, quote unquote, oppressed. And I think, I mean,
I talk about double consciousness also in my book to some extent, but since writing it, I've come to
realize that actually double consciousness is probably one of the most important or valuable
ideas, philosophical ideas that we have as a human species.
I totally agree with you. I think, I mean, we talk about it a lot, but we really undervalue
the power. I don't know if we even talk about it a lot. I mean, maybe it's in some of the sort of
black circles that I'm in. Yeah, I guess because I'm thinking of having just done philosophy degrees
or not just, but in my life, done a lot of philosophy degrees that he's never brought up and it's,
or, you know, writing about phenomenology and stuff. And I just think that's one of the most
important, crucial ideas, but I don't want to go on and on. I'm just saying, thank you for saying
that. I appreciate that you also can see that because that's, it's another form of
sensuous knowledge, the seed for people like me, who then can come along and write books
like Sensuous Knowledge. You know, it's really appreciating this ability we have as humans and
to see things from multiple perspectives and, but also then connecting it importantly to
a political dimension and what living under the auspices of our political structures
does to this ability, how it brings it forth or suppresses it if one is in a position of privilege
or, you know, and these are discussions that I think are really very much of the 21st century
still. And we need them so much. And maybe it is worth me bumbling a little bit here because I did
just write something about this in a way. And it struck me reading you recent after that. I mean,
I had written it, but you express it better actually. That's why I brought up the kaleidoscope,
because I was trying to think of double consciousness and Du Bois in terms,
because I had just, I haven't put it on the channel yet, but I've had a few conversations
actually about double consciousness. But anyway, I was thinking of it as trying to open into a kind
of prismatic way of seeing the world or kaleidoscope as you describe, instead of this double. But it's
so hard to talk about and especially from my position, right? I almost feel like I don't have
the right to even talk about those words. But then I also see them as so crucial and even maybe
more crucial in terms of American philosophy than a lot of other stuff that I have to learn in
school. So this is not going to be right the way I say it. But when you grow up in a certain way,
and you're seen in a certain way, which I think Du Bois expresses very well, then you do have to
see the world from both these sides. Whereas the other person, the white person in this case doesn't,
right? They don't. So there's a kind of reflection or something that's going on,
that's somehow kind of not like a good experience. We don't want to say this is
good. And yet, it's expanding your consciousness, it's expanding what you are in a way. So
I don't know how to deal with that in the right way in language, without it sounding like I'm
saying one thing is good or bad, or that we've talked a lot about paths opening, right? And
sometimes when you, like right now, there's so much in your book, so many things I read,
so many things I've thought about that are similar, but I can't just say, oh, we have had
the same experience, because I can't say my path is yours, or that I know anything what it's like
to be on your path. But how do I still have those moments of real identification and being so moved
by it and learning from it at the same time, and not try to say, oh, it's the same as me,
because we have read the same book when we were a kid or something, then I know what your experience
is like, because of course I don't, do you know what I mean? How do you hold, how do we hold all
that? I don't know what you mean. It's really complicated and entangled with all kinds of
narratives that really we should be seeking to move away from. So I think one of the issues is
something that you touched upon, which is the idea that double consciousness is a negative
experience. And even though, of course, it does come from a very painful and traumatic history,
I would want to challenge that it is a negative experience for several reasons. And one would be
that because it is embedded into that kind of narrative, I think that is part of why
white dominant academia or any sphere of philosophy or culture or whatever struggles to
talk about, why it doesn't become as important a theory as it should be, because it evokes these
feelings of that engages with the kind of racial history and my position as white or black or
whatever one might be. So that's one entanglement that it for sure has. But if we can realize,
actually Toni Morrison, and I do write about this even in my book, she doesn't call it
triple consciousness, but she talks about how the kind of privilege she sees in being a Black woman
because she says something along the lines of, it means she doesn't have the naivety
that white women in her experience have. And she is sort of forced to see the world
more clearly. And as you said, of course, that's actually a kind of a trait, a feature in life that
expands your life rather than diminishes it. The more clarity you can have about the reality that
you're surrounded by. And I think that's what double consciousness is about in itself when we
remove it from the narrative of race, which of course we can and should not fully do.
But knowledge is something that is and can never be owned by any one group. I firmly believe that.
What I think is important is to acknowledge the roots of how one comes to an insight.
And we arrived at the insight of double consciousness because human history was so ugly
in terms of how it created racialized structures. And we cannot separate the insight of double
consciousness from that. But the actual insight in itself and what it is trying to convey is not
something that is only relevant to the Black experience. Otherwise, you could say, why
are Black women talking about it? Du Bois was a man, right? And so, of course, a person,
a white woman can have double consciousness in another context. One of my ex-boyfriends,
a white British man, he came to Lagos with me. And he experienced something that he had
never experienced before because he had never been a minority white person somewhere. And that
created some kind of double consciousness for him. And I think collectively as a human species,
we are experiencing double consciousness vis-a-vis our relationship to what we call nature, which we
actually are a part of. And so we know the world of nature to some extent, to a notable extent,
but there are things that are mysterious that we don't know about the world of non-human nature,
as we sort of clumsily refer to it as. And then we know the world of ourselves as a part of nature,
as the human part of nature. And that is also a kind of double consciousness.
And it comes with all of its, you know, murkiness and confusion, also in the language, you know,
like the fact that we talk about human nature and non-human. Like, you know, if we can grasp
how truly we just are nature, we wouldn't speak like that because like a tree would not say,
I'm a non-river tree or mountain is not like a non-tree mountain.
Yeah. It reminds me also in the book, you talk about the Morrison talking about, I can't remember
the phrase right, but race-free, but race-specific or something. Is that connected to this?
I've thought about that in a while. I love that so much.
It's so wonderful that she's so amazing, gosh, the way she puts words on things. Because I feel
like what you were just describing is we're trying to have a nestedness or a kaleidoscopic
understanding of consciousness, right? And the doubling is kind of the way we recognize that
process, but it's not double. It's not either or. A lot of philosophers write about this, right?
I did my thesis on Hegel and there's the whole dialectic and then, but you have the marks and
you have, but it's in Plato, it's in all kinds of ways in which there's a process of this doubling,
but it's not either or. And I feel like in your book, you start opening us up to that triple
kaleidoscopic thing in one way, feels like through Morrison, right? She was doing it, wasn't she?
She really was, and perhaps in the most powerful way.
Living it, yeah. It was sensuous knowledge.
That is the most powerful way, but what I was going to say was through novels, like insofar
as writing is concerned, because characters, she really showed how that multi-perspectival,
triple consciousness is embodied in people and our own person.
Like the bluest eye, that it's just, I think that's what I mean by living it. When you read
that book, you live it no matter where you're coming from. You're going to live it differently,
depending on all you've been through, but yeah, that connects too to the sensuous
knowledge and what you write about narrative of that, that shift that you're showing in your book
to that's a lived attitudinal shift that comes through.
Yeah. I mean, ultimately it's about grasping how alive everything is. And when you do that,
you become so curious about everything because it's fascinating. It's endlessly fascinating how
everything, from a stone or a branch to the conversations that we have about race or gender
or anything, philosophy, there's just this surge of aliveness that is seeking to make its way and
to be part of the conversation. And this is why I think really grasping that we are nature is
part of what makes this so, it kind of unlocks the amazingness of the aliveness because
you realize that even this conversation that we're having right now is nature having a conversation.
With itself, and at the same time changing itself. That's another part, the dynamic.
Yes. And we can see this more easily when we look at trees or rivers or stars and we can see that
they're not static. We see that fluidity, but we don't allow that to ourselves because of the
dominant knowledge system that we're following, in which we do see ourselves as static. We think
that we're having these kinds of conversations to, referring back to what I was saying in the
beginning, to arrive at some kind of destination and that there's sort of set truths that we can
arrive at, whereas we are being just as fluid and shifting as any other part of nature and just as
impactful in how we're going to shape the future. And I think if that is the case, then what we can
ask ourselves is, am I contributing to that shift in a way that aligns with what I believe,
what I have come to understand is of value to nature as a whole, or am I not doing that?
And that's where we can use that as some kind of compass, some kind of assessment, if you like,
of something like double consciousness valuable. Yeah, I would say because it is
contributing with so much value to how we are a part of nature and how we are shifting nature.
Yeah, gosh, there's so much in there I want to talk to you about. Maybe the thing is to go back
to the meditation too, because of when you were seven, but then I think later in your life,
it also became a practice where you're aware of it as meditation. And I feel like that's one way
that you notice what you just described, that you are a part of nature, you're in this nested
dynamic scale of nature, and it allows you this awareness or presence, I think is a word that
maybe you use where you can participate in the way you just described. So I want to hear about the
meditation of the seven-year-old you and then and later, and also towards where we started,
which I haven't described yet, which is these explorers on the mountain. It's not the destination,
but it's this exploration and the paths and so on. I want to get to that after. But first,
meditation in your life. Yeah, so I was meditating as a child without knowing that that's what I was
doing. And I had a meditative experience that I would now know to label things like astral travel
or past life connections and things like that, which are memories from my childhood meditations
that feel, you know, that are as momentous in my life as some of the memories of things that sort
of actually happened. And I think that's so much because they came as a complete surprise to me.
There was playing this game with myself and all of a sudden I was transported into what I knew
was my past life. And it was kind of like, how do I even, you know, who do I talk with about this?
Because it felt so big, but I also immediately knew that this is like too mystical or whatever to
bring up as a conversation. But yeah, I mean, fast forwarding, I guess the thing I should preface
and say that meditation is a very difficult thing to talk about. I mean, I've been meditating for
over 20 years now. And I find that, you know, first of all, you go through so many different
phases with your meditative journey. But what I have found to be consistent is that whenever I
try to talk about it with people, I'm aware of just how silly it sounds. And it's just something
that is ineffable and should almost be left or should always be spoken about with the knowledge
that it is quite ineffable. It's like talking about spirituality or sex, good sex, you know,
like you can't, you can't describe it. It's something that you just have to experience.
But what I can say is that I think meditation has been immensely valuable to me because I am
this person who is so curious about everything and doesn't take things at face value.
And in a world that is patriarchal and capitalist and the wheels are forever spinning around this
sort of patriarchal capitalist machine, it is really difficult, no matter how much you have
gained, you know, a kind of embodied sense of transformation from looking at the world differently.
It can become really hard to centre yourself in that because you're just worlds away into this,
into the structures that govern. And meditation is, for me, it's a, you know, it's a political act,
as well as a spiritual one, because it's where I reconnect with my core self and my soul and my
destiny and my heritage, my lineage, my ancestors. And it's, I don't mean by that,
that I'm thinking about these things, because obviously then I wouldn't really be meditating.
But just by reclaiming that space where I'm just dedicated to spirit, I am politically aligning
myself with other ways of knowing other than the dominant, your patriarchal one.
Yeah, that's really powerful. Do you, like, how would we relate that to sensuous knowledge,
do you think? Is it a kind of knowledge, I guess, because the sensuous knowledge that comes as you
read the book, of course, it's almost, it feels to me a little bit like what you're saying with
the meditation. I mean, you've written a book about it in it, and you express it, but there's
almost like a practice that expresses it. Does that make sense? Yeah.
It does make sense. And I love that you used the word practice, and maybe even
it could be praxis, because sensuous... Praxis, yeah.
I mean, it's also, in some ways, an ineffable thing to speak about, which is ironic considering
that I've written a book about it. But you know, words are not enough to convey the thing,
or put it this way. In my life, the book is like the least thing about my life that applies to
sensuous knowledge. Like, it's more how I live and how I look at the world and how I look at
how my relationship to myself and to nature is. And so, yeah, in that sense, meditation is
absolutely like, that would be at the sort of top of things that express sensuous knowledge.
And it's this poetic, this word poetic comes up too, where you can, with the praxis maybe,
or something, poetry expresses things without, poetry expresses things using words, but not
saying them. Oh, I love that. Yeah, I mean, yes, absolutely. Because poetry is
it's like God visiting us. And, you know, it's like, you know how people say that, yeah, like,
it came back to earth and people wouldn't even know it. Poetry is kind of like that, you know,
it's like Jesus and every other divinity and deity being around us, and we don't even engage with it.
Because it does, it does something with words that transcends words and transcends language.
And one of the ways that I think we know that is by the way that you are automatically
stilled down when you read a poem, like if you're reading a poem that you like,
because you could read a poem that you're not connecting with, and that would be if you're
reading a poem or hearing or whatever, a poem that you really like, you cannot actually
be hyperactive. It's, you know, it just instantly makes everything else disappear. And you are,
you and that poem are one, there's kind of no distinction in that moment. And what else,
I mean, music does that as well. But in terms of writing, it's rare, I think, in other forms
of writing for that to happen. That's a great way to connect it to that meditative thing too. And it
it makes me think of Back to Your Childhood again, isn't that when you also had this automatic
writing sort of experience? And to me, when I was reading, that also felt, I wondered if that was
a kind of poetic feeling or something to, I don't know, was that in your childhood when
that happened to you? Was that? That actually was the kind of start of my meditation as an adult.
So I was in my early 20s. Yeah, when that happened, and I was writing in my journal,
and then what happened was that I was suddenly writing very fast in handwriting that wasn't
quite mine, expressing things that I didn't know I had ever thought about. And that could potentially,
you know, still be okay. But when I decided that I wanted to stop journaling, I couldn't.
And eventually, and I could only write in like, one direction toward the right. So I was ripping
out, first of all, I couldn't stop. So I was using my left hand to try and stop my right hand.
Wow. But it couldn't. Not like my right hand was just a different, you know, entity. And then my
right hand was also tearing out pieces of paper so that I could just continue toward the right.
And so at the end of the session or seance or whatever, my floor, my room floor was covered
from one corner to the last in paper and just this ferocious scribbling. And so no, it didn't
feel poetic. It felt terrifying. Because at this point, even though I'd had this during my childhood,
I'd had, you know, this openness toward the mysterious. I, perhaps therefore, also when I
was around nine, 10, despite my dad's Muslim, and I'd grown up with that around me, but I asked one
of my aunties who was a Catholic, if I could join her church, and I kind of went down that path. And
so throughout my teens, I was not exactly a practicing Christian, but I had Judeo-Christian
religion very much at the top of my head. And so when this happened, it was the first incident in
which that was really challenged for me. But it was also the only view, the only source of understanding
spiritual experiences that I could analyze it from, the religious one, that is. And of course,
what that was telling me was that I was possessed by something evil. So that, you know, that's what
I thought, that this has got to be like an evil spirit. And I was so scared. I spoke to my dad,
who is the only person that I feel. My dad also has this sort of spiritual calling toward the
unknown and the mysterious, and he's the person I've always been able to talk to about mystical
things. But he was in Nigeria. I was in Sweden at the time. And so for a couple of years or so,
I just actually lived in existential dread. I thought I was scared to journal. I was
just scared of myself. And what then happened was that I started going to shops where they sold
some like mystical books. And that was when I was recommended books by other people who had
done, experienced automatic writing. Did you know it was a thing before you found those books,
or were you just like, oh gosh? There was one shop in Sweden that I went to. It was kind of
the only shop where you could buy, you know, gemstones and cards and stuff like that.
And she, the woman who worked there was somebody I confided in. I told her what had happened.
And she wasn't like a mystic or something. So she gave me just very hands-on,
she just said these words like, oh, that sounds like automatic writing. And that was like, and I'm
like, oh my goodness, give me everything that contains about this. And it was reading those
books where I encountered people who meditated. And that was how I then started meditating.
And that sort of helped you get a little bit of distance from that part of yourself, would you
say, or some kind of agency or presence with it, or just to be able to see it, hold it in a space
other than being it? What it gave me was a tiny bit, a tiny ray of a chance that maybe it was
something powerful rather than something negative. I was thinking that word power the whole time you
were saying it. And also when I brought up poetic, it's not that I thought the experience was poetic,
but what poetry conveys without saying it. There's also this connection to nature in the
way you were describing it. There's something there I'm trying to, it feels...
You're right. You're right. It is poetic in a sense, because poetry is of course also not
just saccharine and beautiful.
No, no, no. And it can be very dangerous.
So I think you're right to call it a poetic experience.
Not really, but do you see what, that was what I was trying to get at that.
I was almost even thinking of Rumi or something, of this burning burner and burn, this thing that
almost consumes you but wakes you up. I don't know. I don't know.
Yeah. Yes. Really, I'm so grateful that whatever happened then, and as I say in the book,
maybe there are perfectly rational experiences to what happened. Maybe I got myself into some
kind of trance state. I don't know. I'm open to all that now, but what matters is that at the time,
I wasn't at all. There was nothing rational about it for me. I had been possessed by something.
And I'm so grateful in a sense that that was how I read it, because otherwise I wouldn't have
gone on this pursuit of trying to understand what was happening to me.
Yeah. This is great. And I'll try to now link back to some ties, because what you just said
about maybe it was you psychologically dealing with something, we might think that is a paradox
versus the spiritual mystical experience. And it's not, because I think at this time in your
life, you were going through a lot. You had moved to Sweden. This is in a book you talk about where
it's the first time you realized you're black, in a sense, because you didn't have to think about
it before. There was a lot of change in your family. Your dad's far away. You're in a new
situation. There was some difficulty. I mean, you could probably tell it better, but the point is,
obviously, you had a lot to deal with then. Plus, it sounds like you were feeling a lot anyway,
just as you're human, Nate, as you are in the world. So that's somehow for people who already
feel a lot, it can be even more. But I guess the point is, if that's how you dealt with it
psychologically, and if it's mystical, don't have to be opposite. Yeah.
In quotation, because yeah, I mean, it's just to offer that double consciousness again, that I'm
aware that that is also one way of reading the situation. But yeah, because it did push me into
what has become my life path, then it cannot also just be read in that way. Of course, there was
an element of mystery to it. Even just in the very mere fact of why do things happen to us,
why do some things happen to us and not other things? I mean, that's mysterious in itself.
It's all very mysterious. And that's like you were saying, when you're in that place where you can
recognize that the whole world, the leaf or everything becomes something of all that you
can learn from. And the reason I said that is not, in your book, you express what I just said,
but I was more for people who are listening to where it might sound like either or. Actually,
the whole idea of sensuous knowledge opens that up in a wider way. So I encourage you to read the
book and understand. But the reason I also bring it up is because we were talking about also,
there's all these paths in your life that have given you a way to contribute to this. And it's
tied to power. And I want to get to the way you talk about reorienting that word. But before we
do, I brought up at the beginning that you start the book with the mountain. And there's two kind
of explorers who explore the mountain. And I want people to read the book. But in general,
they have very different experiences of what this mountain is. And it's beautiful because
from the beginning, we have this idea, which you've been taking us back to. And I want to
try to make explicit now, which is the way we encounter the world and our experiences of it
can't just be like snapshot of that moment. Our whole development goes into our knowledge.
But I also see, I mean, there's two people in that story, but we've already seen that you were
living so many different paths, right? Yeah. There's also more layers to this
because there's also, you know, I grew up with many languages and language being something that
has been central to our conversation and to my work. And that being another way you learn
perspective. That's another consciousness in the double consciousness way we were talking.
Exactly. I mean, double consciousness. I'm sure somebody has looked at
linguistics to it. I really hope so. But yes, I was speaking Finnish with my mother and English
with my dad. And then my parents spoke German to each other to add, you know, because they met
in Germany where they both studied. So they lived in Greece for nine years and my mom didn't speak
English. She'd come from Finland to Germany. So when they moved to Nigeria, you know, you can't
really, it's difficult to switch languages in a relationship. So they always spoke German. So
there was also that. And yeah, but in terms of the mountain story, it's, you know, to summarize it,
it's kind of what's on the other side of the mountain. So we have one explorer, there's a
story about riches in a mountain. And we have an explorer from a village who goes looking for
these riches and comes back many months later and says, Oh, no, there was nothing there. It's
arid. It's dead. And then there's this other explorer who's kind of let go of the story of
the riches of the mountain and they go looking for them. And then they come back months later
and they're like, Oh my goodness, it was so flourishing and abundant. And basically she,
at this point, I reveal that this other explorers as she has seen the other side of the mountain.
And it's not that she is right and he was wrong or vice versa. It's just that they were looking
at it from different angles. And the obvious truth here is that if we can look at the mountain from
as many angles as possible, this metaphorical mountain, the truer and the richer our understanding
of it will be, we will see the parts that are dead and arid and that will be okay. And then
we'll see the other parts too. And I start with that story because I guess I wanted readers to
immediately have a knowing that the book that they're about to read is written by somebody who
perceives themselves as that second explorer as I do in, especially in the world of ideas and
epistemology and knowledge making. The world of ideas is forever. I mean, still today,
we are, it is so dominated by white men and we are missing. It's not that some of these ideas are
fantastic. I mean, so much of Hegel's work, you mentioned you study Hegel, like so much of it is
mind-blowingly good, but so much of it is not. And also it is one way of seeing the world. And
when you have like a thousand Hegel, I mean, you don't because people like Hegel stand out,
of course, but when you add all of these white male thinkers together, the worldview that we have is
so utterly dominated by actually a white and a male experience. And we don't know that it's like,
you know, especially, I think part of the curse of our times is that because we've had so many
conversations about this, we think that we are living differently, but we're still following
exactly that same path to knowing. And so I wanted to make it sort of clear and for the reader to
appreciate that what I was doing was to bring the story about ideas from different angles.
I think the path is a great way of thinking, because it's like so many people have walked that
way, that it seems like the way to walk. I mean, so, and because now we can get to power a little
bit, because so many people have walked that path, we don't think of the fact that those in power
created that particular path. And those in power were white males, right? I mean, I'm generalizing,
but in this bigger space that most of us live in, you just walk the path and you don't realize
that there's probably many, many other ways of exploring that mountain or seeing that mountain
or what's important about the mountain, so to speak. So how do we bring in power here? Because
this is a really important word. So I think of it as it's showing us that knowledge is a kind of
journey. It's a movement. It's dynamic. There's many ways of being that movement. It's not just
this thing that we thought of as like stuff in our head. It's this lived experience. In the book,
we're learning this, right? And we're getting into this practice of thinking of the world in this way
and what the sensual knowledge is. And then you kind of move into some real examples of thinking
about it. I don't know if example is the right word, but we think about power and beauty. Would
you like to set that up a little better before we talk about power? How you think of power relative
to sensuous knowledge? Yeah. Yes, because the thing is that we, I think it's important to first
set the stage by saying that one of the problems with power is that those who have it,
whether it is due to their race or their gender or their capital or whatever it might be, or us as
a species, vis-a-vis other nature, is that they think that the other wants what they have.
That there's, I mean, that is, I think the, this is very complicated in a sense, but because it
sounds so straightforward, but in some sense, that is the ultimate barrier to freedom from
both the position of the oppressor and the oppressed is that there's this sense for those
who have power that like, what I have is what the other wants. And that makes it very difficult
to have a conversation about something like power or beauty from the get-go, because there's this
idea on both sides that like, oh, I want power the way, I want to be one of those CEOs at the
Fortune 500. We think we know what power is, but it's actually a definition that's been like a path
that some people built for us. This idea of dominance and coercion, for example, which you
talk about a lot. We assume that's kind of power. We haven't thought about it though, in the same
way that we've been talking about here in this nestedness of, we haven't meditated on it, so to
speak, or doubled it. We need to stop doing that. And it's so hard to stop doing that,
because people who have it think, even if they want to give it away, they're still thinking
that what I have is what you want. Let me tell you a story of, this is probably common for
many kids, but when I had a bird in a cage as a kid, and I didn't have it for a long time until
I was like, no, it can't be in a cage. I'm going to set it free. And I one day opened it, and it
took a while. I remember just sitting there looking at this bird and it was there, I don't
know, was it an hour or something like that, before it eventually flew out. And when it flew
out of the cage, I will never forget this feeling that I had, which in this scenario, I am the
person, I am the entity with power. And the bird flew away and it didn't once look back.
And I felt, as much as I had been watching it going like, fly, fly, fly. But the moment it did
that and it didn't care, that indifference, that is power. That is what I am trying to describe
as power. And what we do in our societies is we automatically assign me with the power, or even
the bird as it is flying. But it's not power, it is that freedom to just exist. And so yeah,
we need to sort of bypass or transcend this prism. That's why I want to stage with that.
But yeah, ultimately- It's beautiful. Gosh, and when you're talking about the bird,
I mean, that's a beautiful story. And it reminded me of in the book, when you talk about Rosa
Luxemburg, I think there's a quote where she says she feels like a bird. And it is a kind
of a real power that she's feeling in that moment. And also, I think she talks about when she's in
jail, she feels free or something. Yeah, she says, she writes these letters with her best friend,
you know, best friend slash comrade. And she says, I don't have any identity anymore.
Because her friend has asked her, do you still identify with the socialist, with the
Leninist, whatever? And she's like, no, the only thing that I identify with, if anything,
is the bird that sings outside of my prison cell. Yeah, it's really powerful and beautiful.
And that's that power and that joy. And yeah, so we don't, I mean, you set it up very well,
looking at past ways that people have literally sort of spoken about power and put it into a
formula. And it ends up being about getting people to do stuff that they didn't want to do
in a way, you know, it's like, how much can you coerce someone? How much can you dominate them?
And if I mean, we're talking about the paths, right? And, and language, and these languages
also a path, there's these things that we follow without knowing we are following. And that's,
I think what we're trying to get out with the double consciousness to become aware of it.
And that's what your book is doing. And you and the and then you can change this,
you can understand power in the way you just described it. But it's so hard to get out of,
it's almost like our very thoughts have been molded by that path of power of, even with
something like social media, you know, that dominance, that coercion is part of how that
technology is built, you know. And also with activism, a lot of activism that we're seeing
today, very much still follows that model of, you know, there being a destination,
in a very specific way that we get there. And it's all very much about material structures.
And again, there's a time and a place for all that. Absolutely. We cannot all be like
in double consciousness, multi dimensionality all the time, or there are some concrete things
that would not happen. But it is so limiting. And I, you know, that is the ultimate sort of
prison that Western thought has put pretty much, you know, the majority of humanity in right now,
is that we're living in this limited black or white film, when actual reality is, you know,
this multicolour, forever shape shifting, wild, abundant, you know, just sometimes really ugly
and dark and shadowy place, but also so much richer and magnificent than we can see through
this black and white prism. And I think, you know, we really need to get beyond just
trying to express what that is. I mean, that's also important, but to really seeing that,
you know, it has to be about the actual experience of seeing like, you know, you look at your
phone, or you look at a tree, whatever object it is, you look at yourself in the mirror,
and you just see so much more than what conventional knowledge wants you to see.
And to do that, I think, you know, there needs to be that's where feminism comes in, and must be
mentioned at least once. You know, that's where it comes in, because that's, I think to do that,
you need a streak of rebellion, you know, you need to have some part of you that refuses to
conform and refuses to abide to authority. A little bit of revolt, I think, is already used,
though you describe it in a really particular way. Yes, that's the perfect, yeah. And that's
something that, you know, in a lot of spaces where people are talking about complexity theory and
this, that, and the other, I think that's the ingredient that's missing. I mean, those spaces
can be fascinating, like, you know, people are really tapping into the richness that exists
beyond the conventional and dominant knowledge, but that spirit of revolt that feminism brings
into the picture is a really crucial ingredient, I think. And that's the sensual or sensuous,
I guess, knowledge, isn't it? I mean, that's this lived attitude that isn't static. Like,
what you were just describing, that feminism, that revolt is a lived, ongoing, ever-changing stance
or attitude, or you talk about the necessity of relation, I think it's closer to that, right?
But when we try to do something like science, or when we try to make sense of this in an academic
setting, so to speak, then it feels like you can't have that there, right? That's back to that
weird paradox or something. Like, how do you see how to resolve this? Because you've lived in both
worlds. I mean, you know all of this, and you also teach, and you're an academic, and how have you
held that paradox of, of revolt being necessary and that ongoing lived? You can never measure
anything. And then also, of course, needing to put things in words and theories and talk about
theories and so on. Yeah, I think it has to do with understanding one's intentions,
and not only one's as an individual, but you could say for feminism as a collective movement as well,
because we're not, you know, feminism is now very much an academic venture, as much as it is still,
I would say, to an equivalent level, a kind of activist movement.
But we're not going to escape that. Like, that's the fact of it. And the fact of it is also that
those two things are in tension, because academia is very patriarchal, the way that, you know, and
it's very, you're a patriarchal, how it is structured, you know, the whole thing about
disciplines, for instance, you know, that's, that's, that's a kind of travesty for feminism,
you know, if you think about the core purpose of being anti patriarchal, the idea that,
you know, that feminism becomes a discipline, and that people can just specialize in that rather than
engaging with the kind of whole experience of gender, of womanhood, man, all of these things.
And yet at the same, I'm not denouncing disciplines, I can see again, their value
and measurement. There's instances to catch a flight, like, thank God somebody has measured
time so that I don't just go and sit in an airport and like randomly wait, or train, car, whatever.
So clearly, you know, we need measurement, we need, I think there's a lot of value if somebody
is very passionate about a specific discipline, but feminism should
not be looked at in that way, even while we are developing the feminist
school of thought academically. So that's what I mean by being aware of one's intention. So like
I had a conversation recently with a feminist lecturer at a university in Hamburg where I am,
and she was saying to me that, you know, she said, could we, how did she put it? She was basically
kind of asking me if there would be, if I would be interested in opportunities to collaborate.
But she framed it as such that, you know, because she is working in academia, and I had been sharing
with her that I'm trying to, you know, I'm writing sort of nonfiction, creative nonfiction,
that hopefully appeals to a broader audience. And so she framed it as though maybe there's no
space for collaboration, because it's like different worlds. And it struck me, especially
afterwards, I was thinking about it a lot. It wasn't, you know, I'm not throwing shade at her,
I think what she said, I understand where she was coming from, but it just struck me that how far we
have moved away from the purpose of feminism, which of course, we can collaborate, like it
doesn't matter what discipline, if you're in law or, you know, philosophy, whatever, like as feminists,
there's a mutual interest that we should be able to talk about. And because I have the intention of,
you know, a feminist revolt, at my core, always, like, that's my compass, I can see it that way.
Whereas if I had the intention to become a feminist professor at so-and-so university,
maybe I wouldn't think about that what to me feels like an obvious truth. So I think intention is
really important. That's so wonderful. And by intention, I think it gets back to that
thinking of things as trajectories or paths that can't be, that are continuous, that your whole,
everything we've talked about has kind of gone into, it's not just one path, as we've noted,
and it's not just, it's nested in their scales, and it's very complex, and there's multi-layers
and all of that, but it is continuous in the sense that it's from, you know, it's your kind of path
that no one else has, because no one else is you. And that, for me, feels like a kind of intention,
too, or a kind of, that we have to take that into consideration always. Or the reason I brought up
measurement in that way, which is a little, I don't know, cheeky or something, because I know
you weren't against it, but I feel like it's important the way that you do talk about it,
because measurement can sound like it's objective, but the measurement is also related to intention,
isn't it? I mean, we could think of those two people who are exploring the mountain as kind of
measuring it or assessing it, and they have completely different ones, and neither is wrong,
because the mountain is so vast and dynamic and different. And I guess that's what I,
because measurement and assessment are important, but when we hear those words,
we think they're objective, I think, is what I was trying to bring out. And I wonder what you think
about that. Yeah, I mean, that has a huge issue with, you're absolutely right, or you're right to
bring that up, because that is the problem, or the problem, the two problems with measurement,
as I see it, is the first one is that we want to measure everything. So it's okay to measure
certain things, but there are things that maybe measuring is not suitable for, like,
I mean, actually even power, I would say, but certainly something like love or freedom or
justice, peace, things that we're really grappling with in our times. Yeah, it almost doesn't make
sense to put that word on there, or does it? No, like, I mean, how do you measure justice? Well,
in a court of law, like, but as a phenomenon, like, how do you measure love? Is it some kind
of equation or, you know? I guess that's what I'm trying to get at here, bring out, because
we can measure those things, but they're just measurements. They're like one little kind of,
they're one way of almost like a little snapshot of something that's much, like, it's like a little
path on the mountain, right, that the mountain's always changing, the path itself is always
changing, like, you can take that little picture of the path or something, I don't know how to
say it, and it can help you maybe better understand how to navigate, but you can't say that's the
mountain, you know? Yes, and that is the second measurement, is that we then believe it religiously,
we believe that when somebody says, oh, I have measured this, that means that they are right,
you know? And that's what it is for everyone or something. And that goes back to, like, how we're
seeing the world in black and white instead of technicolor, because we are just following
the measurements and missing everything, all the other ways of knowing a thing, the experiential
ways, the affective ways, the spiritual ways, the emotional, like, you know, there's so many other
ways that we could try to understand justice, for instance, but we only want to understand it the way
in which it can be measured. And relative to what you bring out in the book, which we won't, we have
to go soon, now I realize, but in terms of power, I think that's an important thing that you bring
up or that comes out is because you start to talk about power in a different way. Right now, power is
seen as that way, like measuring or dominance, or it's very much based on as if there's one correct
powerful thing in this coercion and dominance, but you open up branching and
that's a whole, that's all the stuff we've been talking about, which is real power, I feel like,
but nobody seems to be aware of it. Yeah, no, I mean, the thing about measuring is not only that
it's not only that we want to measure power and people do, you know, there's all these
A equals B, whatever, A equals B, then B has power, like all of these kinds of equations.
So there's that, but it's more that if we live in a world where everything can be measured,
then we can have more control, which is the ultimate goal of your patriarchal structures,
whether they're patriarchal or whatever, this desire to control, and you cannot control things
that cannot be measured, at least not as straightforwardly as you can control
things when you can put a formula on them. And so when we do that, then with power, we
have to then create a corresponding narrative that aligns with the measurements. So like if B can
control A, then B has more power. Okay, so now we apply that to an authoritarian leader or to
the husband in a heterosexual marriage, or whatever, you know, they can control, they are B,
in essence. And so what I'm trying to do with exusions is to think about power as something that
is enabling rather than contriving and diminishing. Power as something that is
generous and, you know, gives life, gives abundance. Like there's no reason that we
could not see power that way. I mean, in fact, I'm not even speaking about this hypothetically.
No, no, no. Like the bird in flight, it is. I mean, it gets weird trying to talk about it,
especially because we still use the language that's built on the old way of thinking about power. So
I even worry, you know, people hear the word power, and they are thinking of it in those old terms,
because it's defined that way. But what you're really suggesting is it's actually real power,
I think of. It's like the power that we've been taught is power isn't actually power. It's not
that bird in flight. It isn't. But that exists, and it's actually there. And there's a shift,
which I think your book shows is a shift of cognition or knowledge. Once we understand
that that's a whole body lived experience, not something in a head or brain, that's a kind of
shift that shows you that power, or that what does it do? It doesn't show it to you, but you
fly or you realize you're it. Yeah, you feel it. You see it. And it's not that complicated. Like,
try anybody listening. Just think about when you've enabled someone else or something else
to do something that that thing or person or entity was desiring to do. And that quality,
you can do it in just offering a seat to somebody on a boat. That's a kind of expression of power.
But once you start to really meditate on that gesture, that spirit of what is happening,
you can see it everywhere. Everything is empowering. I mean, look at the way that fungi
are empowering forests and clouds are empowering. Like, you know, you see it
in every little tiny thing and its power is so beautiful. It's like this magical superpower
that well, maybe superpowers, you know, it's in this sense of power. But yeah, it's really
something that we can tap into in a it can enrich our lives or give our lives a quality
and a texture of joy and meaning and direction. If we start to look at it in a different way,
whereas if we continue to look at it the way that it has been theorized and how it is offered to us,
it really makes our lives feel like suffering. You know, those moments where we feel and
everybody feels this in some way, some of us more because we feel it also structurally,
as well as maybe in our independent lives. But we all have moments where we feel that we are being
disabled in some way of like fulfilling what we want to do. And if we associate that with power,
if that's how we think about power, then we're caught up in this game where we're miserable.
Absolutely. It makes me think of the dance or of there's this there's this way which I felt in the
book, there were moments where I felt very emotional, but I wasn't quite sure why. And
I think it's because of that, that that it's written as a in a way that's a practice,
and kind of like as you just people listening can do. But that's also why I brought up measurement
too, because I think part of what you just described the way we feel when we feel
unworthy or disabled is because we don't measure up, so to speak. But nobody measures up because
that's a false dichotomy of thinking there's something you have to measure up to, or that
that's power or that that's beauty. So it's this weird loop or spiral that we're in of trying to
measure up and feeling inadequate or something. And I kind of hear you saying or what it kind of
felt in the book is relax out of that or dance out of that or whatever, you know,
meditate out of that or something. And then you feel this real power, which is the it's
it's what we're part of, you know, when you relax into it with presence, you feel it.
Yeah, but that's not easy, right to have the presence and relax into it. But, but we can do it.
Yeah, it's really not easy. But one way to try and do it is to is this thing of
multi-perspectivality. It's not going to you know, it's not like some magical tool. But
when you start to think about things through different prisms, it's it kind of is a is a
journey toward this kind of empowerment, because one day you wake up and suddenly realize that
you're not in this competitive scarcity mindset anymore, because you can only be in that mindset
when you're looking at things in this very narrow way. But when you started to see that,
well, okay, that isn't that one way, but there's another way to look at it. And there's another
culture that views it differently, or, you know, that there's these layers to everything,
it becomes increasingly difficult to be in a mindset of, of negative competition is perhaps
a better word. And so that's something that I really encourage. Because it's, again, it's
this kind of ineffable thing with some sensuous knowledge. So you can't give a methodology per
se. But one way is like when you're confronted with something that you can't really deal with
or grab you're grappling with something is to, you know, just a simple exercise of like thinking
about it through your different, through your senses, through your emotions, if you're up in
your head, through your body, maybe you need to move. And then you can take it, you know,
one step further and do some research about it from like a different cultural perspective,
or gendered, racialized, whatever, you know. And yeah, and it's, and it's not, this is not
research, because of course, people do, that's not, you know, you have a thesis, and then you
declare what theory you're using, it's like doing it in real time, and with quite mundane things,
you know, like, I think the practice has to start with quite mundane, often give this example of
like, what you have for breakfast, you know, if somebody listening can think about what they had
for breakfast, the bread, if they had bread, like, what, you know, with how we think about it,
we would be able to, we would typically describe it with calorific intake, nutritional facts,
whatever. But, you know, you could also think about the texture of the bread, how it felt on
your tongue, describe the taste, the sounds that you heard around you when you were eating
breakfast. Yeah, the tradition of the baking, you know, does it have a specific tradition,
those kinds of things. And when you start thinking of mundanities in that way,
then you eventually can start applying it also to bigger questions and issues.
That's beautiful. Yeah, that's a good way. I see what you mean, just grounding it in even just your
way back to sensuous or sensuality of being present. I think at the beginning you said,
you could think about the screen, you could think about the background, you could think about the
room you're in, the neighborhood. There's something amazing about just noticing that
we don't have to think in that either or way, and we can start to look at life just in everyday
situations in that scaled nested way. And then you can start to look at yourself and other subjects
in that way, maybe. So that's really beautiful. To end, I want to come to this idea of love,
because this is love and philosophy. And I feel like we're talking about love a little bit here,
or that this experience of love, I don't know, is it a kind of also like a relaxing into that
powerful or beautiful space? Or how do you think of it? Is it motivating this?
Yeah, I mean, I think love is everything. Actually, love is the superpower that we don't...
Love is the mountain.
Love is the mountain. I mean, it is, because love is attention and intimacy. When you love something,
you pay it so much attention. You want to know everything about it. You want to know what it's
grieving, thinking, eating, living. And that, in return, is intimacy. That's what it means
to be intimate with something, is to really want to get to the core kernel of that thing.
And yeah, the connection or the difference, the synthesis of
attention and intimacy is what love is. And so when we think about things, when we think about
knowledge with love in that way, we become so curious, so attentive. It's not just that,
oh, somebody tells me that this is a piece of knowledge about X, Y, Z. No, I want to pay
attention to that. I want to be intimate with it. And I think what challenges us quite often with
this kind of... It's eros. It's an erotic relationship to not... Because even that breakfast,
that bread that you were... If you eat it, if you have your breakfast the way that I described,
you are having a kind of erotic experience. And of course, people, you're not going to have this
every morning necessarily. But it's possible to actually find that eros, even in something
that mundane. But yeah, when you do that with whatever knowledge it is that one is in pursuit
of, if you just apply love in the way that I've described to that, you will be practicing
sensuous knowledge. That's what I mean by it, really. And there is darkness to love. This
always needs to be said. I'm not talking about something romantic here. Intimacy and romance
are very different things. Romance is myths, lies. It's a fabrication of a narrative. It can be fun,
but that's not the deal. This is sometimes what you're going to... The knowledge, when you
encounter knowledge in that way with love, can be really painful. I mean, if you're looking at
racism or sexism as topics that I've been working with, approaching those topics with love,
with the knowledge that is embedded into them is a hell of a journey. It's not going to be easy.
And that's why I think people don't always do that. That's why we don't encourage this methodology.
Yeah, that's a very important thing that you brought up because it can just sound like we're...
You talked a little bit about how the tree or your breakfast or everything can be this
sensuousness and this... It's a different way of being in the world, right? And
you said a few times you can't live that in every moment. I understand what you mean. I often think
like... Because when I'm in that state, it's like you can't hardly even go shopping for groceries,
right? Because the vegetables are so beautiful and you're just like, look at the fractal shape
of this broccoli. It's incredible. Life does slow down or something. And sometimes we have to do
things that require a different pace. However, I guess what I'm saying is it changes your way
of being. It too is dynamic and nested, right? So when you start cultivating that,
you learn how to sit with life. And as you're saying, life is sometimes very
violent and painful. And we've all had those experiences to different degrees. And some in
the book that you describe are just... There's a lot to sit with in life. But I guess love can help
us do that too, right? In this space of presence and also not identifying so fully with those
experiences or that. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, no, absolutely. It becomes a kind of,
if we go back to the Yoruba philosophy and with the divinities, and one of the things that I also
talk about in the book is you have an ori in Yoruba, which is your head. And the ori is a
very central concept in Yoruba philosophy, because you carry your head with you. And
every person has a specific head, which is usually tied to the orisha, which are the deities.
So my orisha is Yemoja. She's called Yamania in Brazil. Anyway, but it means that you have a sense
of... It's a kind of destiny in a way. And you find yourself in situations where you're not
necessarily putting your head, your ori at the forefront, but it's always there because it's on
you. It's part of your body. It's like that. Sometimes you have to rush into the shop
and out and you can't focus on the fractals in whatever. You can catch a glimpse of it.
You walk past the aisle and you're like, yeah, the broccoli over there. So there's an awareness
of it that you carry along with you all the time. Yeah. Well, I will finally let you go. I really
appreciate you spending a little more time than we thought. And I really appreciate the book. I'm
just very grateful to you. Is there anything that we didn't talk about that you want to be sure
we say? I know there's so much. I mean, I had identity, I had your blog, but, you know...
All I want to say is thank you for this very enjoyable conversation and for
engaging, reading my book so closely. I really appreciate that. And I'm glad you liked it.
Yeah, my pleasure.
Thank you.
