Design is not a hardcore skill or soft skill, it's a human skill.
Can you change people's quality of life or just throw tons of ideas on them?
Yeah, you just have to immerse yourself in all these challenges.
That's the only way to do it.
So for me, it's not studying, I'm recharging.
Every day is like a war to me.
You know, just like, oh, you have credit card fraud or you forgot to pay your student dorm
rent.
Oh, you need, you have health problems.
So for me, these are all ambiguity.
And how do we embrace that?
The funny thing is that you can actually learn a lot of things from the people you cannot
resonate with.
I actually feel like I love, everyone love like sense of achievement, but I think it's
more important than a sense of fulfillment.
You have to feel fulfilled.
Things go wrong.
It's okay to go around and it should be go around sometimes.
Yeah, I still want to swim into this and to understand how can I survive and, you know,
like a propel, not just stay there, a panic, you know, you still have to moving.
Hey, everybody, just a quick introduction to Shane Hung Lee.
He's a designer.
He's an engineer.
He's an educator.
He's a graduate major here.
He has inspirations from many domains.
He's coming from electrical engineering first, and then also industrial design.
He's worked for some of the best design consultancy firms in the world, like IDEO.
And he's now at MIT in the age lab working on ideas of longevity, which we talk about.
And he's bringing an interesting approach to problem solving.
I found him through some quotes he has that are inspiring, talking about systematic impacts
in a meaningful way across a lot of different disciplines.
Here we talk about what design is, like design, decoding signals.
He talks about that, which I find fascinating, but even more fascinating is we get into this
discussion about life itself and what presence and awareness brings to design, but also to
the design, so to speak, of our life.
And Shane Hung does this great story about something he had to deal with, some theft
or something, and having to go to the bank to sort this out and wanting to figure it
out and how he brought these principles that we're going to talk about relative to design
beyond dichotomy, let's just say, how he brought that into his everyday life.
And we talk about this on a lot of different levels.
These kinds of design elements of our life are very important and not something we always
think about when we're planning what we want and what the future should look like.
He shares his insights about the way that design is shifting, this whole idea of human-centered
design and life-centered design and these perspectives that are opening up in the design
world.
And we talk about one of his projects that he did, which was to redesign the Shanghai
Library, kind of a big project.
He's done a lot of big projects.
And how that was a matter of thinking differently about the paths that each person was walking
each day before they came into that space, which, of course, that's very interesting
to me with this idea of navigability and waymaking.
And instead of thinking of design as somehow separate from that, of course, it's all part
of it, right?
Everything's designed or being designed from some level.
And at the same time, there's a way in which nothing is designed.
So that's this kind of paradox that we discussed a little bit and try to hold, how it really
relates to societal issues and things that actually matter to us, from getting older
to climate change to even the way virtual experiences or our online experience might
be being designed by algorithms.
We don't really talk about that here, but it is something that I thought of after our
conversation relative to these subjects.
What's beautiful about this conversation is there's a real emphasis on love and human
connection and design as being a way to connect us and help us feel more of that.
So that's one of my favorite kinds of conversations when we get to a place like that.
I hope you enjoy it.
I hope you're doing well wherever you're making your way.
If you want to support love and philosophy, there's a lot of ways.
Join the sub stack or whatever.
Do anything that feels good to you to help us.
There's all kinds of opportunities and it really helps.
Yeah.
Thanks for being here.
I'm really glad that you are.
So I guess we can begin formally now.
So hi, Sheng Hong.
Thank you so much for being here.
It's really lovely to have you on love and philosophy.
Thanks for inviting me.
Very exciting.
You always have such cool glasses, by the way.
Yeah, I have 20 pairs.
20?
20 pairs.
Are they prescription?
I didn't mean to start like this, but actually I love your glasses.
It's really like a cool design element that makes you very noticeable, right?
Yeah.
It's like every time I travel, I gather different pairs of glasses and I mainly gather frames
as prescripted and depends on the moon.
If I really like hot working day, I'll be all black.
If it's for fun, for show, colorful, sometimes matches my shoes.
Oh, I'm so glad I asked you about that.
That's really cool.
So you kind of wake up and think, which pair of glasses am I feeling like wearing today
sometimes?
Yeah.
Otherwise, if it's really like no presentation, no meeting, I just wear black or transparent.
Yeah.
Okay.
Very cool.
I like the idea of it.
So you're a famous designer.
You worked for all these famous design places that maybe nobody's going to really have heard
of and maybe people have heard of.
I don't really know because this audience is so broad.
So I thought to start, we'll get into you and your life, but design is such an important
word.
We all encounter it all the time.
Not the word, but design itself, the action, the process, whether it's been completed
or being done to us even.
But I don't think any of us really think about that word in daily life unless we're designers
like you.
But how would you introduce this word to us, design, maybe just from your perspective?
What does it mean to you?
Yeah.
I mean, design is like, yeah, it's pretty broad, but for me, one way to look at it,
we can decompose the word, right?
Design can think about decoding signal.
Decoding signal means we receive so many different types of signals every day.
How do we decode this signal?
Also how do we curate this signal?
So that's literally like design.
Yeah.
Design, decoding signal.
Yeah, that's cool.
Yeah.
It's like that's kind of way I look at it because I know people, I mean, it's a cliche.
People say everyone's designer, which is true, but also designer is thinking more important
than design's creativity.
You do have that mindset and be open-minded, change.
And these are things I feel like we experience every day, especially now after COVID, post-COVID.
Everything changed dramatically, faster and faster, now AI, everything that, oh, how do
you keep up with?
And I feel design is really tied to decoding signal, also like how do you learn how to
learn?
Yeah, both are important to me.
Is that how you got into it when you were a little boy in Taiwan?
Were you imagining that you're going to one day be a designer?
My major is actually like industrial design and electric engineer.
And I really excited and interested in architecture.
I actually didn't know industrial design until I entered the college.
And I feel like I always loved drawing, so ring tangibility and visualizing the idea
is always my superpower.
And I feel that really helps me to understand different types of signals, to identify the
patterns.
And that'd be super interesting just to think about how, what happened to people and why
people are upset or why people are super exciting.
And these are so invisible, so like subtle.
But somehow I also feel that's part of the design process.
I love that.
I'm kind of obsessed with this idea of pattern and the pattern that connects, so to speak,
and noticing patterns and regularities.
Was that something you were already doing in some way or other?
I feel like, yeah, I feel, I don't know, I really, I'm really perceptive.
I feel like I just, when I see something, I can intuitively think about some solutions,
so ideas.
And then what I got trained at school or in design consultancy, it's more about observation
skill, design process.
And it really helped me to feel like, oh, how do you, are you a people person?
I feel like that really helps me a lot, like expand my design capability, because I feel
design is not a hardcore skill or soft skill, it's a human skill.
It's like, especially now, like we're not like, not only celebrate hero designers, we're
also thinking about these complicated challenges, right?
How do you like climate change, aging, which I'm focused on now recently, and also all
these design challenges, it's complicated, it's systematic.
So design or designer is like, we tackle, solve the challenges collectively.
Teamwork is important, and design is no longer like a fancy term, it's a verb.
It's a thing that people want to do, collaborate as a team, it's a teamwork.
It's not just about, oh, celebrate hero designers or live their signature on the work.
Yeah, it's less about that, it's more about creative condition.
This is really fascinating, because if we think about design as patterns, and if we
think about it creatively, and we think about it, like as important to these challenges
that you just brought up, which is basically something that's affecting us on a really
deep level, all of us in different ways, wherever we are in the world.
But if we think about design as important to that, does it mean that the way we're
structuring the products and the environments and everything we're interacting with is somehow
contributing to the way that we think about the world itself?
Yeah, I feel like, I don't know, sometimes, I mean, people are always looking for optimization,
right?
We're looking for efficiency, convenience, right?
And then like, oh, I'm so glad we have like an autonomous vehicle, so we don't need to
drive anymore.
We just sit in the car and enjoy the scenery.
But the thing about design is like, some people enjoy the driving experiences.
Some people want to create, find their own path.
Or another example I'm thinking about is, you know, like a Starbucks, they have like
a coffee master.
People have an apron and show you how to do coffee.
And for me, when I brought the client to do like inspiration trip, to see that services,
right?
The clients, oh, I want to copy that to my company to create the new services.
And the behind the scenes of that is like, yeah, we want to have this like human touch
services, but the difficulty part is like, how do you create incentives?
How do you make this like coffee master feel exciting to share their knowledge to the client,
the customer every day?
Because they're not like us, we walk in as customer and enjoy the services and walk out.
No, they provide the services every day.
Can you design the right organization structure or incentive structure to promote people?
Because they want to become like real master, like different colors, the print or the pins
on their badge.
You know, things like that is like, it also need to be designed, the whole experiences.
It's not about, oh, we look for efficiency, convenience.
I think that is really important, but that's more like a fundamental level.
You know, same as we talk, people talk a lot of this, like people, most people overuse
like a generative AI tools.
You can give like thousands of ideas, but I want to know, can you help me to curate
my taste, my lifestyle?
Is it less about design solutions, more about do you really understand what people need?
Can you change people's quality of life or just throw tons of ideas on them?
So for you, it's really about the experience of the people involved in it.
Not just the consumer, but even the person who's working, the person who's creating
it.
So you're not making these usual divisions that I often hear between it's all about
the customer, for example, or you're thinking of it more holistically almost, it sounds
like.
Is that normal in design or is that a new approach, a different approach?
No, I mean, you're totally right.
Like, we talk a lot about like a human centered design, right?
In a human, we easily default thinking about users, but now, nowadays, everything we can
view as a system, right?
So we think about a system, we have backup house from desk.
So who are the service provider?
And these are also human, right?
The people provide the services, like you can't like, you can't overwork.
You have to think about the ethical issue.
Think about the culture, especially now, aging society, how do we raise ageism, right?
We celebrate multi-generational culture and that implemented design process is like, I
think human-centered design, it's pretty important, but now people reflect to think about what
do you mean by humanity centered design, humanity from humans, like we think about broader,
like policy, organization, structure, culture, right?
And now people promote like life centered design or even talk about longevity.
So it's less about, yeah, human.
But we also think about other aspect because now we're really like a whole, we're interconnected
for all different things, not just about human or human center, otherwise too ego driven,
not empathy driven process.
I think that's true.
And most people would say, yeah, of course, that's true.
There's all these nested levels and it's all very important now to the challenges you raise,
like climate change or our mental health or the way we treat each other and all of this.
But it seems like from an outsider view, it seems like you come to some agency, design
agency, and they are supposed to serve your, you're going to have a project and they need
to solve the problems for you.
And that usually ends up being about how can this product sell the most or be the most
popular or there's something like that, right?
That doesn't seem to fit with what you were just saying, even though I think we're
transitioning into a new world relative to all that, but I don't understand how design
is doing it, like, because maybe I'm wrong, but I just think of this old school kind of
way of a client goes in, the designer has to kind of make the product the most popular
or sellable or is that wrong?
Has that changed a lot?
Or how do you, how does that fit to what you were saying before?
No, this is a wonderful question.
I have to say I'm very lucky because my first two jobs is like design, sorry, work with
design continuum and also ideal.
And then you're totally right, because most, I mean, business like a fundamentally
agency need to make money.
We need to survive and need to be sustainable.
And also another way, my personal experiences at ideal is like, we have the client came to
us and then the business of the agency, at least some office is not good.
They want to design the client came to us.
They say, oh, I want to design the robot that can accompany kids at home to replace
parents. They're very rich.
They bring money.
We have budget, you guys expensive, we have budget and then we can do like six month
project even longer.
And then we're as a team, the team leader is my mentor and we don't want to do it.
We don't want to, because the reason we don't want to do it, not because they are great
brand there, we communicate frequently, we have the workshop together, we know what
their needs and requests, but the funny thing is like, we don't think the robot can
replace parents and we don't think that's the right thing to do.
We can design something very beautifully, very attracting and business successful
product on the market.
But things like it's just not right.
So I was very shocked at the moment, to be honest, because I'm just a junior designer
in the team and I realized, oh, wow, this is another high level thinking about like
social impact, right?
Like why the kids need to be accompanied by the robot and not just parents.
So it's totally like, it's really like disrupt my, my, my learning about
business and design consultancy.
And I think that's really beautiful.
Very huge impact on me.
Yeah.
And another thing I feel like we talk about design and business, I think they both are
super critical, like interconnected because you need both.
You need both what design and what's the other design and business.
You need, yeah.
Because say now I'm working, very lucky working with MIT Aged Lab.
We talk about design for retirement.
We have the great ideas about how we designed people's retirement plan or financial
planning or longevity planning.
If we don't have this like a sponsor or like a client, how do we scale?
Right.
We all just closed the door.
Very happy, ready on the post-it notes, very sexy sketches, rendering.
Wow.
And then put in the library in the publication, nothing we cannot scale.
So I feel like both are really critical and I totally agree with you.
I feel like the company agency, they need to make money, but we have to make sure that
the money can be invested in the right direction.
Yeah.
And then, sorry, another thing I want to say, we, the way we collaborate with the
client is also changed, shifted.
So in the past, basically most people think about including myself, you
give me money, I provide output.
There's an input, it's a currency, it's a money, it's a trust, output is a product,
services or experiences, but somehow because of the complexity of the challenges and
also everything moving so fast, now it's more like a co-creation process.
So we used to like work with one very famous kitchen hood brand in Asia.
And then they came, they worked with us for like more than 10 years.
Okay.
Give me like the sexiest, the coolest, like kitchen hood.
I'm going to launch this year.
Give me more like a form and shape.
And somehow at the point we say, no, we didn't do that.
We want to change the whole like collaboration model.
Let's like do co-creation together, inspiration together.
And then you guys bring these ideas back to the team, talk with engineer
and they can come back to us again.
Let's do a second round co-creation.
So it's more like co-evolving.
It's not like a one-time deliverable.
It's like multiple times check-in to make sure our ideas, our insight can be
implemented through their technology, not just like create like beautiful shape
and form, and then somehow, oh, we can't do it.
So we just make a beautiful rendering and state that state.
No, no, want to make it real.
So we need that co-creation process.
Yeah.
So that's the second part I want to just want to add it.
That's really fascinating to me because it, it kind of upends or changes the way
we think of these typical roles of client and provider.
I mean, I don't think those roles were ever really very human in a way, because
it does seem that like what we really want to do is create together, but I guess
traditionally there would be certain conflicts about that.
So you've worked for these very successful big companies.
I want to actually hear how you got into that world and some of the projects you
did, but before, I guess when you're already IDEO or one of these big places
where everyone wants to work with you, like your boss, then you can say, oh,
well, actually I don't agree with the idea that your child should be with an AI.
And so therefore I can't create this for you.
But is that also true at sort of, you know, not lower, that's not the right word,
but other kinds of design firms or people who are just starting out or, you know,
that, that don't have a reputation, are they able to do that or are they still
having to just take on the project?
I guess what I'm trying to get at is, is this like what design is now?
And I just didn't know, is it co-creation or is this like very much for the stars
of the business because design, like anything else, there's people who are
sought after, you know, that, that the client wants to work with.
And that's a completely different relationship than the one I was describing before.
No, this is, this is a great, great question.
And also ideas, because I have to say IDEO or design consult, design
continuum, they have their own reputation in the, in the market, on the
market, and then at the history.
So somehow even our BD process is all, we felt like a design process.
We have to know if the client's the right person to see our value and
we can really amplify the impact.
So this is like, that's why they have the green foundation and the history in the
past, so they can have that kind of like a advantage to, to do, to say something
like that, I do believe that for normal company or like the company you last
like to have history or that foundation business is also important criteria for them.
So yeah, let's still do it.
And then I can do it with a relative, like a cheaper price, but give it like a more
competitive, like design or, you know, solution, and it's always a trade off.
Because I feel like what I learned from IDEO or another different design
consultancy is like the culture is with your design solution.
So when you deliver the deliverable, it's not just a one-time experiences.
It's like, you, you, you bridge, you partner with your client.
So, so that's, I feel that's really beautiful because you know each other and the
connection, it won't be cut off after the project ended actually when a project
launched, that's the challenges started.
That's the real challenges.
Can you really see the, the performance, the final, the, the, is it like really work?
Is it valid?
Is it, you know, is it feasible?
So these are things I, I feel is different than can we see like a long-term goal or
versus like a short-term, just get a business interest.
That's really well said.
And as you're talking, I'm thinking of, for example, you know, some really big
advertising or branding or, you know, altogether projects in the past.
And I'm not sure it really fits very well with design.
Maybe it's more like advertising, but you know, something like, uh, the
beetle, the Volkswagen Beetle and that whole campaign, or I watched this
movie recently with, uh, Nike and, and Jordan.
I'm just thinking of all these different examples of, of design or brand or,
um, things that have really kind of influenced us in the way we were talking
about in the beginning of like changing patterns, let's talk about you.
How did you end up in these places that were already so, yeah, I guess well-known
or was that your, like, it sounds like you just graduated from school and ended
up in this environment where you were able to do this co-creation.
First of all, is that true?
And then maybe we could talk about how in your own experience in a
project, this actually plays out.
Yeah.
I mean, if you look at like people's CV, right?
Like, oh, these are beautiful name company, a great school.
And, but actually every like, uh, things on the CV is really like hardworking
because I don't think I'm a smart person.
I'm just like, we're really hard, super hard.
And I really enjoyed this.
And the things like took a double major in industrial design and
electrical engineering for like seven years.
My parents thought I have some intellectual problems.
Are you have some mental issue or health issue?
Why you cannot just graduate?
Like seven years, you can get another medical degree.
And as I know, I just really want to study very solid.
I want to know the fundamental thing.
And I'm not graduated for certificate.
I'm graduated for real knowledge.
I want to explore.
So after that, I, before I graduate a year ahead, I actually already
start searching the jobs.
So it's like a year long preparation.
And I'm really lucky because I, I don't know.
I really care about people and culture.
So the thing I feel I click with the people, I just want to work
with them or surrounded by them.
And then finally the, the great leaders and continuum and also an ideal.
So join them same as my MIT journey.
It's like, I apply like so many different labs and I found my mentor,
which is now the director of the age lab.
It's Joe Kauffman.
So he really helped me a lot.
I really connect with him, his vision, his idea.
And then we start to work some exciting project together.
And I feel like really, like you say, like fighting pattern.
And I would say like more like a finding a pattern also find the
people you can resonate with and that pattern can resonate and that
can amplify more impact because otherwise it would be like, if I really
like want to work for, to get more money or I can choose like bigger corporate.
Right.
Because both of design consultants, they have pretty small scale compared
with other bigger company, but I really think people and culture really shape me.
Yeah.
Still shaping me.
So I feel that's really important to me.
That is such a beautiful way to say it, because I really think that's true that
we also have these kinds of patterns that we resonate with as we move through our
life and we do sort of set our own trajectory in a way, depending on how
much we trust ourselves to resonate with that.
So for example, like when your parents were giving you a lot of pressure, I
guess, were you still in Taiwan then?
Or, I mean, a lot of people, a lot of us kind of cave to that and, and we do
whatever the people around us are telling us we should do, or they want from us
because it's so much pressure, I mean, to take seven years and do the double degree.
It sounds like you were actually almost like a perfectionist or like you, you
needed to get in the rhythm, right?
You needed to find that rhythm that you were just discussing, but how did you
have the poise and the confidence and the kind of stubbornness or whatever to do
that, even though it was not the thing that most people around you were
probably saying you should do?
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is a great, this is such a real, I mean, great question because not just
my parents, my friends, my advisor, some people just don't understand like why
you spend so much time on this.
And then it's so weird and rare.
Like what the fuck, it's weird.
And then I have a friend, my classmate, she graduated within four years, got two
degrees, you can do it very efficient.
Like I said, you design for efficient design for convenience
versus design for people.
And I always feel like I pretty know what I want and what I need.
And I know like beautiful things takes time, need to be patient.
And if everything goes too fast or too successful, that's not the real challenges.
Yeah.
You have to be have some difficulty.
It's very painful.
It's so hard.
Like think as engineer, you have to do the P set problem set.
You have to like sleep early, wake up early, testing, studying, electronics,
electromagnetics, or advanced math, calculus, physics versus designer.
Oh, night owl smoking a bar.
I need some inspiration.
So I almost like a live in two world all together.
So it's really, it's really hybrid world, but I realized that really
helped me to design things from outside in to inside out, like a mouse.
When I, when we have like a physical use of physical mouse, I really
inspired by this product because I'm not just designed the shape of the mouse.
I want to design the electronic circuit board.
I want to design how it works inside.
So I can change the shape more flexible, more, more possible way.
Right.
So that's why really inspiring to think, Oh, I need to understand this basic
electronics or basic mechanical stuff to help me to design the
whole structure of the product.
At least I can communicate with engineer.
Yeah.
So, so that, but that is not like, uh, there's no shortcut.
I don't think there's a shortcut, including my now I'm doing my PhD is like,
you just have to immerse yourself in all of these challenges.
That's the only way to do it.
Just put yourself in the data.
They get like, Oh, dive, dive into it.
And then you can say, to see the whole picture.
Yeah.
That makes a lot of sense with, yeah, that your work and kind of just
what I know of you, that it seems like there's a wider picture, right?
That you're, I talk about holding the paradox, you know, in, as a
philosopher or kind of beyond dichotomy, meaning you embrace the dichotomy,
sort of the power of polarity, but opening the space so that it's not
oppositional, it's polar, it's polarity, but it's not oppositional.
So I feel that in you and in your work a bit, you know, and, and it's not easy
to do, like actually that you have these kinds of lovely little sayings on your
website, um, that you, you, you, you make these little beautiful cards sometimes
on, on meet social media and stuff.
And a lot of them, but a lot of those are very, you're kind of holding
both sides of things, right?
Um, there's this wholeness or contextuality.
Yeah.
And I guess, um, that's not an easy thing to kind of learn, but it sounds
like you, you've learned it from the start, because even with what you're
doing right now, your PhD, you didn't have to do that.
I mean, you already were working in big firms.
You had a big project, which I'd like to hear about, like designing a library,
I think, in Shanghai, and there were many things we could go into a few, but.
Why would you, I mean, this is another one of those moments, right?
Where most people would look at you and say, Oh, why are you going to go back
and do your PhD after you've already been in the successful world, and then
you have to put yourself in this place again of vulnerability, learning, going
through all this effort, time, you know, everyone wants everything right now.
And this takes time.
Like you said, you just have to do it.
So I don't know.
I mean, I'm just throwing a lot at you, but is it a similar, is there something
in that process of discomfort maybe that's powerful for you?
Yeah.
I mean, I think most people, including myself, we really want to like, uh,
looking for a sense of achievement.
Like people recognize your work, like social norm, oh, great salary.
You should be a lawyer, a doctor, you know, people have some, like a stereotype
on you, and this is very normal, like in, especially in Asia, like stronger.
Oh, you have great, great.
You should find a stable job when it's the time to get married and having kids.
Beautiful life that's the high standard, golden rules, right.
But for me, like, I actually feel like I love everyone.
I love like sense of achievement, but I think it's more important
than a sense of fulfillment.
You have to feel fulfilled.
And what I mean by that is very simple skill.
Like, um, every time I finished reading one book, I feel refreshing.
And I really love that moment.
Finish the book and take notes.
Oh, wow.
This is a lot of work.
Oh, wow.
This is the last pages.
And then you sign your name with the stamp and put the date and year.
This is wonderful.
And this is fulfillment.
Is that what you do after you read a book?
Yeah, that's why that's a wonderful practice.
Every book I have, I guess, I think I did the same.
Yeah.
People have it just like, oh, I love that.
Oh, that's such a good idea.
Gosh, I wish I'd been doing that my whole life with all my books, although
I often read them more than once, but still that would be cool too, to have
like double stamps that like this one is about exploring the research.
Yeah.
It's like, yeah, it's like, oh yeah, that one's on your website.
I think, or maybe you post it on LinkedIn or something.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I just feel like that really helps me to, to realize, oh, when I read this
and how, when I going to revisit this and that is like sense of fulfillment.
And then for me, like, oh, why are you back to study PhD?
And really, to be honest for me, like when I back to academia, I really
just want to learn the language for academia.
So for me, it's not studying.
I'm recharging and I, oh, I understand how you guys publish in paper and
how can we connect like, oh, I know the language of academia, how you use
like statistic and describe the data with a subject, and then I'm going
to apply that to my work, to the industry work.
So I'm more like a bridge and I feel that's really beautiful.
Otherwise we'll be like, close the door.
This is the CHI publication, how many citation I have.
And that's beautiful.
Or I'm going to draw beautiful, sexy sketches, rendering, prototyping.
And there's a gap.
And then it should be like, cause for me, design is a supply science.
It's application science and you need to have both.
And then I love my, my advisor in college, they told us designers need to read a lot.
Because you need to know what happened and how do you
connect it with your design skill.
And I feel I'm working on that.
I kind of recharging learning statistics.
How do you write the abstract clarity?
And how do you communicate with people from different background in industry?
And you can, we get our hands dirty to really make it real
from ideas to implementation.
I see that's very smart of you in a way.
Again, you're sort of taking a few steps back to get a very big
picture of this world that is academia or that is designed from another perspective.
And you're almost like an observer of, of it all.
And it's actually very smart because I know you probably like, they want you
there because you can teach and they give you money and in a way it's like, you
know, a job, but you also have this time to reflect and although PhD can be very
stressful because you have so much to learn and reflect on.
But yeah, I can, I can see that.
And I wonder about those books.
Are they, you know, cause I'm very interested in the books that you read.
We've talked about some of them and have those been sort of markers in your life?
I mean, you put the date and everything.
Are they, do you, not only the book itself, but do you see yourself as kind
of, is fulfillment also knowledge like learning and developing and connecting
in new ways?
Is that connected to why you like this reading and so on?
Yeah, I, I mean, the, I think the, the most important things I, after reading
a book is more about synthesizing, right?
Like we, we, we internalize the knowledge.
And then for me, one of the way to internalize it is through like
creation, through drawing, through design or through writing.
And then now, because I mean, PhD life is so busy.
So one of the easiest ways I writing can synthesize my thoughts.
And I think that's really important because when I, when I wrote, when
I'm reading, I always mark, highlight the key sentences or quote to make
sure I can feel, understand the context.
And then that I will distill writing like a short paragraph to make sure,
Oh, this is the thing I read.
What does it connect to design?
I'll always connect to design.
Even like we talk about longevity planning, financial planning.
I reframe as a design for longevity.
So there's still a design element in it.
It's not about, Oh, cause I'm not the expert in finance or psychology.
I'm the expert in design.
So I want to find the connection.
And I feel that can really apply to almost different types of books.
I can always reflect to think about, Oh, what does that mean to design?
Right now I'm applied like a grounded theory, constructed grounded theory.
It's from a psychologist or a sociologist and as, Oh, how does designer do?
We use the post-it notes and that's the coding, you know, physical coding.
And we just didn't know we already use the grounded theory in our lives.
How do you cluster it?
How do you constant compare?
And we use that all the time.
We call like synthesizing, downloading and ideal, but there is a beautiful connection.
And now other people say, Oh, let's talk about like, uh, boundary objects.
You know, boundary objects that you connect people from different background and then
use the physical object or not physical object to talk about something.
For example, like you put the map.
Oh, I look at the map.
I look for the restaurant and you look for, uh, say, uh, uh, where it's
like a front desk information center.
And we use the map to open up the conversation.
You know, in academia, people say boundary object and in design world,
we say tangible artifacts and there's a connection.
And I feel that's really beautiful.
Like to connect this together and somehow that that's what I really
exciting to do it right now.
Yeah, that's gosh, there's so much in there and it makes me think
about the patterns again, right.
And the, and the rhythm and finding, finding the almost gestalt or something,
but not gestalt always sounds so static and this is like a living process.
So I guess as you, I imagine you read something and you're almost
learning a new patterning or rhythm.
You're bringing everything you already knew to it.
So for you, it's going to affect you different than another reader.
But then that's kind of wonderful because then you can take that
into what you're, whatever you're doing, your creation, your writing or so on.
So it feels like there's a continuity there, a flow, you know, which
is almost another way of saying fulfillment in the way that you were saying.
Isn't it?
No, I think this is great.
I loved, I recall like our previous conversation talking about
like a pattern and flow.
I really loved that because that really made me think about I'm actually
now learning and very good at embracing ambiguity and that's kind
of multiple different flows, crazy, big one, huge, you know, like
people are all crazy problem.
You need problem solving and life is difficult.
I'm an international student.
It's so many challenges every day.
It's like a war to me, you know, just like, oh, you have credit card fraud.
Oh, you forgot to pay your student dorm rent.
Oh, you need, you have health problems.
So for me, these are all ambiguity and how do we embrace that?
You know, and then for me, because I work at a design consultancy,
or some industry experiences work on a big crazy project, like library
design, I get used to it, like ambiguity part.
And for me, these are all part of the pattern.
And I have to like, no, okay.
This is okay to have no answer, but I still want to swim into this
and to understand how can I survive and, you know, like a propel,
not just stay there a panic.
No, no, you still have to moving.
And I feel exciting for that because that's how challenges comes from every
day, every single day, even though I don't even because English is
not my, my first language.
So for me, is that another layer of difficulties?
Yeah, no, I think it's good you bringing that up because it's something
people, a lot of, we don't always think about all these different layers
of stress and tension that you can't dissociate from that rhythm and that
pattern in that creation process, right?
They are all part of us.
We kind of think, oh, we just go where our designer hat or our PhD student hat.
But actually there's this all these layers that everyone's dealing with
different ones, you know, like you have all these ongoing things that you're
kind of trying to deal with too.
And it reminds me of something I think you wrote in one of those little
snippets, those little, what do you call them?
Like they're almost like little.
Like a self-reflection.
Yeah, they're just like little beautiful quotes, but you say them.
But one, I think is like something about what isn't design.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And then there's also like learning how to unlearn and there's all these.
I'll have to look at, try to find it in a minute, but a lot of it is about
self-expression, personal action and this, this kind of, this kind of flow.
But how does that, how do you find the poise for that?
Do you, is design really life?
Is like when you, when you, when you get these alerts, like someone's been,
you just told me earlier that someone's, you have this credit card fraud thing.
Someone's like using your credit card for great little stuff.
I mean, do you, do you bring your design mindset to these kind of challenges
or when, when people don't realize that you're, you're speaking English
as a second language and they assume, you know, there's all these
things that happen, right?
When you're a foreigner.
I'm a foreigner here that people just assume things that aren't your references.
Um, do you think of the, do you bring this design mindset to those kind of things?
Yeah, exactly.
It, this is what exactly happened yesterday.
I was like, Oh, it feels so uncomfortable.
How can I resolve this?
I tried to get a phone call and use their app.
It's horrible.
Like, uh, you wait for so long and it's a AI, you know, it's, it's a chat bot.
So they don't know, you didn't feel reassured.
So I booked a real time.
You mean like that moment where you realize you've been violated and
then you really need to resolve it, but you can't get in touch with anyone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like waiting on the phone for like 20 minutes.
They all listen to the same music.
At least they can change different types of music.
It's better, right?
Like same music feels sleepy.
And then I finally talk and I realized it's not a real person.
It's a chat bot and it's really hard.
Like the only solution they provide or suggest that, Oh, it just like
cancel your car.
I mean, that's easy, but I want to figure out what happened.
Why my, my account got penetrated, you know, got my privacy leaking.
So I want to know more about just like cancel my car is so easy.
And I booked the, I make a appointment with a bank closer to me at MIT and
their location is so popular.
And then the, the, uh, uh, manager came to me.
Oh, how can I help you?
And I said, Oh, my credit card got a fraud.
Can you help me to resolve this?
They're too busy.
They have no capacity to listen to what I want to say.
And it's, Oh, just use the app to cancel the car.
And I'm so angry.
Like, okay, I'm going to change different location.
And then I found a new location, which is the people are so friendly.
Listen to me.
We sit down in the room.
He closed the door.
He's a new person.
And I tell him my needs.
He helped me to check in the end.
And we still make a phone call, but make a phone call together.
It's the same result.
It just like call them, call the headquarters, but he helped
me to make a phone call.
We wait together.
We sit together, you know, and that changed the whole experiences.
And that's design.
That's the, I told them, Oh my God, I feel so safe.
I feel so supported in power rather than just do it by myself.
So these are like a tiny detail, but as a user, as the customer,
people feel dramatically different.
It's the same result.
You know, I still got my car canceled, replaced, but the
feelings is so different.
How do you design that?
Yeah.
Is it like we really aiming for like transactional kind of feedback?
Oh, pencil this on the phone.
No, you need to people explain to you what happened and then
they will follow up with you.
And I really think about this whole night yesterday.
This is a beautiful case study.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you laugh in it, but it really is.
And I think we almost have to laugh because we don't think of things in this way.
It's almost hard to talk about with language even that what, what is really
happening there, you know, even when I was bringing up some of those products,
like they're too commercial, but I mean, there's real reason that we connect
with something like Apple or something like Michael Jordan or whatever.
And it has to do with sharing some kind of connection or emotional
feeling or community.
And like that story you just sold is so beautiful for two reasons.
I mean, one, because it shows how important these things are just for life.
Like that is life, right?
Yeah.
Connecting with people and feeling like you're being seen and trying to
understand something together, even if you can't completely understand it.
That's a good life.
And then the other one, when everyone's too busy and everyone's just like
talking to apps and trying to get to the next thing, the next thing, the
next thing, which feels like what we're supposed to be doing is not a very
good life.
Yeah.
It's very transactional.
Yeah.
It's just so different feelings.
So I'm very happy.
I spent like $10 on Uber to find the real, I spent more money and time,
but I feel happier.
I feel like, oh my God, this is exactly I need.
I, he followed up with me next week.
Let me know the process, how I got a new car for, for how long versus
like, oh, everything talked to chat bot.
I can, I don't need to spend like $10 on the Uber.
I can just do it by myself, you know, but I just want to know what happened
and the quality and the quality and the rhythm of your life is better, you
know, and that is continuous.
That was the second thing I was going to say is the reason I love that story
so much is it really speaks to what you were trying to say about design
because, and also what I was trying to express about your way of doing it,
because you kind of took a step back again and you shifted the perspective,
right?
Like what's another way that I could come at this instead of just
feeling like you're stuck in that situation and you just, you know, you
thought, oh, actually I could go here and it's, I don't know how to express
it, but in my own life dealing with different problems, I feel like that's
always an almost epiphany kind of moment when you're able to switch out
of the habitual mindset that you're in, you know?
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
That's, that's, yeah.
I just say, I mean, sometimes I think, oh, when I get older, I feel
like, oh, I can shift my perspective.
You know, even like everyone has people you don't want to work with in
a company or in organization or in the small group, people have their own circle.
But the funny thing is that you can actually learn a lot of
things from the people you cannot resonate with.
You know, you can, you can look at that.
And then I learned so much when at the time when I was an ideal and design
continuum, even though at MIT, some people, you just can't resonate.
And this is so true.
Like you cannot be like people personals or like a social butterfly all the time.
You have your own perspective, your own value, your own belief.
And somehow people doesn't resonate with you.
How do you deal with that?
And that's the piece of art.
You can escape.
I used to escape or disappear, but now I try to embrace it
because that's ambiguity, right?
You have to, oh, let's look at different perspective, different
shadow to look at the object.
So you can find another perspective or landscape from that.
Landscape.
I use that, that word a lot.
And again, that's that kind of holding the polarity rather than trying
to resolve the polarity and realizing there's like not just polarity, there's
all kind of other nested complex systems relative to whatever that position is.
Do you remember a time in your life when you recognize that or felt that
maybe earlier in your design career when you like what you were talking about
with not feeling comfortable in the situation and instead of running away
from it, just sitting with it.
Do you remember any moments that like where you learned something
in your career that way?
Yeah, when I was in college, like most people don't want to work
with me because I'm like workaholic.
It's too painful.
Like why are you so serious on this?
Like this is just a no critic assignment.
And I was like, no, but this is like it's attitude, you know, so it's
so hard, like nobody wants to work with me, you know, like it's too painful.
And then it's okay.
And I do a lot of individual work, but in the company,
everything's about teamwork.
So we have the great system.
We have like facilitation before the project start in the middle
of the project and post project.
So we know, oh, what are you want things you want to learn?
And are you a morning person, night owl?
And how can we accompany that?
Right.
And which kind of role you want to play?
Are you more like a client management style?
We want to work on your craft or you want to more like work on the business
side, so we have a lot of like communication and like, you know, just
make sure that everyone on the same page.
So a lot of like a communication, I think sometimes over communicate.
So make it like people know each other better.
And every project I work at ideal is every time with all different
designers around the globe.
So every project, like a new startup, you know, like, oh, startup program.
So every time is different.
Some people are super hard to work with or super hardcore.
And some people are like, oh, very chill disappear all the time.
So how do you self-navigate and how do you find the anchor of the project?
How do you report back to the client with the confidence?
So these are things like it just say, oh, it needs to be communicated in
different ways, and this is like, you have, there's no shortcut.
You have to learn, understand your pattern and also receive what
other people's pattern looks like.
You know, I have, I have a lot of like interesting experiences
with a business designer.
It's so unique, different world.
And we have to work on the same project.
It's painful, but also beautiful.
The result is, it's great.
You have different perspectives.
Yeah, that's really important to me that what you just said, because in
the philosophy I do, a lot of it's trying to understand that we all have
different paths and trajectories and we might be in the same landscape,
but we've gotten there very differently.
And that's why we're approaching the problem differently.
And we even see the landscape differently.
Like we, we're in the same landscape.
It's real, but maybe we see very different things there.
Maybe what I see, you don't even notice and vice versa.
And I think it can be really hard to share that with one another,
especially when you're really coming from different paths.
But it can also be very, very creative.
Have you had any moments like that in your actual?
I'm sure you have them all the time in your studies, but in when
you were working first in design and maybe when you were doing
some of the projects, I don't know if you want to talk about one
in particular, maybe the library or maybe something else where you
did notice that opening to these other perspectives gave you something
or gave the project something.
Yeah.
The library project is a great example.
It's like a redesigned Shanghai library innovation space.
And you know, the Shanghai library is like a face, like a front door
for, for the government, for the Shanghai city, and they want to
redesign this and very lucky is like, because I used to taught
there, use their space to talk like a university students, undergrad
kids, and then for four years.
So they feel like, oh, I can be a great person to leading this project.
And it's really like a side project.
So I'm the one person team, but one person team designer, and I
collaborate with the whole innovation space team.
So I have five or six people there from different department.
So marketing communication or people do the research or
people like a leadership role.
So it's like very diverse, even though we all speak in Chinese,
but people are so different.
The way they look at library, they have different ideas and position
because I'm asking what's the value proposition for a Shanghai library.
Like you guys don't like a coffee shop, you guys like community hub,
but you guys also close early at four o'clock.
So how people get really, really enjoy the time there.
You guys provide the class in the weekend.
So it's very complicated project.
And then we, it's a one year long project.
We start from interviewing people who are the lower year customer
who really use the library.
A lot of the parents with the kids and who are the vendors.
So we know there's different voices and then in their mind, we
try to project how they view Shanghai library is a community
center, is it like the hub for to connect different people or
just like a reading center for undergrads for graduate students.
So pretty, pretty amazing research and also design process.
And then we got a strongly support from the director, from
the leadership level, from the Shanghai library.
They want to do it well.
So, so everything's like pushed in the right direction.
What I learned from this process is like, I'm the only designer,
but also I'm not design everything.
We co-design together.
Like I say, like participatory design process.
So I host like three design workshop with them.
First workshop with all the leadership team.
So let's bring Lego, the Plato, all the things to co-create
the thing, the corner of the library.
So they have their ideas and we have, we really like a present together.
So they feel the ownership of this design process.
I have to make sure their voices got heard for the final round.
The second round, we invite some participants, some local people
who use the library a lot to get their voices.
The third round for the final presentation.
So the whole design process is evolving and I use that design
process or workshop to really connect the dots, connect people
from different backgrounds, voices, because design is not like,
oh, this is a solution, make it happen.
No, no, it's I propose some ideas, they co-create together.
And then I do the final polish, final touch and celebrate together.
Otherwise it's so hard.
It's like, how's that possible?
And most of the design challenges nowadays really like that.
It's very complicated and systematic.
Gosh, that's so beautiful.
And it reminds me of something else you said, maybe when we
talked the other day or I don't know when, but about sort of
finding a landing place or.
Again, we were at this kind of landscape and space that holds
all these different polarities, right?
There's something about that of design being not about a linear
solving of something, but opening a space where different people
can solve their whatever they need to solve in different ways.
Right.
I think maybe you kind of express that at some point when we've
talked before and that also reminds me of what you're working
on now with like longevity and a lot of the studies you've been
doing where you have all kinds of voices coming in through these
questionnaires and and so on.
I want to like get to that before we close and in this context
that we've been talking about and also we mentioned before human
centered design and that and I want to bring that in because I
think there's also like life centered design.
I know you told me before there's like animal centered design.
Maybe there's even plant centered design tree centered design.
I don't know, but you know, I want to try to connect that to
like I want to hear about the longevity a bit.
But also that also seems like design itself is trying to find
this way of accompanying all these perspectives in the sense
that you were just talking about like the human the animal the
plant and and they're all not separate.
So there's all these nested levels.
But first maybe just what is this longevity is because you brought
up the financial there's ageism.
There's all these things that maybe people don't know how to
fit together.
But yeah, no, the ideas are designed for longevity is like we
actually during like earlier for like after like Industrial
Revolution.
I think we mainly think about design for linearity design for
waste.
So everything's like, okay, you you have ideas you design you
do production your manufacturer and your shift and you dispose
so one way right and then now people think about design for
circularity circular economics, right?
Oh everything is a circuit like a butterfly chart.
So everything's like from the beginning all the way to the
end.
How can you recycle it and to do it again again?
So try to optimize the material floor flow and make sure that
we can really use every single material in the design process
and now design for longevity is like we're not just talk about
circularity.
Also, we shifted because things or material evolving through
times.
So it depends on like, oh your personal growth your life stages
right and you're like health condition.
So that's kind of the ideas is that yeah, we want to think about
the ideas like design for longevity is like we try to think
about the dimension of time is evolving with your personal
growth is evolving with your relationship with your patterns
the all differences and then somehow the human design become
much more important because we don't want the product like
know you every single of you you do have no privacy.
You know, we want to make sure you feel safe.
You feel like confident to grow and you have you have some
control and you know what happened you can plan and prepare
for that.
So humans and design is important because now we talk about
people but also want to talk about bigger issue like our
healthcare system or a financial system our social infrastructure
because now people live longer but also aiming for better
quality of lives.
Right now why you say people retire at age of 65 or 67 retirement
is a is a makeup concept.
So basically like you want to live with the purpose, you know
with a meaning with a motivation and can designer do that
right and that's part of the important reason why I feel
design for longevity is super critical because my parents
for example, my dad retired at age of 52 and he got upset
for three years because like nobody celebrate his birthday
anymore.
You know you your friends and colleagues are different levels
right and then you retire.
Okay, you isolated by yourself.
Where's our society support right and people say longevity
planning finance is one pillar like a three-leg stool.
Finance is one pillar another pillar is like family and
community and also like your quality of lives your like social
Well-being and these are all interconnected and we mainly
think about finance part, but actually people because we're
social animals.
We need support.
We need friends.
We need community when you relocated for aging in place or
for other places or close to your kids.
The thing you cannot move is your community.
Where's your neighbors, right?
Yeah, you got a better house.
You have better restroom bigger house.
Everything's safe anti-slippery mat, you know floor, but you
can't bring your park with you.
Where's your like neighbors?
You missed that connection.
I know we have like a AR VR.
We have like a zoom call, but the human touch is missing and
that's why it's super important and that's part of the thing
I'm working on right now.
Sorry, I talked too much too long, but that's the idea.
No, you didn't that was wonderful.
I wish you'd keep going actually because I think that relates
to so much we already brought up.
I mean even you know, your parents giving you a hard time
when you are a student about hurry up and finish and hurry
up and make have a good career and hurry up and make a lot
of money and hurry up and retire and hurry up and that's
that seems not what design it what we what we want to design
right and what you were just talking about seems more it's
this rhythm like what's the rhythm of your life?
What's the meaning the fulfillment you brought up that
word purpose.
I love that you're bringing all this into and it also makes
me think of you what you just said about the finances we
try we think of everyone thinks of finances, but as you
just kind of showed us like that's not disconnected from
community from environment from all the things we mean by
human centered or life centered or whatever.
It's weird that we think of it as separate isn't it that
we design our financial plan as if it's not related to all
this other stuff is kind of a weird way of thinking design.
Do you think of design is also redesigning those weird ways
of thinking that we're no, it's like it needs to be holistic.
It's not like, you know, like traditional Chinese medicine
and Western medicine.
Like we when we talk about it is the comparison like I'm
thinking about traditional Chinese medicine is like they
look at the whole relationship and the vibe the whole you
know, things versus are you two pointed both are important.
I think like for design for longevity is like we're not
just we can't just think about the money side because otherwise
you were not happy, you know, what like how do you retire
with respect, right?
People still want greeting people still want to people
celebrate your birthday.
My parents bought a new house.
I think during the covid they all moved to there because
the aging in place but the things that okay that worse
your name, where's our neighbor?
Where's you know, where's our the part we usually went to,
you know, to hang out with your your friends and somehow
this makes me realize.
Oh, wow.
This is super important.
Yeah, you can get any material things new but the connection
the care the respect and motivation the purpose these
are thinking need people need some help.
Yeah, it's not like calm directly.
It's not like transaction.
No, these are it takes time, you know, like do you have
a great therapist know yourself, right?
Do you talk to yourself or like you just feel isolated?
And I feel the sad thing about people live in the city is
like we thought we have everything but the funny things
like like your podcast name of love.
How do you how do you feel love?
How do you love other people?
Everything is like concrete.
You know in the glass boxes, where's the handshake, you
know, where's like the thing we can talk it just like somehow
I feel this missing part especially for design for
longevity section.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was going to bring up love of course, because this
is love and philosophy and all about philosophy.
But I do think we've been talking about love a bit too
because that rhythm or that I don't know.
How do you see how do you see that word in your in your
work in design or in life?
These aren't separate compartments either, right?
It's we don't always talk about it in those terms, but it is
kind of what we want in a way out of this.
Yeah, I feel I just feel like lucky and hard work for me to
find the right person.
So I feel being loved people need to be in love and then
they can love people they can know how to give back and I
feel like I feel being loved by my family, friends, my
committee members very supportive and then you realize
oh, even in academia or in industry, you know how to
give back to help people who you need, you know, not just
like oh very harsh on the deadline or no, there's something
else you can give and talk about it and then it could be
like work as a family not as an enemy, you know, it's just
like everything's about collaboration.
It's really connected and I feel like that people need to
feel being loved first and to give love to other people and
that's really important.
Yeah, well said.
Thank you.
I mean you're doing all these interesting interviews for
your PhD and I guess like all of this comes out in those
two, right?
Because when you're here because you kind of sent out all
these surveys and you've gotten them all back and to connect
this.
I mean you are asking in a way about almost it's almost like
a psychological quality of life kind of survey in a sense
because I guess you see that right that people are hungry
for community for love for or do you or am I imposing that
projecting that no, I think I interview like 81 participants
and cross different ages and they mainly we focus on people
based in Boston Greater Boston area and then I'm very surprised
that this project because we try to design like very safe
environment.
It is safe environment.
Make sure there there's no privacy leaking.
It's just everything safe.
It's just like you can feel like people struggling all the
time people like fight for their environment and fight for
their health and also they're looking for empowerment and
these are like people are very vulnerable and fragile and
they're looking for not just like finance like support.
They really extra for finance like consultant to to reduce
their anxiety about their things beyond just money money
for them is easy like yeah, it just like income in and out
but I the feeling the sense of purpose one participant told
me that he has to wake up every day before 8 o'clock to keep
the days moving.
He's like 63 and another participant she's in the age of
67.
She said I have to make my calendar full.
I have to three things in my day and I'm reading so, you
know, like the purpose is so important.
They say, oh, I feel more easier after I retire because so
many things I want to do.
I need I want to be feel connected.
I want to hang out with a younger generation.
I do like 20 volunteers.
So, you know, these are things that you realize it's really
it's more than just money problems.
Yeah, because we should say the survey is basically about
finances longevity in terms of that, but then all these other
things are are part of it.
Like you can't separate it and it reminds me too of
because I've also had people in my life who retire and then
they sort of feel like who am I?
What's my worth?
Nobody cares about my birthday kind of stuff, right?
And I think that's connected to what we were talking about
with the rhythm.
Like if you if you you took the time to find what the organic
rhythm of your life was and you've been trying to live that
and bring that forth and of course that's not easy.
But it's you know who you are, right?
You've said that a few times like but I think a lot of the
older generations are parents or people today to young kids
like you just get pushed into these trajectories that don't
feel organic for you.
You haven't found your own rhythm.
You're just taking on what's looks successful and what is
safe.
It seems safe, right?
And then you retire and it's like what did I just do versus
someone like what who you just described in that survey who
has a lot to do, right?
They obviously had a lot of interest like it wasn't a cut
maybe their retirement.
It was like a opportunity to now explore more and more and
more of that rhythm.
So that's interesting too to think about how that relates to
all these things.
We've been talking about and in terms of yeah designing your
life.
Yes.
Yes.
No, that's that's really that's really important.
Like yeah, what people looking for and what's your purpose of
your life?
You know what you are you working for yourself or you're
working for the company most people work for the company.
So when you finish a war you lost yourself and you have to
work yourself first and then work with the company like for
me, I view MIT is my client, you know, I'm very happy because
I work with my client, but also I work for myself and that's
really important.
You always have like a sense of fulfillment, not just your
identity is not defined by your business card.
It's defined by your work, your life experiences, your lifestyle,
your taste.
Otherwise I tear up the business card.
Tell me your story.
I know I cannot tell my story because all the story is
confidential.
That's the you have to you have to tell your story and curious
about you as a person, not you as a product of the company.
So that that's the thing is very different and I feel that's
why I didn't feel I'm really studying.
I really enjoy my different life stages, transforming and
shifting.
It's hard is challenging, but it's still like for me exciting
and want to export more.
That's wonderful.
Yeah, and that's not an easy thing to be okay with who you
are and feel like you are important, but actually it's true
of all of us, right?
Because we all have unique perspectives and positions and
when we can embrace them and and dance with them then if we
do bring forth something who knows what it is, maybe it's
something that seems small by these other standards, but it's
not small actually in the big dance of things.
So anyway, I just want to say thanks for what you're doing
and you've said some really beautiful things today and
told us some really beautiful stories.
So it means a lot.
Is there anything I haven't brought up or that, you know, is
on your mind or that you wanted to say or that came to mind
that I didn't let you say earlier before?
No, thanks for thanks for having me.
I think it's it's a wonderful is I think it's more than just
design.
It's like everything connected and then I feel like human
being is it's it's as a whole.
It's not like oh sometimes we just to focus on specific part
and miss the whole picture and it's thing.
I mean things can go wrong and people are are human, right?
We're well things go wrong.
It's okay to go around and it should be go around sometimes.
Yeah.
Yeah, you can learn like with the bank thing that was not a
nice experience to have but actually it ended up being a
beautiful kind of yeah, explication of design, right?
The credit card thing and that we talked about exactly.
Yeah.
So it's a good example.
Well, thank you so much.
It's been really great to talk to you and I brought up those
little cards a few times in our talk.
So for the listeners, I'll make sure I put those in the
show notes or whatever you have to I think it's on your
website so I can and also some of the books that you've
been reading but thanks a lot and I wish you lots of good
luck with your work.
Thank you so much.
It's a wonderful talk.
Love it.
Yeah.
Cool.
