Hello everyone, this is Andrea. This is a conversation about computing and what a computer
can be. It's with two people who came into my life in 2023, Esteban Montero and Flora
Moon, through a project called Holon, H-O-L-O-N. And they are rethinking, although they won't
use that term as you'll hear in the very beginning, reorienting is maybe better, what
we imagine is a computer. And I came across them because of Valencia, for one, and also
because of Esteban and Brandon Baylor wrote a book called A Categorical Defense of the
Future, which is about category theory. So that's just to say that the part of this research
that sort of fits with this conversation is towards the mathematics of category theory.
And we do talk about that a little bit here, but mostly we talk about big picture ideas
of what a computer could be, what it has been seen as, what we want it to be in the future,
both practically and also what it's made of, what it does. These are big questions, not
easy, of course, sometimes controversial. And I ask you to just be gentle and patient. This
one is a little bit personal. Again, some of these get really kind of intense. We just let
them go where they want to go. And we all talk about some personal things here, especially
by the end, even some vulnerabilities. And it all kind of relates to this idea of computing
in a strange and interesting way that I'm still trying to figure out. So I want to share
it with you. And I want to thank Esteban and Flora for being brave and open and trying to look
at new parts of themselves and also find new ways of engineering and working in the fields
that they work in. I also want to wish you a wonderful end of the year. It's really stormy
here. I'm back in the Netherlands, and it's time for the holidays. And I just want to wish
everyone who hears this all the best for next year. And I hope you have a beautiful end of
the year and that this conversation brings something good into your life. Thanks for listening. Bye.
Are you redefining computing? Well, redefining computer? Yeah, that's a fascinating question.
So I think at some point in history, computers were a wide spectrum of things. And one of the
versions of computers, which is what happens, I will say, in the 40s, this idea that computers
are information processing machines, became very successful. And I guess historically overlapped
with a lot of things that were happening philosophically and in the world of ideas and in the world of
what we were seeing in the industry and so on. So we were exposed to more machines and we were
like having this kind of analogy of the mind as a machine and so on. And so it became something
that we grabbed and run. And for the last multiple decades, it has been kind of the predominant
paradigm of computing. So I wouldn't call it redefined because we are actually looking back.
As you said, we are coming back to the origins to re-ask this question. We have all these years of
scientific background and discoveries and all this progress in philosophy and all these things and
results that we have seen from this idea of machines as processors of information. And we can go back and
ask those original questions. And if you think about Babbage, like one of the British scientists who was
pioneering these ideas of computers, he used to say that the air has memory, that it was like a library.
And he used to look at the relationship between everything and nature. And so in a way, we think
that we owe it to them to go back and use the tools that modern science and technology has given us
and ask the question, what will Babbage do today? What will Turing do today? Can we reimagine that period
of time, but with the modern tools and technologies, all the synthetic biology that we have today, all
the progress in the connectivity, the ideas that have grown from the internet and so on? So can we use
all of that and go back to the fundamentals? So in a way, yeah, we are...
Reimagining or reorienting is better than redefining. You're not trying to define anything, really.
We are not trying to, but we are kind of, yeah. Flora, go ahead.
Well, I was going to say, we're actually rethinking what the computer could be. So it's not necessarily
redefining. It's more like, what is the computer not doing that we wish it would do?
So maybe it's thinking about augmenting or additionality to how the computer has facilitated
our lives. What else could it be doing that could be in service to our lives and our world?
This idea of collective computing that is a part of Holon's sort of vision, is that ecological or
technological? It's kind of a trick question. Maybe there's no or there, but how do you see it? These
two words, ecological, technological, because both of you have worked in both of those worlds in different
ways. So I don't know that you need to make a choice, that it basically in our lives today,
there is no separation, except maybe intellectually, I think mankind or humankind has divorced itself from
the ecology, even though we are part of it. So if you ask the question, if we were to integrate
the ecology or think of ourselves as part of the ecology, what would you, what would you do differently?
And that's really the work that I do. So I think when you are thinking about how to facilitate life,
and I think that's what the Holon computer does, you have to include ecology as part of that because
it supports everything that we do, and it supports us. So that's how I would answer that question.
That also speaks to what you were saying about this reorientation, or it's a different way,
a different perspective of understanding what the ecological is in a way, isn't it?
And that's also understanding what we might need from computing would have to be part of that.
So yeah, I mean, we're, we're really doing waymaking at, at its sort of most expansive idea,
which is if we were humans making our way to the future, what is it that we really need to allow us or
help us do that? And what are the guideposts along the way? So I think both technology and ecology, both
are essential parts of that wayfinding. Right. And they're not opposites necessarily,
they're more different perspectives on a similar process, perhaps.
Yeah.
What do you think, Esteban?
I think that the way in how we arrive to our current thinking in Holon is because we started with a very
kind of pragmatic industrial question, which was industries in industries where we work and we are
engineers. So we, we, we were working, imagining a specific projects, specific plans, building a
specific distance, you know, for, for a, for a, for a particular company and so on. So very concrete,
specific initiatives. Right. And what we started to realize is that different teams and different parts
of these big corporations don't talk to each other. Uh, it was like a problem that in industries is
called systems engineering or whatever you want to call it now, but there are many aspects of bringing
different domains, different disciplines together. And so that's how we started working on this. And we
realized that, um, we couldn't do that without really thinking about how we bring everything together.
You can't like divorce the question of how two teams work together. If you don't also consider
how two teams work with nature and work with their context and with, with their ecology. And so
it was kind of a progression towards the question without ever compromising. We, we were like,
how do you really bring things together? And, uh, and it was deeper and deeper and deeper until we
realized that there's for us no distinction between the technology and the ecology and the computer has to
be part of that question itself. It has to be a material in material relationship with the ecology
and where the question exists. Um, that's why we call it collective. It's not just like two, two
machines coming with each other. It's two machines coming together collectively with the decision makers
and with their ecology and their context. And so that's how we landed to it. It was a kind of a natural
progression of bringing things together. When you start studying anything really deeply as you both have,
and when you really care about the work you're doing and you start really trying to problem solve,
you do find all these connections and different paths and different ways from which something could
start, or it starts to get very complex is the word. This feeling of complexity. It's not that it's a
problem, but how are we going to make our way through as individuals and collectively? Is this kind of
also something that you're trying to address with Holon? Yeah. Let me start with that one. I think what happens is,
it's exactly what you said, which is when you really care about something, you can't
um, abandon it in a sense. Like if you grab a question and you really care for that question,
like what is the best solution? What is the best product? What is the best version of this company?
And you really care for that question. You, you kind of go deeper and deeper until you realize that
it involves its community. It involves the future and the past and all of that and all of the
stakeholders and so on. So I think there is a relationship between kind of the, the tension
that, that starts to produce. Like it really is like a very uncomfortable situation to realize that
everything is a solution and a problem at the same time, that there are trade-offs, that there are
implications for people that didn't sign up for, for what you are deciding.
There's no way out. Every time you solve something, as you say in your work, every time you solve one
thing, you've opened up new paths, which means new challenges.
Exactly. And, and, and we think that's where to relate to your work, that where that, that's where
love come into place. At least from my experience, um, love has been in my life. One of the, one of the
reasons where I have come to those challenges, those tensions inside, you know, the, the fact that the
people that you love die, the people that you love disagree. Um, I mean, I come from, from Chile,
a country where, um, you know, political divisions literally broke into a war and like people were
killing each other literally for their ideas. And when you love people at both sides of these ideas,
you just can't escape it. And so you can escape it. And I think a lot of people do intellectually,
you can build, you know, imaginary shelters and narratives that, that allow you to, to kind of
escape that, that, that suffering, let's say, but, um, but I was lucky enough to, to kind of experience
constant tension and constant suffering, uh, in a way that, that I think allowed me to see that,
like, there's no escape really. And that's like, that's where the computer, I think is so important
that it's phenomenological and material and specific to a context, because the more we bring it into that,
that present and allow the computer to, to kind of allow technology to help us in the way in how it
relates to your work, get out of the way. We could get out of the way of those narratives that are
blocking our, relationship with that suffering. Um, I think the more we can get out of the way of our,
our mind in a way, our constructs that we are building, that we can experience the moment and
then have a better relationship to the context. That's very fundamental to the work.
I wanted to bring this up with, with you both, this idea of attention and awareness and the role
that it plays in all of this. But before I do that, you just said something very interesting.
You said you're very lucky to have experienced suffering. Can, can you unpack that a little
bit? I've also noticed in some of the writing, you talk about discomfort and sitting with discomfort
in a way is somehow important. Does this have something to do with kind of what Flora was saying
too, about it's not about choosing between either, or it's about somehow being able to see the space
where all of these things are? Is that what the suffering has showed you?
Yeah. So let me, let me connect that question also to the idea of a computer, right? So I
imagine little me growing up, loving science, loving mathematics, loving the ideas that you can like
reason your way through, through life. You can understand what is happening. I mean,
what a word the enlightenment, right? The enlightenment is like, we put light on darkness and then we can move
forward. It's like a, it's like we clear the undesirable, you know? And I think I, I rely very
early on, on my life, on that kind of hope that, that eventually you will figure it out.
You remember thinking about that when you were a little kid?
Yeah. As a little kid, like curious about how it works and let me, let me figure it out how it works.
I remember looking at the stars. Chile has beautiful skies. And I remember looking at the stars and
thinking like, well, let me figure it out. I actually wanted to be an astronomer at some point.
And then, uh, my grandmother dies, uh, dies is eight years old. Uh, my father dies when I'm like 17.
And I think you, you realize when you experience that, that there is a limit on reasoning. I mean,
to me, at least there is a, there is a humbling moment in where like all your reasoning breaks apart.
And, uh, and in a way, all there is, is the experience, you know, the phenomena of like,
I don't know, physical pain that you just experienced and it, and it doesn't go away.
It doesn't, you know, and that, that I think has happened to me multiple times. There are ways,
I don't know. I, I lost that relationship too. And I think that's like a really hard thing to do
for many people. Right. And then at the beginning, it's like, you try to reject it with more logic,
with more, more narrative, with more, let's say psychoanalysis, whatever, like you try to reason
your way through that suffering. And, and I think I was lucky to, to just like, at some point, give
up to that and, and just like surrender, surrender to darkness and to, and to the suffering. And I,
I consider it luck because I think it transformed the way I see my relationship to this world to,
to not, to navigating, let's say navigating for now with all the limitations of that word,
but like to, to experiencing life in a way that is, um, way richer. And I would say where more like
when, when you take out of the way that like need for light and you see both, um, life becomes way
richer. And as Laura was saying, when you say, when you experience life like that and you say, well,
by embracing suffering, by embracing discomfort, by, by, by, by sitting in darkness, my life got,
I don't want to use this word, but better. Right. It's not that it got better. It, it was already
better, you know, in a sense, but it's like, it become richer and, and, and a better, a life that
I want to live more. Um, and so then the question is how can, why is technology doing the opposite?
Why is, why is computers relying on this idea of enlightenment on, on information, the computing
power, the more, I mean, look what is happening with quantum computing. And the more, the promise is
the more intelligence, the better. The, the, the, the, the existing idea behind this technology
that we call computer is that like, we will eventually figure it out. We will build bigger
machines, more machines. Like I was listening to an interview with somebody talking about
this large language models. In, in a few years when we have enough data, we have enough,
these computers will solve everything. I never thought about it before, but that's almost like
the same kind of escape or trying not to deal with it. Right. It just, the technology will,
will solve it. So I don't have to sit with the discomfort because that will solve it.
Yeah. And going back to, to, to the eight year old looking at the stars, right. I used to think
that the intellectual curiosity to the stars that translates into astronomy was a good thing.
I have my hesitations today. I think that intellectualizing the stars is escape of the
discomfort of feeling so tiny, like that you are this little tiny insignificant particle
in the middle of this thing, you know, that you just can't comprehend. And,
and I think that's a really uncomfortable thought from a technology point of view, from a computer
point of view, like it's really uncomfortable to realize that we are part of an ecology of their
other, I don't know how many, but species and things and forms of lives around us.
Mm-hmm it's not separate from us. It's, it's funny because looking at the stars,
you can feel very small and uncomfortable, but you can also feel exhilarated and part of something
larger. And I want to ask Flora if she's ever had experiences like this, just to bring her back in,
because it's not just that you had to suffer, it's that you were somehow able to have the space to
have this phenomenological understanding or awareness of that. But Flora, what are you thinking
about as you're listening to all this, does it resonate with anything in your life or childhood?
Yeah, so I, I sort of lived in ambiguity most of my life because my parents were sojourners,
they were so accidental Americans. They came to the U.S. from China and then the government changed,
so they weren't ever able to go to a place they called home. So we were always kind of,
uh, uh, uh, uh, I guess renters in the U.S. is the way to think about it. And it wasn't until I was
able to sort of say, well, I'm actually American. I was born here, even though I look different
and had sort of odd expectations from my parents, that I, I had to, I was always sort of making my way
through a culture that we didn't necessarily subscribe to, but we were part of. So I think
you learn how to deal with ambiguity. I learned pretty early about ambiguity and, oh, it wasn't
an enemy. It just was a state. I mean, so I think in the culture that I grew up in and we are part of,
a lot of us are part of, is we're forced to simplify things so that they are digestible
and understandable. And, uh, when you do that, there's a loss of fidelity, right? Like the meaning
somehow gets diluted or gets lost sometimes. And so if you can hold ambiguity and, you know,
complexity can be a bad or a negative word for people, but complexity just is for me.
So when we are dealing with this state of being divorced from reality or ecology, I say, it's
really a, a change of a state of mind that's needed rather than something that you need to do
physically, right? And so if you don't start with the heart and the intention, then it doesn't matter
what the technology does or what the, what happens in the environment. You're sort of shielded from
how you react or how you respond or how you even navigate. It's about the subjective perspective,
the position, taking the position of the subject seriously as a sensory body, bringing this into the
idea of computing, collective computing. I'd like to know maybe how you got there. How did you get to this
idea of computing and phenomenology actually not being dissociated?
Well, we were working in the, in the idea of how do we bring different teams together? How do
we bring different parts of a government together? How do we bring different political parties together?
And so that was our, our business intention in a way, our professional intention. It was like, how,
what tool do we build to, to allow people to, to kind of have some kind of mechanism for decision-making
collectively. And, and so we originally tried to do this in computers. Um, and we went through the
whole cycle that you, you are familiar with in cybernetics, right? I mean, you try to build
a model, a system model, like let's try to build a universal thing. We, we went through all the stages
of that, like this is standardized away. And, um, and we eventually realized that meaning is the key.
I mean, there is something about the way in how Claude Shannon defined information theory
that doesn't include meaning. I mean, he explicitly said that, right? Yeah. So information in a way
strips out the meaning and allows this like information to flow between different things,
right? So we, that's how we found mathematics of category theory. Eventually, um, category theory
allows to, to represent meaning in, in incredibly powerful ways. And it's a, it's a very different
way of thinking about mathematics and formality. But eventually we realized that we were trying to
implement a new form of mathematics in computers, in machines that were designed without category
theories. Category theory is 30, 20 something years later after, after information theory. So,
so when Shannon and when Turing was, were thinking about computers, they didn't have that framework,
right? So we came to the idea originally of what if we build a categorical computer?
What if instead of having a computer that is designed at the hardware level for, for binary operations
or for information processing, what if we build a computer that is designed for compositionality,
for integration?
So that started the path of let's, let's talk about hardware, you know, of architecture itself of the
machine. And, and I mean, it was, it was a few days until we realized that there are other forms of,
of materials of substrates, like biological entities that we could use in that, in that new architecture,
in the new computer. And as soon as you start doing that, like the, the boundary between what is the
computer and what is not becomes super undefined and, and the concept of collectiveness becomes prime.
And as that happened in our journey, the, also the tension with kind of the, the objective,
the individual objective, the individual perspective change a lot. Like how, how do you actually become
collective?
kind of resolving this difference in, in perspectives, in objectives, in trajectories
that each of the individuals are having. And, and that brought us to, to the idea of,
we don't have to convert phenomena into information, process information, and then go back to the
phenomena. We can, we can process phenomena. We can, we can process the experience itself. We can have a
machine that intervenes that experience itself. And that's how we got to phenomenological computers.
And what, what if we could have the, the ideas and the formality of mathematics, like category theory,
but at a, at the level of the phenomenon. And, and when you think about that, it opens the door for
a new, for a new field of computing, which is basically what, what is our interest.
I want to bring Flora in a little bit, because this is an interesting moment to think about the
work you do, Flora, because you're working with individuals often and groups. And you're also sort of
playing with, with that, that kind of scaling a bit too. I mean, how do you think of the phenomenology
and the subjective in terms of collective computing, but even just this idea of collective and what a
collective is? Yeah. So I think collective is truly human. And to this point, it's not been
technological. It's sort of been a kludge if it's technological. And so in my work, I do
organizational change management, which means I'm brought in when people need to learn or be somewhere
or do something different. And they need to understand how to be successful. What does that
mean? What's the timetable? How are they going to get their sort of journey management?
And so you can do it at the individual level, but in large, large companies, you have to do it
in groups. And there's a collective sort of will that you work with in order to foster
what success looks like in their eyes and in the leadership size. So I'm very accustomed to working
within companies. And I'm currently working at the industry level to try and influence
mind shift, mindset shift into regeneration. And these are all things that people don't,
they're divorced from the ability to think about or even do something about. So
phenomenologically, they're blind. And so if you actually just ask, and this is what I often do,
just ask a very simple question. Why? How? Why not? You know, and usually it's not in a challenging
way. It's just saying, have you thought about it? And you ask the question so that they actually spend
30 seconds, maybe. Yeah, yeah. It can be a huge thing. It's just having the prompt to,
in a way, it's kind of what category theory does in the way you were describing us, Devon.
It's almost like having this meta level of being able to step back and see things a little bit
differently, you know, and rearrange them, move them around a little bit. When you ask somebody
a question like that, Flora, it's kind of like you're giving them a chance to sort of step out of
their normal perspective and look at it. Or do you think? I mean, it seems like that.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And because I'm not an engineer, I'm always looked at as kind of a
arty type, because I'm not an engineer, you must be an arty type. So, and that gives me some license
to invite them to be more creative, to be more social, actually, and to invite radical thinking
sometimes or innovation and give them permission in a safe space in order to navigate how they might
even articulate these ideas. And so I often have to do coaching so that they can actually feel
successful if they're going to step out of their comfort zone. This is really interesting when I
think about the collective computing, and I can see why you're part of this project, because
this phenomenological aspect, it seems we could think of computing as
in the future in the way that you describe and the way that I think your vision is at least giving me
the feeling that we could move towards. We could think of computing as being able to both take that
subjectivity seriously as like its own kind of path and trajectory that changes according to position,
while also maybe could technology, could computing also perhaps give us a chance to step into or experience
the different phenomenologies so as to better understand. And the way that you're sort of
trying to do with group dynamics, you're opening them up to other phenomenologies. Like, do you think
of collective computing as being able to do that? So I actually think that people have been
crying because they don't always feel heard. And when they're interacting with the computer,
a very small sliver of themselves are actually interacting. And even online, it's a it's a very
tiny portion of who you actually are and what you actually do. That's constrained. Yeah. And so it's
not like we want we need sort of unconstrained interaction because that's chaos and we can't
feel we're not built to deal with chaos. But we can let the information that's embedded in who we are
reveal itself in a more impactful way, especially in business. Yeah, in business, you people often feel
like they have to put on a different suit and talk differently than they do at the kitchen table.
And so I often find myself saying, Well, if you were talking to a friend, a smart friend, what would you say?
And why are you speaking differently to your peers? Because we're all humans.
That's great. And yeah, so it's it's more, how do you enable people to feel comfortable enough to
reveal more of how they think and what they think. And I believe that our computer, the way we envision
it is going to enable that. So it's so fascinating, because we do that even with our own self, right?
You were describing it a little bit. When you asked these questions, you suddenly you see that
actually another self within yourself, right? It's the same kind of process of the way you might
actually see someone differently after having a conversation with them. We kind of play all these
different roles in our life without really thinking about it. And there's there would be a difference if
we were doing that consciously. But Esteban, how does how does that relate to the category theory and
this side of the equation? Or just what thoughts were you having? Because you were listening to
Flora? Yeah, no, I think one of the things that Flora has taught me is the importance of dialogue.
Um, I think when we met, I was in the in I call it the naive stage of thinking that that mathematical
models could could help us just come together and work together, right? Um, but I think that Flora,
her lines were always like, why don't you just grab the phone and call them? Why don't you just meet
with them or go for a coffee? And, um, and I think that that importance of the dialogue, um, has been
key to to kind of the the reliance on on on phenomenology. But I think the other part of it is that
when you really have someone like Flora who pushes you to towards the experience, um, I think what ends up
happening is you just reflect yourself. Like you like, and I think this is very related to also
to the concept of caring that you were mentioning at the beginning, like when you really care for
someone, you and for something you, you reflect yourself, you see yourself in that. I mean, it's
uncanny how much I, I see my myself in my daughter sometimes, and it's really uncomfortable. It's like a
really, it's a really difficult challenge as a parent. I mean, this is a typical thing that
the parents say and joke about, right? They like the worst things you see them reflected in,
in some of their behavior or their saying or their, you know, attitudes. And I think that's,
that comes from caring. And, and so I think category theory by, by having that meta approach to,
to, to reasoning, it becomes kind of a mirror to people. And, uh, and, and by doing that, it allows
to, to be more clear and more transparent, as Flora was saying to others. And so this is,
this was our key insight for us in the architecture of collective computers. It was like
the, the key to collective harmony was not the clarity of the information itself that we put
together in a model, right? It's not the system model is the, is the reflection that I have on
the self and in a way that the clarity that I have on the own, the perspective of each of those,
let's call them individuals of the collective. And if each of those individuals can enhance their
awareness and, um, and, and so how can we enhance the awareness of each of the individuals by allowing
them to, to reflect through these meta languages, like category theory, or by formal ways of doing
dialogue, like the one that Flora is, is describing. It's not, it's not just getting in a room and talking,
it's getting in a room with certain clarity of affordances or formalities. And, um, and if we
can do that, then something, something emerges that is kind of harmonic, harmonious. And I think that's,
that's where we are focusing. How do we have incitations or interventions to each of the experience
so we can enhance that sharing of clarity and transparency.
Hmm. This gets so fascinating because we started to think of computing more like a conversation.
And this idea of self has to kind of change in a complex way where,
so this phenomenological aspect that you're bringing in, it's not just that the computer aligns
differently to each subjectivity. It's also kind of, um, opening whatever position you're in to
understanding that you're actually always many positions and you can dance between them and realign.
Which brings me to this, something I loved in the text you wrote that you sent me about form
changing with function. So to think of a computer when it's changing its function,
like when I'm using it in different ways, the actual form of it would change. It makes me want
to ask Flora because she's worked many years with corporations and these really big bodies,
big corporate kind of machines that have set a lot of trajectories for a lot of how we think and
in our world. And I wonder Flora, how you've seen that change over time and how you think that, um,
this idea of collective computing as changing with the form or being more dynamic could be helpful.
Yeah. So I think a big corporations, any big body has an incredible amount of inertia.
So what happens is you, you have skunk works or, uh, you know, little labs that sort of spring up
and they figure out how they can socialize radical ideas. They're not necessarily radical politically,
but radical to the culture. And, and so the way I often enable that to happen is to understand what
are the levers of culture that can be used because not all of them can and try different waffles that
you throw against the wall to see what ingredients are actually the ones that are going to be successful.
Um, and I think with the collective computer, we have a lot of conversations about,
is it a technology? Is it a machine? Is it a process? Is it hardware? Is it software? Because
we're taught to categorize in a very limited way. So what I find is we almost have to create a new
language, syntax, vocabulary, and rules of grammar. Because it's all of the things that we're talking
about now. And they're almost antithetical to the way business. If you think about business schools,
of the last 60 or 70 years, they've spoken in one linear fashion, profit above all, and this is how
you do it. And then there are schools of better ways to make profit. And so if you actually challenge
that paradigm and you say, actually, what if it's thrivability or generative life for all, not at the
exclusion, not extractive life, then that actually changes the conversation. But business is actually
pretty extractive. Have you seen that shift at all in the work that you're doing and in different
sort of science approaches, something is kind of shifting a little bit. Maybe we're going to learn
how to think of the self in a little bit different way. Maybe we're going to have this ecological
opening that incorporates all these things we're talking about. And I wonder in these big,
yeah, bodies that have such inertia, if you've noticed any shift at all that you
think would be relative to this kind of collective computing, that it's opening towards that too.
Yeah, I think it's people-centric, right? There are specific individuals that are always
going to be out ahead of the curve. And so you can't say that a big, big corporation is moving,
but you can say there are people within that corporation that are actually thinking along
lines that we're thinking. And I see this in the industry group that I'm very active in.
We think like activists, but we are engineers. That's the tagline for the regenerative work that we
do so that we have feet planted in both ideas. And that's what it takes, is that you have to have
some brave souls or foolhardy souls, however you're going to describe them, who say, this is my
conviction and I'm willing to share it whether or not you agree with me. And I'll do it. And my style
is to do it in a non-confrontational way so that there can be a lesson learned. And if you don't
like it, I don't take it first. Are you one of those people, Esteban? Are you one of those people
who's like pushing, doing something new? I guess you can't really talk about yourself like that,
but are you willing to be one of those people who's going to push into a new world first with
this computing? Let me try to take it in this direction. I think that this computer requires
a different type of world, a different type of paradigm for society. This is not just another
technology. This is another set of incentives, another set of policies, another set of things that
we value. And I believe it's as fundamental as the change from, I don't know, monarchies to
meritocracies to, I think there is something fundamental that is changing in the way in how we value
our role in society, our individual roles and the way we work and the way we live and the way we share
as societies and so on. So I am hopeful, and let's say that, I am hopeful that this technology
eventually will find that world, will coexist in a world where other things are valued and elevated.
I guess I'm trying to get at like, what are the stakes here? What do you really care
about? And how is that connected to this new form of computing?
I see. No, I think it's a really difficult question, Andrea, because I think that
what happens is that you have to make a personal commitment to something like this in the sense
that like, when you try to develop a technology that requires a different paradigm, the current
paradigm won't reward you. There is no commercial interest today for collectiveness. There's so much
baggage in terms of collectiveness. There's so much history and so much judgment that people have about
historical forms of attempts to be collective and from a political point of view, from a technological
point of view. And so I think what we are doing at HoloLine, and this is why I'm so inspired and so
happy about this project, is like we are just a few people who want to like dedicate their lives
to try this, even if the incentives are not there, even if the reward is not there. In the sense,
it's a deeper reward. It feels like something more like a deeper exploration that transcends
our own lives. It's not something that I will even need to see. And this is why it's so complicated to
answer your question, because if I attach myself to the desire of any form of result or reward, I
couldn't do this. I couldn't do this because the temptation is too big to go to quantum. Quantum
is where the billions of dollars are. Yeah, that's why I'm asking you in a way,
because you both have skills that are really in demand in these old paradigms. It's not easy to
resist the inertias, to use that word again. And I mean, it must be a deep connection. I know this
from my own work too. And I think it does have to do with just having gone so deep that you can't go
back. You can't unsee or unread or unsense. There's another level, right, which it seems like you both
are trying to open up with your work that you've experienced, maybe gotten a taste of,
and you want to like, you want more of it, and you want the world to know more of it. And there's
something there I'm trying to touch. And that, at the moment, at least, seems to conflict a lot with
this world that's suddenly crazy about AI, as if AI just appeared or something. And that,
you know, if you can code, you can get any job you want and engineering and like, yeah,
there's, it's, they're not intention, right? But part of what you are both trying to do is
reveal that they're not intention. And that reminds me of what Flora was saying about
people just being able to be the pioneers and try it.
Well, let me, let me say something that I had a conversation with my therapist last week. And she
said something really cool about this technology. It's actually the biggest compliment that I have had.
She said, you're trying to put me out of work with this technology. And, and I take that as,
you know, a technology like this would be a technology that allows people to, to be more
aware, to be more reflective. And I, and I think what happens, what happens in there to me is that
a lot of the, the way I see society right now is, is a lot of the people in power are,
if you love them, if you, if you, if you, if you don't judge them, if you love them,
you see their inner child, you see the little, the little person of themselves trying to get the love of
their parents and not getting it and trying to prove the world that they are worth it by getting
more money, by getting more power, by getting more recognition, by getting more. And, and I think
there is something about the, that's what I was saying about, I was lucky enough to, to suffer
tremendously, the heartbreak heart, heartbroken to the core, because you realize when everything
breaks that you're still, you, you're still there, you're still alive. And you start to love yourself
in a way that doesn't need that external recognition. And so I think there is something
about love that is very fundamental when, when it's to the self that allows you to say, you know,
I'm okay dying without anyone buying these books or purchasing, purchasing these computers or reading
this material. It's okay. I'm, I'm doing it for myself. And I think that's love to, to the self,
which is very fundamental to, to, I think, to be able to love others and to love the project in
where you are. And I personally, I don't know if that makes any sense. What do you think under
that? But to me, it's like, that's what moves me. It's like, man, that's the best thing I can do to
my daughter, to my life. It's just to do something that, that, that respects what I want to do,
you know, even if nobody really cares, you know, and that's, I am saying that fully acknowledging that
it's incredibly painful that nobody cares. It's, it's, it's incredibly painful. Of course,
of course, I want to be in the, in the cover of Wired magazine, of course, but it's, it's fine to,
but when you acknowledge it, you, you can say it's not there and I am still going to do it. And it's,
and, and that's like, and that's to me is, I don't know, it's love, it's love for the self.
Yeah. That's a really interesting thing. There's something about just to think about that suffering
and discomfort that you brought up at the beginning and being able to sort of be in that
and then ask yourself the questions Flora was asking her, the group, this, these why questions
and get some perspective and then still want to do what you're doing. Thinking about that as a
connection with, with love. I could go really deep into that, but first I want to ask Flora when you,
what is, what about this word love Flora and in your own life, how, how did you discover this
love reservoir that's around and how does that connect to your notion of collective or, or the
work you do and ecological issues? So I would say it's a feeling I'm trying to replicate and I would
like it to be available to anybody who's looking for it. And it was the feeling I first had in the
redwood forests in California. Beautiful. Where I wanted to become one with the forest. I love the
trees. I love the smell. I never wanted to leave. And there was a feeling of wholeness and purpose and
just feeling integrated there. And it, it, it, this was quite, that happened quite a long time ago, but
what I realized was why, you know, in these moments of ambiguity, what is it that gives you peace, solace,
hope, happiness? It's not anything physical, necessary, physically tangible or intangible, like money
or, uh, possessions or those kinds of things. It's really around where are, where are you feeling in your
body and in your mind and your soul? And are you, are you harmonious? Are you feeling a harmony with
all of those pieces? So my, my way of answering that was really saying, what if we were better
connected to nature, almost in the way Thoreau said, you know, I'm just going to go live at Pond
and watch nature around me and become part of nature. Well, we don't have that luxury necessarily,
but that doesn't mean that in, in the voyages of your mind, that you can't spend some time there.
To find that resonance, right? That you feel attuned with. And I think that's where I felt it in the
redwood forest. Other people will feel it other places. And that is love.
It's beautiful. Thank you for bringing it up. You're resonating with them.
Yeah, you're welcome. But I think, you know, that's really, you know, love is some kind of
resonance and look, there's a little disharmony sometimes, but mostly it's resonance.
My husband works in greening cities and he has this kind of idea of like that the city itself
should be kind of like the redwood forest feeling in a way it connects to what the computer should
be too, right? That why shouldn't we have those kind of resonant, as you say, experiences with all
the things we interact with the city itself and the technology and this computing, they aren't separate
and things. So I love, love, love that you brought the redwood forest because we all have had that
feeling of where you lose yourself, but you're more yourself than ever, but you don't need a self.
And that is love. I mean, that is love when it's happening with humans, when it's happening with
animals, when it's happening with trees, when it's happening, sometimes watching a video on the computer
or reading a book that it's almost like this kind of second order connection to the actual
life that created it, but it comes through in a powerful way too. So it's fascinating to think
about that. But you both use this word harmony a lot, harmonizing. And also in your writings,
you talk about compositions. And I wondered if you thought of that as like a musical composition.
And I want to dig into this a little bit because you just said, Flora, it doesn't always have to be
harmonious, but yeah, it sounds like that's kind of the goal in a way is harmony or even surrendering
to the vibrations that you're in or something. And I just wonder how you think about this, or if you
all have discussed this, this harmony, is it too easy to just be harmonious? When I was reading in your
text, I was thinking, okay, but no, maybe they mean more like a piece of music where,
again, to get to this phenomenological subjectivity, where every person who reads that book or listens
to that music, both of which could be compositions, will have a different experience of it based on
their navigating, where they're navigating their trajectory to kind of connect it to my work.
But at the same time, it's shared too. It's very complex and fractal. So I wonder,
what do you mean by harmonizing and composition? And do you think about this? Have you talked about
it? Yeah, I think harmony. So one of the questions that one of the most common questions that we get
when we talk about collective computer is for what? What is the goal? What is it going to, you know,
and that comes from this, again, this paradigm of, again, enlightenment and intelligence and
optimization and machines that extend our minds. These are tools for us. So, so harmony is,
I would say kind of a replacement word for us to all of that, all of that goal seeking
behavior around technology. And so we see harmony as a word that is more about the present. It's more
about different things coming together in a way that, that we want to, I want to exist in harmony. So,
you know, word limit us. It's a really tricky thing to say, what is this computer for? But if we have to
choose, we believe that collectiveness will bring harmony in the sense that we want to
to kind of avoid that like goal seeking directional perspective, you know, of seeking to optimize in
something. So that that's what with harmony and in terms of composition is about exactly, exactly,
it's like a very fractal way of thinking about it's not an input output kind of perspective. It's more
how do you bring things together and preserve their individuality at the same time.
And I think compositionality, that's another very beautiful thing of gathering theory,
it allows you to think that way, it allows you to reason about like two different things coming
together, but being there themselves at the same time and, and all the formal rules and all the,
all this, the systems in place to, to allow that. That's our, that's how we came up with that. It's
really hard to do because the question always goes to, so what for harmony, for what, you know,
this is very much influenced Andrea, just one more detail on that in, in, I guess,
Buddhist philosophy. And I guess the ideas of, I think in my personal journey, at least one of the
things that like resonated to use that word too, in my journey of suffering and in my journey was
discovering Buddhism and, and the, the ideas of like, as you say, surrendering to, to the present
moment and so on. And, and kind of, I wouldn't say rejection, but like not seeking a goal, like the,
the denial of that, like pursuit of something.
Yeah. Or seeing the pursuit of something as the, as, as a tool, right? It's not,
that's the whole landscape. It's just that in the same way that inputs and outputs or all these other
dichotomies that are a part of all this work, it's not that we, as you were saying at the very beginning,
you're not rethinking it in the sense of throwing away everything that ever was before and having some
new thing. It's more like what the Buddhist tradition would say, or what Flora might have experienced with
the redwoods, a different awareness, a more, a meta awareness, this increasing of awareness.
In a way, the answer to why is love, but we can't say that, can we? Because that word,
it makes us uncomfortable or it seems, you know, reminds us of some Hallmark card or,
oh, we don't take it seriously, but actually it's a very serious thing, right? And that feeling of love,
like Flora described with the redwoods or that we all have, we can all sit here for a moment and
think of a moment when we felt that feeling in our chest and our whole body was, you know,
vibrating, right? It was very music. It is very musical. In a way, that is the answer to why,
isn't it? We don't understand it though. We don't know what that is fully. I don't know. What do you
think, Flora? Well, so I always go back to nature and nature is for the most part harmonious,
but sometimes it isn't. But it, so it's not to ask why is it or isn't it? It's just sort of to say,
these two things exist, coexist. So if we were to think about harmony within the, with people or
people in the planet. So I always say people in the planet so that we don't forget. Then we sort of
understand that we're not Pollyannas to say, oh, we're going to sing Kumbaya all the time. We're going to
say, why wouldn't we want to be more harmonious as a species in the ecology in which we're part of?
And if we can have a technology that is informed by our ecology, wouldn't that make sense to try
and combine all those factors together? And wouldn't that be wonderful if the result was more harmony?
As you were talking, I was thinking, it's also about becoming aware of hearing,
seeing, sensing other musics, other instruments, and, and how all those can somehow begin to
recognize each other and play together. So even the idea of harmony isn't a static thing. It's not
that we're trying to, there's some state that's harmony that we're trying to reach, right? It's very
hard, even for me, like I was thinking of it in that way. But if we could really, you know, if we
take my work and your work seriously, actually, the harmony itself isn't some static thing. It's,
it's the combination of all those voices, all those instruments, hearing each other, and that
itself is creating new music, right? So it's an ongoing, scaling thing.
Yeah, so I think we have to divorce ourselves from the idea of fixed, fixedness, right? Is there really,
some things need to be fixed to understand. And so I think computers to date, and our educations were
fixed in certain disciplines, so that we could acquire that understanding. But we're ready, I think,
to go beyond. So I was educated in the 20th century. So when I look at education now, it's radically
different. And I would say that the people who've been educated in this century are very equipped,
maybe to enable the best of what we've did up till now, but only in that line. So maybe what somebody
from the other century like me can bring is to say, we actually, there's so much more that we could be
looking at, and investigating, and viewing as possibility, rather than always trying to narrow and
simplify.
Yeah, that's, that itself speaks to that different kind of awareness, instead of thinking we always
have to put something in its place, and get to the goal. It's more like realizing, okay, putting
stuff in its place and getting to the goal is important. But those, those are just methods, tools.
And there's a bigger actual kind of thing going on, which again, Gastavon maybe talks to your,
what you were describing in your books and stuff about, about category theory.
Yeah, one of the, one of the things, you know, one of the experiments that we are preparing right
now is, is to venture in what we are calling non-symbolic mathematics. So I think Flora touched
the concept of education. And in education, we see very early kids playing with like their fingers
to count, you know, and then very, very quickly, we move into symbols. And the dominant paradigm there is
that symbols and all the rules of mathematics that we use relying on symbols, help us deal with more
complex operations, right? But we're, what we are questioning in our research organization is,
is that always true? Is it the case maybe in some, in some situations in where symbols are getting in
the way of our cognition? And what if we could do formal operations, mathematical operations,
without symbols at a very complex level? So when, when you look at today, non-symbolic math, you will
find toy exercises or recreational mathematics, as they call it, or educational tools, you know,
tools for kids or puzzles or stuff like that. But can we use non-symbolic mathematics for really complex
problems? Can we use composition of music or composition of colors to, to make really hard
decisions? That's wonderful. That's almost like a paradigm shift right there. If that could happen,
it's almost like when haptics came to the phone, for some reason, that's what I thought of. And it
just suddenly changed everything. It would almost be like a haptic of cognition interfacing directly.
Yes. And, and that is exactly, that is exactly where the beginnings of, of a new form of
computer, right? I mean, if we start playing with those experiments, like you were asking at the
very beginning, is this a, a think tank or is this an experiment lab? Well, we started as a think tank,
but we are starting to move right now to more experimental things. And there, these are toys,
right? These are toys that we are trying to force into, into experiments. We want to create the space to,
to play and to, and to bring back the early stages of computer science and where people were
experimenting with different machines in different unconstrained ways, developing new forms of math,
like non-symbolic math and, and thinking about new ways of, of creating the theories behind those
things, the architectural theories. It's more of like what we were talking about with, it's a cognitive
shift that needs to happen. It's a kind of different sort of creativity, or there's some kind of shift in
terms of how we're going to mash things up and what's possible technologically now. And also
technologically can mean biologically now, as you know, you, you explore a bit too. Like you, you talk
about the wristwatch in the, in one of the documents that you've made, that the wristwatch could itself
be a living, a living thing that's interacting with your body. And that is literal, not that a machine
has come to life that the, the watch, the wristwatch or the wrist band is itself created from something
like fungi or, I mean, who knows, like an actual thing that we already consider alive. So yeah.
Just to bring Flora back in, like, how does that change what's possible with conversation if the
technology is reoriented to be conversational? It's almost a social contract issue, right? Because I
think some people will not want to disclose how they actually feel because there's a personal
impediment of some kind, maybe distrust. But I like to think that the better angels will come out of
all of us. And that, that we actually all seek a kind of sort of oasis for us and our families. And in
that oasis, it is a quality of life that may be missing where some people are. And work is so much
a part of life. So why wouldn't we want that to inform how we work and what we do and how work and
business actually operates? So to come full circle with why we originally thought about this, I mean,
Esteban and I have spent endless hours in meetings, where people are feeling enabled or disabled to say
what they really think, or are deferring to somebody who has more perceived more power or actual power
of hiring and firing or raises and all that. So what if we were to make it more egalitarian
so that everyone could actually express from their perspective, what they actually believe
could be a solution, I think we would be much better off. So I actually have a lot of hope for
this technology. Yeah. And as you also both raise in your writings, we do get into these issues of
privacy, of the fact that we do still think of ourselves as very particular kind of closed systems,
even though, of course, we're not. But the idea of something like this wristband,
some kind of living material, wearing it and it becoming part of your body is a science fiction
at the moment, but possible and happens anyway, actually. I mean, as we all know, our bodies are
created by millions and millions of other creatures. We don't want to think about that,
but it's just coming at it from a different side of the spectrum to think of where incorporating
technology that's living consciously as of creating affordances, as you might say, instead of just
adapting to affordances. But this scares people, doesn't it? There's issues of safety, as you both
know. Are those kind of the bigger issues that both of you are having to deal with when you think
about actually taking this into a public space? So let me start with that one, okay? I think that
it's not going to be like boom overnight. We're all going to be wearing wristbands that talk to each
other. Right. I think that we have to sort of find a safe environment, quote, safe environments,
in which we can experiment. And business seems to be a good area to do that in. I mean, what we're
talking about is not as much a fiery move as we think. No, we have wristbands that talk to each other
already. We just don't know what they're saying. That's right. We're definitely always connected and
sharing through traditional machines. So it might just take that separation from nature,
that mindset shift. Because it's sort of bogus to think something artificially manufactured is
going to be safer than something that we're surrounded with all of our lives. I find that sort of
contradictory. So I think that the privacy issue is separate. And in different societies, privacy is
bigger or smaller. So in the individualistic societies, privacy is paramount. Because I am an
individual and I am, I am, you know, my thoughts are my thoughts and I, they prevail over everyone else.
Whereas in other areas, in other worlds, that's not the case at all. It's very communal. Yeah.
So I think we have to sort of choose our battles. And the people who will be earlier doctors are the
ones who are going to trust that maybe the builders and the manufacturers of these devices or this
technology actually have these ideas pretty well thought out. We can't think of everything, but
safeguards maybe or affordances will be in place so that people aren't exposed where they don't want
to be exposed. And these are things that we're working out now. Yeah. And that really gets messy in a
way, you know, in a way that is not bad that, but in terms of intention, what the intention is also, even
from a perspective of not thinking that this capitalism is totally bad or something. I mean,
that there is some motivation in having businesses want to embrace that model, but also that having a
spectrum of where it could become dangerous or misused and all that. So there's a lot of messiness there.
Yeah. I think one of the most concerning issues for us, I would say, and more fascinating as well,
is the relationship between kind of what this technology means and the social political
implications. Like I think that you can't think about this technology without truly embracing the
concepts of property, the hierarchical issues, power, you know, money, all of those things. Who owns a
collective computer, right? If we make something together, who owns it? You or me?
If it's changing as we use it, I mean, that's quite spectacular too. Who's responsible for the changes?
Who is responsible? So, so we think that this is not just a technology. This is a new,
this is a new paradigm of, of, of socio-economical order in a sense. And I think that's really scary for,
for a lot of people, but I am hopeful. And the things that give me hope are, I was very involved in
recruiting. I, I was the, the lead of many recruiting efforts for huge corporations in,
in the top universities in the U S and the things that the most talented people are searching for
are so different today. They're searching for meaning. They're searching for harmony. They're
searching for their respect to each other in, in, in ways that are, that are surprising, actually.
I think that that's a really powerful sign of hope. And I see a lot of the changes in, in the,
you know, this, all symbols of power and success are becoming like jokes, you know, are become more
people are seeing, like, as I was saying, like little kids in diapers, like searching for, for
their ego. I mean, I have so many friends and colleagues who have quit their corporate successful
jobs to start permaculture farms and, and live from their gardens. And how do you explain that
in economic terms? You know, what, where is that coming from? You know, and I think we have to take
those, those signs of change very seriously. And I think a lot of companies and commercial efforts are
not, uh, there's so many expressions of art that are talking about the collective that are talking about
regenerative systems that are embracing biological related to, I mean, there are so many signs that we are
monitoring and, and, and, and I give, I mean, maybe we are biasing our perspectives to give ourselves
hopes, but, um, there is something, as you say, changing in the air, you know, something changing
in the air. And I think that's, that's a scary because I think the resistance, uh, not necessarily
is going to be a soft change, a soft transformation. That part is, is concerning. We are not a powerful
corporation. We are just a group of small people and, uh, a small corporation, a nonprofit group
trying to put these ideas forward.
Mm. But that's what everyone is in the beginning of change. It goes back to something both of you
said in different ways and throughout this conversation, something I also think about and
write about a lot, which is it is, it is a shift of mind. Once you understand that mind is
not separate from all this, uh, phenomenological stuff that we're talking about. And it comes back
to this awareness again. And there's a way in which I, I, I call this ecological orientation,
where if we take a different orientation about what self is, and we start to actually truly,
truly understand that we are a body awakening. That's not just this body. It does actually kind
of solve some of that stuff. If you really take it seriously, because you start to feel the way we
now feel about preserving our family or taking care of those we love, it comes back to love again,
right? You, you feel love for a wider space and that actually starts to change and make way for a
lot of the things that you all are trying to do now. It makes me think of this regeneration too,
which you talk about a lot, Flora. How does that connect to this new, the shift that would make a lot of
this possible that you're both envisioning regeneration? So regeneration is, is a response
to the moment we find ourselves in. So we sort of been mindless about the way we have never have lived
in the world to now and thought about the earth's bounty as limitless. And, uh, recently I just read
something that says it's not a problem of stocks and flows to use Donella Meadows. It's really a problem
with stocks. We don't have enough stocks to continue to live the way we currently live. So if we don't
pay attention to the flows that are needed, meaning regenerating those stocks, then we're consigning the
human race, at least the human race. We've already consigned a lot of other species to extinction.
So I think from a biological preservation point of view, regeneration is an absolute must.
Is that part of that understanding we are those other species too? Are we regenerating cognitively or
mentally or, um, our perspective too? Not only the way we use the resources?
Yeah, absolutely. We're, we're along multiple lines. So when I think of regeneration,
it's people, planet, profit, and it's also ourselves. And, and if you start with yourself,
then you're on this path to understand how everything is connected and how it touches each other.
So, you know, there's that, uh, Buddhist analogy of, uh, butterfly flies in the home,
the Malias, the monsoon start. And, uh, we now have the technology that shows us all the patterns,
the natural patterns of wind and rain. And, uh, there's an understanding of the water cycles
and all of these life giving processes of, of the earth enable all of us to live. And I think we've
lost respect for the sanctity of life, ours and everything else.
A feeling you had in the redwoods. We've kind of gotten away from that maybe.
I think, I think many of us have, I think there are more and more people as Esteban alludes to
that, uh, are finding it again. And it may just be being able to grow a basil plant.
Yeah. Just so connecting. It's magical. I mean, it gets to that perspective shift too. It's actually
really magical to realize you can grow something out of the dirt. I mean, if that sounds crazy,
but like it's, some of it's just noticing like these everyday things, which actually are really
spectacular things. And if you start to participate with them, in them, as them in a different way,
your quality of life does change. I think that's what Esteban's getting at. I think that's what you're
actually, um, elevating opening with your work, Flora. I mean, there's something there. We all
are trying to, we know it's there, but we, it's very hard to articulate. We still think of it in
this dichotomous way as if it's some kind of spiritual or ephemeral thing, but actually it seems
to be maybe the whole point to get back to what Esteban, the question everyone asks you, what's the
point? It's that it's love. It's there's something more, it's not a joke and it's not mystical or it is
if you want it to be, but it's there. And as you're talking about regeneration, it makes me think of
what you both write about in this non-dualistic architecture of matter and pattern. If we start
understanding the earth around us as a non-dualistic architecture, as a non-dualistic landscape,
when we regenerate something like in a plant, it's also regenerating what we think of now as ourself or
something. Is this a kind of computer that we can have in the future, a conversation of constant
regeneration? I think that the most exciting part to me about, about that question, or what is,
what is, so what is the computer? How does the computer look like in this conversation?
Is that I would say an unexamined answer to that would be, yeah, it is, this conversation is a
computer, right? It's, or, or a planting a plant. And I think all of that is true, right? But I want to
use the word that Flora used. Like some people could, could, could deduct from this conversation
that we are saying, let's go back to Kumbaya. That's the word you use Flora, right? And let's
live in the forest, right? That's not what we are saying. What we are saying is there is a huge
opportunity to use actual science and technology to relate to these questions, to, to, to enhance the
way in how we relate to this experience that we are having right now. And it is multisensorial and it is,
and it is all of that. And so there, there are so many progress in, in, in synthetic biology,
in biology itself, in, in computer science, in mathematics, and there's so many things that we
can do. Like let's get back to the lab and let's, let's build real technology and science. It's not
just embracing the plants. I mean, plants are definitely part of that. Plants can be part of the
computer. But the question is how do we, and people like our advisor, Andy Adamatsky in, in,
in the UK, right? He's, he's, I mean, a lot of research on different types of unconventional
computers, using plants, using fungi, using, you know, proteinoids and many other forms of, of,
of computing. Right. And I think for us, that's, that's an exciting field for scientific and
technological development. I mean, I'm an engineer at the end of the day. I, I want to see that part
happening, right? It's not. So yes, it is this conversation, but is this conversation
facilitated and organized in a way that is together with technology and together with nature?
It's not just, let's go back to nature is let's do both. And that is a really exciting part of what,
what we are seeing and doing. I think this speaks to this idea of language. And I think Flora said,
we kind of need a new language. And in your writings, you also say, well, actually we don't
language or how I read it was almost, or maybe it's from my own work too. We could, I think of language
as one vehicle in a way that we've created for making way and connecting and, but we could also have
other vehicles, which is kind of what you were getting at Esteban with the non-symbolic math,
or these, this other way of thinking about communication, which isn't necessarily symbolic
language. And we already communicate in many ways that aren't symbolic language. So all of this
messiness is just stuff we have to go through to kind of rearrange, reorient our understanding,
our cognition of what all the stuff means in this kind of category, you know, and how all these
categories fit together. We're reorienting that and that's tough, but that's what we're doing,
right. That's this conversation, but it is important as I'm glad you brought it up to say
that actually we all are kind of tech nerds or engineering minded, you know, each one of us has
some really deep connection to what people think of as traditional science or traditional engineering
or traditional coding or traditional, whatever computing. And all of that is part of it. It's,
it's, it's, it's exciting. Even as you were saying, those guys who are creating the languages and stuff,
like that's part of it too. It's just, how do we realize that there's, that's part, that's part of,
that's a vehicle. There's other ones. That seems like what we're all trying to do. And so
to end, I want to think about this idea of SIM, maybe that connects to all this SYM, which you use a lot
also is that part of it too. I mean, that seems like a dichotomy, right? Symbiosis, but actually
that's what we're trying to do, right? Is widen that to understand it's this ongoing regenerative
conversation. It can be between two, but it can be each of those two can be conversing with millions of
others. We are symbiotic beings. I mean, we have millions of different little microbes, bacteria in
our bodies. And so this idea that, um, symbiosis is outside of us is as preposterous as nature being
outside of us because we are, we are nature. We are symbiotes. So it's this continuum of life.
And we've sort of, as humans, I think artificially, uh, transected it with categories. So maybe what
we're doing with our SIMs is saying categories allow us to, uh, wayfind in a certain way.
But what if you actually allowed the whole of wholeness of nature to inform what we do and how we do it?
What, what would that feel like? It would be a difference in the way we interact together and on
the planet. And I will add Andrea, uh, I think there is one, one more aspect to, to what Flora said
about this idea of symbiosis that is, is interesting, attractive. Let's say it's attractive to, to me.
That is this concept of endosymbiosis as a, as a key part of life, this relationship within ourselves,
within the, you know, the core of who we are. And, and, uh, and I think that there is like
something about that in relationship between the mitochondria and the, and the cell that, that is
like in a way generating or producing the energy that moves life. And, and so there is, we come
from, from the world of energy. And I think one of the bigger questions for the future of society is
like, where, where is this energy going to come from? And where is this energy? And, and, and look
what life is telling us. It comes from within. And, and, and I'm not referring it as a metaphor. I'm not
using this as a, I am literally saying like 80% of our energy is from that little fight between
the mitochondria. And I think there is something profound there that technologically could unlock
a new future of energetic systems and, and resources. And I think we, we are at the dawn of
that. We are just exploring that. And I think a computer that has an, an internal symbiotic
relationship within, you know, we, we think about computers with components today that are performing
different tasks, but if those components have an internal battle to become one as it,
as in the mitochondria, the cell, like what if that is the source also to power the computer itself
and not just to power the computer, but to power our world. I mean, this is an early thought, right?
So I don't, I don't know if, if that's going to lead us anywhere, but I think we are excited and, and we
have a whole line of research in terms of the implications of energetic systems like that.
I'm glad you brought that up because that's an important thing for all of us, again,
and all our other work that we haven't touched on, but the fuel and what's what's, where's the energy
source and what's possible when we think about it in terms of that become very exciting of what we
haven't yet imagined. That's probably already possible right around us. Is there anything either of
you want to add before I ask the last question? Anything on your mind that comes up?
I have one thing. I think the, the, the one aspect that I think is really fundamental to our work is,
it's also related to education is, is this separation between humanities and the science that,
that is so fundamental to the way in how we train people today. So hard to, to speak in industrial,
professional context, because a lot of people don't even have the background. They never had a single
class of philosophy or, or art, you know, they, and so they have never encountered the questions of
the self or the questions of composition or create like, and so I think there is something about the
computer, which is, we call it a collective piece of art in a way. And I think there is this kind of
co-creation of these things that are. And so we didn't talk about that, but there is a lot of work
for us in the, in the collectiveness of the expression, the art expression of, um, and so I,
we think it has implications also in the, in the trajectory of art itself in the, not just in the
science and the, and the engineering, but in the art as forms of collective expression could arise in
ways that we have seen pieces of that. There are many artists who are exploring with these concepts,
you know, very inspiring to see, but I think there could be an instrument for, for a new form of art
that, that could emerge from this technology.
Hmm. Yeah. It's great. You said that. And it actually links with what I was gonna go to now,
because I was thinking also about interdisciplinary stuff and non-disciplinary. And, um, my question,
the last one is, and I'll answer it first so you can kind of think, but I was just thinking here,
what's, um, some kind of category or some kind of dichotomy that's limiting us right now that might
be limiting you and your work or you and your personal life, or not even limiting, maybe it's
a good constraint, but something, some kind of challenge or something you want to put a little
attention on and I'll answer first. I mean, I, I'm just thinking right now, I think when you were
talking about, or when we were having this conversation, I was feeling myself a little, um,
resistance to this notion of, um, if something becomes too popular or too trendy, or even a
person like you're on the cover of wired magazine or whatever, or I am, or all of us are like that,
there's something in me that hasn't figured that out yet. When you talked about that, I feel like I'm,
I'm resisting it. Like the, there's some kind of thing where you can't get too successful
or something by these traditional terms, because then somehow you're selling out. I don't know if
that's just from my own cultural kind of upbringing or something, or this kind of punk thing I had when
I was like a teenager, but I think there's some resistance in me around that dichotomy or those
categories. I think I still see the world in these kinds of categories of selling, selling out versus, um,
being true to your passion. And I would like to look at that and maybe release those categories a
little bit and regenerate. So, that's mine. What comes to mind for you and your work or your personal
life? Either one of you or both of you, but either one of you first.
So I'm a survivor. And, um, so I would say that that was a positive. Actually, it was very positive
because I realized that when, with the diagnosis that I hadn't done what I thought I was going to do.
And when I came out on the other side of treatment, I was hell bent to get it done.
And, and so I'd say that, um, I used to need to have permission to do things.
And, uh, I suddenly realized I could give myself permission and I have. And so it's, it's a,
it's an amazing way to, to find my way to the future. And I, I spend a lot of time thinking about
the future in very positive terms. And I think that helps me actually arrive and help others arrive.
Oh yeah. Thank you, Flora, for sharing that. It also takes us back to the beginning when Esteban
was talking about his childhood and the suffering and the coming out and with a different path or
something, but yeah. How long ago was that? Was it a while ago or was that?
Oh, 10 years. So you're, yeah. So it's, maybe that's part of the power that comes through
in your, in your poise and presence. Um, yeah. Thanks for sharing. What about you Esteban?
Yeah. I think about, you know, the unexamined or unaware behavior of seeking recognition. I think
that is, is something that I reject like you, right? I don't want to be, I don't want to be the
person seeking for the love that I didn't have in whatever instance, right? The rejection of my ex
girlfriend or my whatever parent or whatever love figure in my life that didn't love me back. Um,
so I, I agree with you. I don't want, I don't want to use success as a, as a filler for that whole.
Um, but I think there is nothing wrong with aware, with being aware and seeking intentional
recognition. And, and I think David Spivak, mathematician David Spivak uses a very beautiful
concept, which he calls social credit. I think there's nothing wrong with seeking social credit
in an aware and intentional space. Um, I mean, I, um, let me make it personal. I, I admire your work,
right. And I, I would love for, to get your, I think this is a recognition to get to talk to you
in this podcast. I, I, I look up to, to you, to your writings, to your philosophy, to your thinking.
So I, I embrace that, you know, I don't, I don't feel ashamed for feeling proud of talking to you.
Right. Um, but I, I do agree with you that sometimes I catch myself and I'm weirdly, um,
pursuing, um, something in a, in a way that I don't want to, you know, it's like, it's different
to eat a good meal when you like it and just to eat by, because you are just anxious. Right.
And I don't know if that analogy makes any sense, but there's no intention or what we were talking
about earlier. It makes sense. Yeah. There's nothing wrong with food. There's, there's something
about that anxious and aware eating. Right. And that, that to me is attention. It's also social
credit back to Spivak. Mm-hmm. Yeah. It makes me think of, um, being too careful or safe
for something, which, you know, relates to both of your work again, too, of, uh, not wanting to
put myself in situations where I'm, I could be doing something just to be, um, just to heal some
kind of past thing that I haven't, or, or just to be seen, or, I mean, I'm thinking of technology is
why I'm going here because a lot of our technology now is about following, liking all these kind of
awful words, right. That I just don't even want to like, I, I, I find myself kind of escaping in the
way that you said Esteban, which is why I'm, I'm trying to challenge myself here now, because I
don't even want to look at it. I don't want to have any, I've never had social media accounts, um,
only just recently, like in the past week or something, because I just don't want to play,
participate in that game. But that's part of that. I'm, in a way I'm reinforcing the category
rather than regenerating, or as Flora just kind of opened up this idea of access, giving yourself
like access and, and giving yourself the, there's, there's something in what Flora was saying,
a release of not playing in that system, but opening and being part of that system. I don't
know. What do you, what do you think, Flora? Does that make any sense what I'm trying to say?
Well, whatever our constraints are, right, they're, they're our own personal demons.
And so I, I, I, I'm reminded that, uh, I, I joined a network of doers who are very much aligned with
what we're talking about, and it's only online. And I remember, because I had met the man, uh,
physically. And then he, he said to me, you know, there's nothing about you on social media.
And it never occurred to me that I needed, you know, I, I just didn't, I wanted to do, I don't
really care about publicizing it, but there is a, there is some necessity if you're looking to find
other like-minded people to have some sort of presence and some sort of documentation. So
people, little breadcrumbs so people can find you. Absolutely. And if, if we're serious about,
which we are serious, I mean, actually all of us have, I mean, I've spent over a decade just silently
reading and coming up with the theory and you don't, and you both have, you know, worked really
hard on things. It's not, we actually do care about these things and we actually do want other people
to experience some of the really beautiful stuff that we've realized is there. So it seems wrong to
reject, um, all the technology that spreads that kind of stuff. While at the same time, I do still feel
like I need to be careful. I don't know. What do you think Esteban? Have you ever had this issue?
Absolutely. No, I think one of the, the most difficult things is, is that balance, right? I
mean, it's so painful to, to, to not feel hurt, to not feel seen, you know, it's like that need to be
seen is so, uh, it's so core to us. Um, I, I just, I, I don't know. I mean, maybe to, to make it a
specific, right? I mean, I, I think that rejection is, is, is a mechanism of defense and it's so,
it's so tragic because we end up, um, depriving the world from amazing things. I mean, you know,
I imagine it's really scary to do what you're doing, releasing conversations. Maybe nobody will
follow. Maybe nobody will listen. What if nobody listens? What if a hundred people listen? Why,
why another million people listen? Right. I mean, it's impossible to not fall into that. So I,
I, I do want to take the opportunity to, to say thank you because I think you have changed Holland
and us, uh, me personally, personally, the, the reason why we love so much your work is because it
has really transformed the way we think about technology and life and your philosophy of way
making and, and, and in general, the way of thinking. So I, I just want you to know that at
least you have made an impact on us as a, as an organization and on me as a person.
I think I told you that in, in, uh, Spain when we met, but, uh, I, I want to tell you again that,
and one, one more thing. There's a, there's a person that I really admire, Hilma, Hilma of
Klint as an artist. Um, I have her book right behind me, so I can show it to you, but she, um,
she was a pioneer writing art and he, he got a lot of rejection because nobody understood what she was
doing, you know, and she, she did this thing that is like, you know, I, I'm going to preserve my work
for 20 years until, until I die, after I die. I think there's something, there's something there
that is like self-protective, you know, and I, I respect that. I think, um, you know, I, I, I, at the
beginning when I knew the story, I judged it. I was like, why, why, why was she not more courageous?
Why was she not, you know, but, and she was like decades ahead of her time, you know, her mentors
were rejecting her, her, her peers were rejecting her, you know, uh, and she still did it, you know?
I mean, in 20 years later, people benefit, I mean, her exhibitions at the Guggenheim, I think it was the,
the biggest exhibition of the museum ever. And, um, so we wouldn't have that, you know? So I, I think
there is something about doing the work anyway. And, and if you want to protect it, fine, protect
it. And if you don't want to, like you are right now making this conversation public or not, I mean,
you already changed at least one perspective and trajectory, which is ours. Thank, thank you.
Thank you so much. I'm going to just accept that because, you know, of course you always want to push
like, uh, really, but I, I accept that and I, I welcome that. And I, I feel just gratitude to you
for that. And I think it's, um, it gets back to that redwood forest moment. I sort of realized that
that's like, as long as I'm doing stuff out of that space, it's this big term. Like you can now,
I think category theory even helps you understand you can zoom out and think of this bigger space,
right? And you even think of yourself as part of something bigger and you don't, I don't understand
why I feel compelled to talk to all these amazing people like you, which by the way,
both of you, as you know, I I'm so grateful that you sent me these things. It's like a huge gift.
I mean, really it's a gift, you know, it's like one of those things where it just comes into your
life and it's exactly at the right time and it resonates. So who knows why that comes, but thank you.
But, you know, you can start to see that all that's happening and I can't see why, but if I,
if I just, I just learned, okay, if you feel that go with it. That's how I felt about wanting to talk
to you. Maybe that that's how I feel about my work. And then, you know, the rejection gets a
little smaller. It's like a little tiny boat on a big sea. So I just wanted to respond to two things.
One is your work resonates with the way I have conducted my life. I mean, so when I,
when Esteban told me about you and I started reading, like you're articulating how I feel
or how I felt and how I felt my way through life. The second thing I wanted to share with you is that
we're not trying to be TikTok superstars, right? So there's this, right?
So that isn't the goal. Right.
That's not the goal.
Although we welcome it, right? If somebody, it's fine.
Flora can be a TikTok star if you guys want to.
No, no, no. I think we could be a TikTok star.
Yeah, that's true. That's true. It's, um, I think it just gets, it's hard not to get,
first, thank you so much for, I mean, wow, that's already enough reason to be alive that one
person says that, to be honest, you know, but, um, and I do get, I mean, there is resonation like
that. And I do feel like we're all, that's why I was trying to bring this up. You're inspiring me
and, um, there's something's happening, right? It's not like, we're all sensing something that
we're seeing in each other. And it's important that we put it out there so that we can connect,
you know, that's why it's good to take these risks and not worry about the rejection. Cause
we're something bigger is kind of happening. It doesn't, I don't mean it in a mystical way,
but like, if we don't put it out there, if you hadn't, uh, put your things out there and I hadn't,
we wouldn't be having this conversation. And this conversation is very important and meaningful in
my life. So, and hopefully for others, it will be because, you know, even with just what you just
said about, uh, giving yourself access, that little sentence alone will probably help someone,
one person at least who hears it, you know, anyway, so it's all, it's all worth, um,
it's all worth a lot that we can't really see in our little limited life. But Esteban,
were you going to say something? Did I cut you off? No, no, no, I was, no, I was, I was going to
just acknowledge how difficult it is. And, uh, in the context of developing a technology we live,
I have worked recently in the, in the space of venture capital and, you know, you move through
money, you follow the, you know, there has, there has to have a certain pool and all of that. So
that I was just going to turn on show. Yeah. Well, that's what I was going to say. It's,
what's hard about it is that we're in these little worlds and, and it's hard in the little world when
you're doing something a little different, like in my little analytic philosophy world, you know,
I had to kind of push through that or in the neuroscience or you in the math or even in our
families, right. Or our friends who might have absolutely no clue what I'm talking about when I
started talking about all these things, because they haven't, not that they couldn't understand
it. It's just, they haven't spent 10 years reading all these books, right? It's just, it's just a
matter of that trajectory of what you've absorbed so that something seems like, oh, I couldn't, I can't
understand that. But actually it's just that you haven't read all the stuff. If you read all the
stuff, you'd understand it just as well. But when you're in those little communities, it can feel really
hard, right? To put things out there and deal with rejection and stuff in the way that we're saying,
or just people not understanding it, what you're doing. But that kind of brings us back to love,
right? Because when you have that feeling, or when you have conversations like this, or you meet people
who you resonate with, you start, it becomes, you sense there's something holding us that's larger and
we can help each other feel more of it, right?
Yeah. And I think Andrea, like, like, to me, I mean, love taught me this lesson, which is,
I know, it's kind of a cheesy quote, you know, but you know, Pima Chodron, right?
Oh, yeah, of course. Yeah. There's a book about suffering, right? I was thinking of it earlier.
I can't remember the name. She had this quote, which is like, you know, if you let yourself be
annihilated, like completely destroyed, discover what is essential in you. And I think what happens
with heart, heartbreak, what happens with love is that you discover that you lose the fear of it,
in a way. And it's not, it's not that you lose the fear, of course, I am still afraid, you know,
and some, in some people, it can increase. But you realize, like, you, you feel that when you are
heartbroken, you feel like you won't survive it. You would be like, well, you can't even sleep,
right? You can. Oh, yeah, I know exactly what you mean. Last big heartbreak, I couldn't even get in
the bed after it. It was awful. Yeah. It is awful. So if you have never experienced that and survive,
you are terrified of it. So how am I going to go for a technology, or a type of computer, if I'm going
to get heartbroken and literally die? I mean, this is a, this is an existential question, right?
I think I am, I don't think that I, yes, it would, I think now that it would be another heartbreak,
and, but we will, we will meet with Flora, have a coffee and continue our lives, you know?
You're lucky you have a Flora in your life.
I am very lucky that we have a Flora, right?
But Flora is, is disease or going through something like that, is that a kind of a heartbreak,
or is it, is it different? Is it, I mean, I've, we've all gone through certain things,
but not as, not in the way. It's a wake up call, I would say.
I mean, so heartbreak certainly unlocks a lot of different things, but I think when you
are confronted with your own mortality, and you sort of do your own summing up, and you find it
short of what your expectation is, you have a choice. You can say, okay, I'm going to go for it, or
too late, so too bad, and I, I elected to go for it.
Yeah, I guess it's this clarity that is a very, yeah, different grain of clarity.
Well, thank you for going for it, and thank you both for your work, and I mean, I hope this is
just one conversation in many that we continue to have about all these things, and I'm a big fan,
and definitely here to support you in whatever way I can, so.
Thank you, Andrea. It was an honor to, to talk to you.
An honor too, for me. I mean, I just, I could cry now. I just, I just feel the love for all of both of
you. But Esteban, you have to show us a picture of the guy, a girl, a woman, if you actually have
that book close, just to end. Yeah, yeah. Because I just, it's on my mind. Oh, it's right there.
Yeah. Paintings for the future. These are the kind of things that she was doing before Kandinsky,
before, before abstract art was a thing. Wow. So, yeah. Thank you for showing that. Yeah.
All right. Well, I have to go now. It's dinner time here in Holland, so I hope you have a beautiful
day. Thank you for spending a couple hours with me. Bye, Andrea. Thank you. Bye.
