Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea. Today I'm talking with John
K. T., who is a poet-philosopher. We talk about the oscillation of self and how this
is a way of bridging dichotomy. Holding the paradox becomes necessary when you begin to
understand yourself as oscillating between categories, such as poetry and philosophy.
John K. T. is both. He's both a poet and a philosopher, but he's very well known for
his poetry. He's won quite some awards, like the Lenore Marshall Award, which he won for
95th Street, his poetry book from 2009. John is from San Diego. He was born in 1945. He
started writing poetry in the 60s when he was an undergraduate at Princeton University,
and he became friends with poets like John Ashbery and even Frank O'Hara, as we talk
about here. He got his PhD in philosophy from Harvard, and he's been teaching philosophy.
He's actually retired now, but he taught in Wisconsin for many, many years. But at the
same time, he was always writing poetry, and we talk about how he balanced those worlds
of poetry and philosophy and how they are each and both in different ways. You can definitely
feel it in his poetry. It's one reason I love it so much. A friend introduced me to
it way back, and I've been reading him ever since. His books tend to come around the world
with me, which is fitting because they're a lot about exploration of landscape, both
geographical, but then it ends up feeling very mental and emotional. Quite often when
I read his poems, I have a sense of childhood or nostalgia or something from years past,
which is not quite a memory, but more a feeling of being on a street or a smell or something
sensory. So he's pretty amazing in the way he can conjure that with his words, and there's
nothing flashy about it, but it becomes very intimate. So we talk about his writing and
what poetry is and philosophy and how ourself is an oscillation, and we can never really
pin it down. But there's a way in which we can notice that movement, and that happens
in the best poetry or the best philosophy even, where you feel the movement as you are
the movement, so to speak. There's one book I just happened to pick up that I've been
carrying around of his called Falling Water, and I just noticed for the first time, but
the cover is a Van Gogh painting, and this painting is hanging apparently about 40 minutes
away in the Amsterdam Van Gogh Museum, so maybe I'll have to go see it. But I bring
it up just because it reminds me of his poetry. There's a kind of revisiting of places and
seeing them in a new way. So anyway, I opened this book and there's a poem called The Realm
of Ends, which has a lot to do with extremes and moving beyond them, which is fitting.
So I'll read that at the end of our conversation. I'm really glad you're here. I hope today
is a good day for you, wherever you may be, and that you have a little poetry in your
life of some kind, the kind you like. All right. Here we go. Hi, John. It's so nice
to see you. Thank you for being here today.
Thank you, Andrea.
So you're in Milwaukee today, right?
I am, yes. I've lived here since 1973.
I love your poetry. I love your writing. You're a poet and a philosopher, for those who might
know you on one side or the other. But as we get into your work, you've often said that
poetry is about conversation with yourself or talking to yourself in a particular way.
I do sort of think of it that way.
I wonder when in your own life, or if we can go back to when you were a young man, young
boy, you started to think about that conversation with self, or when did you begin to talk to
yourself, if I could put it in those terms?
I'm not sure I can put a date on it, though I don't have any religious beliefs anymore,
but I was brought up very religiously, first Catholic in Catholic school, and then my mother
restaged the Reformation, and we all became Lutherans. So I said religion, for me, has
always involved a great deal of introspection, even though all that religion kind of fell
away by high school. Still, that's probably when I first thought of it, though I didn't
come to literature until later, but I suspect that my religious upbringing has something
to do with my introspective nature.
That makes sense. It makes me think of prayer.
Yes. And as I say, I really believed these things quite seriously, and then all of a
sudden they just evaporated, and now it just seems to me superstition, though. Though I
still consider myself a kind of spiritual poet, but not in any religious sense. I mean,
even though Eliot's one of my great models, I don't share any of his religious beliefs,
so I'm not sure what they are, actually.
Yeah, but he had a degree in philosophy, right? I think you talked about that.
He finished his degree at Harvard, and if he had come back, he would have had a job
waiting for him at Harvard, but he never came back to the United States and pursued that.
These are definitely not disconnected, even if they're separate pursuits, what might be
religious when we're younger and the philosophical and the poetic. But when did the break come?
You said it just suddenly evaporated. Was it through education?
I don't know that there was a break exactly. By the time I was in high school, though,
we went to church and whatnot, but I didn't really have any strong religious beliefs by
the time I was in high school. So I suppose it started to evaporate probably around junior
high, 6th, 7th, 8th grade around in them. But what replaced it really was an obsession with
science and mathematics. So I didn't go directly into literature and philosophy. In fact, those
came rather later.
Your first passion was the more scientific,
mathematics side.
Yes. Well, I've been thinking about that lately. In fact, it's in some sense,
it's the theme of my new book that's coming out next year. But yes, I was a kind of science fair
quiz kid. And what I worked on for my science projects were things having to do with rocket
engines and models. But what I was really interested in was physics and mathematics.
And I was determined that I was going to become a mathematical theoretical physicist.
And in my senior year, it really came down to choosing between MIT and Princeton. And I
thought I was about to go to MIT. And then a thought occurred to me that, well,
what if I were there and though it would never happen, what if I'd been lost interest in
in physics and math? And then I'd be stuck there at MIT. I didn't realize they had a
good philosophy department. So I thought, well, what if Princeton's math and physics
departments are, if anything, better than MIT? So I think I'll go there.
And sure enough, after my freshman year, for somewhat different reasons, I kind of
lost interest in physics and mathematics. And I had started taking, I didn't really know what
philosophy was about in high school. I always thought that, you know, it was Walter Kaufman.
I didn't realize what real philosophy was like. But I decided I really liked philosophy and
decided to major in that. And then in high school, even though I did all my serious,
my serious obsession was with science, I did read an awful lot of modernist fiction, Joyce and
Faulkner and Hemingway Fitzgerald, Dostoevsky. But I even wrote a little bit, but I'd never
read any modern poetry. I'd read maybe a little Frost and that was about it. But then in my
sophomore year in college, I took a course in modern literature from Carlos Baker, who was
Hemingway's first biographer. And it included both poetry and fiction. But that's where I first read
modern poetry, and in particular, Yeats and Eliot and Pound and others. And I was just bowled over
by it. And I didn't really know what it was. But I thought, well, I just want to try to do this,
whatever it is. And that became my obsession. And then I also stopped running track and started
smoking. And so it was a complete collapse of decadence for my high school.
That's interesting, because that seems like a different kind of way of approaching the world
once you read the poetry. Of course, I'm generalizing it too much. But I mean, in your
poetry, for example, you do talk about writing almost like with a sense of disillusionment,
I think is the word you use, of trying to see the world from a particular place, which makes
sense with the science and math side. But then there's this very spiritual undercurrent, which,
I mean, we already talked about the religious a bit, but was that what Yeats woke up in you
in a different way? Or how can you think of that? And Eliot in particular, and Pound too, but
it seemed like a kind of, well, it was a kind of deflationary impulse that I responded to,
particularly in Eliot. But basically, my impulse has always been a form of romanticism. And I
think romanticism really is basically a way of talking to yourself. I always think of Harold
Bloom's book titled Shakespeare, The Invention of the Human, where he thinks of the Shakespearean
soliloquy as the quintessential human romantic gesture. And though I became obsessed with
modernist poetry, I think of modernism as really a continuation of romanticism. It's just a
deflation of romanticism. Instead of an affirmative gesture, it becomes a form of
deflation or disillusionment of romanticism, but it still shares the same obsessions. It just
is no longer affirmative. So that's the way I kind of... And I also liked the fact that
I pursued philosophy as my major, and there wasn't a writing program at Princeton, as there
were hardly any places in those days. This was in the early 60s, but there were a lot of very
serious student poets, and we all hung around together and told each other what to read. And
we kind of had a disdain for the English department. So I always thought of poetry as
separate from my academic... Even with the smoking and the quitting track, it's almost like a
rebellious kind of space, or a freedom or emancipation. That's the way I've always thought
of it, that I'm not being tied to it professionally. I had a freedom to do whatever I wanted.
As I say, well, I first responded to people like Eliot and Pound, which themselves were
represented a kind of rebellion against poetry as it was at the end of the 19th century.
But the poets I was drawn to when I first then started reading contemporary poetry,
I never really cared much for the beats. And I didn't initially, you know, kind of
academic poets like Robert Lowell and others. But I was first drawn to Black Mountain poets,
Robert Duncan in particular, and I liked the kind of disjunctive way they wrote with a lot of...
The focus on the language itself, right? Or do I remember correctly?
The focus on language and representation. And then there was a poet named Louis
Undergraduate, a year ahead of me, named Louis McAdams. And he knew a lot of people in New
York, poets in New York, and would bring them to campus for readings. And through him, I
was introduced to the work of the New York school poets, Frank O'Hara and John Ashbery and others.
And I was just blown away by Ashbery in particular, that it had all of the kind of
disjunctiveness and concern with representation that the Black Mountain poets did, but it had a
much more deeply lyrical and romantic... Well, Duncan was quite romantic too, but I just...
And it had a kind of informality to it that I really responded to.
Especially the mountains and rivers, I guess.
The first book of Ashbery's I read was The Tennis Court Oath, which is...
Oh, yeah, wonderful.
But I read it just before Rivers and Mountains came out.
Rivers and Mountains, yeah.
I read them both at the same time. And I didn't... A lot of people thought that
there's a radical difference between Rivers and Mountains and The Tennis Court Oath. But since I
really read them around the same time, I saw more of the affinities between them.
And I was involved in... There was a big arts weekend at Princeton, not just poetry,
but all the arts. And I was involved in that. And Louis McAdams had arranged the poets.
And the people who read were Alan Ginsberg and John Ashbery and Ted Berrigan and John Wieners.
And I introduced myself to Ashbery there. And we hit it off immediately and became very good
friends and remained so for the rest of his life. And he invited me to a poet party the next week
where I met Frank O'Hara. And then I had... Oh, you met Frank O'Hara. Whoa. Wow.
And then a week after that, I had dinner with Ashbery, Frank O'Hara, and Kenneth Koch.
What was that like, having dinner with?
Well, it was amazing. In fact, there's a long poem in my book, 95th Street. The title poem of that
book is... It starts with recounting that dinner from there. But yes, it was amazing. I was
not supposed to... I was supposed to just stay for a... Have a drink. And then they were going to
stay and finish a play that they had started years before, but had never finished. They hadn't
actually seen each, all three of them together, hadn't for quite some time. But one drink led to
another and everyone... Soon I stayed for dinner and the play was forgotten. I just remember
Kenneth Koch looking over at me at one point saying, love to see a boy eat.
Well, that was really the start of a marvelous relationship. I mean, I think
John's first come on was, oh, John, you're the only boy I've ever loved. And I said, well,
oh, but John, I'm straight and I'll be frank. He says, oh, that's all right.
How wonderful that you just fell into that world.
I was driving Lewis's Austin Healey and it was foggy and I was driving too fast and had an
accident. So that kind of sealed our friendship. Neither of us was hurt. I thought I'd killed a guy
here yet, but he wasn't actually hurt very badly. Oh, that must've been scary though. But yeah,
you go through something like that, it bonds you. Yeah. But so I knew most of the younger New York
poets. In fact, the first one poets I've met before Ashbury was Peter Sheldahl and Kenwood
Elmsley. Lewis brought them to campus. So I would hang around with them. I've met Larry Fagan that
way. I think I met him in 67 or 68. I can't remember exactly. I just talked to Darryl Pinkney. I
don't know if you've met him, but I've been thinking a lot about this time period because
that generation was like, for me, very inspiring that there was actually a group of people
talking about poetry and literature in this way and sort of living it. I don't know. I almost
feel like it's a myth. From Darryl's side, it was more Elizabeth Hardwicke and Lao and that
Brahmin kind of tradition that he was in. But for me, I was much more interested in New York
school too. And I worked at St. Mark's Bookshop. But I wonder from your perspective, was it real?
Was it a myth? It was quite real. In fact, I initially thought of myself as a kind of New
York poet. With Blue Vents is kind of in that style, right? Was that your first? It certainly
much is. I mean, and it's very sort of imitative of Ashbury. But Ashbury actually had
very wide ranging tastes. And it was through him that I was associated, say, Elizabeth Bishop
with Robert Lowell. And at the time, I didn't Lowell and Barrowman at all, though subsequently
I did. But I knew her. John was very fond of, you know, Elizabeth Bishop was his favorite poet.
And then Marianne Moore also. And I gradually, and then I, you know, I had a real temperamental
affinity with John's poetry. And so when I was imitating that, it felt natural. But when I
started trying to write like people like Ted Berrigan or Ron Paget or Frank Barrett, it really,
I didn't think it was very good in that. And also around that time, I began to realize, I mean, one
of the things about the New York school was they were very, they were very strict on who you should
and shouldn't read. And I began to rebel against that. And I decided I was going to read, you know,
even though I still like to be limited to that. And I remember W. H. Auden was giving a number
of interviews. And he talked about how he wrote six poems a year. And I remember thinking it would
be interesting. I think I'll write a poem that I take a really long time on, and I revise a lot.
Oh, I wrote it.
The Constructor?
Oh, Domes, which was the title poem of my book, After Blue Vents, that won. And that was, I was
reading Hart Crane and a biography of his poetry. And I don't know if the influence showed, maybe a
little bit in some things that you know.
Well, Domes itself, the title does.
Yeah. And it was really successful. Everyone liked it. And I remember Larry Fagan particularly
liked it. And Poetry Magazine published it right away. And so ever since then, I still write that
way, just a few lines a day, and it takes a long time. But after that, I still liked, you know,
a lot of New York poets, especially Ashbury and James Schuyler, and Kenneth Coke too.
There are kind of five Franco-Harris, I've decided. And I like some of them, but not all of them.
Yeah, there's just something about him and the whole art theme.
Oh, right. And he was really the center of that, the New York school as a social movement. And
after he was killed, you know, that-
In an accident, I mean, to talk about that. Yeah, you almost hit someone, but
it was making me think of him in that card and-
Well, he was killed just a few, it was just, that was just about two months after I had dinner with
him at that. Yeah, it was just, in fact, I remember Peter Scheldahl sent me a postcard that summer.
That's how I learned that Franco-Harris had been killed.
Oh, goodness.
He wrote me to tell me.
Yeah. And there's something in all those poets, maybe I can start to bring out the idea of
contrast, because when I was reading them, and also you, there's this kind of cadence of
not, I guess, disillusionment, but not almost like a step back, talking to yourself, right?
You have to step away from the subject in order to talk to the subject. But there's also almost
sometimes at the edge of reason or almost an ecstasy is bubbling in there. Does that make
sense to you? Almost where something doesn't quite make sense, even though you're being so sensible?
Yes. And I think it, I basically, my basic impulse, underlying impulses is romantic. And I think
I've written about this in a number of the pieces in the book, Thought and Poetry. But,
you know, the fundamental romantic gesture is the Kant's gesture of the sublime in which you,
well, in its Kant's form, you're confronted with some physical enormity, the Alps who are
big at the point of annihilation. But then you have a kind of counter movement in which you realize
that, you know, great as those Alps are, you can take, hold them in your mind and in that sense,
transcend them and rise above them. And that's the gesture of the sublime. And I kind of
think of Thomas Nagel's subjective versus objective point of view as a kind of very
generalized version of that oscillation of the sublime between, you know, the physical world and
then the transcendent self that overcomes it. It's just that in classical romanticism originally,
you know, it culminates in this affirmation of this transcendent self. And that's what you find
throughout Wordsworth. Though, I think what happens in modernism is you realize that's,
you can't believe that anymore, even though you're tempted and drawn to it, as Stevens is,
you really can't engage in romanticism in good faith as an affirmation.
—Is this what you mean by romantic opposition when you talk about that? And by the romantic,
just for people who don't know all these terms or don't want to go try to figure it all out,
I think it relates very much to things all of us can understand. The romantic, do you mean
getting carried away a bit in taking the subjective too seriously? That's why you have to leave it?
—Well, you just can't, you know, the Kantian sublime is not really an argument. It's just kind
of an, it affirms the transcendence of the self because it can take in the physical world. But of
course, that's really not an argument. That's, in a way, it's kind of almost a superstition,
it's another form of superstition like religion. Though, I actually have become a kind of very
qualified philosophical dualist, so I can talk about that if you want. But you can't really,
I mean, so instead of this, the Kantian sublime, it is a real experience of the people,
everyone, most people have had a version of it, even though they don't know what it's called
or how Kant. —So would you mean, just for those listening, something transcendent where you forget
yourself? So where you so identify, for example, with nature, if we want to talk about Wordsworth,
or if you want to, or you so identify that you are overwhelmed by something that you don't consider
yourself, you lose yourself? —That you feel yourself apart from nature. So it's a kind of
philosophical dualism, that there's the physical world and there's the mind or the soul or the
self or whatever you want to call it. And that's distinct from nature and in some sense transcends
it. And that's at least in the classical, romantic version in Wordsworth. But at some point,
you just can't in good faith really believe that, though I do believe something like that,
a very qualified form of philosophical dualism. —You can't believe that the self is different from
consciousness and mind. I mean, the body is different from consciousness and self.
—Well, I do actually think so, though this reflects based on a kind of reading of Wittgenstein
by my advisor Rogers Albritton in an unpublished paper. So I think, yeah, I think there's a paper
that I included in thought and poetry called Metaphysics and the Mind-Body Problem.
—That's where you talk about Nagel. —Well, I think I first talked about Nagel in
a paper, an earlier paper called Poetry and the Experience of the Spirit. No, the one on the mind
body problem is that's a straight philosophy paper and doesn't talk about poetry at all, though
I did give it an epigraph from John Ashbury's poem, Christina on Popeye, that reads,
if this is all we need from fear from spinach, then I don't mind so much. So it picks up,
Rogers Albritton has this reading of Wittgenstein in which he thinks, yeah, Wittgenstein really does
think that there, we refer to pains and those things, and there are such things. It's just that
he says they're metaphysically thin, is his phrase. They don't, they're not, they're real,
but they aren't as real as things that are metaphysically more robust. And that's kind
of the way I now think of the status of the mind and what are called qualia, that yeah,
they really are real. And for basically Cartesian reasons, the mind is distinct from the body.
It's just metaphysically thin and you don't have to worry about it. And yes, we're worth
completely material beings. It's just that this gives rise to perspectival consciousness. And
for basically Descartes reasons, we can't identify the mind with the body or any part of it. So,
but it's, but don't worry about it. That's, that's kind of,
right. Well, yeah, something I think about a lot in that maybe draws me to read you and that you
talk about in different ways in the different essays. I'm sorry to keep them all separate,
but you do talk about this, like the self being real as one extreme. And then the other extreme
would be that it's, that it's an illusion, a de-illusion. And this is what we're talking
about now, but then you can't really believe in either of those fully, even if you know one is
true, you can't fully believe in it. So what I get, what I think of a lot is holding the paradox,
talk about Eliot and coming back, this oscillation, right? Eliot, where you come back to where you
know we're started and know it for the first time. And you talk about oscillation and your poetry is
a kind of oscillation between the subject and the objective exploration. And, but overall you're
sort of holding the paradox, right? You're sort of, as you just expressed, we're using language
just to get to know this movement. It's not that we can ever really freeze it at some spot of
opposition or- I think that's right. And I think there's a tension between, you know, the subjective
viewpoint and the objective viewpoint, to put it in Nagel's terms, and that both of them are
incomplete. I mean, from a subjective viewpoint, you know, to use Wittgenstein's phrase,
the world is my world and I'm the only mind there is and my world is the only world there is.
But then from the objective point of view, I'm completely insignificant and not even fully,
not even real. And there's just this kind of oscillation between these two things. And
in fact, that's kind of the theme of my new book that's coming out next year called
Cemeteries and Galaxies. And it actually has a lot of physics and mathematics and
astrophysics in it too. One or two physics-ish poems that I'm remembering at least.
There are a few. This book has some ones that are explicitly. So in fact, the last poem is a
a longish poem called Solvay 1927, which is Solvay Conference was the big
conference of all of the great physicists of the day, Stein, Bohr, and Dirac. They were all there.
That speaks to sort of particle and wave. And I can see a through line in all of this.
I'm probably projecting because the philosophy I work on is trying to understand how we hold
this paradox and even start to understand that as more of the reality instead of, which is what
you're doing, instead of saying, okay, we have to choose between subject and object or mental and
physical or self and illusion or whatever that are real and illusion, that we understand those
are different ways of trying to understand this process by which you have to hold it,
which is what you do, I think, with your poetry. That's absolutely right. And what I've also come
to think in the last couple of years, which is really the theme of this new book, is that,
I mean, we think of modernism as constituted by art and literature, but
modernism is equally applicable to not just to philosophy, but also to physics and even mathematics.
I mean, look at Douglas Hofstadter's book, Gernel Escher Bach.
I love that book. And Strange Loop, too. It's even more.
And in fact, I think the reason I'm still very interested in physics and keep up with it,
even though I don't know enough to do it, to actually work on it. But I mean,
quantum mechanics is a real mess. There is no accepted interpretation of it, even though
it's clearly right in the terms of what it predicts and it makes possible, but no one
knows what it means. And I think the reason is the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics,
which has now pretty much been abandoned and discredited. But I think that stuck around for
modernist reasons, namely, it's weird, it's modern. And I think the Copenhagen interpretation
was a manifestation of modernism and physics. And I think modernism is now kind of over
for various reasons. It's true. But it's also if we put that in the context of holding paradox,
there's always this oscillation in the same way. So we can never really pin it down. For me,
it's almost like quantum physics is trying to teach us a new practice of how to understand the
world, which something like your poetry could also maybe be not trying to teach us in a
conscious sense, like you sit down to try to do it. But through reading it, I've been reading it
for a long time and I get a similar feeling of this practice of how to look at myself and hold
what is myself and also in that process change self or open to a new self. You know, you do this
to you almost we could talk about how you talk about embodying the perspective, right? That's
what you're doing in the poems too. And this feels like a practice is not so dissimilar from
what happens even in all the debate about physics. Oh, yes. No, I think that's right. But I think,
well, the philosopher of physics that I like most, well, there are a number of them, but
Tim Maudlin in particular, but the quantum mechanics is really was really held back by
the refusal. In fact, that's one reason why when I got to college, I became disillusioned with
physics because it turned out that when I started taking physics, you didn't really learn this kind
of sexy stuff that you learned in reading in high school, you had to learn classical mechanics. And
then it turned out that physicists weren't really interested in the foundations of quantum mechanics.
That was left to philosophers. And in fact, that was a good way to get tenure was to worry about
that in a physics department. So a few exceptions like David Bohm and a few others. But by and large,
physicists didn't worry about the foundations of quantum mechanics. And now they do. And no one
knows what to say about it now. I wrote about David Bohm as part of my philosophy thesis,
connecting it to Hegel. And I got so much pushback because people didn't consider him a real
physicist. And plus he had political problems too. Yeah, I know. I didn't know about all that at the
time. But he's one of his views or one of the three possible. The other is the multiple worlds
version and the other is kind of Italian version. The Rovelli. No, it's not Rovelli. He writes about
him a lot too. We could talk about physics and it's really fascinating to me. But I think what I
want to try to come back to is this oscillation. And I guess what big picture quantum physics is
trying to deal with, which is that we can always see things from more than one perspective and
see them as true from that perspective at that moment, so to speak, which doesn't mean it's
going to be true from another perspective later. And that's very confusing and hard to hold. But
I feel that with your poetry that you through exploring perspectives, you're finding ways to
do that that I wonder if it's satisfying in the sense of, because we've talked about religion at
first, you're very into that. And that's kind of going to one side of the oscillation. And then
math and science, that's another side of the oscillation. But neither are going to be satisfying
because they can't be forever, right? It's one stream. And the poets and philosophers who I'm
most drawn to, well, there's an essay in thought and poetry called, what was it called? Gestures of
Temptation and Refusal in Wittgenstein and Stevens. And they both exemplify it. I mean, if
Stevens is constantly saying, making romantic affirmations and then taking them back.
Does he say in one of his poems, I am my world and you are your world or something like that?
I kept hearing that when I was reading thought and poetry again, because you talk about Wittgenstein
and he says that too, right? Is that connected? I am my world, microcosm, that's from Tractatus.
But I wrote that essay on Stevens and Wittgenstein because they both exemplify
this kind of oscillation between being tempted by, in Wittgenstein's case, a philosophical picture
and then reacting against it. But then, I mean, people, I dislike these kind of facile readings
of Wittgenstein in which he somehow showed us how to stop doing philosophy because he thinks
it's a temptation that you're drawn to. And even though you know it, you may know in some sense
that it's illusory, you can't help it. You can't break its spell. So you're constantly being
drawn to it and then attempting to see through it and then being drawn to it. And it's exactly
the same as in Stevens too. That's that same kind of strange loop. I don't know if you've experienced
this, but when I think of the constraint, that's a word too that comes up, maybe if we talk about
the difference between philosophy and poetry, for example. But when I think of Wittgenstein
and when I think of Stevens, both of whom I love very much, I also feel, okay, life is full of
feeling and suffering and you almost need some constraint in order to deal with it. And this
oscillation can become almost an illness if you're not careful, if you're too sensitive and too smart.
Does that make any sense?
Well, I don't know about an illness, but it can certainly be frustrating.
I think one of the astrophysics poems in the new book has an epigraph from the comic strip
Calvin and Hobbes, which reads, I'm significant, scream the speck.
And so it is this oscillation between, from a subjective point of view, you and your world are
everything, but from an objective point of view, you're nothing. And you can't sort of stay put
with either of those.
And with Wittgenstein, I can see that's where I meant it could become almost an illness. You quote,
I think, in the book or one of your books about that quote about the happy and unhappy man and
habit, different worlds and how this kind of perplexed you. But I can understand that because
it's a similar oscillation to where if you're going to give yourself to one of these different
views, just in order to have a bit of peace, just a kind of foundation, then it can seem like very
different worlds, right? Even in the poetic romantic versus the sort of more philosophical
or disillusioned.
Yeah, I've never been quite clear as to what Wittgenstein meant by that, but it seems like a
very powerful idea. And it's quite, the last part of the Tractatus is quite at odds in temperament
with the first part. But I mean, the beginning stuff in the Tractatus, the world of the happy
and unhappy man, they're just the same. They're just configurations of objects. But by the end of
it, it's a completely different view. But I'm not sure what it is.
How do you think of the world and the way Wittgenstein? That's an important word.
Well, I don't know. I mean, early Wittgenstein, he did have a conception of what the world was,
configuration, configurations of objects. And I think the best account of it is found in
Robert Fogelman's book on Wittgenstein. I think by the later Wittgenstein, even though
my book on Wittgenstein is called The Continuity of Wittgenstein's Thought, and it's about the
similarities between the early and the later philosophical outlook, certainly the idea that
there's such a thing, a single totality called in the later work. So he puts forward a version
of it in the Tractatus. I guess I was trying to get with a subjective, objective idea too, or
what we're broadly discussing is more scientific or artistic or poetry or philosophical or
this oscillation.
Thomas Nagel was, I don't know where in Wittgenstein you'd find something comparable to
subjective versus objective, but Nagel was a student of my advisor, Rogers Albritton,
and was deeply influenced by Albritton and through Albritton by Wittgenstein. So I think Nagel's,
the root of his subjective versus objective is to be found somewhere in Wittgenstein,
but I'm not sure precisely where you would find it.
I feel it in there, but I don't know how to make the
continuity. I think you express it, but not explicitly in these terms.
That's the way I see it. So it comes out of there somehow. I remember
I remember Rogers Albritton once telling me an anecdote about Isaiah Berlin.
I remember when I was in college, Terry Penner said he was telling someone else who was
wondering where to go that he should go to Harvard so he could meet Rogers Albritton,
the smartest man on the Western hemisphere, he said. I remember once Albritton told me a
story that he'd heard a remark that Isaiah Berlin made. I guess Roger's name came up in
conversation and Berlin said, oh yes, Albritton, good man. He invented Nagel.
Oh, that's strong. I guess we all invent one another,
or we're invented by what we read in a way and how we put it together.
Well, Rogers wrote hardly anything.
Or what we hear, the conversations.
Well, his reputation rested entirely, almost entirely on his conversations.
This idea of conversation, I want to think about a little bit because you've said that
poetry is a conversation with yourself, but you also write about how it's a conversation
with other poets. There's scales of it. It's nested. It's not just an internal self.
It's like what you're saying now, these conversations with these teachers.
Well, I think that's right. I think it's a conversation with yourself, but you have
to remember you can talk to yourself about anything. To say it's talking to yourself
isn't, it's not solipsistic or private or introspective. It can be about everything,
though. I do think that, and this is part of what I mean when I think of modernism as having run
its course. I do think one thing I reject is the idea of writing for an audience. I never
once listened to a conversation with an interview with Billy Collins in which he said that
the way he writes, and actually, I like a lot of Billy Collins' work. He said when he writes,
he begins by thinking, well, what's going to catch an audience's attention and draw them in?
And I was listening to that, and I thought, my God, that's the exact opposite of the way I think
of writing. In fact, I went on to write a poem called To An Audience just to explore that idea.
But I do think what has happened in poetry with the rise of identity poetics is that the sense of
poetry as a form of talking to yourself, which is, I think, what romanticism is. I think that
represents a kind of repudiation of that, because identity poetry really is directed at an audience.
It's meant to affirm your connection to an audience. I think it's fine if people want
to write that, but it's just foreign to the way I think of poetry. It's so taken over
poetry these days that it's kind of, well, I don't really care at my age. I'll be 79 soon,
but still. And so I've kind of done what I'm going to do, I guess, anyway.
You have a new book coming out, so it's still coming. You never know how many more will come.
But it's interesting what you say, because that is a really different orientation. If you're
orienting towards what do people want or something, or what will resonate the most with the most people
or something versus this more what I think of what you do, which is subjective exploration
of perspective, which it's almost like you're looking at one person or one part of yourself
and trying to embody that and explore it. Yes. No, that's right. That's the way I think of it.
But again, with the proviso that you can talk to yourself about anything new.
Right. And also what you're talking with yourself about, all of that is patterned by the other
conversations you've had with your teachers, the other poetry you've read. It's continuous in a
similar way to what you're talking about with Wittgenstein. It is. I know Harold Bloom is
somewhat controversial, but I'm very much. I mean, that's the way he thinks of poetry as
a conversation with yourself and with other poets. And I think that's absolutely right.
And you wouldn't think of philosophy this way because I want to get to this idea of the problem,
which you talk about this word problem and about speculation. And we could talk about it from
the position of the poet or the position of the philosopher. But it makes me think of
one of the essays you talk about, this idea of Heidegger, this ultimate question of why is
there something rather than nothing and how you never really thought that was much of a question.
But then the way Wittgenstein orients it, it gets to me that this thing we're trying to talk about
of this feeling of awe and of talking to yourself, realizing you're aware that can go too far into
the religious. It can be addressed philosophically too, but it's a different set of constraints,
you might say. Well, I think philosophy, I think of philosophy and I think I can't remember who,
where I got the description from nine to five philosophies. But I do think that nine to five
philosophy is subject to constraints of coherence and consistency and relevance and that that
poetry simply isn't constrained by. And it is directed towards truth in some sense, though,
of course, truth is somewhat nebulous. Philosophically, I'm kind of a realist,
so I really believe in a kind of coherent notion of truth, a kind of correspondence notion of truth.
But I think both philosophy and poetry can originate in some of the same impulses. It's
just that philosophy pursues them with a goal towards truth and subject to certain constraints,
whereas poetry is really more in kind of concerned with feeling the force and
spell of those initial impulses and exploring them and trying to inhabit them.
I know that's kind of vague, but that's the way. Not at all. I like that you brought up spell,
because there is a way in which the constraints of philosophy, it reminds me of your fascination
with the math and science and so on. That's a different way of it. Can we say they're both
investigations, but with different freedoms? I lost you for a minute. Are you there? Oh,
okay. Sorry. Yeah. Can we say they're kind of investigations with different constraints and
freedoms? I think so. I think so. Philosophy is more subject to those constraints. I mean,
Wittgenstein is the most important philosopher to me, and he certainly doesn't really conform to the
model of nine-to-five philosophy, so you have to read that in a fairly loose sense. What he says
about Heidegger is, I've always found very interesting, because I don't understand Heidegger
and what I've tried to, but I don't care for it that much. I kind of share Bernard Williams'
suspicion that Heidegger is maybe the only important philosopher who's basically a fraud
in some sense, but he would think that Wittgenstein would react against Heidegger negatively the way
the positivists did, but he didn't really. As one of his few remarks on Heidegger, they're quite
sympathetic, and the question, Heidegger's obsessive question, why is there something
rather than nothing? Heidegger apparently thought it really was a question, and of course, for
both Wittgenstein and the positivists, it wasn't a real question, but Wittgenstein was actually
sympathetic to it. Where he thought Heidegger went wrong was treating it as a question when really
it's an expression of a sense of awe at the existence of the world, and that he thought was
important and genuine, but if you then turn it into a question the way Heidegger seems to have,
yes, that's wrong, but it's something Wittgenstein was sympathetic to. It's just a matter of, you know,
mistaking this feeling of awe, which is important and genuine for a question which isn't
really a genuine question. That reminds me of a few things. Earlier I was thinking about,
in your poetry and also in the New York School, there's a playfulness that keeps things in a
space that doesn't get towards what I was talking about with illness, which can kind of happen in
philosophy, the people who live philosophy fully, maybe in a Walter Kaufman kind of sense,
but the other thing is that I wanted to ask you about, do you ever, I mean, you keep your poetry
and your philosophy separate, or at least that's how I understood it. You did it like half a year,
you would write the poetry and half a year the philosophy. Yes, I did. Now, after I retired from
philosophy in, well, it was 2010, I guess, I've really only written that paper on the mind-body
problem. I'm not really doing philosophy anymore, but when I was doing philosophy,
I would keep them separate, though not because I thought that they were somehow incompatible,
but it's just that the way I wrote both poetry and philosophy was to throw myself into them for
extended periods of time. When I first wrote that poem, Domes, I developed this way of writing
poetry, which was writing in small amounts over an extended period of time, so I just need to
inhabit that frame of mind in order to do it. It's almost like putting yourself in two different
modes of, I mean, I know you don't like this, or you like it, but this idea of there being a happy
world and an unhappy world being the same world for Wittgenstein. There could also be a poetic
world and a philosophic world being the same world, but you're not a different person in
those worlds, but you are, because you get into, isn't it almost like a pattern?
It is that, but it's also just, there's a more practical sense. When I was in college,
and at least initially at the same time, I'd work on philosophy and then I'd write a poem,
but that's when I wrote poetry more quickly, and I'd finish something in a city,
or in a few days or something like that. It's just that when I started writing poems,
this extended period of writing poems, I really had to sort of, I'd do philosophy during the
academic year, and then in the spring and summer I'd switch to poetry, and so it was in part
because it's a different frame of mind, but it was really also just because of,
for practical reasons that I need to have the time to devote to.
Well, we've talked about these different parts of you and these different parts of life,
and they seem like opposites, but we've also talked about kind of holding the paradox and how
they're both different parts or different ways of understanding the same process, but what I wanted
to ask you, and the reason I brought it up, is this notion of the sublime or what we were talking
about with Wittgenstein is actually probably more accurate of awe, of the amazing fact that
we can become self-conscious and of self-consciousness, of consciousness. This
is important in your work, and I wonder when that enters in, because I know when you're writing,
sometimes it's in the shower or when you're shaving, that the ideas come and the idea of
flow or being in awe, where does that come in your life? How's that changed over time?
I don't know when it starts, but I think it's just, I mean, it really is just remarkable.
The fact of perspectival consciousness and self-consciousness is just, I mean, it seems
just a miracle, and we don't understand it, and it's really just astonishing. I know
it's something that most people just take for granted, but I find it the most puzzly thing
there is. You call it the most common thing and the most unique, again, the paradox.
And that's true of human life. I mean, each person is utterly insignificant at the same time,
the most important thing there is, and that's true of each of us. And I think it's just,
I don't know if you want to call it a paradox, but I don't know what else.
It's both two things being true at once, where you don't need to, they don't, they seem
irreconcilable, but they're not irreconcilable. But I guess what I'm getting at, too, is that
has that changed in your life? Or is this a practice towards, because sometimes I feel
like this disillusionment is the word you use, but it can also feel like meditation,
which you do talk about in some of your writing. It's almost a Zen practice, too,
point of view. Well, me, I just don't have any knowledge of that tradition,
though I wouldn't be surprised if it is. I just don't know anything about that firsthand.
Well, in your own life, has it been a place you find, for some reason, I'm thinking of the
swimmer now, and there's this line of, I can't remember it very much right now, but the feeling
I have of the line is that you think you're alone, you think you're with others, but then
you're just alone. What I'm trying to say is, has it helped you sit with yourself, and also to access
that place of just being aware of consciousness and in awe of it? Because there's a kind of
orientation or a practice to doing that, to being able to sit with it and be aware of it in the
sense of, oh my gosh, this is something amazing. That doesn't come naturally for everyone.
Well, I guess it doesn't. I don't know why it doesn't strike everyone as so strange,
but it does me. On the other hand, I enjoy people and I enjoy social life and having a good time
and seeing other people, so I'm not at all a withdrawn or a very private person in the sense
of, I think about these things, but I enjoy being with people, so I'm not someone who likes to
withdraw from the world. No, but I guess there's a tenderness in there that maybe it's easy for you
to express in your normal life. I don't know, but I don't think it's easy for most people to express,
and it's something that when people read you, they can feel without it completely overwhelming you.
Well, that's nice. I'm glad to hear that. I'd like to think that's true, but I hope it is.
Yeah. This is love and philosophy, so when you think about the practice of poetry and philosophy,
even though they're different and the ways you said they're different are the ways in which
we speculate and can answer that speculation through constraint and then the way we enact
subjectivity and the way we've been talking and this embodied kind of perspectivalism,
but I wonder how that word love, is it uncomfortable for you? Do you ever...
Well-
Yeah. Does it connect to any of these?
Well, it's not uncomfortable to me, but it is true that it's not... My poetry has very little to do
with relations with other people, romantic relations. Even my long poem, Falling Water,
which is the history of my marriage, it's not really a psychological poem about
our... My relations with my ex-wife, though the poet named Joshua Weiner said something about
that poem, which seemed to me to be right. He said he thought it was the best poem he knew about how
what you are is the result of your past experiences in time, and that's what it's
really about. It's really about the feeling of the passage of time. It's just that
it embodies that in this marriage relation, but it's not really a therapeutic poem about
history of a marriage or something.
No, I don't think he used the word love very much, a couple of times in the essays maybe, but-
Yeah, very little. It would be great if I could write about that more, but it's just something
that... Well, weirdly, I think it's there. We didn't talk about it, but architecture,
I think is an important word, and place, because at least in the poetry, a lot of it,
it's a very subjective, as we said, exploration or investigation without much constraint, and yet
the place constrains it. Or I can tell you've thought about the architecture of the poem itself,
and you've said that before. There's some kind of interplay here where you're creating a kind
of space where we can feel what I think of as love, which is this conversation or connection
with ourselves and others that is a continuity. I don't know how else to really say it, but
yeah, I wonder, are you thinking in terms of architecture and place,
setting the constraints so that you can have no constraint?
Well, no, I think that's right. In fact, the concluding lines of the long poem, Falling Water,
I quote quite exactly, but I think it's something like the start of love and then the loss of love
and all the intricate years between. It's about the years, but it's what the years are framing
as the course of this love, though it's not a love poem.
I don't know. It's not a love poem in a Valentine's Day kind of way, but I'm not sure that
love is that. I mean, it is something that's over time and that is oscillating in terms
of our awareness of it. Our awareness of it or our participation in it is a kind of oscillation
of awareness. There's something about, again, I keep thinking of water and swimming or
submersion. There's some kind of feeling reading your poetry of that being the space we're
exploring, if that makes sense.
I think so. I mean, the way I came to write that poem, Falling Water, was when I was in the
process of getting divorced. That's when I acquired this interest in arts and crafts,
furniture and architecture. So the poem sort of coincides with that interest and that's
the subtext of the poem. Actually, there's a Frank Lloyd Wright house just around the corner
for me where I'm sitting now. So it's a history of this moment, but then the subtext is the
development of arts and crafts, architecture and art. So I think that's what allows the poem to
sort of hold together over that being so long.
Yeah. At least speaking just from my own feeling of reading you and what it's given me,
I feel like I can go into a safe place and be carried along a bit and think about things
deeply and feel sort of safe about it. And maybe that helps one to feel things strongly in doses
that don't overwhelm and yet are in that place of awe that we were talking about or love,
I might even call it. So that's just me to saying thank you to you, actually.
Oh, well, I'm glad you hear that. And as I say, some of these things are tied together a little
more explicitly in this new book, which in two weeks I should be getting the Bound Galley should
be ready. I'd be happy to have them send you one if you'd like.
Yeah, I can't wait to read it.
Send me your address and I'll tell the publisher to send you.
Okay, great. I will. Even if it's in the Netherlands or should I give you my U.S.?
Oh, yeah, it can be in the Netherlands. In fact, I think I mentioned...
Oh, yeah, your editor.
No, I think he's in Belgium, but he's...
Wonderful. I really appreciate it. It's been wonderful to talk to you. And yeah,
thank you for what you do in both these worlds of philosophy and poetry.
Okay. And send me an address and I'll have them.
Okay, I will. Can't wait to read it. And I hope you keep writing because,
yeah, it's wonderful. I'm sure you will.
All right. Well, have a good day there.
Well, you too.
All right. Bye.
Bye-bye.
Hey, everyone. I'm back to read a poem from John K.T. from Falling Water on page 11. It's called
The Realm of Ends. As John and I talked about in the conversation you just heard, he
is very influenced by Wittgenstein. And I just noticed there's a phrase in here,
nothing is hidden from Wittgenstein. It actually reappears many times in this book,
but I hadn't really noticed or connected it with Wittgenstein. In any case,
here is the poem I opened to today when I was looking at this book, and it seems fitting
for Beyond Dichotomy. It's called The Realm of Ends.
across an unseen sky.
Oh yes, I realize this inner paradise is just like time or other worlds or selves,
impossibly remote or deep within, another intimate illusion on the border of intelligence,
a thing you have to touch and brush away because nothing is hidden. These heavens are the only
ones there are, an all-inclusive frame displaying every aspect of the real against an infinite
night sky, the thick, dark, translucent color of obsidian. Yet in the wakefulness that comes
towards dawn, I still sometimes think of myself in a style of thinking whose trajectory must have
once seemed clear, but now seems loose, strange, and difficult to follow, as somehow distant from
a universe of merely changing things, eternal in the way each moment is, and free the way each star
becomes increasingly elusive once it crosses the meridian.
