Okay. Hi, Max. It's so nice to meet you. Thank you for being here today.
Thanks so much for having me.
So we're going to talk about your book, A Brief History of Intelligence, Evolution,
AI, and Five Breakthroughs That Made Our Brains. This seemed like it was a kind of passion project,
almost like going back to school for something different. Is that kind of the right approach?
Because you started, or you are, working in AI. Maybe you can give me a little intro into how
this happened. So I've spent most of my career in commercializing AI technologies. So taking
sort of established AI tools and bringing them to industry. So my last company, BlueCore,
we helped really large brands and e-commerce companies implement AI to help personalize
websites, make marketing communications more personalized. There's a bunch of sort of
segmentation tooling we built. And so the first interaction I had with the quandary about
neuroscience and its relationship to AI was when trying to bring these AI systems to real world
use cases and seeing the many sort of perplexing places that they keep falling short. And all of,
you know, this occurred before the big craze of large language models, which obviously adds a lot
more intrigue to that whole question. But I started this process of just trying to understand just
for my own edification, what's the discrepancy between how the human brain works and how AI systems
work. And that sort of just unraveled into this, you know, five year long passion projects that,
you know, led to several published papers and collaborating with neuroscientists that became
mentors of mine and eventually culminated in the book. But yes, it was, it started as just a side project.
Yeah, well, it's a wonderful book. And I really respect that you actually went through this whole
process of publishing papers on this and refining it. You can really tell in the book, it's really
tight. You can tell you've been getting a lot of comments. And yeah, so it's a wonderful resource.
So I'm going to start with kind of the annoying questions first, more just kind of provocative. But
I wonder if you see intelligence as beginning with brains, because, you know, we're focused on the
brain here. And the first breakthrough is steering, which is where we're going to start. But I just wonder
at first, like, are we talking about intelligence beginning with brains? And of course, you know,
what a brain is, is a very blurry concept. Even in the book, we're not talking about human brains,
of course. So I just want to throw that out there at first.
No, it's a great question. I think undeniably, intelligence has existed way before brains.
You know, you can see by any definition of intelligence, whether it's, you know, solving problems
to achieve a goal or learning from experience. Both of those features of an entity's behavior
eminently apply to a single cell. Cells have ways in which they learn from experience and cells
surely show the ability to react to their environment to solve problems. So it's by no
means the case that intelligence began with brains. But obviously, there is a unique interest
we take with the intelligence instantiated in brains, because it seems to be that the most
sophisticated or at least, you know, almost tautologically human-like, obviously, the human-like
intelligences that we're interested in recreating are instantiated in brains. So it is an exploration
in the history of intelligence as implemented in brains. But the first chapter does go into sort of
the history of intelligence prior to brains. Because some of the key ways in which life itself works
does set the stage for the evolutionary pressures that drove the evolution of the first brain and
why the first brain emerged and what that brain did. But it's absolutely the case that brains are
not the only way in which you can implement intelligence. Yeah. And you do a wonderful way
of letting the brain emerge from that. I was also just kind of wondering in terms of your interest
in AI, if it sort of starts with studying the brain, it's kind of interesting to think
of artificial intelligence, not only connected to the brain.
Yeah. There's a big schism that has existed between sort of naturalists and the technologists
at multiple times throughout the history of innovation, which hinges on this question,
how much of innovation should or has been inspired by nature? And of course, in all of these types of
debates, the right answer is in the middle. Both sides are right. So on one hand, there's people that think,
you know, the right way to build really successful technologies in many cases is to learn from
nature. So, you know, we knew that flight was possible because we looked at birds and the
structure of a bird wings gives us lots of insights about how flight works. But the counter by sort of
the anti-naturalists would say, sure, but planes don't fly by flapping their wings. So clearly,
we didn't directly copy nature when we build planes. And so, of course, the answer is a middle
ground, which is nature can give us existence proofs of certain abilities and nature can give
us waypoints for the fundamental features that we might want to use. But that doesn't mean our mission
should be to wholesale copy what nature has created. And I think that also applies to neuroscience,
which is, it's not to say that our goal is to recapitulate a human brain, you know, atom for
atom. But it is to say that I think there are insights left still uncovered in how brains work
that AI can still learn from. And that is an open debate. There are people that would argue against
that. But I believe that there's still lots to learn from neuroscience.
Yeah, maybe we can move into that a little bit in a different way. But so the first breakthrough
is steering, which I just love so much that you start there. And it's sort of, I'm not sure if
you'd agree with me, but seems to orient through the remaining breakthroughs. Could maybe talk about
that a bit. But so we have movement and navigation. And then it's this introduction of steering that we
start to talk about intelligence in a certain way. So would you like to kind of give a little
summary of that, but I want to move into the AI too. And I want to talk about the symbolic AI
versus the behavioral AI sort of schism. Yeah. So the animals before our ancestors that had brains.
So there were animals that existed prior to the first animals with brains. And they were probably,
we don't know for sure, but probably most akin to today's sort of sea anemones and coral,
which are these radially symmetric jellyfish-like creatures that don't have brains, but they have
a nerve net. So they have sort of a web of distributed reflexes. And a key feature of most of
that grouping of animals called cnidarians is that they don't really find food by navigating towards
food. There are a few exceptions that probably independently evolve. But if we use model organisms
for probably our ancestors back then, it seems likely to be the case that they didn't navigate
towards food or navigate away from danger. Their strategy was sitting in place and filter feeding.
So waiting for food particles to pass through them, and they would sort of grasp the food.
And when we go from that ancestor around 650 million years ago to the ancestor that had the first
brain, we don't only see the emergence of the first brain, but the emergence with a whole variety of
body changes that seem very well aligned with movement. So the very first bilaterians, as they're
called, because they don't have radial symmetry around a central axis, but bilateral symmetry across
a central plane, like humans do, all mammals do, all vertebrates do, or most do. The simple version
of bilaterians, which are a model organism of the first bilaterians are like nematodes, small worms,
like flatworms, et cetera. And these creatures have a centralized cluster of neurons in their head.
And what these animals notably do relative to their radially symmetric cousins is that they're
constantly moving around. And what's perplexing about these creatures is although they're moving
around and they successfully get to food and avoid dangerous areas, their sensory organs are woefully
simple. I mean, if you look at a nematode, they have no eyes. They can't render an image of the
external world. They have a handful of sensory neurons around its head that just activate in the
presence of certain things. So one neuron for detecting salt, another for detecting food smell,
other types of food smells, et cetera. But if you look at the algorithm of how it finds food,
it's actually a really simple one, something called taxis navigation, where it takes advantage
of a simple property of the way that smells diffuse in water, which is if you have a food source in one
location, chemicals will plume from that food source such that the closer you get to the food source,
the higher the concentration of these chemicals. And so what evolution stumbled upon is you don't
actually need to see anything in the world to find food. You can just have a very basic algorithm of
keep going forward if the concentration of food smells are increasing and turn randomly if the
concentration of food smells decrease. And by implementing that algorithm, you can get to food. And so if we look
at simple bilaterians like nematodes, their whole brain by and large seems to be effectively
implementing this taxis navigation algorithm. And the key feature of that is that it categorizes
things in the world into good and bad. So it has hardwired neurons for detecting a good thing,
which triggers forward movement and hardwired neurons for detecting quote unquote bad things,
which triggers turning. And one reason why it's so interesting that we started so simple is because
evolution imposes this key constraint, which is you cannot redesign things from scratch. So the
reason why the whole motivation for taking an evolutionary approach to understanding the brain
is that because evolution is constrained, understanding the prior structure of things
gives us information about the subsequent structures because it has to build on itself.
It reminds me of the plane. You mentioned the plane or planes earlier. And I think, yeah.
Yeah. You tell this great antidote, I'm not sure what you would call it in the book about what if
people from the 1890s came to the 1990s thinking about the plane.
So Rodney Brooks had this great quote, which I have in the book.
And he's Rodney Brooks, MIT. He's a big, and the founder of iRobot. He's a big proponent of,
you know, behavioral AI, which is, you know, really trying to start from very simple structures and
build our way up. And so he has this quote, I'm going to botch the exact wording of it. But the idea
is if you took someone from the 1800s and you wanted them to understand how to create artificial flight
and you put them in a time machine and let them play with a plane for an hour, would they actually
come back identifying the correct features of the plane to recapitulate? And so he argued that they
almost certainly would not. So they would be like, oh, look at these seats and the plastics.
That's what we need to invent for flight, not realizing that fundamentally all they needed was a certain
structure and surface area of a wing. And so I think one could argue with how true our inability
to decipher the key features of a plane. But the essential point he's making is if you start by
looking at something really complicated, like the human brain, you're at high risk of misinterpreting
features of that complexity that emerged versus if you start simple and you have end-to-end systems
that function like a paper kite or plane, and then you start adding to it over time,
eventually it makes it easier for one to understand the complex thing at the end of that journey. And
that's sort of one key motivation for why I think these evolutionary stories that I tell in the brain
can be really insightful for understanding the human brain. Yeah. It feels very close to the approach
of your book in a way of taking that approach. It feels like a good kind of illustration of that.
And also we were talking about steering. So as I understand it, you know, like let's think about that in
terms of AI. So this is going back to the beginning of what we can think of as intelligence. And it's a
beautiful story you tell in the book and the way you lay it out and that we can almost think of, that we can
think of steering as valence or almost zero ones or something. It's really building a kind of algorithm for
how to survive in a way through this steering and movement. And then when we think about AI,
you talk about the Jetsons, which is interesting. There's this kind of way in which you're framing
or humans have thought of AI as wanting to create something that will be like us or take care of us.
So if you start with trying to create the brain, that would be like trying to create the jet plane in
a way. But instead, someone like Rodney Brooks decided to start more with where you started,
with like the steering. So maybe you could tell that story of how that kind of turned out
in terms of his, well, the first commercially viable robot, I guess.
Yeah. So Rodney Brooks was the inventor of the Roomba. And that was the real first successfully
successful robot that we see in our homes. And what is analogous between the Roomba and the very
first bilaterians is its algorithm for moving around the world. So while other sort of roboticists
and still today, we're working on these humanoid-like robots that have fine motor skills and can walk
around and have maps of our homes. And eventually we'll build that. Rodney Brooks decided to start
with something the same way that evolution did, which is what if we create a robot with almost no
sensory organs whatsoever. And so it doesn't create a rich map of the world. But if we implement a
really basic algorithm, which is pretty much exactly what Texas is, it just moves around randomly until
it hits a wall and keeps moving around. We can actually achieve the goal we want, which is it will
eventually get to all parts of the floor and clean things up. And so by simplifying the problem the same
way evolution did, you know, he found something that works quite well. Of course, he found an application of
it, which is vacuum cleaning, where you can have that type of simplicity. If we want robots to wash
our dishes, you know, it's insufficient. We need, we need more complex things. But, but yeah, I think
there's like the first step towards Rosie, I think Rosie the Jetsons robot, which I think if anyone knows
who that remembers that or has seen the Jetsons. Exactly. Yeah. So it's the first, I think there's
something satisfying about the fact that the sort of first commercially successful robot step in that
direction had a lot of common features with the very first step in the evolution of the human
brain. Did you have a Roomba by chance? I actually don't have a Roomba, but I have lots of friends
with Roombas. Yeah. I've seen them. Just kind of a side note, but this idea of the robot or the AI,
a lot of the examples I've seen have to do with taking care of humans or something like that. Do you
think, I mean, you say this is the first step toward Rosie, but is that what you meant in a way?
Those are the kind of robots or AI that we haven't built yet. So I just, I just wanted to see what
you thought about that. If that's the kind of AI you would like to see a Rosie or a doctor or a
caretaker for the elderly or something like that. Yeah. I think there's, there are certain
applications of, so AI is an interesting technology because unlike a lot of technologies, it's not
clearly universally good. So, you know, if someone invented a cure for cancer, I think most would
agree that's universally a good thing. It might create secondary effects like overpopulation,
et cetera, et cetera. But the proximate effect of that technology, everyone can universally say is
good. Um, you know, if we invented fusion, cold fusion, you know, that might have secondary effects.
We, we don't like, but the proximate effect seems clearly good, which is we now have more access to
energy. We can democratize that, et cetera. AI is more akin to technologies like, you know,
nuclear energy, where it can also be applied in dangerous ways, but it can also give us access to,
you know, cleaner energy, depending on your proclivities on that. So I like grounding the
discussion AI, not only in the scary things it can do, which I think is worth a discussion, but also
what are the most like amazing things that an AI system could do that adhere to human values?
And I think there's a few that stand out. One education is an example where, um, I think there
can be some really magical applications for people having, you know, tutors that they can always ask
questions to that help them go at their own pace and their own learning style. I mean, there's so many
students that get left behind because we can't, in a, even a classroom of 20 people, you can't teach
the same way to everyone. Everyone has different learning styles. So, um, either where, you know,
we have to choose a style and then the people that don't have that style get, you know, a worse
experience. So having this one-on-one coaching that people have a trusted advisor that they don't feel
embarrassed to ask questions to that learns their style and teaches them over time, I think can be just
a real amazing thing for people learning. Yeah. I find that so exciting. You know,
the Consilience Project and, um, I don't know that. Oh, okay. Well, they've written about that,
but actually I wanted to ask you, were you homeschooled or did you have a tutor of some
kind or something? I've just, I was, I was not homeschooled, but I, I grew up with a working
single mom. So I had a lot of time by myself reading books. Cause your, your mind seems to work in a,
I mean, you definitely can deal with a whole lot of information and present it clearly. So I was just
wondering, um, but yeah, so those are the kinds of, no homeschooling. But yeah, that that's,
that is an example of an, uh, another good one to add is, um, medical use cases. I mean,
you know, I think if you live in certain areas of the world, one might like, you know, New York or
places in the Netherlands, you probably have access to really, you know, world-class healthcare,
but in a lot of places in the world, if you wanted to get access to, you know, in the U S the best
cancer place, or one of them is called Sloan Kettering, you know, you would have, it would
be very difficult for you to get in front of a Sloan Kettering cancer doctor. And if you did,
you'd get maybe 15 minutes of their time. And so the prospect of building an AI system to democratize
access to high quality medical information and advice to, for largely free to anyone in the world
is like, what an amazing possibility that could do for people that just don't have access to that type
of information. So I think, and then another one would be what you were getting at originally where,
um, you know, help around the home. I think there's some cases of this, which is more adhering
to human laziness, like the value of a remote is so I can push buttons and not get up and change
things on my TV. Maybe someone could have helped your mom deal with, I don't know. How many children
did she have? Only one. Okay. Only one deal with you and all the housework and everything else as a
single mom, maybe. Right. Exactly. Yes. Um, so those types of things could be great,
but also helping elderly, I think is an amazing, you know, having someone that's around, I mean,
there's a huge loneliness crisis. And I think you want to, one wants to be careful that we don't use
robots to replace human interactions. Um, but that doesn't mean, you know, having someone around
that is human-like to support people could do a lot of good. Um, so I think those are three areas
where I think AI can really adhere and align to human values. So when thinking about the future
we're trying to create and working backwards from, and I think it's useful to ground ourselves in
use cases like that. Yeah. It just, it reminded me reading your book. It feels like we've gotten
away from thinking of it like that in a way with all the LLMs and stuff that we'll get into in a
minute, but okay. Just to go back. So there was steering and then we go into reinforcement,
which I guess is, I was thinking it's more like instead of parts, we're now thinking of patterns
in terms of intelligence. Is that a fair way to start to summarize what's happening in this
area? So a key, so a key change that occurs between the first bilaterians and the first vertebrates,
um, which is where you see reinforcement learning emerge is that early bilaterians detected things
in the world with individual neurons. So they did not detect things as patterns. So for example,
if you look at a nematode, when the way it learns to navigate towards salt is there is a individual
neuron that's responsive to that, that triggers forward momentum in the presence of salt.
Um, it is not that it detects a molecule in the air that activates a specific pattern of five of 300
neurons. And it learns that this smell equals these specific five neurons of a hundred. So objects in
the mind of a nematode is directly mapped to individual neurons in a vertebrate. You see the
emergence of a structure called the cortex, not the neocortex, which we see in, in mammals, but
something just called the cortex. Sorry, I have to stop you. Objects in the mind of the nematode,
it's not even that they have a mind. It's like direct, right? It's like the, the neuron is,
there's no sort of cognitive map, spatial map kind of thing going on. Correct. Yeah. So if one,
yes, yes. So if one thinks about a mind as this type of cognitive map, then yes, then a nematode would
have no cognition level. It would, it's just a direct mapping between a stimulus and a reflexive forward
or turning response. Yeah. I would still think of it as cognition, but just, yeah, it's not,
it's not working with looking at its own patterns, so to speak, but go ahead. Totally. So, um, in a
vertebrate, you see the structure called the cortex, which can learn about objects as patterns of neural
activations. So what that means is, and we do this all the time with visual objects. So I recognize a
letter, not because it activates a single neuron that maps to the letter A, but because my vortex
is deciphering a pattern of activations in my retina as being the object A. And so that ability
of pattern recognition we see in fish and reptiles. Um, and so we're very confident in early vertebrates,
that type of ability existed. Um, so I do think there, as you said, there's a really interesting sort
of dividing line between recognizing things through single neurons, um, and then recognizing things
as patterns. And there's this huge dimensionality expansion. If you can recognize things within a
pattern of neurons, um, just as a, to sort of quantify that a little bit, if you have 20 different
individual neurons in a nematode, it's only capable of recognizing 20 different things.
I'm slightly oversimplifying because what actually happened in evolution, which is interesting,
is these neurons in nematodes over 600 million years of additional evolution just became multimodal
neurons. So there is not one neuron that activates for salts. The salt neuron actually has all of these
crazy new types of protein receptors. So it just, so it just activates for lots of other good things.
So one neuron doesn't mean one thing. The way evolution empowered nematodes to recognize different
stuff is their, their neurons became really multipurpose, but in vertebrates, we have, we don't have
that. We have neurons in our eyes, neurons in our ears, neurons in our nose that are special purposed
for detecting certain kinds of things. And then deep in our brain, we decipher the pattern of
activations to mean, uh, to mean things. Um, so yeah, there's a really cool dividing line,
but in vertebrates, it's not just pattern recognition because we also see the ability to
learn arbitrary actions, uh, sequences of arbitrary actions in response to patterns, which is something
that we don't see in nematodes. Um, and that builds on top of this foundation of valence
or what people in AI would call reward. That's the word that AI researchers prefer. Um, where there's
other structures in a vertebrate brain that learns what previous behaviors did I take that led to me
getting this reward? Um, and then how do I make sure I take those types of behaviors again?
Which you see as sort of the main thing that we, or that life got from steering in a way, right?
Yeah. I think, um, in AI, there's this big open question called the reward hypothesis, which is how
much of intellectual behavior can be understood as optimizing for a reward function. And the story
told in the book would suggest from an evolutionary perspective, intelligence did start at least brain
based intelligence did start with something akin to reward, which is like valence. Um, however,
as we'll get into later breakthroughs, I don't think it means that all human behavior
is derived from reward just because the evolutionary origin is reward. And there's a distinction we can,
we can draw there, but yeah, I think that's why steering works better because that,
I mean, I know you're saying it is kind of linked to reward in the beginning, but I think the overall idea
of what you're saying can be generalized. Yeah. Yeah. I think what's cool too. Yeah. 100%. What's cool
on that also is in AI, when we think about reward, we think about this as this like scalar function of
just like a number. Um, but in, um, in evolution, what we see, the reason why I don't, I agree with you.
I don't think breakthrough one should be called just reward is there's no dis there's no distinction
between reward and the action because it's all just one. So it's just fundamentally what's happening
is the system's categorizing things in the good or bad for the sole purpose of making it a reflexive
choice as to whether to go forward or back. It's not doing it to induce some reward function for any
other purpose. It's only with vertebrates that we see that sort of be folded inward into the hypothalamus,
which then becomes this sort of brain structure and vertebrates that does measure the valence of
things in the world. And then is used by these other structures, um, to learn in a way that is
akin to what AI researchers refer to as reward. I think this is also another thing I really like
about the book is I would say you're talking mostly from like Mars level two or from algorithms and,
but you're showing that they scale and nest together and all these really interesting ways. I don't,
I think you would agree with this, but you can also correct me feel free, but it feels like, um,
that's happening with all of this. Like we can, we're seeing how things scale algorithmically,
which means in a way that parts and the details can change a bit, but these overall patterns
stay the same kind of like how you just, you described the nematode neurons as being almost
like multidimensional and in the, in their way of being. But because I kind of see something like a
cognitive map or a spatial map or these collections of neurons doing that to the similar algorithm,
but as kind of now groups of neurons. So I don't know what, what you think about that, but am I
right? Are you, I mean, of course I know you're mostly working with this algorithmic level, but
is it, do you see a kind of scaling going on? Yeah. I think that's spot on. I, um, I actually,
in the talks I've been doing recently, I, I start with talking about the motivation of the book is
Mars level two, which is I'm so, so you're spot on. Uh, and I think in, in, in reflection,
I think it would have, it's a little technical because a lot of, you know, average people don't
know what David Marr three levels are, but I think, um, it is important to grounds sort of the
motivation of the book is I'm not as interested in the implementation details of exactly how
biophysically these things work. And I'm less interested in sort of the computational level of
like spatial mapping is associated with this region of the brain, but I want to know like,
what are the underlying algorithms being implemented? Um, and I think that has two
benefits. One benefit is perhaps more obvious, which is if we know those algorithms, it makes it
easier to port over to Silicon and then try to re-implement them into computers. But then too, I,
I think it's actually a much more useful and, um, fruitful way to reverse engineer how the brain
works at the algorithmic level. Cause I think there's been so many, as we've seen in the last
few decades, challenges trying to, you know, assign functions to brain regions is like a, you know,
a dangerous business because what we've, the more data that we see, the more we realize that functions
aren't associated with individual brain regions, they're distributed. And so I think thinking about
things from an algorithmic level, um, actually gives us, uh, makes it easier to understand what's
happening in the brain. Exactly. And that speaks to why this isn't a functional decomposition or that
doesn't really work. Um, but you can still look at the parts without decomposing them or even composing
them. It's just, it's a scaling, but I feel like that algorithmic way that you're using algorithm
isn't some, some people who are maybe listening to this think that means a really, it really is really
technical and math based. And it is, but it can also, I think, at least in my reading of this,
or my understanding of intelligence, we can think of it, um, not only as something extremely static and
that doesn't move, that it is also like a kind of recognition of, of patterns. You don't have to use
exactly the same math to use the same algorithm. Maybe. What do you think about that? Yeah. Yeah. I think
the word, I mean, the, the, what I, Mars, people interpret Mars as three levels slightly differently,
but what I mean by algorithm is not that we need the explicit sort of, um, sort of pseudo code of
what's happening. But I think if we understand conceptually what is being performed, what informational
process is being performed to go from sensory input into an entity like a human to the motor output we
see, um, that will give us a much richer understanding of how the brain works and what features we want to
apply in AI. And I think what I'm advocating for, what I think level two would advocate for is going
deeper into what's happening than simply saying that, you know, planning is implemented in frontal cortex
and visual perceptions implemented in sensory cortex. I'll give one example to motivate this,
which I think is the standard one, but is the one that originally got me excited about Mars level two.
Um, and maybe some of your listeners are familiar with this, but it used to be the case that we would
look at the neocortex, which is all of the folds of the human brain. Um, so when you look at a human
brain, most of what you see is neocortex, which is the foldy stuff that surrounds it. And, based on
lesion studies and damage studies, it seems like different regions of neocortex do lots of different
things. So the back of your neocortex seems to be where we recognize visual objects because if it
gets damaged, people become blind on the sides. We have auditory cortex gets damaged. You don't
recognize speech. There's regions for language. There's a ring around the top for motor planning,
where if it gets damaged, you become paralyzed, et cetera, et cetera. So through a lens of Mars level
three, so computation or function, we would say, cool. Um, it looks like motor skills live here and
visual perception lives there. And we sort of assign these functions around, but then we run into a
problem where we realize in reality, language doesn't just live in the neocortex. It also is
implemented in deeper structures working and interplay with each other. Um, and then we, we realize
that visual object perception doesn't only happen in the visual cortex happens in other places like
the amygdala. So, okay. So that complicates things, but then we also see an opportunity for
an amazing unification. When we look into how the neocortex seems to be functioning,
we realize the neocortex looks the same everywhere. And so that gives us this incredible constraint of
how can the same structure be doing visual object detection in one area and motor planning in another
area. And so if we go one level deeper, we can start saying, well, there seems to be some underlying
conceptual one unquote algorithm being implemented that's capable of doing these different functions.
And so by going one level deeper, um, in some ways it actually simplifies things. What was originally
20 different functions may in fact to be only a handful of algorithms. And I think that's part of what
is tantalizing about trying to understand what algorithms are.
I find it really exciting. And I find also, I mean, we won't get into it, but it could work
about trying to understand different kinds of brains or different kinds of species, because you can
also understand that without needing to be stuck with these very specific parts, which we already
do in a way you do it in your book, like showing kind of what the hippocampus would be and certain other
creatures. But I think this makes it a bit easier. But since I mentioned the hippocampus, um,
I'm really interested in when you got interested in the hippocampus, when you started thinking about
Tolman, now we can move towards simulation and mentalization, the third and fourth breakthroughs.
Um, this is very fascinating to me, something I think about a lot. So yeah, I'd like to kind of
lead into that and how, so we had this kind of, um, movement steering through the world, then this way
patterns are being recognized and created and generated. And now we start to understand how
those, um, become patterns that can be recalled in terms of something like memory or imagination or
something. Yeah. So with the emergence of the first mammals we see, which is, you know, depending on where
one clocks that geologically approximately around 150 million years ago, we see the emergence of a new
brain structure called the neocortex. And what's really interesting actually is how similar a mammal
brain is to a fish brain. Um, they have all of the very basic structures there. The fundamental
distinction is you see this new structure called the neocortex grow out of this sort of older cortex.
And, um, the hippocampus, the amygdala and the olfactory cortex within mammals actually looks very
similar to the overall cortex of non-mammalian vertebrates. So what it suggests is sort of the
hippocampus amygdala or the what's called the cortical amygdala, um, and the olfactory cortex
are sort of evolutionary remnants of the original cortex. And then in between nested in between them,
we have this neocortex, which does some magical stuff as an aside. And you can see this just under
our microscope because the older cortex has three layers and the neocortex has six. So the hippocampus
has three layers, olfactory cortex is three layers. You get the idea. So there's this big open
question of like, why did the neocortex evolve to which there's no, um, agreed upon answer.
But I think the evolutionary story suggests something that is not the consensus. So I think
most people, when they try to understand the function of the neocortex focus on its ability
to sort of recognize objects, because that's the best understood feature of the neocortex in mammals.
We have a part of the brain, as we said, that can recognize visual objects, sounds, et cetera.
But what's odd about that interpretation is it's not clear at all that simpler mammals are really
at all better in a meaningful way than non-mammalian vertebrates at object recognition.
Fish can readily recognize human faces, even when rotated in 3D space. They can do this in one shot.
They can maintain those memories for long periods of time.
I can't let you just go over that. It's so cool. I mean, I love that you use fish. Having studied
neuroscience, I don't think I ever read a fish study and you have so many and it's so cool. That one
where the fish can actually recognize a photo. That's wonderful.
It's wonderful. Yeah. You're absolutely right. Fish are really under-researched or really
non-mammalian vertebrates are, from a neuroscience perspective, really under-researched. Primarily
because a lot of the research funding goes to brain research is motivated by sort of curing
neurological diseases in humans. And so we want brains that are as similar to us as possible. And so
so much of it goes into rodents. But for the purposes of algorithmically trying to reverse
engineer how our brains work, I think non-mammalian vertebrates are perhaps should be
of equal importance because in that we can reverse engineer a more primitive foundational sort of
template for our ancestral brains. Which you were about to demonstrate with this whole idea of
simulation. Yeah. So when we try to understand the algorithm being implemented in the
neocortex to pair it with this open question of why did the neocortex evolve, it's hard to motivate
an argument that it was for better object recognition. But there's been a ton of research
into the underlying algorithm. And again, there's no consensus, but a lot of sort of neuroscientists
have rallied around this idea of predictive coding or generative modeling, which is this
notion, which we do see in AI now, where the neocortex seems to be self-supervised, meaning it's
trying to predict its own input and train itself over time to be better and better at predicting
its own input by virtue of building its own model of the external world. And so there's a lot of
people that write about this using different language, but it's largely the same concept, which is
you know, the neocortex builds the sort of internal model of what's happening and it uses that to predict
what's going to happen next. And so most people think about this internal model for the purposes of
recognizing things. So I can real-time recognize an object when rotated because my neocortex has a
model of that object. But there's another feature of generative models that are less appreciated,
which I argue is the real reason the neocortex evolved, which is in order for a generative model
to be self-supervised, it needs to be generative, by which I mean it needs to be able to simulate or
generate its own data. Because the way it learns is it tries to predict the data and compares its
predictions against its own input. And so a key feature of that is you're able to turn off the
input and start exploring an internal world without the input actually occurring. And so one part of
that is of course recognizing things, but another part of that is being able to simulate the world as
it is not. And so when we look at the sort of comparative psychology of non-mammalian vertebrates
and mammals, with the exception of birds, which very independently evolved simulation, we see a pretty
strong set of evidence that mammals can do this type of imagining the future, re-rendering the past,
imagining other alternatives. And we do not see evidence that fish and turtles and other types of
reptiles, again, with the exception of birds, can do this. And so when we go back and look at the
sort of neocortex, I think there's a lot of really good evidence that really what this enabled our
ancestors to do is imagine the world as it's not. And this of course gives us episodic memories,
it enables us to plan even our hand movements. It's one reason why if you just look at a squirrel
and compare it to a lizard walking around a tree. I mean, we don't think about it because we're used
to seeing squirrels jump around from tree branches and used to seeing slow moving lizards, but there's
a very clear intellectual capacity difference that we're observing, which is the fact that a squirrel
can look up at a bunch of branches and without any practice identify exactly how to place its hands to
run across. It's just, you know, it's amazing. Like the roboticists desperately want to have something
like that. Yeah. When you really start looking at the way life is, it's can be, yeah. It's like,
how is this happening when you try to understand? It's mesmerizing. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so simulation,
yeah, it gives us imagination. It gives us fine motor skills, et cetera, et cetera. You study with,
or you, I think you, you talk about David, is it Radish? Reddish? Do I say it right? Oh, David Radish,
yep. Just really quick. So this idea of Tolman and the cognitive map was like controversial because
people, cognitive versus behaviorist, how could the rat be doing something like planning or the
squirrel? It was not really accepted, but then these studies, I guess it was the early 2000s sort of
solidified for most of us that when a rat kind of stops and looks like it's thinking, and you can see
this actually in this activity of the brain. So this is what you say is the kind of the next breakthrough,
right? Is this mentalizing or simulation, which then becomes mentalizing. So, so just to build on
the story you're describing, you know, even though we could see rats pause and look back and forth and
make a choice, you know, there's, there's no proof that is actually imagining it's different options.
And it was David Radish and his PhD student who actually recorded neurons in the hippocampus of
a rat, which you can see it modeling space. And then when it pauses and looks back and forth,
you can literally watch a rat's brain re-rendering different paths and making a choice, which is just
such an incredible study that I think is so, you know, there are still a few holdouts, which I don't,
it's hard for me to understand their arguments, but there are still some people that
stay true to the argument that only humans can imagine the future. But if you look at that
evidence, I find that very hard to argue, given that we can literally watch animals doing that.
I mean, and it's such a, it's such a big breakthrough because in the absence of being
able to plan what we're doing ahead of time, it's very hard to flexibly respond to the world. And this
is why we, this is one of the key things that are trying to recapitulate in AI systems. So the fine
motor skills of a squirrel derive in large part from its ability to imagine what it does before it
acts. So what's happening almost certainly really quickly in a squirrel's brain, when it looks out
on different paths is it considers a few options and it makes a plan of where it wants to place its,
its hand or paw as it's moving. And we know, we can see even cats do this when it looks at platforms
and you record the motor cortex of a cat, when its eyes no longer are gazing at the platform,
its motor cortex stays active until it fulfills the action and then stops. So, and you can observe
through introspection yourself doing this. If you're, if you're walking through on a hike
and you're running really fast, um, if one introspects and what's happening, you'll look
ahead of yourself and you'll plan where you're going to place your feet. Um, but you, your mind
is focused on the next three steps, but somehow you hold in your minds before your feet finishes the
action exactly where in the world you're going to place your foot as you're running to make sure
you don't trip on branches. Yeah. And in that simple act, you're what you're, what's actually
happening is you're doing what these early mammals did. You're not planning, you know, your career
path. You're not imagining years in the future, but the simple act of just making plans a few seconds
ahead of time is the algorithmic foundation for, for doing that bigger type of planning.
Yeah, it's really cool. I mean, I don't know what you think about this, but to me, it seems
again, that kind of scaling continuous algorithmic thing where we are navigating, we're steering,
and we're developing these scales of, of how to do that. So the mentalizing or simulation first,
these cognitive maps seem to me like still ways of choosing the best direction or, or valence in a way
that it's just developing different kinds of ways of being in different kinds of landscapes. So
mentalizing, it's something like more like metacognition or, or, or theory of, of mind,
that's the fourth breakthrough and then leading in to, to speaking. Um, I wonder what you think
about that. Do you see these as also like ways we're still finding to better steer and navigate
that gets a little metaphorical, but actually kind of literal too.
So I think this is a really, you're touching on like a really foundational open question,
both in neuroscience, cognitive, neuroscience, cognitive psychology, and AI, which, which goes
back to this reward hypothesis, which is how much of intelligence can be understood as fundamentally
optimizing for a reward function. And here's a take on that. So even if the original set of actions that
a creature takes, uh, starts with basic reflexes, um, and then there's this sort of reinforcement
learning system that learns based on what, uh, activates positive valence neurons to repeat those
actions. Um, even if that's sort of the foundation of an entity, which would adhere very directly to the
reward hypothesis, you're just taking actions that maximize reward. Um, that doesn't mean all behavior
and the end is reward for the following reason. Um, one theory for how sort of the self exists in, in
mammals, um, is the neocortex or at least frontal cortex models an animal's own behavior, which starts
as just fundamentally reward driven. But what it tries to do is infer an intent of why I'm doing
certain things and then tries to drive an animal's behavior towards fulfilling that intent. So this
speaks to what Carl Fristin refers to as active inference. It's this idea that frontal cortex is
a model of yourself that infers who you are and what you want to do based on observing your behavior,
and then tries to drive you towards, uh, fulfilling that. And so, for example, when an animal wakes up
and is thirsty, um, what, you know, older vertebrate structures will do is it'll want to motivate
actions that historically have led to the satisfaction of reward in the presence of thirst. But what the
frontal cortex might do is it might say, okay, when I tend to be thirsty, here's behaviors I tend to do.
It doesn't mean that it's optimizing for reward. It's trying to predict the best way to fulfill
what it thinks the animal will do. So in simple animals, this ends up likely also optimizing for
reward because it's learning the self model on a system that is reward driven. But that algorithm is
not inherently optimizing for reward. That algorithm is optimizing for sort of the self supervised
generative model that you see in the neocortex. And so that's where you get some interesting effects.
I'll give you a more direct example of this to be less conceptual about it. Um, there's a very known
behavior amongst humans called the, um, talking of dissonance effect. And then the, a very famous
study on the cognitive distance effect is you, you have a person read some words aloud to get admission
to like sorority or fraternity club, or like they have to read these words aloud for 30 minutes.
So they worried some words to a group. And at the end of that, they joined some reading group or they
watch a video of a group they're about to be a part of, and then they leave and a day later
or something, they review how happy they are. They're part of the group. And so the video people
see is exactly the same. The only difference is one group has to read really embarrassing words out loud.
And another word has to read really innocuous words out loud. In other words,
one admissions criteria is slightly more stressful than another admissions criteria. And a very bizarre
effect is the people who had to struggle more and suffered more to get part of the group
claim that they're happier and enjoyed being part of the group more.
And so this is a direct violation of the reward hypothesis, which is I suffered more to be part
of this group. Um, and so, and, and hence I like it more, but it makes perfect sense from an active
inference model of the world, which is, which, which, you know, especially in the world of mentalizing,
where we have this not only model of our own behavior, but model of our own simulation. So thinking
about our own sort of thinking processes, because what you would infer is, well, because I went
through that painful process and joined the group, my model of myself would suggest I must really like
the group. It would only make sense that I did that if the group was actually good. So the algorithm
of active inference would self report that I liked the group highly more so than it would report if there
was actually an innocuous thing. So, so this is where, although that behaviors originally modeled
on a human that from a young age at first is only reflexively sort of doing things probably based on
something adhering to the reward hypothesis, more and more behavior as you get older, gets controlled
by parts of the brain whose algorithm is not fundamentally about reward. So anyway, very long-winded
way just to say that it's, it's a big open question, how to model behavior between reward and sort of more
sophisticated types of algorithms. But my general point of view on this is that evolutionarily,
it did start with reward. Ontogenetically, meaning as we grow from infants, it probably starts with
reward, but as adult humans, not all behavior is fundamentally driven by reward.
I agree with that. I think we can still think of steering and navigability without, as we were saying
before, it doesn't need to be linked to reward, especially not in the scientific way that we've learned
reward. And it doesn't even have to be linked to only one conception of self. I mean, this would be
a whole other conversation, which we can't have because we have limited time. But I think that
scalability and that algorithmic way of looking at it as a kind of navigation or movement, it doesn't
need to be stuck to reward so much. But I want to get into the last one, which is, you know, speaking
is the last breakthrough. And I think you talk about this as like a super human power, this, because it
allows us to transfer. So if we kind of stay with this idea of finding better ways to be in the world
or move through the world or navigate or whatever, then I mean, language is like, wow. Now, as you
explain in the book, we can almost read each other's thoughts because we can transfer them through this
kind of system three-ish medium. So I want to hear your thoughts on that a little bit and try to link it
to where we are now, because in this moment, we have an explosion with the open AI and all this large
language models and so on. Also, you mentioned Carl Friston, which makes me think of active
inference AI. In the book a lot, you talk about the catastrophic forgetting and how AI can't learn
in the moment. So I wonder if you see in terms of speaking and language, if we might, with large
action models, large world models, active inference AI, get away from those constraints that you present
early in the book. I know that's a lot, but you can do whatever you want with it the next few minutes.
So yeah, so on the first point about the power of language, so it was fascinating to go through the
journey of writing this book and just chronicle and weave through these past and still sometimes
outstanding debates amongst very smart cognitive psychologists and AI researchers and neuroscientists,
where they're, you know, people of equal sort of knowledge can still come to different conclusions
about something. So with language, there's historically been a discussion, although most
people fall in one camp of this, between how much of intelligence comes from language itself. In other
words, is language a tool for thinking versus, you know, most of our intelligence is not language-based,
but language is sort of bopped on as this ability to communicate. And so most people were in that
latter camp and still are in that latter camp. Noam Chomsky is the most famous sort of advocate
for language as thinking. And so the story in the book very clearly comes down on the side of language
is not the foundation of our thinking. Language evolved as a sort of add-on that enabled us to
communicate. That's not to say that language is not useful for our own thinking and there's feedback
loop surely. But the evolutionary story told in the book provides evidence that clearly leads us
towards the conclusion that human and animal intelligence is not first and foremost, or at
least human intelligence, not first and foremost grounded in language. But language is a tool for
us sharing something fundamental about at least mammalian intelligence, which is we can render inner
simulations of things. And language enables us to share the results of those simulations. So as a
more tangible example, if me and you were, you know, hunting for boar in the African savannah,
you know, a hundred thousand years ago, what with language we could say, okay, here's the plan.
I'm going to go right, you go left. And when I whistle three times, I'm going to run out and then you
take out the net and you'll catch the boar and then we'll be able to eat tonight.
And if we, if we catch that boar, that is only because we could share in a plan, a mental imagination
of a future thing, and then make sure that we synergize that plan together. No other animal's
capable of doing that so flexibly. And so that is, I would argue, and many others would argue is the,
is the fundamental sort of ability that language provides us. There's a secondary effect, which is it
feedback, it feedbacks on itself, which is when I use language to write things down, I can keep going
over the ideas I write down and realize fundamental flaws in my own thinking and how I'm not, you know,
putting things together correctly in my inner simulation. And in that way, it does improve
thinking. But I, you know, writing only appeared way after language evolved. So the evolutionary pressure
was clearly something different. And to your second, your sort of second set of questions around
continual learning problem, I do think this is a huge area of open research where it's not clear
if we already have the ideas, they just haven't been scaled up, or there's a fundamental change that we
need in artificial neural networks or even something more fundamental on that in order to get these types
of networks to learn continually as they get new information. And so there's so many different
research streams here, there's a ton of work going into just trying to augment large language models
with persistent memory stores and trying to sort of what I would argue is like, hack the experience
of continual learning on the existing paradigm. And big open question how far that will go, it's possible
that will bring us to something that feels like it's continual learning, even though under the hood,
it's not. Or there's a whole another group of people, which is where I'm spending more of my
time, because I find it at least more interesting, which is trying to reimagine the algorithm, the
learning algorithms of neural networks to adhere towards or to produce the types of continual learning
performance that we see in in mammals. But yeah, more to come on that. Yeah, I have to let you go.
I didn't even get to ask you about your motivation and the love aspects.
So maybe a future session. Yeah, maybe a future session. But thanks for the time.
Thanks for the work you're doing. Thanks for the book. It's wonderful. Everyone should read it.
I really appreciate it. It was wonderful being here. It was great. Be well.
