So the new language would be illuminating these links and give us some way to understand
higher order interactions in nature.
We might think of selves as multiple or maybe visualize life and ecology in a different way.
Yeah, I don't know if I would dare to say that it would change something, but it would
certainly expand.
Give language to it.
Give language.
That's right.
You give language to it, articulate it.
And eventually the hope is that if you look at the pattern of the Industrial Revolution,
it was, so you do this theoretical work, you effectively invent a new language, new symbolic
system of calculus, derivative functions, all these things.
And with time, you have all this output in practical life and basically changes human
existence forever.
In a very humble way, we are in the sort of theoretical stage in which we are dealing
with things that we don't understand well, like the cannonballs in the 17th century.
And we're like, okay, how can we model this?
And we are beginning to develop the language with this sort of hyper blackboard, as you
put it, and given the tools for mathematicians to possibly engage with it in ways that are
intuitive to them.
We try to put ourselves into this position of hopefully ushering a future era of intellectual
development and technological development eventually to understand the systems that
you mentioned, like higher order relations in life, how humans relate.
You have romantic connections with individuals.
And if you center yourself in the middle, as you would normally do intuitively, you would
have a span of pairwise connections going out to other people, right?
If you are in a more traditional partnership, then you have one single connection going out
romantically or sexually or whatever.
But if you're in a polyamorous setting, the default is that you're going to have more
than one.
And so that doesn't say anything about whether the connections are pairwise or not.
Typically, people would have pairwise connections, which you just happen to know a new person and
you develop a pairwise connection with that person, but you don't break the connection that
you had with a previous romantic partner.
So you effectively keep more than one romantic connection going on, but each of them is pairwise.
Now, what you could have is also higher order romantic relationships.
There's like triangles.
There's groups of four that are engaged in a romantic relationship.
Which does exist too, and not only in a sexual way.
Good morning, Carlos.
Great to see you.
Thanks for being here.
Well, my pleasure.
So this is about love and philosophy, and really it's about trying to get beyond binaries,
beyond dichotomies, which I know is a subject close to your heart.
But just for those who might not be familiar with your work yet, could you just riff a little
bit on this idea of philosophy and maybe relate it to what you're doing in your career, which
is a mathematical-based career at this time?
Yes, of course.
I'm glad that you asked the question about philosophy.
I remember being quite young and thinking the word philosophy makes a lot of sense because
the etymology makes a lot of sense.
love for knowledge, love for wisdom, and sort of the gathering of knowledge about the world
and about oneself and so on.
I learned about the etymology of the word sometime when I was 12 or 13 or something.
Yeah, yeah.
And then I thought, yes, I like philosophy.
I like to say I like philosophy because I'm very much in that mood.
I want to gather knowledge and I love knowledge and so it makes sense.
And then I remember studying philosophy in later years in high school and then in university
and being in contact more with academic philosophy.
And I thought, it feels like this lost something along the way.
I'm not seeing the same vibe that I was getting when I was younger.
And I have to say that since I got involved in setting up events and the society that I'm
leading now and so on, we are trying to, one of the missions that I had in mind when doing
this was we want to regain the etymological origin of philosophy and sort of try and get
back to that sense of philosophy.
And of course, academic philosophy is a different thing.
It's when you're saying what is academic engineering and what is actual engineering.
These are two very different things.
As someone who studied philosophy in school, it can be very difficult to connect those
worlds, right?
I also have had that experience where even the philosophy I was really turned on by in
my teenage years, the reason I even studied philosophy, got degrees in philosophy.
Once you start studying it academically, it can turn into a whole other thing.
But also, I don't know if you've encountered this in creating and setting up the society,
but sometimes there becomes some pushback between, for example, if you go into really deep
logic and analytic philosophy, then if you start to talk about people that I might've
thought of as a philosopher, as a teenager, the ones we kind of connect with on a more
of an emotional level, those might not be taken seriously.
Do you know what I'm talking about in this?
I certainly know what you're describing.
I have to say I haven't interacted with academic philosophy as an academic myself.
I've interacted mostly with academic philosophers, and I have organized several events that they
were involved in and so on.
But I can relate to that feeling from the perspective that when I was a teenager, part
of my, I don't know, pastime, I guess, intellectual adventures was to write essays on like metaphysics
and things like that.
But they were very sort of homebrew.
I would not go on and read several books or anything like that.
I would just think about things and sit down, write down stuff, and then maybe even give
it to my philosophy teacher in school.
I was just like intuitively putting into words sort of ideas and like classifying experiences
and things like that.
It's fairly elementary stuff.
Nothing new, obviously.
Nothing of value in the grand scheme of the philosophy, of course.
But I remember doing it and it was fun.
It was like, okay, yeah, this is organizing my thoughts.
It brings solace to the complexity of life in some sense and so on.
And then I remember moving, meeting academic philosophers and thinking, oh, wow, these
people really have their, their dichotomies and their classifications in mind because
they said, oh, yeah, this is no, this is an analytic philosopher.
This is a sort of continental philosopher, all these kinds of things.
And I was like, okay, that's completely lost on me.
I couldn't really, I mean, it took me a while until I realized, oh, right, so they are in
their academic field and there's all these sort of traditions of thought.
And then I got to this point where for a lot of my colleagues and they agreed with me in
large part, they agreed that academic philosophy was mostly history of philosophy and then a
little bit of actual philosophy going on as well.
And that philosophy as an activity is really more universal than what academic philosophy
is doing or at least the large, large chunks of academic philosophy.
So I think my realization more than being placed firmly on one sort of box, although I was
because they were telling me, oh, yeah, you sound like rationalist, positive, blah, blah,
blah, blah, some, some tags to my profile.
So, so it was interesting that dominated the conversations most of the time instead of
actually trying to unravel ideas.
And of course, this is mostly due to my ignorance at the time of the details of all the previous
work, but I did get into conversations where it got very unproductive and very sort of sterile
to keep circling around who said what as well.
I don't care who said what, but I want to discuss the two of us in this room, like what the concept
is.
And I think I found a lot of people that say, yes, this is definitely something that has
been missing more in philosophy.
I think that at least in academic philosophy, and so that's actually was one of the drives
for me to, to identify that there's value in doing academic activity, academic like
activities in a little bit different way.
Do you see it as connected to things we think about and go through in our actual real life
as opposed to our academic life?
Not that both aren't important, but there can be two different kinds of philosophy.
I think it's similar in math too, maybe how you can go into this world where it's actually
really good to learn something, to learn logic and to learn all these arguments.
And it's almost like playing chess.
You're training your mind and I think math can do that too.
And you're really learning how to think in a way that's very productive, but that's a
little different than the kind of philosophy I think that maybe we think of when we're young
or that actually matters in a real world context where it's more about how do I get through
life in a good way?
How do I deal with these feelings I'm struggling with?
Yeah.
I mean, there's two levels and I would say.
I certainly agree.
Philosophy has this sort of mental scaffolding role in many aspects in life.
I don't know if I, because I am a firm believer in sort of scaffolding your mind with activities
that are not the same activity as they are meant to be scaffolding for.
And as an example, I played some video games that I sort of explicitly didn't like or I didn't
dislike, but I didn't enjoy per se like the most.
And I remember thinking, but these are going to push my mind into corners that are less
explored and less developed.
And I basically...
Oh, that's really fascinating, right?
Yeah.
Because we learn patterns, don't we?
Exactly.
Yeah.
And I pushed myself to do certain tasks in certain video games to have that I was naturally
bad at so that with time, I became quite good at the video game.
And the video game, by the way, Starcraft 2, in case anyone knows, real-time strategy games
and managing many units and multitasking.
I was very bad at that mentally.
I was very bad at multitasking.
So real-time multitasking.
And so I wanted to develop more channels of activity, simultaneous channels of activity,
mostly because I wanted to improvise music and I wanted to keep several melodies in mind
and things like that.
And of course, I was training music simultaneously, but because I did play video games for fun,
I felt, well, let's play a video game that maybe pushes into the direction of multitasking
in real time and so on.
So I started learning that game that I was very naturally bad at.
And then with time, I became very good at the video game.
And I think it actually improved my multitasking.
It is definitely correlated.
I don't know how much causation is there, but going back to the topic, I think it makes
a lot of sense to go on and explore philosophy and build on this higher towers of thought
so that you have a better, you have scaffolding for your life, basically.
Another being has turned into causation.
Yeah.
Actually, as you're talking, I'm thinking about something which I kind of know already about
you a little bit, which is how you got into mathematics.
And it wasn't easy for you either, right?
Like at first, when you were a kid, you kind of hated math, right?
Is that true?
Is that, can you see the connection there between also wanting to expand your potentials?
Absolutely.
Yes, actually.
It's a good, it's a good segue because this was very much the pattern for context, for
those listening.
When I was young, I was very uninterested by school mathematics.
And I have to say it was a very arithmetic focused mathematics, doing all kinds of addition
and long divisions and things like that.
The pedagogy of it was terrible.
Long divisions and square roots were set as punishment homework, basically.
If you didn't do some other homework like geography or natural sciences homework, then
you would be assigned long divisions just for punishment.
I mean, long division is boring.
It's an algorithm.
There's no creativity involved.
You might be, some people are entertained or in the meditative activity of just following
an algorithm.
I am personally not.
So it didn't work for me.
So for many years in primaries, I was uncomfortable in most of the, in most of the maths lectures.
And I was, and I was basically dreading the time when, oh yeah, I have to do math homework.
It's so boring.
Like it was a, it was a drag in the best of cases, in the worst of cases, I hated it.
Um, and anyway, so when I got to high school and I discovered my love for science and physics
and through conversations with my father and getting some books, when he studied engineering
and so on, I realized, okay, so there's this way to understand the world that unveils patterns
and unveils the sort of the mechanisms that are essential.
So when I see a complex explosion and many parts flying around, I can actually isolate
that if I track the position of this piece, it's actually just going to follow a parabola.
And it's quite simple or all these kinds of ways to reduce the complexity of the world
and understand them in a very pointed manner, in a very sort of precise manner.
I fell in love with that.
And, and obviously there was mathematics involved.
Of course, the mathematics, the kinds of mathematics that I was discovering at the time
that worked for physics were things like calculus, things like the vector geometry
and vector algebra and things like that.
Um, and in my ignorance, I was not aware that those topics were bundled together with the
topics that I had, uh, done in primary school, like arithmetic and basic, uh, geometric shapes
and things like that.
And when I realized, uh, um, I, I do remember the day when I, when I thought I must have been,
I don't know, 13 or something.
And I had been reading physics, elementary physics books, uh, but with equations already, uh, for,
for some time and I remember thinking, okay, so having been someone who stated that they
hated mathematics for many years at that point, I came to the realization that, okay, wait,
maybe mathematics is a much larger field that I, that I realized that I got exposure to in
primary school.
And maybe actually I love mathematics.
I mean, it might be the fact that I, I have this, uh, fascination with what mathematics does
for our understanding in the world.
And it was pretty much a, a sort of a step function change.
It was from thinking that I hated mathematics to realizing, wait, all these things that
I'm loving about calculus and vector algebra and so on are mathematics, just the same as
arithmetic was mathematics back in primary school.
It was just the primary school forced mathematics into me and I didn't want to, I didn't want
to do boring algorithms and, but mathematics is much more than boring algorithms.
And I was doing much more creative problem solving at that time in sort of mechanics and basic
physics.
And then, yeah, it was basically one day that went from saying that I hated mathematics.
I was a misguided opinion to a more proper opinion of actually think I love mathematics,
but going back to your question, I was naturally bad at mathematics.
I was not very well trained and predisposed to symbolic computation, to logical reasoning.
My, my logical intelligence, of course, is sufficient so that I can be proficient in these things,
but I wasn't naturally drawn to those things.
I was not the one solving puzzles or into riddles or into those kinds of things.
I was much more visual, artistic, much more intuitive.
Sounds like you are more interested in the big questions too.
If you were thinking of the philosophy and the, which we don't often associate with math.
It reminds me a little of Eugenie Chang, I think is her name.
It talks about category theory a lot.
And how we think mathematics is so, in a way that you're describing the way you thought
of it when you were a kid, the way we all kind of often encounter it first in school
where it seems very dry and it has to do with that training our mind thing, I guess, like
what we were talking about.
But then you can think of it abstractly too, and it starts to relate to these bigger ideas.
So it sounds like at some point you started to realize, oh, that's a way, a tool that I
could actually think about putting some scaffolding on these bigger, more like emergent, difficult,
bigger things.
Yeah.
Precisely.
And just to, to finally answer the question.
Yes.
I decided to, when I had that realization, I thought, okay, let's get into mathematics.
Let's study mathematics.
Let's train my mind in mathematics.
And I remember actually just setting home homework to myself to do boring stuff.
So I went from absolutely hitting it, dreading it to realizing actually I should set homework
to myself and I spent summers just doing derivatives by rules, one by one.
Oh, wow.
That's very disciplined of you.
It's kind of, it's very similar to playing the video games that you hate.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's the same pattern very much.
And so, so yes, it's a general pattern in me that I would spot a inability in some sense,
or some area in which my mind is not naturally drawn to, or I'm not immediately engaging with
the phenomenon.
There are other things that are very engaging immediately.
Anything that has to do with like space, navigation, shape, these kinds of things.
I'm very intuitive and quick to it.
I mean, my brain feels at home when I'm doing those things and when there are difficult things,
but there are other aspects that are very difficult to me and they don't feel like home.
They feel like alien areas.
So I always feel like a visitor in those areas.
I mean, to this day, after, I don't know, 20 years of mathematics in my life, learning
and working and researching and so on, I still feel like an outsider.
I don't feel like a, like I'm a mathematician.
I have colleagues that I had colleagues 10 years ago that I thought, oh, these are mathematicians
already.
I'm an outsider.
And still today, I wouldn't say I am a mathematician, brand mathematician.
I can go around with a mathematician's banner and just be happy with it.
I think it's a good, it's a good descriptor that if you only have one word to assign to
my profession, saying mathematician is the closest probably in terms of work, structure, activity,
work ethos, and so on.
The kind of activity I end up doing during the day, it's yeah, I'm a mathematician.
And that's what I'm doing with some computational research on the side.
But, but yeah, I still feel, I feel like an outsider and not to derail the conversation
in that way.
But I do think that this feeling of being an outsider is very much a, an advantage for
certain things.
Obviously I won't be the one solving the unsolved problems for millennia or the one that gets
into the deepest or the highest heights of theoretical constructions and contribute the
thing that is going to sort of round everything off.
But I think being an outsider allows me to see sort of paths that are less frequented or
ideas that have been underdeveloped or ways of approaching problems that are more novel
or more original and things like that.
So yeah, this is interesting, this insider outsider, right?
That's another kind of either or dichotomy thing.
And I can imagine someone who is like a pure mathematician or who only is kind of living in that
realm of that different realm of more actually living in the math might also feel like an outsider
in a different way, maybe an insider in math, but an outsider in the kind of the worlds that
you move more freely in.
So it's kind of interesting how, I don't know, do you think we have to choose kind of one
or the other areas in which we're going to be a master or is there, it sounds like you've
tried to do a lot of different things.
Have you encountered some struggles with trying to be in all these different worlds at once?
Or is that just also kind of more a matter of this intuitive, natural thing, natural, what
you're drawn to?
Right.
Well, that's a very hard question.
That's the, yeah, I would say that's the core of doing this kind of thing.
I have colleagues who have done mathematics since they were basically eight, nine years
old.
They got into some school competitions, then go on to some Olympics and then go on some,
like the international Olympiad and all that kind of stuff.
And then go on to do a mathematics degree, get a PhD, get a postdoc.
And I have colleagues that have gone all the way and every single step of the way, they felt
comfortable that this is their tribe.
This is their country in some sense, their intellectual country.
And they're very much aligned with the culture, the problems that they want to tackle.
And they are doing very difficult things.
The things I was trying to solve are very technically difficult.
And so I can certainly see the appeal in that.
And I, and even personally, and I think it's obviously very important that people do this,
because that's how you get really deep into topics and you get really progress in the end.
I think progress, most progress is done when people go in, in, in this very directed way.
Um, but at the same time, I think, um, there's, there are certain almost personality types that I
think fit better in, in being generalists.
It's almost like an ecology of research, right?
I mean, you have specialists and you have generalists and if you have a, an overabundance
of specialists, then nobody understands each other.
And we're basically all walking in divergent directions and we don't end up really making
any progress other than the personal self development, the exploration sort of experience
for each individual.
And if everyone is a generalist, we don't really get any depth or any, um, nuance and
any detail in the explorations.
So it really has to be an ecological balance of, of specialists and generalists and all kinds of
intersectional interests between the different researchers.
So I want to, at least this is the, the narrative I tell myself to sleep at night, I guess, but
I like to think that having generalists is, is an important ecological element of any research
environment or more generally any intellectual environment.
And so that's why you always would have figures that are not absolute experts on any one particular
topic, but have spread out.
I would say though, this, this is not to say that you need figures.
So in a way you sort of specialize in being a generalist and it sounds a bit paradoxical with
the terminology, but that's just a limitation of the language, not of the ideas.
And I would say that you specialize in being a generalist in the way that you could be a
specialist, but you choose not to in a way.
And this is certainly my experience.
My personal experience has been, I could have been a physicist, a specialist, like a
theoretical physics specialist or a geometric mechanics, geometric fundamental physics with
differential geometry, this kind of stuff specialist.
And during my PhD, that was kind of what I was and doing my research on that.
And I published a couple of papers on that.
And I did that kind of work, but I deliberately chose not to go down that path because I, I felt
that it led to our life that was very constrained in, in the kind of intellectual realm that I was
going to explore.
It was, um, very much in line with the, uh, sort of ongoing, uh, in my, in my, in my opinion,
the ongoing, uh, sort of, uh, not so productive dynamics in academia, which is, you have to over
specialize so that you produce more papers or more incremental papers, and you can have
a longer list in your CV and more chance for higher impact and all these kinds of things.
And I made a very personal conscious choice of, I don't want to play this game.
I want to make something happen.
I want to do research somehow because I was still, I thought I was young and I had valuable
ideas to some degree.
So I wanted to still produce research, uh, but I didn't want to play the academic game.
I didn't see myself as just becoming a professor, although I love teaching as an activity,
but I didn't see myself become a professor after all this game that you have to play and
all the, in the, in the academic world.
So it's not that I discount, uh, an academic like profile for my professional future, but
I certainly rejected the model that I just play along.
I do post-ops where I just focus on paper after paper.
They're all kind of piecemeal contributions.
There's nothing, there's no grand narrative being built.
There's no one fundamental problem that I think is necessary to be solved, but it would
probably take years.
And then I sort of settle.
And then maybe when I'm in my late forties, I find some time after I had family or whatever
that I did, that didn't seem appealing.
I felt like I have the energy now.
You only live once.
So I have to do it now.
So it was a joint personal choice and a more intellectual sort of inclination of mine
to be multidisciplinary and to be exploring all kinds of questions.
And so, yeah, it's, it, it, but it's a very difficult balance.
Yeah.
Did you worry about, I mean, because this, I definitely know what you're talking about
and there is this kind of point system to academia in a way it is like a game.
And I think that's a good analogy, even if it's not a game.
And for you, um, you kind of have to participate in some kind of a game in order to do traditional
things like build your career, get paid, build your reputation.
And did you worry about rejecting that?
Because there's a reason why that is such a solidified trajectory and a lot of people
don't really want to take it, but they're afraid not to take it.
Were you ever worried about that?
I guess worry.
This is a funny question because a friend of mine was just asking about that yesterday.
He, he asked them something about what do you normally feel during the day?
And they mentioned worry and anxiety is something that they, they felt so.
But, and it's funny because I don't think I worry that often.
I don't think that I'm lucky that I don't get the mental state of worry.
I think I'm more of a, I'm a, I'm a very optimistic person in general.
I think I have a very positive outlook on what the things I do.
So when things go bad, because they do go bad.
I was very lucky in my life.
I was there, there are many instances where outcomes could have been a couple of ways.
And it went in the, the most, you know, positive one for me.
But there have been moments where of, of failure, absolutely.
And not getting things that I wanted and, and the main plan failing and things like that.
And I think my, my personality is so that I just take that, oh, this is the world I live in.
I have to move forward.
And so when it came to the decision to, I wouldn't say leave academia.
That's not, I didn't decide to leave academia per se.
Like other people say, oh, okay, I'm gonna, my colleagues of mine,
I have gone to the corporate world or to financial industry or whatever.
I didn't make that kind of rejection where I said, okay, this is going to be a parallel
world that lives besides me.
And I'm gonna be in this world of whatever industry or other things.
That's not what I thought.
What I thought is, okay.
There are valuable things in the world that I feel like I can, I can still participate in.
Meaning parts of academia, certainly, or I would say even the majority of what academia does
is very valuable.
There are companies and institutes and independent nonprofits and all these kinds of contexts
where very important and interesting human intellectual development is going on in the
present.
And I thought, I think I am in the most productive years of my life.
I am kind of fully trained, fully formed as a sort of young adult, mind, whatever.
And I felt, well, if I'm going to contribute anything of value, it's going to be now.
It's going to be in the next few years, right?
So I just basically decided I don't want to be busy with the, with this, with this game
of if I have this topic and then I can do two papers.
If I have this other topic, I have two more papers.
I've decided instead of investing time into that, I'm going to invest time in setting up a
society at this nonprofit, or I'm going to, or I'm going to do the research I think I should
be doing, but that's going to lead to maybe just one paper a year, or maybe two papers a year,
instead of the six or seven that some of my colleagues are writing in.
And this eventually, I think I can say safely today, after having had a couple of the main
papers accepted in the research that this is working out in some sense.
I mean, I did find some unconventional context to carry on work and to get paid and to survive,
because at the end of the day, you have to make a living.
And I am also setting up my own means to do that and sort of like in this sort of entrepreneurial
attitude. But so to answer your question, was I worried to drop that?
I would say the worry, if I was worried at any, for a few seconds that turned very quickly into,
these are all the things I'm going to proactively do to just be and be ready to, because what I,
the decision did feel more than dropping something that is conventional and well-established,
which it is, it felt more like there's a path over there that is hard to climb because it's certainly
a hard game to play, the academic game, but it's very well-trodden. I can see the, I can see the
trail clearly leading to a summit. I can, it's hard. It's going to steep. Many people are claiming,
climbing it, and I'm going to have to raise other people, but it's very clear where I'm going.
The other was there's this forest here. There's no path, but you know, what I see in the distance
is a much more beautiful landscape, right? It's much broader landscape. And so my decision was,
okay, I could go there. It will be fine. We'll get a nice view from the top of that hill,
but I can see this beautiful valley with higher summits and beautiful waterfalls and things like
that. And, but there's a forest in front of me and I have to just get into the forest and
start to like doing some complicated navigation to make it work. So I am in the forest right now.
I feel like I am in the forest and I'm navigating. And I think this fits my personality much better,
like in a very holistic sense. In life, I, when I went hiking, I like going to the mountains around
my hometown here with my father, when I was younger. When I was a kid, I was with him in
the path and the trail and everything is kind of safe and predictable. When I was old enough to go
on my own, I always wanted through the, through the hills and with my sister climbing through the
cliffs and all sort of free cross, cross country kind of exploration. So yeah, it's interesting
because this gets to the love part kind of in a way, or however we want to, because that can be a
real motivator, right? And that can, I mean, if we zoom out and think, okay, what is this life?
We're building these paths or we're following other paths, or what is it really all about?
It sounds like you were more connected to that. Okay. I'm feeling a lot of motivation. Love is a
big word, but love of wisdom, even this is kind of what I feel drawn to. It's almost like you had
a restlessness, a lot of energy you needed to do something with and trying to put it into those
traditional forms and paths. Of course you could do it, but something in you, let's call it love.
Yeah. I like the word. Yeah. If I may, I'm very comfortable calling it love because I think it's
a very good, I mean, maybe we can get into the technicalities of definitions of, is it love for
people? Can you actually love something that's not a human being, whatever. I would say at least as
an analogy, it works really well because it's something that is very irrational in a way. It just,
it's inside of me somehow, it's an inclination. I don't decide it. I certainly, I sort of channel
where it goes, but I don't really decide that it is there in the first place. And it is, it was a
very conscious choice in the way that you describe. I actually remember I could input this energy,
this love for wisdom, this kind of going after philosophy in the etymological sense in academia.
And I was already in academia. I had a postdoc position that could have been extended and it was a
sort of research teaching position that would naturally turn into sort of a, so whatever,
junior professor position. You were on the track if you wanted to. I was definitely on the track and,
and, and I could have kept it going and it was, and I was fulfilled by this, by this job. It was,
you know, I was doing research and I was teaching and I loved both. So it was great. Yeah. But when he,
so this was around the time, I mean, the context is actually relevant here. This was around the time when
COVID hit. So I was lucky to have this job during COVID. So I had some stability during the pandemic
and during the lockdown and all that stuff. But I, I did think during those years, the couple of years
of the intense sort of pandemic restrictions, I did think, okay, so the world is much larger than this
pocket of academia that I found myself in and that I sort of my wedge, wedge myself in. And I thought,
I can certainly see the value I can contribute in, in that pocket. And I was already sort of seeing
it with a very positive, uh, reviews from, and, and feedback from students and everyone praising my
teaching and my research sort of picking up speed. And so it was a, it was a positive environment.
Okay. Granted my research group wasn't the best and the leader of the group was a bit of a academic
asshole. If I may say that kind of term, so I'm not gonna ask who it was, but yeah, I wouldn't say any
names, but, but it was, I mean, it wasn't that bad. It was just that in terms of the style of
those environments can be really tough. Exactly. So it wasn't in on me, it wasn't that tough,
but it was not the greatest, but nonetheless, I was in a positive, in a net positive environment,
like in a net positive life situation. Right. And so, but, but I was very restless as you say,
because I thought, okay, so I have all these ideas, all this energy to contribute. And it wasn't like,
I am the sort of egotistical sense. Right. I have this idea. I want this to happen and
I won't have it any other way. It was more in the sense of, I feel like I have value to contribute
to things that I find otherwise, uh, commonly valuable so that everyone can, can benefit.
And I felt that by being a professor, uh, or in a professorial, uh, position in a university,
I could do very little. I could very just influence a few students, motivate students,
and that was rewarding and fine, but I felt like we are living in a very interesting era in, in
civilization in the world, right? Like we, we have all this emerging technology. We are in some kind
of probably, I mean, who knows, we won't be there to see it, but, uh, we're probably, this era will
be the era where many things are sort of defined for the first time. Right. I mean, we're transitioning
into this massive information technology era. Uh, definitely a big transition happening.
I mean, I guess there always is, but yeah, yeah, it's hard to see completely, but I see what you
mean. Yeah. Right. And, and so I, I felt like by being an academic in pure mathematics, in theoretical
physics, by the way it works, uh, I didn't have to really engage with most of the interesting systems
of society nowadays. And by that, I mean, I didn't have, it was enough for me to quietly type away
my paper and to go to a lecture and give a black, a blackboard lecture. Okay. So again,
I think we have this, you wanted to challenge yourself in a way the same with the playing the
weird video games, going into the stuff that was hard for you that it's almost like you didn't want
to take the route that was comfortable or, but I have to say a lot of people I've talked to, they,
just to kind of make a little side note about teaching, actually teachers do change lives for
sure. You know, this, right? Like just one or two little comments from a teacher can put,
a lot of people I've talked to who are very successful right now, they all attribute it
back to one professor or one teacher. So I just need to put that out there. That is actually what
you said, you might not change the world. I think it's more specific for you, like your trajectory,
but some people's trajectory being that teacher, you are definitely changing lives, but that gets me to
your restlessness and your, you're not wanting to be comfortable, right? So you'd kind of found this
comfortable world and it's almost like immediately you started looking for where's your challenge.
That's right. I mean, and just to go briefly, go back to the teacher point. I absolutely agree. I
mean, and I love teaching. I've had a very natural inclination towards sort of education and explaining,
sharing knowledge from a very young age. I mean, just as an anecdote, when I was, I think,
six years old or something in primary school, one of the games that I played with my friends in
playground time was I brought several copies of the same dinosaur visual atlas and I would go over,
let's go to page three and let's name the dinosaurs on the picture and things like that.
So it's a very strong inclination from a young age to like share knowledge.
Yeah. And you're still teaching even, I mean, it's not like you gave up teaching. That's still part of
your life. Absolutely. It's part of my life. Absolutely. Yes. So the restlessness, this is funny
because, and this conversation is actually going to prove a little bit self-introspective and
therapeutic almost to a degree, because for many years during my student years and PhD in Edinburgh
and mathematical physics, and I actually had this view of life, which came from early childhood,
even from my parents and the context. I mean, I always like to say I am a child of the welfare state,
right? Like, I mean, this is, this is kind of the context. I was born into a society, into a context
that is very similar to what we have today. I haven't seen a lot of progress happening from my
childhood to my adulthood, right? You mean the economic scaffolding?
Economics and social. Okay. Exactly. So the contrast is my parents' generation here in Spain,
they went from the fascist transition to the, to democracy, economic development, European Union,
all these kinds of things, right? The USSR. Shifts of regularities there. Exactly. So there was a much
more clear gradient of, of society and they felt very responsible because they indeed were the ones
making that in, in aggregate, they were the ones making that, that change happen. And this is certainly
something that has changed radically. In my generation, we, we didn't feel the protagonist that
we had to enact some kind of development or some kind of transition to anything, some kind of
development. So it was, it certainly has affected, I think has affected a lot of people psychologically,
although this is an entirely different conversation, but in a personal, in a personal,
at a personal level, when I was a kid and a teenager and so on, I always saw life as a way to make
yourself a stable environment where you can just basically let systems running and you just live away
in some sense. Right. And this has only been in the, in recent years that I fully realized that this is not
the case, or at least for me, it's not going to be the case because, and I think it's a good fiction
to have in mind, because obviously if you work towards making yourself, building yourself in a
stable environment where you can sort of sustainably continue to do activities that you, you want to do,
that's actually a, a, a, a worthy goal. And it's a very difficult thing to set up. So the, the, the path
to get there is very valuable. It is something useful, but I, I realized that, and this is probably
completely obvious to many people, especially people in behavioral sciences or psychology and
things like that. I mean, when you get to a reward or you get to state of completion, you lose the
drive and therefore after a very short while you're demotivated, right. Or depressed. And I have been
depressed several times during my life precisely because of that dynamic, because I anticipated even
for years getting to a certain position, realizing some patterns in my life, some conditions that I thought
would be good and were good when they did happen after a short while being depressed basically.
I think that's really interesting. Let's dig at that a little bit because there's a lot there.
I think a lot of people feel that way, especially if you're going to go into something like academia,
because there is that trajectory that we talked about and you do, there's so much that you have to
do in just in terms of the work that's involved in the classes and getting the grades. And you do kind
of have this idea that you're trying to get somewhere. And sometimes you just wake up and you're
there and it's not at all used for the first time. What was all that work? And what is this? That
there's a weird jolt, I think that people experience and it does, it can be depression or it can be,
I don't know, then you start some other thing. Maybe you start your family or there's a lot of
ways we try to deal with that without, we don't really talk about it though. But yeah, so I'm kind
of hearing you say, maybe that was part of this thing that happened in COVID too, that you'd gotten not
a plateau, but you'd sort of, you'd kind of won the game. You had the points or you knew now how to play the game.
And you wanted to switch games or something. Yeah, that's a good, that's a good description.
And maybe a relevant anecdote in that is where, which ties to my childhood story. If I might give
the context briefly, I wanted, as I mentioned earlier, I wanted to, to, I would, if you'd asked
my 12 year old self, I would have said, I want to be a theoretical physicist by that age. Obviously,
I didn't know properly what a theoretical physicist was at the time, but I was probably not that far off
because I ended up becoming a theoretical physicist PhD after a while. Right. So, so I did want to go
there. I did know that I was interested in everything. I wanted this, going back to this
philosophy, love for knowledge. It really meant love for understanding. I mean, that's the word I
like to use is understanding it because knowledge, I think is a, to me it sounds like a very grand word.
And I personally like to use understanding because that's certainly, I mean, that's a subjective
experience I feel. And so it is very traceable. It's very operable. Right. So anyway, I definitely
experienced understanding in some crucial moments in my life when I was in my formative years and I,
yeah, I aimed, I want to be, I want to be a mathematical physicist. I want to understand
the world in a formal way. And I think this sort of fundamental approach and the kind of influences,
although maybe not so direct influences, but the kind of context that I was experiencing at the time
was reading sort of pop science books by Stephen Hawking. I was just about to ask,
did you have like a mentor in mind when you, cause I know you were into, you were doing experiments
when you were a kid already. So I guess Stephen Hawking kind of is that. I, I could, you could
point to it. Yes. So you could, so I would say the, the biggest influence, the biggest sort of human
singular individual influence was my father, because I was, I remember the day I was with him in the car.
I was driving and I was in the sort of co-pilot seat and I, I was just asking a lot of questions.
I was not like young kid, lots of questions. I was already like 11 years old or something.
And I was asking what kinds of questions about if clouds are made of water, where, where does it
go? How does it flow? How tight can a seal be to hold water? This kind of, my, my father's a
hydraulics engineer. So there's a lot of questions about water and things like, anyway, but a lot of
questions in general about the world around me. And at that time I thought I wanted to be a
paleontologist and study dinosaurs sort of, because my parents had built the narrative in my head
that if you love dinosaurs, which I did, and I do, then you can pursue this as a career if you
are serious enough about it. Right. So you were in the Jurassic Park dream.
Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, Jurassic Park was my favorite movie for many years.
Yeah. Transformative movie. But anyway.
So yeah. Yeah. So, so my father then, so after asking so many questions, I was left a little bit like
sensitive thinking, ah, so if I love dinosaurs and I, I, I, then I pursue paleontology. If I love all these kinds of
questions, random to me, seeming, seemingly random questions I was asking, what do I pursue? And my
father was, maybe you should pursue physics. And that's the first time I heard the word physics as
a word in Spanish. And my father said, and I was like, um, okay, what's that? And so I got curious.
I got a little book, visual atlas with some equations, had no idea about equations at that
time, obviously, but it became very intriguing. And then I started like sort of forcing equations
into my mind just by reading the context and my father explaining that's a variable. You can
assume any numerical value, blah, blah, blah. And then very quickly absorbed in a few months,
absorbed the idea that, oh, right. So there's, there is deep knowledge here. There's deep patterns
being revealed here. And because I could relate it to daily life, I could see the things moving
around me and I could look at Newton's equations and I could see the connection in a very clear sense.
So my father was a, a very big pointed influence, but I would say that after that, I have to stop you
there because this is interesting with the love too, right? And that, and the understanding that it's your
father who it sounds like kind of was showing you how to look at the world as a magical place,
right? And there's all these questions and things to observe. A lot of kids that don't,
we stop observing the world when we're really little, we do, but then you kind of learn,
oh, that's, everyone tells you that's what that is. And that's what that is. And it's not this
questioning and a constant observation and what could that be? And it sounds like your dad was sort
of instilling that. And also your quest for understanding, was it tied to your love of your father and
wanting, wanting to engage with him or? So, okay. So that's actually a relevant question. So,
so there's the philosophy side of the question and the love side of the question, which is very
appropriate for this podcast. So I would say my father, what my father did was, and he was,
in my opinion, the best way he could have been about this was to show and to, and to offer,
but he never mentored me. This is an important thing. He never mentored me. He never went with me
and sat me down. Okay. Let you do this. You, I asked him a lot of questions. I asked him for help,
but it always felt like cheating to ask him for help because obviously he had trained in
engineering. I had an idea of what that meant. I had an idea that he spent years in university
studying these books that I could see at home that are actually just behind me now. So, so all the,
all that I could see and asking him to help me and train me felt like cheating. And this was a
feeling that I just felt personally, but my father was amazing at offering me. He was like,
so here's a book about mechanics. If you want to learn about this and that, there's the concept.
He never forced me to do anything. He never like strongly suggested one thing or the other. It was
more me. I have to say since I'm the kind of, the kind of mentality that when you, when I switch into a
direction, I might need an influence for that. And I always attribute context and other people's
influence to, to all the kind of change in direction and so on. But once I'm set in a
direction, I'm very much sort of all steam ahead. I just run right with it. So, so in that sense,
that's, that was the sort of the role of my father there. Now, when it comes to expressing my love for
my father through this, I would say that what I had for my father was mostly sort of admiration at
that point. And, and, and as I said, like seeing someone, I mean, my father, my mother, both were
extremely loving. And I think I, I always like to say that love has not played that big of a role,
love for humans. I mean, has not been, has not played that big of a role in life in my adulthood,
because I was given so much love as a kid from my parents. I have the reservoir state or something.
Yeah. Yeah. It's like my reservoirs are all the way up from love from childhood. I can deplete a little,
doesn't make a difference with so much less. So they were loving, we were a loving family. I had two
younger sisters. It was a very loving environment. Everything's great. Still is to this day. It's a
wonderful family, but, but yes, this context was certainly the main interaction I had with
my father. It's just me sitting with him, usually in the car or in some context and just asking
questions, lots of questions, just asking questions, asking questions. And pointedly,
he would explain something to me because I basically asked him to. You asked so much. Did that just come
from you or was he inquisitive? I guess, of course, it was just me. It was, I mean,
so that was just, you wanted to understand the world. You don't know where that came from. Maybe.
No. Yeah. I think it was absolutely. I mean, I cannot find an influence for that. I mean,
I think I'm just very predisposed to this because. Yeah. Your senses are sort of turned on the world
in a way. Yeah. I might, I mean, this is fractalizing as we expected the conversations are
sort of fractalizing in ways, but I do think that my personality has this outwards orientation. So I was
talking to a friend of mine who actually was in the summer school where we met each other.
Okay. Who was talking about, okay, so
how do you work psychologically? How do you feel like you contribute to your community and
friends around you, family around you? And I discussing different, you know,
spectrum of autism, a spectrum of how you deal with relationships and drama and so on. I said,
well, it's interesting that I don't have a very directed social drive, meaning I'm not the kind of
person to seek sort of just social environments for the sake of social engagement. However,
I have a very strong intuition to organize social. Yeah, that's what you do.
And so on. So, so, and for, for a long time, I was a little bit confused about this sort of
the nature of me not being very socially directed in a way, but being quite driven to set up social
gatherings and set up sort of an organized sort of situations where social interaction happens.
And I think I, I, that seems like a dichotomy, but it seems like a, I think it's not so much
a dichotomy or maybe it is actually traditional. I don't think it is, but it can seem like it,
right? Like you're trying to, it seems two parts don't fit together. Like they're opposites or
something within. Yes. So, so I think it's a fitting example of a theme that I think you mentioned,
you'd like to highlight with this podcast, which is having that formulation in mind. Okay. So
I am, it is true. It's not just a formulation. It's not just language. It is true that I am not
very socially driven. It's true that, you know, I love meeting my friends and close family and
everything, but I don't seek social, social company just for the sake of social company.
Yeah. I, I really identify with that. Believe me, I know what you mean.
Yes. Yes. So, so, and yet also I hear what you're saying, because it's actually
also one of the kind of themes of your life in a weird way, this social, so it does seem
paradoxical as maybe the better. Yes. And I would say it really isn't in, in the following sense.
So, and I came up with this narrative. I mean, it's going to sound scientific, but it's really
unfounded, but the narrative is, has scientific sounds. So, so the narrative is basically, if you
want to select a sort of tribal structure and you have, you, you must imagine that humans have a lot of
in inter-species variation, right? Like we, we have very different heights, strengths, hair colors,
skin colors, all these kinds of things. Right. So. And then certain parameters,
of course. Certain parameters. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Within some bounds.
I mean, just being human, you already have a lot in common, but I, yes, I know. Of course.
There's a lot of. Yeah. But there's a lot of variation. Right. And we have also like sexual
variations and we have like age variations, like individuals have different roles in a community.
Sensory variations, how we. Exactly. So, so if you think of that, if you think of a
tribal structure, more in the ancient history, history eras, like, if you think that the tribal
unit as something that is selected for, and it's basically doing some adaptation, navigation to,
to evolution, you need, it's actually important that you have this separations of individuals,
because you need, I mean, you need a core of, of a tribe that is very socially driven, that is very
driven by affection, driven by social dynamics, that cares about who others are thinking, cares about
how others are feeling and looks, look after each other, all these kinds of things. You need also
people that look outwards of the tribe and they're essentially sort of like looking out and they are
not really thinking about what's inside the tribe, other than the tribe as a whole concept, right?
Like they have the concept of the tribe as something that needs to function, but these are the planners,
these are the hunter gatherers that actually go out and hunt and gather and so on. It's this kind of,
I mean, it's a very reductive story. It's not, as I said, it sounds like scientific, but it really,
I think it's wonderful. And weirdly, it reminds me of category theory in the way you're kind of
looking at patterns of patterns rather than like being just in the pattern somehow.
Yeah, exactly. And, and I think what I, what happens to me is that if you give me a network of
humans and you give me a network of people, I would be drawn to engage with that. If you give me a system
of human beings doing things and interacting with each other and organizing to do some things in the world,
I am engaged with that. I have a natural drive to, to work towards that. But if you give me
a single individual with whom I am not in the process of building towards those things, or I'm
not, I don't know, engaged in some other kind of dynamic, romantic or very close friendship or
something, I'm going to be very uninterested. My, my sort of interest drops down and I feel like,
okay, this is fine, but I could be doing better things with my time in this country.
The pairwise interaction is not your...
You could put it that way. Yes. The, the, the one link interaction is certainly less. I mean, and
this is just judging from my history. It's not even my preference today or the active decision that
I'm making today, but just looking at the pattern of my life, you can see how all my friendships have
been built around activities. And, and, and not just, they happen to be around activities, but they
have been around the activities themselves. And I have, I have had a drive to organize communities and
organize sort of complex activities that involve coordination and things like that. And I'm always
very comfortable with the complexities of all the details and things like that. But I'm not so keen on
just being friends with everyone and getting to know how everyone feels at a given point and so on. I
need the important information about that. Are your feelings impeding you to be this or that or,
and make sure that you're feeling okay so that everyone, everything can process and everyone
can, can feel okay. That's important to me. But beyond that, everything is kind of like
unnecessary complexity that, that it's not that I find worse or uninteresting in a more philosophical
sense, but in practice, it just drops down in interest and it goes to a background.
That's really fascinating. I mean, we have to go back to the Stephen Hawking fractal at some point.
Oh yes. Yeah, yeah.
Let's stay on this fractal for a minute because that's interesting. It makes me think of this Gregory
Bateson quote, which I like a lot, which is, it takes two to know one. I wonder what you think
about that because it sounds the one there could be the group, but also it's like, you can't just
with two people kind of know because you're more turned towards the space that's holding those two.
That's what you're wanting to be interested in. So there's something very interesting in the way you
described it. And I can see it kind of in the, just knowing you're very, not very long, but this
pattern of what's motivating you is always some kind of larger category or something that you
need a lot of input. So I don't know. What do you think that it takes two to know one? What is that?
Oh, I completely agree with that statement in general. I mean, you can interpret it several
ways. It takes two to know one. I can think of as the notion of...
You always have three sort of, sorry, but yeah, go ahead.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean, as a notion of self that it wouldn't, I don't think it may,
if it makes a lot of sense to not to get completely lost in the metaphysics and the epistemology
conversation here, but, but, you know, the notion of self, I think I've always understood as a,
as a mirror phenomenon in a community. So until there's a second one, like there's two,
you can really know that there's one inside of you of the two, right?
That's really interesting. And even bigger than that maybe, and is that you're only going to see
one particular reflection. So really you need two to get even a slightly accurate vision of yourself.
For sure.
Two other. Yeah. Yeah. You will see your reflection, even if it's an actual virtual
two, you will be at two, right? Like you will be there's a one and the reflection. Okay.
Exactly.
But anyway, so maybe fractalizing all the way back, because I think we got into why I ended up liking.
Yeah. And discomfort and mentors and how do we link all those back?
Because I can reconstruct back. So basically we were from my father's influence and then what he did and how
I eventually moved on forward and so on. So going back to the, to, to that story after my father
basically opened the door and said, here's this path, you could follow this, there's such thing
called physics and so on. I basically just ran with it. I asked for a lot of things. A lot, obviously
I got everything from my parents until I went to university and so on. So, so I got books,
I got a blackboard in my room. I got all the, and I got. Yeah. That's that comfortable blessed
kind of zone you were describing. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. So, so one of the books that perhaps
was most popular at the time that was coming out are this sort of second wave of Stephen Hawking books
about, uh, universe in a nutshell and the black hole and all that. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. The ones
that, because the brief history of time that's in the eighties, a long time ago. Yeah. I mean, that,
that was popular of course, still, but there was this, this wave of pop sci physics books about
string theory and the quantum physics. Brian Greene and all that. Yeah. The elegant universe,
all these kinds of books were coming out. So I didn't read, actually probably didn't finish any
of those books from beginning to end because those are not really books to read from beginning to end
in some sense. Um, but I definitely read a lot of, and I read some, uh, physicists biographies and
things like that and know the history of physics a little bit, 20th, 20th century physics and things like
that, uh, like Einstein and fathers of quantum mechanics and things like that. So, but Stephen
Hawking was obviously very striking, very prominent figure because of his condition and because of
his contributions, the ideas are also quite interesting and so on. And so I read his books
and I knew of him and I saw him in documentaries. I mean, also documentaries were a big thing at the
time of the channel or whatever. Um, and so I, by the time I was reading those books, by the time I was
watching those documentaries, I was already on the path. I had been for a couple of years already
determined to, okay, I'm going to build towards this. I'm going to learn mathematics, which is,
comes very difficult to me and not very natural. Uh, I'm gonna do go through all the struggle to
go to the best places to do the physics to, to basically. So I'm from a relatively small town
in Spain, uh, and I moved to a bigger town to do physics in university. And I basically kept on
working on that dream. And this goes back to our earliest, uh, topic of when the struggle and
building towards something and so on. So this was a very long struggle. I would say it was almost
like a 10 year long struggle from when I was 15 to maybe eight years long or something.
It was very long. And then eventually I, I worked really hard to got my very high marks in university
or whatever. And I got a scholarship to go to Cambridge full funded and study in, in, uh, the,
the mathematics department in Cambridge and do the masters. That is the gold standard for,
so the, on, on this side of the Atlantic in Europe is the gold standard for mathematical physics.
Oh yeah. You won the game in a way.
Yeah. So which was in the department. Exactly. Which was in the department where
Stephen Hawking was physically. He was there. Um, so I remember very clearly today I was sitting at a
lecture by the, by Stephen Hawking's student, PhD student, former PhD student, who's then a professor
already at the university. And I was sitting at the back, just having my lunch so that I'm not in the
first row, just being something just sort of quite leading sandwich or something at the back.
And then at the beginning of the talk door opens and in comes Stephen with his chair and everything
and just sits next to me, just listening to the lecture. So he sat beside you. Yeah. He sat beside
me because I was in the last row on my own and he couldn't go down the stairs for the chair. And I
remember thinking I had seen a couple of times sort of just moving around the department and it was
always, oh, he's there. He's just here. It's not, it's not a celebrity moment.
Think of these trajectories connecting. That's a powerful moment, right?
Yeah, absolutely. And then at that moment I was sitting there and thinking,
so I am listening to the same lecture he is listening to. And I was like, okay, so I'm not
listening to a lecture by him or I, we are both listening to same lecture on black holes or whatever
it was. And so in that moment I realized, okay, so this is the place. This is the place that I was
imagining when I was a kid. How would it be like, would it be like, and to go to Cambridge in that
mentality coming from someone who literally said hated mathematics to where Newton was and where
all this very deep history of mathematics in Europe was to me, it was very striking. So what happened to
me there was that I kind of lost my love for the field of theoretical physics in a way.
Oh, that seems so like the opposite of what.
Yeah. It would seem that it would be naturally sort of like the success moment of I made it here.
But I think that, I think this anecdote tells you a lot about my restlessness,
which is, which was the original question that I was trying.
Yeah. No, it's a great example of that.
Yeah. Winning the game, arriving and then.
Yeah, exactly. And, and because I think I could imagine telling people and I told people and they,
everyone think, oh, you went to Cambridge and you met Stephen Hawking and you,
they all talk about is great success and so on. But obviously to me, I knew the path and I knew that
getting there. That's literally just the logistics of, of doing the science. I was interested in the
science in the first place. I didn't want the prestige or the mystique of going to this millennia
old university with all these traditions and all this mystique and all this history and all the geniuses
that went through there and so on. That to me is the consequence of communal activity of science.
That's not the point. And to a lot of people, it was the point to a degree. And many colleagues of
mine left academia saying I was here for the wrong reasons. I was here for the prestige. I never really
cared. When I thought about it twice, I never really cared about black holes or about, I had colleagues
that basically quit their PhDs because of this kind of inertia to the allure of prestige and sort of like
intellectual ability and so on. And to me, I was always there. I was there very much aware of this
aspect of academia because I had built this narrative in me. I had built this sort of struggle
to go from being a not naturally talented person in mathematics to through sheer effort, go get a
scholarship to go to Cambridge and do these things, which I managed to do. But when I was there, I realized,
okay, so now we're here to do the work. We have to do the thing that I wanted to do in the beginning,
which before I even knew about Newton and Cambridge and all these kinds of historical components and
social, all the prestige of the reputation of the different universities and so on. Before I got into
any of that, I had for a few years already been enthralled by physics and the concepts, the forces and
derivative functions and all those things. So to me, the use of it, the actual substance of science and
philosophy in a broader sense was the driving force. So when I got to a place and I saw that
there was so much noise around it and the science itself was dubious at times because I was disagreeing
with the way many students were approaching physics because they were essentially taking it kind of
dogmatically and then making sense of it later. I didn't really agree with this sort of approach.
So that's why I kind of fell out of love with the field, with the social manifestation of theoretical
physics, at least in that context. And at least for that time, because I thought that the substance
of it, the core of it that originally motivated me when I was essentially a kid was not so much the
driving force where I was. And so I thought we have to stop here for a second, because this is really
rich. And this is, I think, an experience that people have in many different contexts where you're so
passionate and excited and motivated to, it can either be about the people, as it sounds like it
was, or to be a part of some social group, because that is a motivation, right? I mean, we're all human
and like we have mentors or people that we look up to. And sometimes without even thinking, we just want
to be in their presence or be like them. But then, of course, once you do a lot of introspection,
like it sounds like you did, it becomes more about solving these problems. And there's this
earnestness about it and this like, and this belief that you can do it, and that those people
actually have some kind of answer. And I'm speaking more from my own, when you get into
those environments, and you realize, oh, maybe these people don't have the answer. Or even it
sounds like you saw a little bit, not with Hawking, but maybe with others around where you start to go,
oh, they're kind of acting, or pretending, or there's something going on here that feels
not like this earnest, earthy thing that I thought this was, it can be so disappointing.
Oh, yeah, definitely. And I think in my case, the dynamic that you describe of
wanting to be in a group and maybe being surrounded by certain kind of people and so on.
The story that I drew in my childhood is to illustrate that it is more, for me, the meeting up
your heroes and your role models and things like that. That came second, in a way, because I was
initially very driven by the substance of it. I was absolutely excited to, I don't know.
That's how you discovered all those people in the first place. It's not like,
Exactly. I mean, I mean, exactly. I mean, I discovered them as a,
in a way, it's almost like how I make friends. And I said earlier, I make friends via an activity. Like,
I was absolutely obsessed already, how you compute the time that a perturbation in a hanging rope,
it travels to the ground in a long hanging rope. And because I saw it outside my grandmother's
apartment one day, it's like, I was wiggling it and I was seeing the perturbation sort of go down.
And I thought, huh, I know that the perturbation speed on the rope depends on the tension,
but of course, because the rope is hanging at different heights, the tension is different
because at the very bottom, there's nothing. And the very top, there's all the weight of the rope.
And so I thought, so how does that affect the speed? And I could see, I could measure that the
perturbation takes three seconds to get to the ground from a feet floor or something. So I wanted to like
compute and I realized that there was something very interesting to do that. I was absolutely
enthralled by these things. Like intuitively, there was no social drive. It was not socially cool.
It was no, I didn't care if Stephen Hawking was regarded as a genius. I thought I was very dumb.
I still do. And I never had any pretensions to climb any social ladder or anything like that.
With this, it was very intrinsic interest that I'm directly engaged with the thing.
Yeah. I'm glad you gave that example because it shows that you really were caught up in that
because it can sound almost like you hear all these stories of genius people and they were
trying to solve these things when they were kids. Right. But there really is something about
when you're a kid, you're just, you're engrossed in what you're engrossed in. Right. And that's what
you were just naturally, that was the thing. Exactly. And I didn't lose that. I didn't,
throughout my life, I haven't lost that sort of a feeling of being absolutely engaged and in love
with, that's why I said that in love analogy is strong because I haven't lost that I don't think.
And in a way, that's what made the situation in Cambridge, for example, as a pragmatic example
in my life, so conflicting and so sort of like mixed feelings about it and so on, because I was there,
I made it by all metrics, by all the standards that I could relate to my friends or to my family.
It was a great success. My family came, they saw the graduation ceremonies, all this like millennial
old traditions in Latin and all this kind of like paraphernalia. Yeah, it's the time. Yeah. And
and I was there and I was very happy. I felt happy because I felt like I accomplished something
difficult. But you know, when I went down to my intellectual back room, just back to my childhood,
to my actual intellectual interest, I saw them more far and far away. I was like, okay, this is not
working. And this is not. So I moved on. That's a hard thing. That's a lonely place that,
that weird, that feeling. Yeah. And then I think the general sort of direction of,
of the general direction of the, of the path was I want to become more like my child self.
I want to be that scientist with my more advanced training now, my more advanced mind in a way,
but I want to go back to that. So I did a PhD in pure mathematics as almost as a rebellion towards
physics in a sense that I said, okay, I don't want to think about this particular tradition of theoretical
physics. I want to do something in pure mathematics. So I did differential geometry,
which arguably is very adjacent to theoretical physics, but it was really in the pure mathematics
sense. And then after many years, I, during the PhD, I eventually sort of reconciled myself and said,
okay, now we are far away enough from all the context that I can basically remake myself as an
intellectual. And this is one, when I became myself today, where I decided to be more explicitly
multidisciplinary, although still focused on the questions that I think are valuable and no longer
seeing disciplinary divisions. I mean, I didn't make the point of not seeing disciplinary divisions.
I mostly just dropped the baggage that I had carried during the last 10 years or so.
That's very confusing in a way to me, because you were in this environment that you thought you wanted
to be in, and then you sort of got a little disillusioned with it. How did you end up in opening back up again?
Yeah. So I would say it was more of a practical change, because by the time I was doing my master's,
I was determined to do a PhD. I had the academic career in my mind was sort of default by age, I don't know,
14, 15, that I wanted to, I don't know if academic career, but I wanted to get a PhD or the highest
possible training in the topics that I was interested about. And that was pure mathematics
and theoretical physics. So that was clear. So I just found a PhD and it happened to be in a more
math, it was in the mathematical physics group, but it was on the differential geometry
side of things. So my PhD is just basically differential geometry. There's a little bit connection
to mathematical physics, but there's certainly no connection to the kind of theoretical physics
tradition that was going on in Cambridge and the one that I mostly looked up to as a kid and so on.
So what happened during that, I mean, my PhD was very exploratory. I would say, I mean, those are,
those were the years where I learned music. I never learned music as a kid. So I learned to play
keyboard and it was, those were the years that I was expanding into other territories.
Was this connected the math and the music?
Not really. Absolutely disconnected in my case.
So this was just a passion of mine. It was for many years coming and eventually had to happen
one way or another. And I thought in a PhD, things seem a bit more relaxed because I was never forcing
myself to do the publishing and all that stuff. So I had time. So I decided to go on that tangent.
But the, what I was trying to say is the main, the main change happened when I basically realized,
okay, I have navigated academia for however many years at that point, like eight, nine years from
the first year of undergrad, the masters, PhD and so on. And I realized, okay, enough is enough. I need
to go back to my original questions. And my original questions had not, I didn't even know the word
physics when I started asking those questions, right? Like I, what, where's, what were your
original questions if you had? So I say questions in plural because they were really
almost, uh, uncountably many questions in some sense, meaning I had questions about the mechanisms
of the things I saw around me. And this connects to the sense of philosophy in the most etymological
sense. When the, in school you are taught about Greek, ancient Greek philosophy, you get this picture of the
philosophers just walking around and talking about what they see in this very sophisticated way.
And obviously that looked like a cartoon to me, but, but I was like, yeah, that, that rings a bell
to what I'm feeling because I'm walking around, I'm seeing things and I just want to understand.
And I found my first entry into that as with physics and mathematics, because I felt that the,
those were really cutting into some very precise patterns that I connected with very intuitively,
which was motion and shape and all these kinds of things in the world. But there were other,
there were many other things that I saw that were not directly addressed by the kind of physics
and mathematics that I studied, namely biology, process of societies and civilizations, economy,
all this, all these more complex systems like relevance.
So you kind of turned your focus back out to like what were you saying before about understanding,
trying to understand the world. And at that point, was it more about how these things link
together in some way? And also did that reflect the mathematics that you were interested in at that
time? Absolutely. So, so that, that's a great transition because I did formulate it that way.
Like just put it, I turn towards understanding as a goal, instead of making a career within academia
that takes you somewhere, blah, blah, blah, blah. I turned it into that. And so, yeah, I happily,
a happy coincidence, it was really coincidental. It wasn't two separate things, but in a happy coincidence
at the time, my pure mathematical research had taken me to a question that had to do with higher
order mathematics and higher order operations, meaning more than, more than two elements or
more than two inputs. It was a natural question then to ask, okay, so how prevalent are these higher
order interactions in nature? And just to, for the benefit of the audience that are just hearing some
abstract words, what I mean by this is usually most models in science and certainly in, in social
sciences and economics and things like that, assume pairwise interactions. They, they assume that the
two people come together and they do a transaction or in, in ecology, you have a sort of a predator-prey
sort of dynamic and things like that. So they're usually very pairwise descriptions of reality.
And by pairwise, can we think of that as binary too, or is it really, is there?
Right. So maybe it's worth being precise with terms. So pairwise just refers to the fact that
there's a two, there's a cardinality two, as we say, mathematically, right? So count two elements
in your, in your connection, pairwise. And you will say pairwise, three-way, four-way and so on,
right? Like to describe sort of some form of engaged interaction of an accountable number of elements.
And the higher order is when you can't break it down to that.
And exactly. You say it's higher order when you cannot go below that, that connection. And I'll
try to give an example to, to illustrate this, that is much more social and easy to understand,
because unfortunately the most illustrative example of this is the Boromian link, which
is this configuration of pairings. Yeah, I think it might be too much to try.
But this is, it's no use to put into words and you just have to see it yourself. So a good example of
this higher order interaction is a friend of a group of friends that all met for the first time
together, right? So imagine that you're on a trip and you take a lift somewhere, and then you meet
two people in a lift or elevator to, in your hotel. So the interaction is the three of you,
you're all having conversation, taking turns, whatever, but you're all seeing the three of you.
So imagine what the difference between that and between some childhood friend that you met
in school and you had your personal history together. So the, the interaction that happens
with the three people in the elevator never happened in pairs, because it was just the coincidence of all
of you being in the elevator and then spending whatever, 10 minutes afterwards having a chat,
and then you go your ways. That social bond there is fundamentally ternary because the three of you
were always present. You, people were always influenced. Every single individual in the
interaction was influenced by two other individuals at all times. However, if you have a childhood friend
that you spend a lot of time together alone, you were mostly influenced just by each other, right?
So, so it's a social dynamic that was very pairwise in the case of a childhood friend and someone,
some, some acquaintance that you've made in an elevator is something that is very three-way
because it's clearly influenced by the presence of all the, all the people there. So you would say
that's a higher order interaction in the sense that you cannot make acquaintance with several
group of people with a single person, because by definition, that's not the case. And most importantly,
when you do make the acquaintance of a group of people in an elevator, you cannot break it down to a
combination of pairwise connections because those literally never happened anyway, right? And the
relationship has been shaped by the presence of the third person at all times, right? In the example.
So, so all those three entities would be different if you separated them than they are in that group.
So exactly. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So, so exactly. So the three individuals are different
on their own because they are basically non-social entities because they are isolated. If you take the
pairs, then there will be, arguably there will be similarities, but because they are the same people,
but the fact that there's a person missing probably changed. No, I think just on a practical level,
we all can understand that just if you have different social groups and you, you're kind
of a different person. And, and if the groups are really different and you try bringing those social
groups together, it's often very strange because you're, you're feeling like too, like maybe it's
your math friends and your childhood friends or something. And yeah. So I think we all understand
that we're different in, in groups. So if you start with that, then you can never reduce it.
Exactly. So, so social groups and social gatherings and social dynamics are actually a very natural
source of examples for higher order structures. And so the coincidence was at the time when I was
opening up again, or sort of reconciling my scientific childhood self, I discovered this realm of
ideas. And so my mathematics, my mathematical research went into this direction. Higher order and complexity and
things like that. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So my approach is still very, my approach is always quite lean.
I like to work with small things, meaning small mathematical objects that I manipulate and I have
control over their, the complexity, but the goal of this, of these investigations now has changed quite
dramatically. Before it was some kind of grand philosophically unifying sort of themes of, which is
interesting still, but now it has a much more exploratory sort of break new ground kind of approach where
we are trying to unveil patterns that are otherwise hard to understand. So, so this example of social
interactions as higher order, as a phenomenon that is higher order is actually just one of many. And there are
many instances in, in, in science today that we have this higher order systems. I was in fact, a few weeks ago in
Vienna for a conference in network science and we were shown out of the hundreds of, that were given
there about 80% had in their title higher order or hypergraph or beyond pairwise, blah, blah, blah. So it
was, and they showed a, one of them showed a graph of the papers published with, with a higher order or
hypergraph or beyond pairwise and so on in the title. And it was from 2015, 2016, almost none to, in the last
two years and exponential growth. Incredible. What is that? Is it, I mean, because I'm trying to,
there's a way in which we're trying to look at patterns between different patterns, which is kind
of this category theory thing, like in the hypergraph, maybe we can, you can even talk a little bit about
what a hypergraph is and hypermatrix in a really general way. But in the big picture, it seems like
in the past five years, we've all, sometimes we reduce it to this interdisciplinary thing, but we're all
trying not to get overwhelmed because there's so much information. And at the same time to try to,
maybe as a means of not getting overwhelmed, find these patterns that connect all these diverse
disciplines or mathematics, right? Even mathematics trying to, but at the same time, there's something
about what, something has changed in terms of that, that we're the linear model or the binary model,
or we've started to understand that doesn't hold at all. I think, are you also finding this in
mathematics? But how, what's the language? How do we remodel that? How do we get out of this linear
way of thinking? It reminds me of your paper, Beyond Binaries, where it becomes very hard not to use
binary language to talk about getting beyond binaries. Did you see that in this conference too?
I mean, is that something you see in math? Absolutely. This is, I mean, this is the heat
of the moment in, in, in some sense, the side guys that is going on in, in this subfield is very much
along these lines. So it's a very fascinating, it's a very fascinating topic. And this is what I got
interested on in the first place. This is, this was my focus of interest when I first started.
And the, and the fact that the language that you have to use to describe it is very limited. We are,
so there are many ways to go at this. So one, one aspect is we use sequential information most
of the time. And arguably this is, there's a very good reason for this because time seems to be
sort of one dimensional flowing in one direction. And so anything that has sequential structure
is going to encode something like a process and therefore it's going to be terribly useful.
Even if we think of it as a trajectory again, since we've talked about that a bit, there's always
going to be some link to the next point or backwards. And it seems linear from that agent base. Yeah.
Exactly. From a, from an agent base, it seems linear. Therefore, anything that has a sequence
built into it is going to be very relevant to these kinds of patterns. However,
if you try to take the structure of a sequence as a static thing, so you're no longer seeing it
dynamically as a part of approaches, but as a static thing, then it becomes more of what computer
scientists call a data structure, right? So it becomes something that holds information in some
kind of slots and some kind of boxes in some abstract sense. And as a data structure, a chain
or a sequence is something very specific. It has a very tight order. You can place a first,
the last and things in the middle and any given element has a successor and a predecessor. And it's
a very tight, concrete data structure. So if you imagine, listeners are imagining a chain of elements,
you can imagine the characters in a register in a computer or a literal string of characters in the
piece of paper, when you're writing, if you think of that and you abstract, what is the, what the
structure of that is, it's essentially a chain of points or notes and pairwise links. First character,
one note, next character, link between them, next character.
Right. So every point would be linked pairwise.
Exactly.
On both sides maybe, but always only, yeah.
Exactly. But pairwise, but only also in this one dimensional sense.
Right.
So one way to depart from this, one first initial way to depart from this, which arguably has been
relatively well explored until now, is to break the linearity and, or this sort of chain like
nature and become more like a network. And then you become like trees or you become like cyclic networks.
So then we have more nodes, right? So if people are trying to visualize it,
instead of this kind of sequential, almost linear, one dimensional thing, we're sort of opening up
the dimensions.
I'm trying to build towards that. So you go from a basic chain of nodes to something that now every
node could connect to more than one or two. So you basically grow, it's still like a web of
pairwise links, right? But you can connect one node to four or five and those connect to other four or five,
but still they're pairwise connections, right? So this, this is the subject of what has been called
network theory. This has been going on for maybe, I don't know, 30 years now or something.
It's a fairly well-established field of research. You have several textbooks that are very good,
that have very well-condensed knowledge and techniques to analyze these things.
And it has been one of the enablers for all the technology that we have today. I mean,
this internet that is sort of enabling this conversation right now is very much based on
techniques from network theory to make sure the algorithms are fast enough to process signals and
things like that. So that's one thing. Now, what hasn't been done so much in all this time is to
generalize the pairwise nature of the connections. So that means what if I have three nodes that are
in interaction together, like in the example we had earlier about social groups, and I want to express
the connection between those three in an irreducible way, meaning you don't have a triangle of pairwise
connections between them. You just have one link, one kind of interaction, like in a network of people,
these three met in an elevator, right? So that interaction cannot be described as these two
met in an elevator, those two met in an elevator, those two met in an elevator, because the three
of them were in the same elevator. Therefore, there's a single instance of a connection there.
So in a picture in your head, if you were imagining sort of a web of links between nodes before, like
lines essentially between nodes, now what you should imagine is that you're starting to include
solid triangles, solid sort of squares or solid tetrahedra and sort of larger shapes in this
sense. And so normally networks of pairwise connections in mathematics are called graphs,
it's a historical name. And so when you go to this higher order graphs that have higher order links,
then they are called hypergraphs, just simply to extend the word there. So graphs are a particular
kind of hypergraph, just without the higher order ones. And so, but in general today, we tend to,
at least I am trying to enforce the practice of calling hypergraphs or networks that look like
hypergraphs with these higher connections. I'm just trying to call them networks. I think it's,
it's, I don't have a horse in the game to, to push for the word hypergraph or to push for the word
hypernetwork or to push for the word hypermatrix. These are all words to describe things. And I think
everyone agrees that a network today is understood to be higher order by default. If you want to specify,
actually it's only pairwise links, then you tell me it's a pairwise network or whatever,
and then I know what you're talking about, but yes. So, so one of the, just to run over your point
about thinking about this and the language and so on. So the main problem that we have in this field,
the reason why it's underdeveloped, the reason why there's so much new ground to, to cover here is
that human minds seem to be very bad at holding intuitions for higher order processes.
We are extremely good apparently to change sequential processes. And that's why programming
the sort of architecture of computers and the entire software engineering history has been so
successful because we have built in this sequential ways and people have started to parallelize and
build algorithms that are essentially always following one path of action.
So you have the zero one binary thing. Yeah, exactly. Well, that's one thing. That's one
expression is the binary of, of having two symbols, but what I'm referring to is more the fact that
you can chain actions one after the other and the state of the, of your system depends only on input,
output sort of a framework where you're in this state, you get an input and then you move to the next
state, you get an output. So this is kind of, this makes a lot of sense to us. This is how we,
this is the frame. Yeah. Or even our language and coding and absolutely it's everywhere. And it's
extremely powerful. I'm not here to try to diminish in some sense that power that it's been a wonderful
tool. It's gotten extremely powerful tool and super useful. However, mathematically, it seems clear,
both mathematically and empirically, because all, all this phenomena that are higher order that can be
broken down into pairwise connections. It seems fairly obvious that there is a world of higher
order, call it higher order processes or higher order computation or higher order algebra, if you're
more mathematically inclined, where the things that, you know, the intuitive phenomena, such as people
gatherings in, in, in groups, or if you're familiar with the Borromean link and not theory, the topology
of a network of interactions or three way symbiosis in an ecosystem, things like that. These, there seems to
be clear evidence that these things exist and there is a science to it. There is some patterns that are there.
Now, human minds are terribly, uh, uh, equipped to, to deal with those things immediately, mostly
because these are arguably, um, sort of either very specific phenomena, like social interactions,
in which case brains, human brains are, have entire subsystems dedicated to, to dealing with them,
or they are very far removed from intuition. So things like not theory is kind of a very specific
thing that if you don't have intuition about it, you don't know what it looks like, or the sort of
interactions that are being found in nuclear physics that have, I mean, these are very counterintuitive
things, or multi-way entanglement, higher order entanglement in quantum mechanics, as well is
another topic that these are very counterintuitive things that are not in daily life. So it makes
sense that we have not evolved a natural capacity to deal with higher order structures.
Yeah, we've noticed them. So there's this weird tension, right? We've, we're, we're sort of pushing
into a new space, but we can't quite, we're not prepared. We're not easily able to access it yet.
Yeah. And that's the main, to me, that's the main. So, so, okay. So in a way that, that, that aspect,
let me formulate it. Let me verbalize it clearly. So the fact that you have a, an area of research
that is difficult to put into words is difficult to articulate, and it's difficult to think about
in a way is precisely what I find the most attractive about it, because it's, it gives you the opportunity
to do mathematical engineering in a way. It gives you the opportunity to do, or more generally,
conceptual engineering in a, in a sense that, that you can develop ideas in a genuinely organic
and original way, right? You are trying to map out and chart, uh, uh, an experiential territory that is
unfamiliar, that is uncommon, that is underexplored. And when humans develop language for certain
phenomena, they were engaging exactly in the same situation. In today's world,
I think it's hard to find the, the realms of, of novelty that, say, physicists in the early 20th
century were finding, or, uh, geneticists, uh, or biologists were finding in the mid 20th century,
and things like that, where there were entire realms of, uh, empirical evidence that were uncharted.
The first time that you realize that there's a molecule that is, uh, essentially a, uh,
sequential crystal that has essentially digital information about hereditary traits in, in animals.
Wow. Yeah. Yeah.
It's an entire university.
The tools of the microscope or the telescope where you're sending all other worlds.
Exactly.
In what you thought was some one world. I think we're at a moment like that. And this is going to be a
little messy, but I want to push at this stuff you've been talking about a little bit, because
I definitely feel like a lot of us are in this frustrating space of knowing there's some other
way and we can almost sense it, but we can't put it into language. And as you were saying,
part of that is because the language itself has been built on this binary, um, way of looking at
the world, which isn't a bad thing. I mean, let's look at philosophy again, right? This Descartes,
Descartes gets a lot of slack, right? About dualism and that we've, that we look in the world as either
it's mental or it's physical either, or this is a really basic structure of our languages, all of our
languages, our mathematics, as you pointed out in your work. And it's been great. It's helped us get
somewhere. So we're not saying it was wrong, but what we're seem to be trying to do is unstick
ourselves from thinking of that as like static and a fact and more like, oh, that's something we've
been using to get somewhere else. And this is where it might get messy. But when you were talking about
the sequences and the pairwise, so we were talking about an agent base. It's what I call an agent base
or a position or a point. If we just go even to that, isn't it, that's also beginning to change. And I
think we could open this up in terms of ecological issues or anywhere this, or the idea of the self,
right? That actually that position itself is not just one position. This goes to the physics too,
right? Yes. That is certainly the moment that we're living in. I like to say that higher order
science requires higher order thought. And so higher order thought has to build on the framework that we
have. But you're also creating a new language in a way. It is. It has to be created in a new
language. Whether mathematical or, I mean, those aren't separate, right? Mathematical.
Yeah, exactly. No, no. I mean, I wouldn't say, I mean, language is language, I would say. I mean,
if I say verbal language, then I'm implying something better suited to a language, something
like that. If I'm saying mathematics is a language that's more suited to. Well, yeah. But even to think of
Descartes or something, if you and your team or the Wolfram Institute or something comes up with
a way of understanding this mathematically in that language, that's going to actually end up
changing English language too. Possibly. Possibly. Yes. I think, yeah, I don't,
maybe this is a bit controversial. I don't know, but I might put it out there since I think this
podcast is definitely receptive to your controversial opinions. I mean, it's not so controversial, but
it's one of my opinions that are perhaps less popular with the philosophers. So this is going
to sound very contrarian, but I'll just go around with it and then maybe I clarify afterwards.
So if you think about human modern societies in a historical sense, so going back to Babylon or
Egypt or ancient Greece or China and all these places in the world, Mesamerica, like all these
places that were developed civilizations that had arguably, as far as we can tell, languages that
were grammatically and lexically as sophisticated as ours today, as English today or Spanish or whatever.
So I always like to think of some kind of almost a thermodynamic argument about if you have human
beings that are physiologically similar, we are still for a few thousands of years physiologically
similar, that have similar verbal language structures, right? There has, so if you have
these societies engaging in relatively similar frameworks, some kind of organizational structure
that puts specialization, that puts some value into specializations, you have like academy-like
environments, you have school-like environments, you have training, you have a discussion sort of
forum-like environments and things like that. My opinion is that verbal language, literal verbal
language, and this is to discuss, talk, debate, write, read, this kind of mode of operation is only going
to get you so far, right? I think it's going to get you to a certain level of development, of intellectual
development, that in my opinion has been, has a tap in a conceptual sense, not in an extension sense,
because I guess in terms of extensions, you can grow indefinitely in some sense, but in terms of,
I don't know, call it sophistication or cutting power or in some other direction, it has a limit
because it has a natural sort of feature limit, right? It's the structures of verbal language are more
adapted for this and that ways of communicating information and therefore, so it has its limits. So in my
opinion, after thousands of years of these kinds of structures, I would make a thermodynamic
argument that you more or less reach a thermal equilibrium of the kind of ideas that can be
developed. And this is very unpopular because the values, or seems to sound like the values
generating new ideas just with verbal language, which is what most philosophers do and writers,
and I mean, I myself do it. So, so, however, what I like to think is that the moments in history,
at least from my point of view, that have seen a clear departure from verbal language in a scientific
way, have usually led to, to very big developments in, in, in science. And so if you think about,
so this is basically the history of mathematics. Can you give me an example? Yes. So, so the history of
mathematics in the sense that you, the, the invention, my favorite example is the invention
of calculus in the 17th century Europe. That's my favorite example, because I think it has been
probably together with quantum physics in, in, in the early 20th century, but we are still seeing the,
the ripples of that to play out today. I think the ripples of calculus have already fully played out
in a way. And I think it's a more or less a close story that can be told. So you have, and let me make my,
let me see where, show the audience where I'm coming from with this historical example of calculus.
So you have the science of mechanics, the science of the motion, how things move, the stability of
buildings, of structures, machines, things like that, and bows and catapults and building cranes and
all that stuff. All that science you have from as, as all this modern civilization, right? As tens of
thousands of years old, right? The science, since the Babylonians, Egyptians, Romans, Greek, Chinese,
Mesoamericans, the science itself has had not developed a lot. You compare Egyptian mechanics
to Chinese mechanics that were, had very little contact with each other, mostly the same. You
compare Roman to Mesoamerican, mostly the same, right? There's no fundamental great changes among them.
And what you observe in history is that the sort of societies that developed were quite similar. I
mean, you had empires tens of thousands of years ago, and you had empires hundreds of years ago,
and they were similar. They had similar infrastructures. They have similar sort of
organizational layers and things like that. However, you move on to 16th, 15th, 16th century Europe,
and the conversation that was going on around motion. And you have this clever people that had a lot of
free time to think about the concept of motion and the connection between motion and geometry. And
they were thinking in these terms of, okay, but if something is moving, it's moving in every
infinitesimal moment and so on. And this has been questions that we were brewing for many centuries.
But at one point, the concept was crystallized, that there was a notion of what we call today a
function or some derivatives and things like that. So what was crucial about that contribution is not the
topic because everyone had talked about motion. Everyone had talked about shape and stability and
forces and things like that. The crucial distinction was that what was invented was a new language,
was a combination of geometry, logic, and language, and verbal language.
It was almost like a written language or something.
Yes. That kind of a development where you suddenly have this external shared representation.
Correct. And the crucial part of it is that it was not just verbal. It had a logical component,
which was the deductive part of if you make these steps, these formal steps with these symbols,
you can deduce things. It had the geometric component of it because you were representing
calculus in the beginning. It was very geometric. It was all about shapes and tangents and things
like that. And it had obviously the symbolic component that you had a concrete set of symbols
that you could use systematically, as you say, a representational, external representation,
and you can communicate it. But crucially, it was not made of verbal language. It was not a system
made of words in English or words in Latin. Obviously, you could explain it with those words
and you can clarify it. You can sort of scaffold around it with verbal language to communicate it.
But in itself, the core function of it was devoid of verbal language itself. So to me,
if you look at history after the 17th century, when it was invented, you see all the development of
mechanics until the end of the 18th century, a century later, and then you see the industrial
revolution that followed, there is a direct causal connection between the industrial revolution and
the invention of calculus. There is no doubt about it. That's fascinating. Especially because,
of course, the industrial revolution had to do with all these new tools that we built, new,
which depended on that in a way. And I said it's like written language, but I mean,
when we first started writing, that changed society too, in a way. And it's also interesting,
though, because it sounds like you're saying there wasn't a continuity, but just the fact that it was
like Leibniz and Newton or the calculus was coming from a lot of different people at the same... So
there was also some kind of way in which what had developed. It does feel similar to now, like this
tension and this frustration I was describing where I feel like maybe there was something like that then
too. And that was kind of the release of it, the calculus. Absolutely. Absolutely. No, I like your
example. And that's a very good example. The invention of written language. Yeah. I think
it has similarities because... You can't go back. Exactly. You can't go back. So this is the
feeling. You can't go back. And we can hardly even imagine what it was like before the calculus or
written language. Exactly. So to round back to the reason why I was making this point is that I feel,
I like to believe that in a humble way here, I wouldn't get cocky because we don't know, but in a very
humble way, I think that the way I like to see my work, my mathematical work is like being in
the conversations in the early 17th century about the concept of calculus, but for the mathematics
of higher order interactions and how higher order systems ought to be represented mathematically or
can be represented mathematically in an efficient way so that we can make progress in the descriptions
that we have. Because obviously the kind of problems that Newton and Leibniz had in mind were
problems that had been unresolved for millennia, but there were techniques to go at it. I mean,
there were other ways of solving these problems and they were relatively successful. So it's the same
thing today, right? Like there are many ways of attacking these higher order interactions because
effectively the world is higher order by nature in some sense, right? But the techniques that have
been used so far are good, you know, they are effective. But the question is, are they efficient?
Are they, could they be improved in this sense? And I feel like we are glimpsing a situation that
probably is parallel to the moment of the invention of calculus because there seems to be a lot of
phenomena that is, that are similarly unexplained and they all have in common this sort of aspect. So
we are hoping that we are going to be riding the wave of this kind of change. And very much the,
we are very consciously aware that the change is in language. It's a matter of language development
moment. And in fact, Newton gets most of the credit because of history and so on, but actually
Leibniz had a much more diligent notational tendency. So the Leibniz notation is the notation that we use
today actually. And a few years later when the science was much more codified, it was put into modern
symbols that we recognize today, like integrals and derivatives and limits and all those things.
That notation effectively ushered the revolution in this sense. And the engineers that, that worked
during the industrial revolution, they were all trained in calculus. They were explicitly trained
in calculus. So what difference did it make to be an engineer in France or England in the 19th century
versus being an engineer for the Roman empire or in Babylonia really at the core is that they all
learned calculus for a few years in an academy and then went on to basically try to do the same
things, but they had much more powerful tools, right? That's a wonderful connection to make.
I really never had thought of it like that. And especially not in the context of how it feels
right now and that we're on the edge of something, but so that's beautiful. I'm going to be thinking
about that, but what do you think is going to be the medium? Is it algorithms? Is it coding language?
Is it, of course we already said all this is tied together because you can't, you got to change,
it all changes at some level, but what's the, what's, what's the medium do you think?
That's a great question. Thanks for the question. I am actually working on what the answer to that
would be, which is we are developing a, so it's going to be computational. I mean, long story short,
it's going to, it's going to assure all this sort of computational ecosystem that we've built for
ourselves. The fact that we have these machines around us that automate many steps of things that
we know how to do, but they do it millions of times per second and it's much faster. But the,
so to answer your question more specifically, one direct way that we're going to try to accomplish
this is by creating what we are calling internally the blackboard of the 21st century. So the blackboard
has existed, as you said, invention of writing and so on. The fact that you draw some things on a
surface has existed for as long as we were humans and probably before, but the fact that we, the
mathematicians essentially have done all their work. If you think about it, in terms of tool use,
mathematicians in the last 300 years, all their work, all they required was their minds, their life
experience, which this comes for free for humans walking around the earth today and a piece of paper
or a surface of blackboard to write on. Right. Yeah. So what we're trying to develop is the next
technological step from that. So it has to, in some sense, reduce to that in some regime,
it has to be sort of a generalization of a blackboard. I'm going to say blackboard is the
piece of paper just for the, you know, the romantic. Well, that's the trajectory. So it's going to be
continuous somehow. So it's going to, yeah, it's going to, it's going to extend the functionality of
a blackboard. So you could in principle just use it as a blackboard, but the way we want to do it
is that the blackboard itself is computational in a way that you have direct control over. So
you have many programming languages nowadays, and they are all computation. You can code
and you can set up your own code and experiment with your code and explore ideas with your code.
This is something that absolutely is possible, very accessible languages like Python. And it's
very accessible. Mathematica itself is a good exploratory language and so on. But what we don't
have is something that is as intuitive and as direct cognitively as writing strokes on a surface
and that becoming something cognitively functional, right? So most mathematicians nowadays would sit,
mostly think about something, sit down, draw some diagrams, write some symbols, then come back,
manipulate those symbols in their heads, write something else and so on, right? And so they would
effectively do this process of rewriting symbols on a blackboard or a piece of paper and then do a lot
of thinking and imagination in their heads and so on, right? So what we want is that the interface
that doesn't change much. So what you actually engage with is some kind of surface or screen or digital
space that is showing you some symbols, pictures, diagrams. The shape of things are not going to change
much. The direct engagement with the substance, so to speak, is the same, but what's in the background
is a system that you also set up via drawing diagrams and writing symbols and so on that actually
computes things automatically. So to give you an example, it's like a smart blackboard, but in a
really multi-dimensional way. Yes. It's a very multi-dimensional smart blackboard. The most important
thing is that it doesn't do anything that you don't, that you don't tell it to do. So it doesn't have,
it has the computational capability, but it's not a computational blackboard. So let me put
in an example. So if you write black one plus one on a blackboard, right? Just the symbol one,
symbol plus a symbol one, right? You, the blackboard doesn't know what those symbols mean, right? But if
you have arithmetic loaded in your head, because you have a set of rules in your head that tells you,
okay, there's this alphabet of symbols, one, two, three, four, five, et cetera, or whatever. And there's this
special symbol of plus, and there's this maybe a special symbol of equals or outcome or whatever.
Then if you write one plus one, you can run the algorithm in your head that tells you, well,
one plus one points to two, and therefore the outcome is going to be two. So you would write
equals or arrow or whatever, two in the blackboard, right? So the idea is that you could teach the
blackboard to say, well, X plus Y equals add them up or something like you, you could set up the rule
that you have an alphabet and you have a way to navigate the alphabet by a single rule. So you
could teach the blackboard that by simply writing it. And that's where the computational part of it,
programming language is just writing it. You're, you're training the algorithm just by using the
tool. Yeah, exactly. I mean, in some sense, you are coding the blackboard just by using the blackboard
in a, in a diagrammatic way. Obviously you can just scribble a random thing. You have to follow
some kind of more or less limited in the version that we have. You have to follow some kind of
constraints of grammar, but it's not like a programming language is really drawing a diagram.
You draw the diagram, the system interprets the diagram and the diagram codes a way effectively
in the machine level codes a way that is going to perform an algorithm. And then from that point
on, you can apply that sort of computational knowledge to, or computational framework to
whatever comes next on the blackboard. So effectively your blackboard becomes this
sort of outsourced thinking machine that will perform steps that will take you minutes, hours, days, years,
decades in a matter of seconds. Right. And it's going to allow you to draw sort of symbolic
steps that are much, much longer than you would normally do. Okay. That seems really cool,
but also really could, if you're, if you're wrong and you write one plus one equals three or something,
then it's going to, it's going to learn that. So is it, what's the, is it connected to every other
blackboard or something? So there's no learning. So there's no learning. So there's no, in principle,
the tool we're building hasn't, doesn't have any learning. So you don't, it's not a generalization
kind of thing. No, no. So, so we don't use any, I mean, learning will just be a, a weak analogy on
how to explain how it works in the sense that nowadays learning, there's all kinds of machine
learning systems. There's nothing of that in, in, in the one that we're building. So it is really
coding with diagrams. I mean, the best way to, to explain this is like a Feynman, Feynman diagram,
kind of, but. Yeah. That, that could be one example. Electronic. Like, exactly. So, so you
could, you could, I mean, this is actually directly inspired by category theory. The way category
theories work, they mostly draw diagrams. They draw arrows and between letters. That's mostly
what they do. Right. So they draw these diagrams with arrows. They think hard about them. Then they
draw some more diagrams with arrows. They think hard about them. They draw some more diagrams with
arrows and that that's literally their workflow, right? You observe a category theorist over a course of a
month. And you, what you would see is they walk around, they do human things. And when they do
their mathy things, they basically sit down, produce diagrams with arrows, think hard about them,
produce more, produce more, and then eventually maybe write a paper. That's it. That's the workflow.
The distinction here is that what this blackboard of the 21st century does that a blackboard from the
20th century doesn't is that you can code the way that you're going to manipulate your diagrams,
which is what normally we do in our heads, right? So you can actually code that in a
computationally active. It's sort of alive. It has life of its own. You can infuse life
into your symbols in the blackboard, which is something that we do virtually in our heads.
Mathematicians do that in their heads anyway. So what we're trying to do is to outsource that to
the computer, to the sort of black box that is in the background that you don't see directly.
And you interface with as a diagram, like as a piece of paper that you draw symbols on. And then the
idea is that those symbols that you draw inform how the other symbols that you draw later on can be
transformed so that you can do steps that would take years to compute by hand. You can do them
in seconds. So eventually you can develop a sort of a feedback loop with the interface that instead
of just literally write something, I observe it, I keep it in mind, think about it, imagine how to
manipulate it, then write something else. In that step right now, the paper does nothing. Let's put it
this way. A paper piece of paper or a blackboard is a computational machine that only holds memory.
It doesn't do any other computation that just holding memory, meaning you'd write something,
it stays there. Right. So it is in some sense, it's a computer. It's just holding memory. It
doesn't have any CPU. This reminds me of what Jonathan, this Garrard, I think, is that how I say?
Yeah. Was this program that he was kind of using that, I don't know, it seemed to be sort of just
storing the memory of all his past equations. And then he was just kind of keying in very minimal
information and getting, yeah, I don't know. That's precisely the kind of mathematics,
I mean, Jonathan is part of the institute and part of the project. That's precisely the kind
of mathematics that we are using in the background. So we're using these things called rewrite systems
and this framework of you can modify the state of your computational entity. That was powerful.
There was something very exciting about that, but this is an expansion of it so that it's more
interactive. Well, we're basically just building an interface for it. So I am adamant in having
an interface that can mirror what we do exactly with a blackboard. And I don't mean it in a smart
blackboard way in which you basically have a screen that you write on with your fingers.
I think that's what I'm confused about. Yeah. Yeah. What it really means is you interface with
the system like you do with a piece of paper of a blackboard. That's literally your mode of
interaction. It's not like it's a screen on the wall that it looks like a blackboard and you call
it a smart blackboard, which is what smart blackboards are. They're really just screens that you
touch on with your fingers, like with a pointer. This is not it. What it means is that you have a
way to draw diagrams, to write effectively code that is very human centric, that you can just
organically draw with your fingers, that the system can interpret in a computational way.
Another way to put this, maybe more clarifying, forget about the term blackboard and think about
it's a diagrammatic programming language. You're programming with diagrams. So you're programming
with like squibbles. It's like you do a squiggle of some kind of symbols. That can be an organic
programming language. Okay. So it's almost like object oriented programming, except
more connected to the actual, I mean, almost like you could, you could write.
Yes. So instead of actually, so it doesn't matter what kind of programming you do in the background,
there are many possibilities. You can go wild with the sort of programming that you do in the background.
But what's important to us is that the interface for a mathematician would feel directly relevant.
So if you're writing diagrams in a piece of paper, A, arrow, B, or one plus one, things like that,
the system will, if you decide to mark them with a distinctive color or something, or box them and
say this or whatever, the system will actually keep that as a computationally active, computationally
meaningful bit of information so that you can use it later. And because right now, when you learn
arithmetic, you know about the algorithm to add to numbers. If you give them to base 10 numbers,
you have an algorithm to do it, right? If you actually had to add up several figures of numbers,
most people that are great at sort of computation, you would just write it down and go through the
process and actually write down symbols so that paper keeps memory and you are the computer effectively
processing through the memory. So the idea here is to basically export that to a computer, which is
what all computers do. This is nothing new, but what is hopefully new and what we're trying to contribute
is that the interface, which is writing on a piece of paper symbols, that remains the same.
So you are literally inputting your code by writing diagrams like you do on a piece of paper.
So it's almost like mathematical haptics or something.
Yeah. That's one way to put it. Yeah. Mathematical haptics.
Yeah. I think I'm not quite getting it totally or how it's different from the way that the computer
already computes, but I think that's part of that's showing that it is you're doing something new,
right? Because I can't quite understand, but yeah, I guess to try to bring it back to the calculus thing.
So what did calculus change? It gave people this shared way of doing computations that allowed them
to build completely different kinds of tools and ultimately a kind of different world. So
how do you, how would this be comparable to that kind of thing?
Yes. So, well, calculus, what calculus gave us was, as you said, it was a new language.
It was, it was an entire symbolic system that has an internal logic that, uh, represented parts
of the world that were not well articulated otherwise. And the example I like to give very
briefly is, is if you try to describe the shape of a trajectory with language, you will have a very
bad time. It's helpless, right? If, I mean, I mean, if it, if it's a straight line, you say it's a straight
line. Okay. It's enough. But the moment it has some curvature, all you can say is it's not a straight
line. And that's basically as far as you get with language. However, with calculus, that's the game
of calculus. That's exactly what calculus does. You write down a formula and if it's the
parameterization of that shape, you're going to see that shape when you execute that formula.
Okay. So this can give us a way to, to visualize, to see other dimensions or some,
something in the way that we were talking about with the nodes and the hypergraph.
Yes. So what it gives you is in a way, you're not going to see anything new, but you're going to have
a language that is articulated for something that we already, it's like calculus didn't discover
anything in the beginning, right? Like it didn't break new ground in terms of experience for the
mathematicians or the scientists, right? Like they were just looking at cannonballs fly through the
air or like objects falling and inclined planes and things like that. They didn't discover anything
new immediately, but they obtained the language that articulated, formally articulated, logically
articulated with symbolic algebra and internal logic sort of operations, what we would call today
computation, computationally articulated a realm of experiences that was basically forbidden for
language to go into because language couldn't articulate shape and motion well. And this is
famous for all the paradoxes of in the past and the Greeks and Sino paradox, all those kinds of things.
All those limitations were because we didn't quite have the formal language, the formal system,
the computational system that allowed us to articulate those parts of experience and calculus, in my opinion,
what I call calculus is the invention of that language that articulates.
And how did that translate eventually? Does that, did that help us then understand how
to build movement in a way? I'm trying to think of the industrial evolution and make this connection
of what was the calculus giving that suddenly allowed this completely different interaction with machines?
And well, I would say it gave all the modern machines in a way.
Yeah. But was it through this giving, because you just described something really important about
being able to put language on things that were off limits or forbidden before. And that I can feel
that that's a rush then of, yeah. So, so, so what did that, because it's not just, so the things
that were in the world, right? Like motion was in the world, but the, what calculus did is it gives,
so a language is not just the words, a language is also the grammar. So it has computational power,
right? It has an internal logic that you can articulate. So because you could articulate,
if I build a wheel of this size and this weight, and I attach this string here and I attach this
spring there, and I model this by some virtual things, by some theoretical model of a machine,
I'm going to run some calculations and that machine is going to fail. If you imagine the power of doing
that on a piece of paper, instead of actually building the machine and having it fail and refine it,
which by the way was the way that machines were built basically until that point, then you can
see why this was a big difference because things were computed and they were optimized theoretically
on a piece of paper in a blackboard, right? And then you went to the workshop and you said, look,
you need to go for this diameter, this weight, this parameter, this and that. And then you build a
machine that of course still was refined, still failed and so on, but it was already in a space of
design that was so much more streamlined because the mathematics that were modeling it were much
more proper to the phenomenon itself because calculus was used in the process, right? The
mathematics that were used before this was just basic geometry and they're just basic proportions
of the length of this, the weight of that, that those things existed before calculus. What didn't
exist is that you could put those things into parameters, into equations, solve them with some
integrals, some derivatives, blah, blah, blah, blah. Do some symbolic operations, compute some numbers,
and then get answers. That didn't exist before calculus, right? And that's what really changed.
So I'm seeing now if, let's just say that the hyper blackboard or whatever it's called,
builds a new language. So the new language would be illuminating these links and give us,
it would give us some way of beginning to understand how to link like these patterns to patterns or these
irreducible higher order interactions in nature. So ultimately that would actually change
again, right? How we understand the self. We might begin to think of selves as multiple, or maybe we'd
be able to visualize what, what life and ecology is in a different way. And also like quantum computing,
it would change something like that too, right? Like how we could visualize.
Yeah. I would, I wouldn't, I don't know if I would dare to say that it would change something,
but I would certainly expand. Give language to it maybe. Yeah. Give language. That's right. You put
it perfectly. Give language to it, articulate it. And eventually the hope is that if you look at the
pattern of the industrial revolution, it was, so you do this theoretical work, you effectively invent
a new language, new symbolic system of calculus, derivative functions, all these things. And with time,
you have all this output in practical life. I mean, basically changes human existence forever,
right? So that's, I mean, in a very humble way, we are in the sort of theoretical stage in which
we are sort of like dealing with things that we don't understand well, like the cannonballs in
the 17th century. And we're like, okay, how can we model this? And we are sort of beginning to
develop the language with this sort of hyper-black word, as you put it, and sort of giving the tools
for mathematicians to possibly engage with it in ways that are intuitive to them. And so it really is
kind of a, we try to put ourselves into this position of, we are hopefully ushering a future era
of intellectual development and technological development eventually, but it's much more
within the digital realm of computing within the abstract realm of mathematics and understanding,
but eventually will help us to understand the systems that you did, you mentioned like
higher order relations in life, how humans relate as well. And we hope that it will have an impact
because obviously having calculus as a tool has had an impact on everyone's concepts. A lot of people
think about the graphs and rates of change and things like that in much more.
For people who never think about calculus or use it directly, it's changed the systems and the
frameworks and the parameters and the constraints. We've been talking a long time, so I want to bring
it back to this dichotomies, but, and also the personal realm. But so for me personally, this is
exciting because I feel like it's so hard to visualize all these different paths, these different nodes,
these different graphs, the way that everything can be graphed from in multi-dimensions, from different
angles, different ways. And at the same time, I feel like getting a grasp on that is going to be how
we get a grasp on a lot of the bigger problems that face the planet in a way. I mean, just in general,
we do have some urgent issues and it doesn't seem disconnected. And it could also go the way like the
industrial evolution that wasn't altogether positive. It was positive. And then anyway, so for me,
that's all very exciting. And just to bring it back to you, we went kind of off in the mathematical
realm, but let's bring it back to your realm, like with the society where you're linking disciplines
and things like this. Do you feel like that's gonna, that too, is trying to find a different
language because it's not, I know you don't like even interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary,
you don't really, you think of that more as a consequence, right? Of something else that's
happening. So I don't know. How do you see those connections? Yes. Yeah, very much. I think
your characters as well. I think of interdisciplinarity or transdisciplinarity and all
these kinds of words, adisciplinarity and so on. I think of them as consequences of an approach
to knowledge that is more going back to some way, going back to basics where the value of
specialization, the value of expertise, the value of going, of building high on, on traditions and
sophisticated ideas and composite ideas. But at the same time, you never lose sight of where you come
from in the sense that the goal of science, the goal of inquiry is very, it's very primitive in a
sense. So to put it very bluntly, nature doesn't care about your human traditions in some sense,
right? Nature doesn't care if you organize yourselves into chemistry, into chemists, physicists
and social scientists and whatever, just the world is the way it is. And we are making sense of it in
certain ways. And we are that nature too, in a way, exploring possibilities, but it doesn't care for
one particular possibility, I guess. Exactly. So I would say it's very much that. In terms of
building new languages between them, in my humble opinion, I think mathematics is the consequence of
that, striving for finding a language across disciplines. I think mathematics by, almost by
definition, I would say, is the interdisciplinary language. I think to call mathematics a discipline
into itself is a little bit disingenuous in that certainly there's pure mathematics that becomes a
tradition, sort of an intellectual culture, and it has its own reference. And sure, that becomes
its own thing. And you can call that a discipline, no problem. But mathematics as a phenomenon in humans,
right, in civilization, I think, I wouldn't think of it as a discipline. I think of it as precisely the
manifestation of, of the development of an interdisciplinary language, because if you
think about it, it is, I mean, it's the blackboard. Exactly. We humans interact by mathematics,
right? Everyone, like all transactions, the history of civilization can be reduced in a very simple,
simplistic way, but you can do this to the history of sort of quantitative systems being implemented to
formalize transactions that were previously intuitive or sort of person-to-person based, right? So you have
the development of money, of coin, of development of institutions, of law, all these kinds of things.
What I'm saying is that the claim here is that mathematics is the fact of an interdisciplinary
language. And the supporting evidence I was trying to point at is that whenever you have interaction
between communities, not just disciplines of a university department in Europe or the US, but
literal communities that are separated by an ocean that haven't interacted for thousands of years,
the ways in which they engage with each other than killing each other, whereby building things like
commercial agreements and laws and regulations and things like that. And although people don't
normally assign, they don't normally recognize law as mathematics. I mean, I would say that in some
loose sense that I would consider that mathematics because it's a system of rules that tries to be
self-consistent. Of course, it has a human component that doesn't feel like mathematics at all, and it
probably shouldn't. But I would claim that law is a manifestation of sort of implemented logic in human
systems, right? And I mean, if you go to commerce, perhaps it's much more clear because you have a
monetary system, you have sort of ways in which you quantify all kinds of transactions. And that has been
the interface of civilizations since we've had civilizations, right? And so to me, that's a very clear
narrative that is kind of complete. You go from the very fact that you can go around a scientific
university or technical university and knock on people's doors, regardless of their department.
And if you say, oh, you understand what this graph means, this function here, this probability
distribution, this basic algebra, they all understand, right? Like they all know this basic stuff.
If you go and say to a statistician, you know what this protein in this virus is doing? Obviously,
I don't know, right? So that's the claim I'm making here. I think mathematics is
very naturally. This interdisciplinary language already historically has been, I would even claim
that's what mathematics is in some sense. It's like the result of the need for communication
between different communities and different individuals even eventually. So looking into the
future, I would say that yes, mathematics is going to continue to be that. Now, of course,
we have a framework in which mathematics and computation is getting blurred and very conveniently so,
because it's the mathematics of the time. The process is going to be the same. We're going to
be building languages, symbolic systems that we can refer externally, intersubjectively,
and they codify some kind of reality that we all experience and we can communicate and so on and so
forth. So I think that's very much the pattern.
Well, okay. I mean, I'll push you just a little bit. I think I understand math as a sort of universal
language, but of course, a lot of people don't speak that language. I mean, in STEM, yeah. But when
you think of something like art and humanities and then it... Sure.
But we all do use math in a universal way, I guess. But to get back to this pairwise binary
multiplicity thing and also what you were saying earlier about your... You founded this society and
you're interested in this larger group category kind of thing. What about the math like there? I mean,
in everyday life and in the reality of your everyday life, when you're...
Just you and... How does that play out for you? Are you... Because you... It seems like your math
journey and your personal journey or even your science journey and your personal journey have
always been in dialogue and you're kind of in a new place now, it sounds. Does that... Is that
reflected in your personal life and like your relationships every day and in reality too?
Yeah. That's an interesting question. I would say in general, you cannot trace that much of my
mathematical trajectory with my personal social trajectory. I mean, as much as you can correlate
my love for mathematics, my love for music with being whatever, less socially inclined, as I said
earlier, or less interested in maybe just socializing and going out for parties and things like that,
other than exploring things on my own or... Apart from the correlates in that sense,
the manifestation of mathematical ideas or philosophical ideas in some sense, because I
should say that this higher order approach is really... When I said mathematics, I meant it in a
very loose sense, right? I mean, it's mathematics in a very broad sense. If you have a system that is
trying to be self-consistent and sort of self-correcting and have some degree of internal
consistency, I tend to call that mathematics. But of course, people don't call that mathematics
many times because a code of law is that, right? And most people don't call those things mathematics.
But anyway, so in this very general sense of mathematics, which is again, almost like you could
almost think of it as like a rationalist analytical philosophy in general, right?
In a non-scholastic way, right? In a non-scholarly way, rationalist and analytic. But I would say in a
more direct sense of rationalist and analytic, that's what I would call mathematics very broadly.
So it actually brings this philosophy. So the question of higher order interactions and going
beyond pair-wise and so on has definitely shaped how I see the world. When I started to get into it
sort of more intellectually, I have to say that before that, the things, I mean, when I looked at
the world, I saw the natural higher order sort of component of it as being there, right? Like it's,
I saw that a shape is a whole shape. You can, even if I cut into pieces, the pieces separately are in a
higher order relations when they come together and form a higher shape, right? A full shape. So in some
sense, I've never really had this idea of, okay, I'm thinking pair-wise binary, and then I now go
to higher order. It was more like, I just see the mess that the world is, all this complexity around
me and all the patterns and so on. And I've been trained into this pair-wise models. I have been,
I have learned the patterns, both societal and intellectual to observe those aspects more
prominently. And that was, and that has resulted into a very powerful, a very powerful process of
analysis. And the proof is we are here and it's all very successful. But it has also meant that the
situations where higher order interactions are relevant, have less prominence and have less,
you have less experience with, and therefore you, when you have to deal with them, it becomes much,
much more problematic. So one aspect of this is in romantic relationships. And I think this is,
this is something that a lot of people have alluded to in, in the context of the philosophy of
of love between humans and so on. I think there's, there's, there's certainly a parallel. I don't
think there's direct causation. I mean, I want to bring down the level of, of the sort of the mystic
that could be read into the connection here, because I really do think there's no causation between me
having explored sort of polyamorous relationships at some point in my life with me doing research in
higher order mathematics. I really don't think there's any, you don't think there's any connection
there. No, no, I'm saying no causation. I'm saying there's no causation. Correlation,
but not causation. Yeah. There's certainly correlation. That's a fact.
So you're saying you don't think because you were studying all that, you decided to
go explore. I mean, in fact, the only causation that could have been the other way. Yeah. The only
causation could have happened the other way because I was. You were already doing that. And so you were
trying to understand it. That that's probably more likely. That's usually the way it goes.
So I was first drawn into this practice of polyamorous relationships or open relationships,
whatever. And I can see that the, the, the causality being very specific to the history
of the people involved, like myself with my partner at the time we were exploring and we're like, okay,
let's do this. And it feels great. And we did it for many years. It was fantastic. It was worked really
well. Um, so, but years later I get into this topic because of my intellectual journey. And I am
a person that doesn't really mix at least consciously. I am not mixing my romantic and
sexual life with my intellectual. Like these are very separate mentally. Right. Not because I
decided to, but just they happen almost in like different universes in my mind. They are very
parallel. So, so I don't think, so what I'm trying to remark is that I don't think I want to bring down
the mystique of the causation in my life or the connection between these two things that are directly
tied to each other. But what I think is very relevant, which is a parallel between the two and which is
quite a good illustration of what it feels like to do higher order research. And it's a bit, maybe
a spicy connection or a spicy analogy is that when you try to go after the, these higher order
structures, when you try to understand the algebra, like ternary algebra, how three argument
algebra work and things like that, the kind of, um, complexities that you find yourself into
are similar to the intuitively complicated, uh, situations that you can find yourself into when
you involve yourself into, in higher order romantic relationships. Right. Because obviously when they
work well, they're fantastic. I mean, it's great. It's, it's more like a love crowd than a love, uh,
partnership. And it's fantastic, but obviously there's more variables and there's more complexity,
potentially, right? There's more complications. And, and so it's interesting that if you imagine
intuitively the kind of ramifications of complications that could emerge from this
higher order romantic relationships, it is actually a parallel to what happens when you study this higher
order, higher arity algebra. Because when you study higher order algebra, you literally have the
situation that the combinatorics of the possibilities just increase. Therefore the thing becomes not infinitely
more complicated to understand, but a bit more complicated to understand. And it's a matter of
taste. How much of that complexity do you tolerate? And this is the conversation that everyone has
about open relationships and things like that is like how much complexity can you tolerate to exist in
them? Right. Yeah. So I would say that without getting into that part of the conversation and going
back to the mathematics, your liking for this mathematical field and this kind of mathematical
questions is going to be that, that sort of that, that the answer to the question, how much do you tolerate
the added complexity of this? It's not an infinitely higher complexity. It's not like orders of
magnitude is like a different stage of complexity. No, it's just a bit higher, but it is noticeably
higher. Like you are in a context where you no longer have the clear, clear cut equations that are
just short and like little bites of information that you can take in and manipulate. These are now more
baroque, a little bit longer, a little bit more complicated. So it does involve these higher
complications and the relationships are the same, right? Like you, you get this very interesting,
more multifaceted interactions and like you can do things that you can never do with just
two people and things like that. And that can happen. And it has its own sort of allure and its
own sort of dynamic. But of course it involves all these other complexities and all these ramifications
and the combinatorics is just larger. Right. So, so it's, I think, does that make it more chaotic or is there
more potential for, I'm trying to think in terms of the math, is there any mathematical way of
understanding something like jealousy, for example, or? Definitely. Yeah. No, I mean, it's a simple,
I think it's a simple, that's why I think it's such a good analogy or, or a valid analogy at least for,
in this context is that when the moment, the comparison between binary and ternary, so binary,
you're combining two elements, ternary, you're combining three elements, right? When you,
the concept of combining, right? It requires at least two, right? Otherwise, if you have a single
element, just have it, you don't do anything with it, right? So when you combine two elements,
that's the minimalistic expression of combination. That's the minimalistic expression of like
composite of some kind, right? When you go to three, the combinatorics of it just plainly tell
you that if you have three elements, you can have combination of three, but then combinations of all
the pairs in the set, right? In the group of three. So jealousy is basically, you could say,
if these elements are people and they are in romantic relationships, you could say jealousy
is just the expression that you have a set of three and the subsets happen to be pairs and a single,
pairs and a single, pairs and a single, right? You have three partitions of a three element set of that
way. And so you could say that the phenomenon of jealousy is, I mean, this is a cartoon, obviously,
I'm not trying to make any point, but it's just a cartoon, but the phenomenon of jealousy is basically
tied to this combinatorics of the elements. And so the structure of a pairwise connection,
this is also something that I should say to not err on the side of sounding too much like preaching
about higher order romantic relationship, which is a higher order network is in general,
much more unstable than a pairwise, exclusively pairwise network.
If you're just unstable, that's the word I was looking for.
It becomes more unstable, like complexity, et cetera.
Yes. The reason being that if you're between nodes are higher order or your operations or
your combinations have involved several elements and for them to exist, all those elements need
to be present. And that's why we're calling them higher order strictly. Then when one of the elements
is missing, the entire interaction disappears, right? So if you think about the robustness of a network
in the sense of how much of the connectivity remains, when you remove a node, say a person in the group
goes on a trip or just groups on with life or finds a job or the worst case dies or something,
that removal of a node in the network begs the question, how resilient is the connectivity structure
to that? If you have a set of pairwise connections in that network, on average,
losing a node is going to be the least damaging, right? That should be intuitively clear because
higher order links require more nodes simultaneously. So when one of them is missing, the entire connectivity
between them disappears. If instead you had several pairwise connections between them, if you remove one
node, you only miss the connections that connected to that one, not all the others be among themselves,
right? So that requires a lot of more adjustment. I mean, just to think of it in terms of if you're
in a relationship where it's three, like, and you're used to that dynamic and one goes and the two are kind
of left with, I mean, they have to develop a new relationship. And then if the third comes back,
the three have to develop a new relationship. So yeah, it's, it can, it can get very complex,
but I guess like the jealousy thing or in real life, when you're really trying to do something
like this, um, like the philosophy part of it matters too, to come back to that, right? Because
in the math, I feel like it's too easy for us to forget about that influence of how you're thinking
about the situation, like your partner and you obviously had decided, okay, we're going to have
a polyamorous relationship. And it was like an open, disgust thing. So mentally you were going into
what was a physical, also physical relationship, right? But it can be that there's a relationship where
that space isn't clarified, right? And then the complexity can get even more intense.
Yeah. I wouldn't recommend going there to anyone. It's not, uh, yeah, I, to be honest, I never,
we never made the conscious choice, verbalized choice to be polyamorous or to open by now.
What I mean is we never made the, we never use a term or found a way to form, to, to formulate it in
a very verbally condensed way until years later, where we had already done it for years. And then we
verbalize it more clearly. What I mean is everything was totally discussed at all stages.
We were completely transparent with each other. It was no kind of left out information, implied
information. It was absolutely constant self-regulation in that sense. It was very transparent.
In fact, much more than a lot of people would probably enjoy.
Well, that takes a lot of observation and.
Yeah. And self-growth and self-knowledge. We were young. We were like in our early twenties.
And so that's very, yeah. I mean that just to talk about systems and how they evolve,
that's a very interesting model because it's not the easiest one to take.
No, definitely not. And, but to us, it felt like it was the most valuable one. And I mean,
again, this is not directly related to any of the mathematical ideas, but we did see some
structural resilience in, in high order connections because it meant that if, I mean,
there's a thing, right? When you, maybe this is getting too much in the weeds of the connection, but
you can have, so polyamory can be low order. I mean, polyamory doesn't equal higher order.
This is something important here. I mean, and the network feature will clarify the meaning
immediately. So you can be polyamorous and you can be in a network relationship, right? Or let's
say a relationship network, right? And I'm going to say a pairwise relationship network. Absolutely.
Right. You have romantic connections with individuals. And if you send it yourself in
the middle, as you would normally do intuitively, because we are in ourselves, you would have a sort
of a span of, of pairwise connections going out to other people, right? Like normally if you are in a
more traditional partnership, then you have one single connection going out romantically or sexually
or whatever, and you have one. But if you're in a polyamorous setting, the default is that you're
going to have more than one. Right. And so that doesn't say anything about whether the
connections are pairwise or not. Right. Typically I would say, and if I might add personally, sadly,
but that's just my personal taste. That's not a judgment. Typically people would have pairwise
connections and this is by far the most common and the one that I've also experienced the most,
which you just happen to know a new person and you develop a pairwise connection with that person,
but you don't break the connection that you had with a previous romantic partner. Right. So you
effectively keep more than one romantic connection going on, but each of them is pairwise, right? You
have a two way interaction with the people. Now, what you could have is also higher order
romantic relationships. And by higher order, I really mean there's like triangles. There's groups of
four that are engaged in the romantic relationship. Which does exist too. And not
only in a sexual way. I mean, there are actual people who live together as three or four.
And I have experienced myself for a couple of years when I lived in Edinburgh with my partner at
the time, sort of main partner at the time. We did have sort of another person that got in the group,
another girl that was part of a romantic nucleus for a while. So she was there as much for me as she was
for my partner at the time. I mean, I knew her earlier. We were friends before, but when that happened,
for the time it lasted, it was a very much a sort of a symmetrical thing that was quite triangular.
And it was quite higher order in this sense. So, so that's why I want to clarify. Yeah,
no, that's a good point. Not to be pedantic, but those things are because the network dynamics,
in my opinion, the pairwise network is much less sustainable in, in, in practice, because at least,
I think we have to talk about space, the temporal things here too, because that matters a lot, right?
If we're going to look at like over a lifetime, very few of us are pairwise. But if we're just
going to look at like in the moment, in the present moment, then a lot of people feel like
they have to be, even if they aren't actually, because as now that you clarified that a lot of
us actually have a lot more relationships going on at once, even if they're not sexual, but then the,
the person we're with, it becomes very, you have to think about the spatiotemporal parameters and
also what you're calling a relationship. Is it sexual or is it just like someone that you're
growing with through life? This is, this is, of course, this is just, as I said, it's this spicy
analogy. It's not, it's to spice things up because it really has no fundamental difference to friendship,
for example. It has no fundamental difference to acquaintance. It has no fundamental difference to
collaboration or, or co-authoring of papers. It really has no fundamental difference to other human
sort of endeavors that require some kind of coming together and doing something together.
It's just that it's very spicy because obviously it entices people. All right,
this is very close to my heart because we are sexual beings. But there is a difference in reality
between the way these systems operate. I think they are different systems and to have a romantic
system, complex romantic system is different than to have a colleague, complex work relationship.
Certainly. Certainly. What I was trying to say is that as higher order networks, as far as I can tell,
there's no real difference. Like obviously our systems are very different. Nothing really comparing,
going, planning life together and going into sexual practices than sitting down, writing emails and
writing a paper. Obviously it's very different activities. But, but what I want, what I wanted to say is
that for, if someone in the audience is thinking, oh yeah, this is wild. They're just like
riffing on something that's spicy for the sake of spicy. The actual intellectual ideas behind it,
they're not specific to that context, but they are a good analogy. I mean, they are not a bad analog
of this higher order, this higher order ideas. And they are quite intuitive. I think if people are
normally, my experience is that people are quite overwhelmed. There's usually three reactions to
being in open relationships or polyamorous relationships and things like that. One is just
being disgusted and baffled. I think that's the minority. Luckily nowadays, I've been in most
countries that I've moved around. The other one is just fear and confusion of, oh, wow, I can't
imagine how that would work. It's so complex. It's like being overwhelmed. And then a very small
minority is like enthusiastic. Oh, right. I would, I'd love to do that because that's, I already do that
or something like that. Right. That's kind of the reactions I get. And so the reaction,
that is the reaction. So take that split of like maybe 20% discussed, I don't know, 85%, no, sorry,
that doesn't add up to a hundred, 75%, 5% confusion and fear. And then there's a 5% of enthusiastic,
oh, that sounds really natural to me, or I'm already doing it already or something like that.
So take that proportion of reactions. And when you look at higher order, the mathematics,
higher order algebra, that's pretty much the reaction you get in the community about the one.
There's a 20% or so, like a minority that would react negatively towards it. It's like,
that's a waste of time. There's nothing of value there. Maybe not so harsh, but like some of it is
quite harsh and some of it is more uninterested. There's a big proportion of mathematicians and
scientists that are like, I am just completely confused about it. I think it sounds kind of
intriguing, but I don't know. I have no idea. I have no good intuition about it. I have no good tools.
I don't know how to operate. And then there's a small minority that get very enthusiastic in which I
include myself, of course. Oh yeah, this is amazing. We have to go after this, the future.
And so it's actually, this is why I think this is spicy analogy is kind of fun to make because
there's some formal analogs, as I said, with the relationship network and things like that,
and how you interact with your partners and things like that. There's certainly some formal analogy,
but there's also sociological analogy of the reaction that society has towards higher order
romantic relationships or distributed romantic relationships. And the way the scientific community
and the mathematical community, per se, reacts to these higher order questions and hypergraphs and
higher RAT algebra, things like that. No, I think there's a definite connection. And also
this binary dichotomous way of seeing the world and how it's been very beneficial, obviously. I mean,
we could even think about that in terms of like sexually and in romantic ways. And there's some
part of me that thinks, and this is like getting kind of way out there, but there is some part of me that
thinks, okay, we really do need to get better at understanding that we're multiple selves and that
we connect with people in multiple ways and like opening the space for us to, as in our romantic
relationships, our friendships to explore that. Right. And that kind of does relate to a lot of the
themes we've been thinking about in terms of there's some kind of change happening and there's a frustration
and there's, I don't think those things are all disconnected. Of course it can get very tricky
when you start thinking about like sex, right? Because that's so loaded and there's all kinds
of things, but just even a romantic connection and how we see that there's some part of me that wants
to evolve, right? To be able to hold the space. Like, I guess you were able to do to where you love
someone or you have a partner in your life and you're completely okay with them exploring relationships
that are not in your pairwise bond, right? Because I think that can feel threatening in a similar way
to how it can feel threatening. Like when the first question I asked you about, if you felt worried or
fear about not going down this path of the academic discipline, right? We all think there's a path of
what a relationship is. And if your partner is doing something different than that, you start to doubt
yourself, right? And some part of me thinks, yeah, how can, that's not right. There must be a way to evolve
out of that. Yeah. I should say though that, I mean, this is stating the obvious, but reproductive
function is binary. That's what I meant. There's a real, it's a reality that has real consequences
that matter. Yeah, absolutely. And I think that it is very, I mean, I don't want to get too critical,
but I have seen, and I've been in forums where there was a clear detachment from reality in describing
sexual dynamics very sociological or culturally, where you start to assign so much weight to the
forms and practices and traditions and the sort of anthropological reading of things and so on,
which is super interesting. And I value a lot and I myself read some things. It's quite fascinating.
But when you lose track of the material component of it, then I think it's easy to get very distracted and
to get very confused because there's good reason why the pairwise model in romantic relationships
is so prevalent. I mean, there is a very obvious, I mean, there are many ways in which it would be
selected for, both societally, biologically, and so on. And when you have a family and all that requires.
Sure. And the economic structure that goes into it and everything. But I think where I'm, just to make
sure that I come across, at least to the audience clearly, my point here is that there is a clear
analogy, fan analogy that you can make between the realm of higher order mathematical research
and the realm of non-traditional romantic relationships, consensual romantic relationships
that extend the usual pairwise partnership, exclusive pairwise partnership. And those analogies
are both at the formal level of sort of the network structure and also at the societal
level of the reactions of practitioners in both fields of mathematicians on the one hand and the
lovers on the other or something. So, so that's sort of my main message here that I think is a worthy
analogy. And I talk to it from direct experience. I mean, I'm not just observing. I can attest to the
reactions. This is not things I've read. I mean, this is my own personal sort of anecdotal evidence of people's
reaction to these kinds of things. And yeah. And ultimately there seems to be also an analogy that is kind of more
like a cosmic coincidence than anything else, which is that doing, going beyond binary is a difficult
thing. It's not a, it's not an obvious thing. And maybe it's difficult because it is, it's not
being selected for. And if you could say, maybe if it's not being selected for, then you shouldn't do it.
My argument is if it's not being selected for is because we haven't been in the, in the environment
that was pressuring us to go into those contexts. But if we go into the context where that's the case,
then maybe going for these higher order structures, uh, might be worth the effort.
Right. So, and to me, it's been worth the effort. I have to say, um, in both realms.
So, and, but you're not doing that anymore. The polyamorous.
Yeah, no, I mean, to me, the way I do relationships is, I mean, my, my transition wasn't,
oh, I was monogamous and then I became polyamorous. My transition was, I hadn't really thought of what
doing relationships was. I hadn't matured what it was. And then in my early twenties,
I met this partner and then we did all this sort of growing and experimenting and so on.
And now I think I have a much more understanding, a much more complete understanding of my own role
and how I can contribute to a relationship. And so I guess that's what I was trying to get at.
Did it teach you about your own limitations or desires or capabilities, whatever, something.
I mean, that was exactly what it was in some sense. For sure. We had fun. We had very good
times with people we met and it was great, but ultimately it was a self-declared sort of journey
of exploration in the purely personal setting. Now it was a self-declared journey of exploration.
I mean, that's how we intended it to go, right? Like we wanted to explore, we wanted to grow. We were
very sort of relationally and sexually immature in a sense, because we didn't have much experience
before we met each other. And we wanted to grow in those dimensions while staying together because
we really liked each other and loved each other and wanted to mix together and so on. So in that
sense, it really sort of, I would say it was so long. It lasted for almost eight years, nine years.
It mapped out my own persona in some sense. And I, so at the other end, because at the end,
we had to part ways because we're still very good friends, but she went to a different city and
that was the end of it. But, but the, personally, what it taught me, the most important takeaway was
that, you know, nothing is written anywhere about what I should do. I mean, arguably there are
thousands of books written about what I should do, but in my, in my list of books that are relevant
to live life by, none of them contains instructions about how to do relationships. So, so yeah, it's mostly,
that is mostly knowing what I can offer in a relationship, how I, what I find comfortable,
what I find that I need. And I can offer it. Yes. Mostly self-knowledge boundaries and limits.
And it's in my case, it was the absence of those, but yeah, so, but I think you find them by letting
them go and you find them in a different way. You find where you might be, where you want them to be
or something like that. In my case, I like going over the edge, where the edge is that kind of.
Yeah. So, so, so, so in my case, I think I'm, I am a, this goes for all aspects of life. I am a
person of positives, a person of, of draws instead of fears or something like that. So, so I define
all my actions I define in terms of, um, for example, I would never say I have boundaries with
partners. I never had, I never explicitly said, this is not allowed. I wouldn't go to go. I wouldn't
like to go. I always said, I commit to this. We commit to these things to, to hold true. And those
things were always desirable objectives or sort of relational places to go to in a sense, right?
We aspire to be this kind of relationship. It'd be like a more casual connection, not very serious to
like my main partner that we had like life plans and we wanted to like go for a long time and so on.
And so we wanted to plan that out. And to me, the commitment to the plan was the core of the
relationship. It was, so if, as long as the commitment to that, to those, uh, shared goals,
shared dreams and so on was being kept, everything else was secondary. Okay. We'll talk through it,
then we will adapt in real time. But there was, our principle was always no boundaries and not by
position, but it's like, because I am a person that goes after positive instead of going away from
negatives. Right. But just in general, that sort of goes back to other parts of your life too.
And this honesty, understanding and trying to be clear and honestly kind of, that's the kind of
through line I've heard over these hours. Does that make sense? Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. You,
that would be a perfect summary of saying, yes, going after the positives, going after what's clear,
the honest feeling of understanding. There's nothing quite like it for me. And no, no amount of praise is
going to convince me that I understand something better than I actually do. And that was part of
why I was, had all my troubles in Cambridge and all my, my personal sort of disquisitions of what
am I doing here? Because people are telling me you're very successful, but I still didn't understand
many things. And I saw people around me that didn't understand those things either. And I was like,
okay, we're not that successful until we understand those things. So, so yeah, the honesty of assessing
oneself, and even because we we've been talking about this personal aspect of relationships for a bit now,
like it, it goes into all these other contexts where, you know, I just try to be as, as honest with
myself as possible and communicate what I was feeling and needing at all times. And I was
always very clearly, okay, these are the positives that I have in life. I have limited, limited amount
to live. I'm going to go after those things and I'm going to try and make the most of the energy I
have to get to that. Right. So that's great. That's something that helps people probably to hear that.
And it connects us to the math, right? Just to end it, because math is a pretty honest thing,
right? It's very hard to hide anything with math. So there's some connection there too. And the way
that maybe that can scaffold our social personal relations in, at least in that way, it can be a
positive, right? To look for clarity of yourself. Of course, you can't like demand this on someone
else, but look at your own math in a clear way. Yeah. Yeah. No, I would say, as I said earlier,
what I was calling mathematics in a very loose sense, it really means it's the rational,
analytical sort of way of communicating. And that's certainly something that I live by. I mean,
I like to be as clear as possible to the humans around me and manifestation of that is certainly
doing mathematics because it's kind of this very pristine way, very sort of narrow channel of
communication that you really leave the fantasy that you can be completely accurate.
Yeah. And I think it's good we talked about the personal stuff though, because if you just think
about that, the math and everything, it sounds very, it doesn't sound sensory and it doesn't sound
rich and it doesn't sound at all like you're really living life in this full on way. But actually,
if you need that, right, like you can't be in a relationship or you can't even with yourself
be in a real relationship if you're not trying for that clarity. And that actually gives you the freedom
to really sense life and really be involved in it and really let yourself go in a way.
Yeah, absolutely. I think it's a beautiful way to put it.
So thanks. It's been a long conversation. We should probably go. We both have other stuff,
but I really enjoyed it. It's, you have a lot of great perspective and I'm sure people will
really appreciate it. So thanks for talking, Carlos.
No, thank you so much Andrea. It was a real pleasure. I hope it will be a useful conversation for others.
I'm sure it will be. And good luck with all your work. Can't wait to see what comes next.
Yep. Glad to be in touch. All right.
