Well, thank you for having me.
So I'm very interested in the work you've been doing lately, there's so many papers
you've been writing.
And to get into that though, I want to think about your personal trajectory because the
papers that I want to talk to you about are a lot about cognitive computing and active
inference and modeling and technology and AI and all these sort of subjects.
However, I seem to have discovered or heard that you started in more humanities and sociology
and even something called sexology, which I'm not sure how to define exactly.
So could you help me?
So I'll start by defining what sexology is because it is a concern that sexologists themselves
coming out of university are trained to answer.
Oh wow.
Okay.
I'll start with that and then I'll tell you about my path.
Sociology is basically an amalgamation of a lot of fields.
You can go on biology, psychology, anthropology.
We do a lot of sociology as well, sometimes linguistics, sometimes media studies.
And effectively it's about the topic itself.
So anything that touches on anything related, even tangentially to sexuality, like pregnancy
or diseases, it can be couples therapy.
It can be wellbeing.
So these are all the topics that are touched on.
And so we dissect these topics from multiple aspects and try to find the connection points
between the fields that find areas of, I want to say synergy, but mostly impact.
Because what we are more and more going towards in the social sciences field is psycho-ecological,
biological approach where you can't just see one in isolation.
You have to take it all into account and that creates a problem because it's a great, it's
a great desire, but don't have the right bridges, the right paths between the different fields
of study such that sometimes the languages don't match.
Sometimes we think the languages match, but really we're talking about different things
and sometimes the methodologies themselves aren't even aligned.
So we couldn't even try to measure the same thing if we wanted.
And that goes beyond the problem of scale.
Oftentimes when you talk about a field, we're talking about related things, but they're,
they're acting at a different scale.
So for instance, we're talking about psychology and then sociology in general, we think we're
talking about phenomena that act on say the individual scale.
And then we're talking about topics that span multiple people, multiple individuals, and then
even institutions and countries that become their own groups.
So we are lacking the tools to understand the ways in which these things interact.
So that's, I think, gets to how I started my path and where I am today.
I can see that.
Yeah, right?
Like, I started in sexology because really I was interested in psychology, but I didn't
want to do just what my understanding of psychology was at the time, just like more than 10 years
ago.
So I really thought that I wanted to get into something practical and useful, and that would
get to the root of what is being a human being.
And to me, sexuality, there was something fundamental about it that spoke to the deep connections
that we can make with other people and therefore something transcendental about the way that we
relate to one another.
Unfortunately, it was a bit let down.
The field is not what I thought it was.
It mostly talks about, you know, communicable diseases and, you know, the kinds of things
you do when you're pregnant and what happens to your body.
And all of this is massively important, but not exactly what I went into it for.
So then I did my master's thinking, let's push this a little bit further.
Let's go into culture.
Let's try to understand how culture is this sort of framework that shapes our perception
of reality and therefore perception of each other and how we might exchange through these
cultural artifacts.
And I got a little further to closer to where I wanted to go.
But then again, I was limited by the fact that the fields are hazy and a little bit blurry.
They mean to be blurry.
It's on purpose because they mean to be inclusive and try to not apply a frame of reference that
is not appropriate to phenomena that is poorly understood and that may not be where the researcher
is coming from.
So they acknowledge that there is a bias from being human and existing in the world that
you can't really get away from.
And so we try to acknowledge and pull the bias away a little bit by keeping things a bit
blurry, not defining too much, letting the definition stem from the people, the cultures
you're studying.
But that doesn't give us a lot of explanatory power.
It doesn't give us a lot of predictive power.
And so it's, it stays a bit there, you know, it's like, okay, let's make a description.
It's beautiful.
It's poetic.
It's abstract.
We can't do anything with it.
And I find that that also leads to a perception from the, let's say, hard sciences, the life
sciences, that it's useless, that it's not even science.
Oftentimes we separate these sciences because they don't even consider social sciences to
be a science.
I'm saying that it's a broad thing.
Not everybody thinks that way, but I've really encountered people who wouldn't even
qualify the humanities as a science.
And so I was a bit flustered by that.
I wanted to go further.
I wanted to find what constituted building blocks.
And anytime I mentioned the word ontology, I was met with heavy criticism because they
were like, no, no, no.
Ontology is an essentialist concept.
We are not essentialist here.
We're constructivists.
And I believe that.
I believe that things are constructed.
I believe that culture shapes the way we engage with reality.
And the culture itself is a construct of interactions and phenomena, which is why I'm very interested
in neomaterialism.
But I don't believe that this means you can't come up with essential processes, essential
building blocks that lead people to potentially predictably make certain assumptions or predictably
think in a way that will lead them to act in a certain way.
And so that's how I got into trying to think further and find paradigms that were heading
in that direction.
And I found predictive processing.
I was engaged a lot with a community at that time that was really involved with AI, even
though I wasn't part of that community.
But at the same time, I was learning how to program.
I built a company, a sex tech company.
We were doing, at this point, at this time it was web development, but therefore I was
getting more interested in it.
We were linking patients with sexologists who wanted to give them care across the country
because one of the main issues is access.
In rural areas, you don't have access.
And so because I was learning how to program, because I was learning about this community
and AI and their concerns, I started reading about cognitive theories that had these building
blocks, even though they weren't specifically interested in social sciences for now.
And that's how I fell in the work of Maxwell Ramstad and Carl Fristen, who were starting
to discuss niche construction, which was very reminiscent of ecological theory, which I was
very familiar with having studied in my master's.
So I was seeing that they were making these connections and I brought into the field the
notion of social scripts.
And we formalized this and now we have some degree of the building blocks.
And the missing piece still, to some extent, is how you map across scales to get an emergent
feature, because active inference is scale-free, but it doesn't give you emergence per se.
You still need to understand the historicity of a system in order to understand how certain
things emerge at a given scale through some attractor dynamics.
Okay.
Wow.
There's so much in there.
And now I can sort of understand how you got into this because it is, there's a kind
of strange set of constraints in both these areas that you're in.
I mean, I've kind of been in both too and more philosophy, but I think it's similar in
a way.
We're trying to take account of multiple perspectives, like something like constructivism
that you said, where we kind of understand having read so deeply and like tried to see
from so many perspectives that everyone's got a little bit of a different trajectory.
And even when we're in a shared space and looking at the same object or in the same
encounter, even we're perceiving it differently.
And so you kind of start with that.
And then you feel as if you can't really put any, anything seemingly objective or ontological
onto that.
And then on the opposite side in science, it seems almost, this is all I'm generalizing
in a big way, but it seems like we take away all of that stuff and try to get to something
that's very distilled that will kind of work no matter what.
And, and then that also ends up in a strange constraining place, which I think something
like active inference is starting to explode a bit.
And it kind of, for me, has to do with the possibility of modeling.
And to get into this a bit, I wonder, are you the one who brought in the idea of the
phenomenology into all of this?
Because I've started seeing that word coming a lot.
And I wonder, did you study some of that early on or was that someone else?
So I'm not the one who brought it.
That was definitely a Neil Seth, Maxwell Ramstad, and a group of other researchers who really
started getting familiar with this.
They wrote a paper, I think on the computational accounts of generative passages.
This is not the right title.
I'll send you the paper later.
But they started it.
They were very interested in computational phenomenology, but I am also interested in it.
And I've done some work in that field.
And my main interest was how phenomenology becomes shared.
So intersubjectivity and how it can become shared is through the common constructs that
we have that allow us to parse reality at all.
And those can be very basic, like time and space.
You start with that from those basic constructs.
Then you extend on qualitative expectations.
And those qualitative expectations then become sort of constrained and patterned.
And that's how you get to potentially, you know, scripts and culture and language and
anything like that, that has something that can be hooked onto that allows us to compute
further than just the momentary thing that's happening.
So I don't know.
I just want to say something and see what you think.
I feel like in a way we're kind of stuck in like a flat world understanding where let's
talk about something like sentient behavior is sort of what we're trying to understand
in a way, right?
Or what you are trying to understand with active inference modeling and so on.
And this goes into cognition.
Maybe you can correct me on that.
And but in a big kind of way, we're trying to understand sentient behavior and cognition
and all these bigger issues come out of that, of how communities form and different sort
of pretensions and so on.
But it still seems like to me, when we talk about it, maybe just in everyday life, when
we think about behavior or cognition, we still have a linear sort of model of, you know,
we start with a cell and we end up with AI and that it should all fit together on a kind
of a line somehow.
And I feel like what you were kind of expressing with the humanities and this constructivist
multidimensional view is very hard to kind of fit into that way of thinking or modeling
in science.
But I feel like reading your papers, especially the ones on scripts, the polyseemist idea and
the, I mean, there's many, many things where I'm starting to feel like it's opening up and
becoming multidimensional.
I don't know, just saying that, does that, what does that correct me or how does that strike
you?
No, no, I think it resonates a lot.
I mean, the problem, the problem we face with science is that you're trying to establish
causality.
That's the thing, right?
It's easy to establish correlation, but causality is tough.
And so what you're trying to do is like move away all the possible noise to find one strand
of possible causal relation.
So obviously you want to try to make it as linear as possible.
And ideally you want to make it reductionist because then it's simple, right?
If you can start with a thing, you can just kind of like start it and it'll become what
you need with this one principle.
You don't have to, so that would be ideal.
But again, this is what I was saying about the emergent structures that only occur on a
given scale.
Because we can't yet predict this very well, we are unable to fully grasp how different
factors come in.
But we are indeed interested in it.
And I think that's what Varela was trying to get to with the ecological sciences.
We are trying to do the same right now.
Active inference is basically also heading towards having a proper understanding of how different
kinds of observations lead to some types of beliefs.
And those can be obviously as varied as you'd like.
They can take in different kinds of factors, different kinds of scales.
And they feel like because it's being applied in different fields at the same time, we are
getting some way to sort of hook all these things together.
But we haven't quite yet found the proper way to hook them.
We have a language.
We have a common language, active inference.
We have a common set of processes, which eventually all lead back to cognition and fundamental
principles of how information is encoded on boundaries, which itself is pretty fundamental.
So in a sense, it's reductionist in that sense.
But it doesn't necessarily entail that there are no emergent features.
So the key, I think, what someone will have to come in and do is find properly how these
things can be connected.
What my work is trying to do is show that the scales are an illusion.
That's the work that Maxwell Ramsett has started.
I'm trying to show that even the internal, external boundary idea is just a function of
measurement.
It's not, it's also just an illusion.
So if we, if we start to understand this and we can cast away these artificial boundaries,
then maybe we can find the true way in which things interact and therefore the ways in which
difference, different modeling ideas that are in active inference can connect to one another.
But we're very far from finding the answer.
A lot of work still has to be done.
But I do feel like what's happening is that there's a scaffolding of, of something like
mathematics, but also just language and description that's come towards understanding
something, some very basic things like how a body encounters the world.
So with active inference now through mathematics, but also through, you know, English or whatever
language we speak, we can start to talk about it.
It might not be exactly the right way, but we can think of it as, you know, minimizing surprise
or basically a body moving through its encounter, aligning to those regularities.
And then when something is against those regularities, having a kind of a different response, you
could probably explain it better, but, and once we can start to understand this a little
bit, is it more possible than to begin to understand that multi-perspectival or constructivist
idea of that every agent would be a different spatiotemporal position, of course, and thus would
have a different encounter, even as many of these regularities are, are shared.
Not precisely.
That's exactly the point.
That's exactly the point.
I think this is why this notion of objectivity is flawed by nature.
Objectivity shouldn't mean what we generally think it means.
Obviously, any, like you said, any body in the world will necessitate a different perspective.
If only because I'm looking at this rock from here and you're looking at it from here.
So our experience of the rock, our regularities related to the rock will be ever so slightly
different.
The reason we have a language is because we're constantly trying to collapse these differences
by hooking up to common experiences and trying to peel away what constitutes an error of the
difference between our perception.
That's what communication is.
We're confronted with this never-ending paradox that what do we hook on to?
At one point, there's going to be an irreducible difference in our experiences.
I think that's what Slavoj Zizek is trying to get to.
Whatever you think of him as a scholar, he does sort of point at this idea that at the core,
there is nothing because we can't, we can never, it's a never-ending, I think Dorito
is kind of going in the same direction, it's a never-ending swapping of different things
which there's nothing behind it.
I think the answer lies in phenomenology and the fact that we're not individuals that have
seen only one thing and that we are capable of sort of placing ourselves temporally within
the perspective of another agent.
And because we're capable of doing this temporal swapping, we're also capable of abstracting
away what might constitute some degree of difference and only focusing on this statistical
regularity that we have both experienced.
And it's because we are temporal agents and not simply, you know, agents that only focus
on one point in time.
That being said, math isn't sufficient.
That's why phenomenology here is critical.
Qualia in itself and understanding the relationship between matter and information and how matter
translates to a representation is not yet a fully solved question.
And I think it's going to be the, I mean, it's always been the critical question, right?
It's always been the critical question, but we're so close.
I think there's two things that come to mind there.
And it's back to that, in one way, that flatland thing I was trying to say, where I think we're
smooshed into this binary way of thinking.
This is a lot about beyond dichotomies and you've already sort of pushed us past them quite
a few times in the way that you're trying to talk.
But I do think like the two things are, one is the self-other thing, right?
I can see what you're saying about Shlav Zizek and all this.
There's nothing there.
We could see it that way, but we could also see it that we have a kind of a strange idea
of what we are, that we've taken the Markov blanket a bit too seriously, for good reason,
to survive.
I mean, we couldn't have even gotten here if we hadn't.
So it's not to say that we did something wrong, but we're in a different place now,
right?
That maybe we can reimagine what is the self actually and what is the body actually.
And we can start to understand that there's a power in that community.
You know, you write a lot about community intelligence is almost the only kind of intelligence.
And in a way, if we could kind of have a different realization as the spatiotemporal agent that
we are, it might shift a bit what's possible in those realms.
And I think that's also connected to that flat world sort of understanding that we have
in the modeling too, that because if we could understand that everyone has this unique
spatiotemporal trajectory from birth to death, and if we could model it somehow really, like
literally, we would see that there's so much overlap and that there isn't a gap actually
between all of this stuff.
It's just how in the world do we visualize that and model that and put language on that?
Yeah.
I mean, I think we're getting to the point of like, do we need to recreate the universe
to understand the universe, right?
Well, we're sort of doing it right with digital twins of everything and spatial web.
Like it's a lot of people are like, well, you need to make a map, not a territory.
And it's like, well, maybe what constitutes the map that allows you to understand what
is fundamentally just a map, right?
Like literally everything you perceive is just a map.
So what we're trying to get to is as close to a map as a map is.
It's so eventually.
Exactly.
That's what I mean by if we can understand it's both, that's the dichotomy.
It's either a map or it's a territory.
That's the way we think right now.
It's either I or other, I mean, but it's so hard for us to open, like that's the cognitive
shift.
Where's the third space or, or even the multiple space where both of those are okay.
You know, map and territory are not a choice.
They're different ways of understanding a process that's kind of inseparable.
No, absolutely.
And I mean, again, it's like this map territory idea gets back to, again, information and matter.
And effectively, there may not even be a real difference between information or matter.
Now we're getting into like, like physics and I'm not going to go there too much.
I will refer people to Chris Fields if they're interested and he will have much better things
to say than me.
But effectively, I think what we can, what we consider to be a territory at a given scale
is just a map at another or, and so that distinction is really just a function of your
perspective and the way that you measure reality at this, at this point in space and time.
But it's still important.
That doesn't mean it's not like it suddenly becomes meaningless.
Right.
You know, that's, that's kind of what I mean as well.
Like, I feel like people put valence upon certain terms.
Like you, you had to sort of shield yourself from criticism by saying, it's okay that we've
made this blanket important.
It was, yeah, of course it is.
Every, every process is effectively natural just by virtue of existing.
So we shouldn't put a label on it, but we should, every time we qualify something as
bad or good, it's relative to an objective that we had and that is being hindered by this
thing.
And so you could say that relative to this thing, this is not helpful in this local scale,
but if you blew it up to maybe 10,000 years, maybe it would be because maybe this is a calling
mechanism or something of some kind.
So like we don't, we can never say something as blanket as that.
We can identify tractors relative to a state we have identified as preferable right now from
our perspective, but obviously these things change.
So if you're talking about the distinction between like, or, or the ways in which we
are focusing on what constitutes our mark of blanket, I agree.
And I don't think this is a new idea or that, that we need to focus on the community.
I think religions, at least a lot of them have been saying this for a long time.
I'm not going to talk about Judeo-Christianism, although, you know, there's interpretations of
it in that sense.
I'm really talking about more about Hinduism and Buddhism and the religions that preceded them.
It was very much about this idea that this, this mark of blanket is an illusion.
You are hyper-focusing on what constitutes the ego and you're, you're kind of missing
the, the force for the tree.
And if you understood that this boundary can be relaxed, that you can sort of shed that
even in your own mind, which is something that I know Lars Senved writes a lot about,
about meditative practices, they do, yeah, Jonas Mago as well.
You can relax these and effectively your, your feeling of boundary goes away.
Maybe effectively your boundary does go away because boundary is a function of measurement
to some extent.
So, yeah, I think this isn't really a new idea.
I think a lot of our scientific concepts have been like largely influenced by these ideas.
I think it would be, I think a little, a lot of hubris for us to say that we've come up
with this.
In effect, like Foucault kind of nailed it.
I'll do through as well.
We never really get away from prior philosophies or ideologies, kind of build on top of them,
even if you push them down.
So it's the same thing here.
I think the one is all or all is one is definitely central to this idea.
It's just that now we have very formal math to put on top of it.
Sure.
I mean, even kind of something like what Slavov Zizek is saying and, and the Buddhism could
be understood as different ways to a similar place in a sense.
I mean, all of us are in a way trying to grasp it and also at the same time changing it.
But as you were saying that, it does make me think that there is an importance to an understanding
that the representation, which I think is what it usually meant by map, isn't the process.
I don't know.
I think you might push back on that or maybe, maybe you agree, but I do think sometimes we
confuse the representation of all of this, like the actual maths or the language or the
image or the marker itself with the action that that marker is creating in the world.
Do you see any distinction there or do you still just kind of say it would all be, you know,
the same?
I'm not sure I understand the question.
I feel like I might have an inkling, but I can answer one part and then you'll have to
maybe clarify.
Yeah, I can explain.
So to me, a representation can be a process, the process of representing and representation
is simply a momentary byproduct of this time of representing.
And you could qualify a representation as, let's say, a manifold or a path, but it's still
a function of this action of representing.
And therefore, I don't think they're differentiable.
Like, for instance, the self.
I know that there's been a lot of theory that push in that direction, suggesting that the
self is selfing.
It's not a thing which exists.
It's a process of engaging with reality and through the boundary, therefore having a sense
of what constitutes what you need and how you can act relative to what you need and what
are the constant elements or more consistent elements of what you need over time.
And that's why we have a sense that something core to us remains, but over time we change.
We can see that nonetheless.
You are not the person you were 10 years ago, hopefully.
So can you clarify your question?
Like the ship of Theseus a bit, you know, all the parts can change, but there's a pattern
that remains.
I think I really mean it in a literal sense.
I mean, of course, this word representation in neuroscience, we use it one way and philosophy
we fight about it in another way.
It's like, but I really mean it as re-presenting.
So let's try to go back into the personal a bit, like something, you know, about with
social media or something where there's an image that is itself not ever static, but that
we might confuse that image with the actual trajectory to which that image is connected,
I guess, you know?
Yeah.
Okay.
So that's, okay.
So there's multiple ways to tackle this question.
In neo-materialism, the idea would be that everything is about how things interact.
So effectively, you should always separate the interacting elements, but at the same time,
there is nothing that exists prior to that interaction.
So in that sense, the image is its trajectory.
There is nothing that precedes its trajectory because it's not a thing in itself.
It's a thing which has effects in the world.
There is another way that you can consider it, which is there are multiple paths that can
be taken and will sort of find a connection point, even if they are not aiming from the
same direction and they're not going in the same direction.
And in that case, you could say, well, yes, okay, so that point here is essentially meaningless
because you could have taken it from that vector or that vector.
And therefore, the image in itself doesn't necessarily contain anything, which dictates
the vector you're going to take.
So I'm going to, I'm sort of going to caveat that in two ways.
The first way is that, yes, you could have taken multiple vectors, but there's a finite
number of vectors that go on.
It's not exactly true, but let's assume that given some regularities, there's a finite number
of vectors relative to all the other vectors that go through that point.
So it is constraining in any case, it is constraining.
For instance, an image will be perceived, and I know this sounds silly, by people who
can perceive it.
This means anybody else who can't probably will not be affected by the image in the
same way.
So there is a regularity here.
There is a constant.
Sure.
I think there's affordances of insects not going to encounter that the same way.
But the second thing is there's other regularities.
Like, for instance, you could say that this is a pink shirt.
This is just a pink shirt.
There's nothing in the shirt that says anything more than it's a pink shirt.
It's not even really a shirt, actually.
It's just cloth.
But I know that it's pink.
You know that it's pink.
And most men in North America know that it's pink.
They therefore most likely will not wear this sort of cut with the shoulders and the pink.
Some might, but in regularity, they will associate this very traditionally with femininity.
And you could say, well, it's not contained in the shirt.
It's like, well, it's true.
But the historicity can't really be abstracted from everyone's cognition because they exist
in a world where that historicity shaped their cognition.
So it's not quite true that the images should be separate from their trajectory because part
of their trajectory was already defined by the patterns that we gave them.
So I don't know.
I hope that answered the question to some extent.
I mean, it's more just a topic I try to explore.
But yes, I mean, I love what you're saying.
It's just, I guess my, I think there's something different about something like a language or image
because of the intersection of all the different trajectories in this kind of way that isn't
connected to a body, one body.
It's so like, as you described your shirt, that's, that's a very interesting.
And of course it depends on all of our, as humans, all of our trajectories of how we've
been taught what pink is as kids.
And like, you can't separate it from every moment of our life, exactly where we live and
so on.
And of course, in different geographical or emotional or conceptual spaces, we'll have
different understandings or experiences of, of that shirt or a doll or whatever we want
to talk about.
But I think we, something happens in society all the time.
I don't know if you agree that we assume that we're all experiencing that shirt.
Your shirt is now the object of, of this conversation, but we all experience that shirt and we think
everyone's experiencing the same way we are.
And so what I'm trying to do is like, I don't feel like we pull it apart enough to understand
that, yes, it's connected to trajectories, but not one trajectory.
And that all the time, everything that we're encountering is being processed differently
according to each space-herotermal point.
So there's a sort of system three, I like to think of it, you know, instead of fast and
slow within the body, it's more of a community, you know, Daniel Kahneman kind of processing
that's going on.
And I just, I feel like if we could put some focus on it like that, it could be helpful.
Absolutely.
And I think, okay, so let's talk about maybe a topic that's a little bit, it shouldn't
be, but it is controversial.
And explain how that factors into the question.
What has the queer community tried to do by calling themselves queer?
They've tried to take a statistical pattern and sort of nudge it away from where people
want it.
So this isn't saying that there are statistical patterns doesn't mean they're set in stone.
It just means when you take a population, they're likely to be on some distribution to
think in a certain way.
But you can push the distribution somewhere else.
And that's why I like this statistical manifold, because it doesn't really, first of all, it
doesn't say that you and I will be on the same spot.
It says we are likely to be within a range, most likely, but we might be in different points
on the range.
And then it says, well, okay, if this constitutes an attractor and I know how much, what factors
contribute to it being an attractor here, I can use these same factors and push them over
here.
And I think that's, that's kind of brilliant and beautiful and empowering because now we
know, well, we can just reappropriate a bunch of things.
I can decide that pink is not a feminine thing.
In fact, it's not, it doesn't represent that at all.
Now, the problem is I don't control every factor.
Like I'm still going to get perceived as a woman.
And so, well, by virtue of association with a woman, okay, but I can make or ask people
who engage with me if they are not considering themselves women to wear pink.
And I enjoy that and it makes me happy.
And if they want to contribute to that, they can.
And lo and behold, most of my boyfriends have worn pink.
Like it's, it's no longer associated with femininity to them.
It's just associated with happy and joyful and cool.
I was about to say, I'm usually pretty cool guys wear pink these days.
Right, exactly.
Yeah.
But it's, that actually speaks to something really fascinating too, is that how these
prior, these statistical regularities can shift according to something like awareness.
It's another topic I wanted to ask you about a little bit is like, do you see a difference
between this cognitive and the kind of conscious or being or awareness or attention?
Because you were talking about Buddhism and all of this.
And I think in some way, if you start in that tradition, you're aware of everything as one
and the whole and so on.
And there's some kind of way in which the dichotomy side of things that the reductionist side
of things is kind of, I don't know, not as familiar.
And then, you know, vice versa, if we want to give these big kind of awful generalizations
of different religions or parts of the country where you start with a more reductionist and
the idea of thinking of everything as whole is different because you're, it's about the
individual and, and all of this.
And it seems like the thing that changes that is what you're just describing with in terms
of the shift.
Like we want to shift pink is going to be cool.
And, you know, who knows in 200 years, maybe only guys wear pink because it's shifted all
the way to there.
But what does that?
Is it something like awareness?
And I want to try to link this, you know, to the active inference work, but I wonder how
you see that, like consciousness, cognition, intelligence, are those different?
Where's the attention in that for you?
Oh, no, I mean, I, in general, consciousness is broken down.
Awareness is just one part of it.
And I think that's probably correct in the sense that sentience doesn't necessitate awareness
per se.
I don't think, I think you could have, well, I mean, awareness in the sense of an integrated
perception, an integrated qualitative perception is more what I'm going to say.
Yeah.
And I should have, I'm sorry, I don't mean consciousness the way it's always talked about
where it's like, you're aware of yourself.
I really just mean the feeling of being alive or being alive, being itself.
And that can, of course, you know, become being aware of your own self as a self and all
of that.
Yeah.
I mean, see, this is an interesting question because it gets to the core of what constitutes
qualia, right?
Like, is, is qualia only this right now, what we think we're experiencing together?
Or does it go much deeper in our cells to some extent conscious and have some degree of
qualia by virtue of being able to react to, into information in a way that like pushes
entropy away?
Because, you know, lots of things react, like potentially if you kick a rock, it moves, like
it has, you, it has had a reaction to what you did.
It's just not a reaction that effectively felt like an action.
It didn't feel like it had control over where it intended to go next relative to where it
wants to go.
And there's a lot of words in there, right?
Like want to go, like the, the notion of wanting seems to be central to what we consider to
be life or consciousness.
So if, if these are more, we consider to be consciousness along Mark Solms, maybe a lot
of things might be more conscious than we think.
And they may not require what we understand to be awareness.
But if we break down awareness to its more, most central component, i.e. there is some
information that is encoded and acted upon, or at least gained more precision.
I feel like that's, that's closer to a panpsychist even conception of what constitutes consciousness.
It feels like something's missing though.
Like if, if awareness is all that's required, then what happens when you meditate and you
become sort of like flatly aware?
Are you not conscious anymore?
Is it, is there no precision here?
What, what constitutes like the, the very nature of a color or something?
Is it, is it that you break reality apart somehow and you encode it such that it has
differentiability?
Is, does it, is it, is that required?
I don't really have the answers to this question.
No, of course.
We're aiming in a direction, but obviously this isn't solved.
Well, so yeah, I guess like you said something earlier about it, not, nothing being said in
stone and I kind of think sometimes we do think of representations as set in stone, like the
colored, you know, is, is what it is, or the math, even when we, when we represent something,
we just assume it's static.
And in a way it is static in this weird universe that we've built of language, right?
It does move, of course, language changes, words change, but in that kind of, if you just
take a very tiny slice of it, it, it seems static relative to every, everything else.
And I guess, you know, when you talk about qualia or something, that's digging into that
a bit of, I don't know that I really think there is qualia actually.
Like, I think, what if we just go back down to the very basics and think of something we're
always measuring or assessing.
So this is a measurement or assess an assessment already, but we do that.
The body does that with itself, right?
And that could be something like qualia, or that could even be something like thinking.
And that's kind of different than me verbalizing that in language, but the action itself,
it feels to me, the same kind of action of an agent moving through its environment in an
active inference sort of way, adjusting to regularities, you know, all the stuff that
active inference describes.
I don't see how that doesn't also apply to something like me as an agent who now has
language, considering myself as an agent and thinking of my own thoughts.
To me, it seems like the same process.
I mean, I agree.
Effectively, everything is recursive, right?
Like, I know that Maxwell really likes this idea of, oh crap, you know, when you have
these figures that are recursive, I forget.
Fractals or?
Fractals, thank you.
I love fractals.
Yeah.
So he's passionate about them.
And to him, that's how you can perceive time and reality and space.
And I think I agree with this.
It's all quite recursive.
So the notion of saying words and hearing them back, if only for yourself, but also from
others and getting pinked back, this is a very fractal pattern where we're going to
get more and more precise.
So I think there's something to that nature.
And if we go back to your initial question, which was how does awareness and consciousness
factor in being able to shift societal patterns?
Um, I think it gets to an interesting question of whether a group can be conscious as opposed
to just individual units within the group of conscious.
And then they produce patterns, emergent patterns.
And I think Mike Levin also gets to these questions as to whether intelligence and therefore
to some extent, potentially sentience can happen in the relationship between nodes.
And I agree with that.
That's what you said earlier, right?
The intelligence happens within communities, even if it's communities of cells that exchange
information.
Here, I think that there's a possibility that what we're experiencing is just not fully
being at the level of the sentient layer that is above us potentially, but we are getting
some messages from it, some signals from it, which constitutes culture.
And so what we're doing at this level is telling it, whoa, this doesn't work for me.
Oh my God, move, move, move.
And, and, and when this pattern agglomerates enough, when there's enough of a signal, it
gets passed upward and potentially that's when it starts shifting like an Ising model
type thing.
So I could totally see how by being the only way for you to move things somewhere else
is by being able to measure what the thing is now.
So yeah, I do believe that in this sense, there's a degree to which awareness factors in our
capacity to move things because I think awareness or focus gives you the, the capacity to, to
add precision to determine how far away from your desired or preferred state you might be.
Um, yeah, you mentioned Michael Levin and we could think of it as kind of, as, as ways
where we're navigating like intelligence, we could think of it as the way that life or being
or whatever we want to call it is making its way or navigating, whatever the encounter is
that, and it could be at different landscapes.
It could be in the geographical world, you know, as an insect doing whatever, or a human, it could
be in conceptual space, it could be in linguistic space, morphogenics, all these spaces, right.
That, that we are setting as we're measuring.
And I guess something like that, what you just described, which is a very important issue.
It's kind of in the human social space and that space, perhaps changes through communication or,
you know, you talk about potentiations and it's a change in potentiations, I guess, or
pretensions, am I saying it wrong?
The Herschel, the Herschel idea of like,
Pretension?
Opportunity, yeah, right, thanks.
So, in a way, when something changes in society that's changed in the laws or something, such
as the way women are treated or what our rights are, it, what has changed there?
Is it that in this navigating space, certain spatiotemporal agents have expressed through
the system three languages or whatever, what's happening and that it's wrong and somehow
spread that through, through the group so that the group itself understands that it's
wrong?
Or, I mean, this is all very hard and awkward, but I just like, you know, how do we get an
idea of what's, what's happening there in terms of something like changing, minimizing surprise
or changing the priors or?
So, to me, it's akin to structure learning, where you're essentially carving different ways
that you can have observations mapped to states or different ways that just states in general
are carved.
And then you do Bayesian model selection, where you determine that a model actually
works better for you to minimize free energy.
So, I think that's, that's what it is when you add a new state, for instance, like when
you're, when you're saying there's a new concept, here you go, you're now proposing that there
may be a better way to measure reality.
And therefore...
It's coming out of something, right?
Like it's a script to, you're changing the script.
So, it's not that you just proposed a new concept.
It's that you've together shifted the script's regularities, right?
It's embodied.
Exactly.
It's embodied.
None of this is fully one or the other.
It's, it's completely connected.
And this gets back to the historicity, right?
Like I, there has been historically groups that feel a lot of error and eventually it gets
to the point where they, they have to act on it.
They have to do something about it.
And because some slight, subtle shifts happen in other places, they get more and more and
more of an opportunity to have a policy that is going to actually phase shift them away
from the prior situation they were in.
Unfortunately, those phase shifts are never as clear cut as we would like them to be.
It seems like anytime you really integrate a new concept, a new, a new script, let's say,
it does constitute a phase shift, but there are still things left over from the past.
So we can see it in the historicity of the US, for instance, right now, a lot of people
saying, oh no, no, this thing is over.
It has been over for 200 years.
And the rest of the people are like, maybe some concept seems to have changed, but there
are still a lot of artifacts from the past that have followed us regardless of this ability
to break the representation in different ways.
So it's not, I don't think it's as simple as we change the representation and the embodiment
will change. It's more like there's errors.
You change your model of the world and thus you will now have also probably to change
your actions because with a new model, it may be possible that the prior policies you
were on no longer fit.
And so now you have an uphill battle to get the rest of the system to follow you to actually
changing this policy.
So I think this is what we can observe and I think it gives a lot of credence to this
idea that social groups in general act like their own Markov blanket, like their own agents
to some extent.
Yeah, sure.
It's again where you're setting the scale of the Markov blanket.
But that's very fascinating to think about in terms of the role that technology plays in
that change.
So something like one of these movements where people are treated wrong and clearly,
you know, seen in a way that's not accurate and they have to change that by coming together
and, you know, shifting the regularities more or less often with something like, you know,
force, whether through language or image or whatever, often technology plays a really big
role in that.
I mean, because as you were talking, we have to remember all that's developmental and there's
no gap, it's all coming from many trajectories joined together and technology has been a
way that people, like the first images of, you know, when people saw it and they knew
it was real or something or, radio, TV.
Now, you know, we can go all the way through the internet into something like AI.
So two things as we kind of wind down is I wonder how you see the role of, of technology
in this and, you know, it does relate back to your own work and where you started and where
you are now, but you're now using technology in a way to maybe help open up some of this
community change space, or I don't know, maybe that's too idealistic, but I would just wonder
what you think about that.
And yeah, I'll just leave it there for now.
So this is a sort of grandiose idea, but if we understand consciousness as the capacity to
integrate information such that it is encoded on a form of boundary and that boundary is sort
of aimed at potentially maintaining the agent that has the boundary and you consider AI to
be anchored within a system, I think what it says is that there's a possibility to make
more manifests, this integration of information through what AI can do, which is basically integrate
information and synthesize this to do something useful, which is what cognition does, right?
That's what we do.
We're trying to get to that.
Unfortunately, currently we're getting to a point where we can only integrate certain
kinds of information.
And when we do integrate it, it can only do a certain kind of thing.
Like it doesn't do everything.
It does one thing very well, or it does another thing very well, but not both at once.
And it can't generalize from one to the other.
We're trying to get towards that.
That was what people thought they saw in chat GPT.
They thought they saw a generalist.
Turns out it's not exactly a generalist.
It's more like a really, really, really, really good language machine that because
language is structured and generally what you feed into it is structured patterns of
language.
You don't just feed it garbage.
It tends to have encapsulated some of these regularities, but it hasn't encapsulated the
the understanding, the causal layer that allows you to understand that because thing is this
way, another thing is this way.
That's not quite what chat GPT has or GPT in general.
None of the others do either.
LLMs in general.
We are getting towards a point where we might, but the point is it may become this sort of,
you could say conscious, you may not want to say conscious.
You could say overarching layer that integrates information.
And that's kind of beautiful, but at the same time, a little scary because I think I know
who I am.
I think I know what groups generally think I belong to them.
I don't know what boundaries are encapsulated within the system that is bounded by a given
AI system.
So when you, when you, when you're sick, when something goes wrong with your body, your body
fights it, it tries to get rid of it because obviously, right, you want to maintain your
regularities.
I think everybody is sort of seeing AI in this way and see, and that's why you saw the emergence
of Grok, which was a non-woke AI because people were like, well, I want to be the thing
which is represented in that boundary.
I don't want something else to be represented.
People are very afraid of biases in AI because they're like, well, if AI is going to be this
integration layer and it thinks something is good and I don't constitute what is good,
it's going to discriminate against me.
And we've seen that we've seen AI discriminating against sub-communities because the historical
data chosen had this pattern of discrimination that identified these groups as groups that were
not part of what is represented in the AI.
I think that's clear sometimes that the LLMs at least are trained on data and it's just
like we were talking about with a life, you know, as, as we develop, we're sort of, everyone
says stuff to us and they tell us pink is for girls.
So that's what we spit out unless we see another option or someone, you know, breaks that open
and, but with the LLM, it can't learn anymore.
So it's just whatever you've put into it, it's just going to stick on that.
So, well, I mean, there are our LHF patterns, so, you know, we, we could, the problem is
we haven't figured out how to do it.
Well, so the continual learning is not exactly continual.
And that's kind of what active inference AI is sort of trying to do, right?
Right.
So that's the thing.
So active inference is supposed to be non-static by, by very nature.
And so you, you would constantly have a system that adapts to its surroundings.
But I think this notion of a biased AI needs to be a little bit flipped on its head.
And maybe what we don't need is an unbiased AI, maybe what we need is a lot of very locally
biased AIs that just focus on this perspective that understands it has a perspective and is
couched in that such that we would know what to use at a given time.
That's a wonderful idea and so dangerous and so wonderful because it really matters then
that everyone understands that they're biased, that the AI is biased.
So that's again, that awareness thing of how do we, because that, that's actually really
smart what you said.
I mean, that, that could work if everyone understood that it's biased.
It's kind of like with the social media where we, people don't understand that they're in
a feed that's giving them an orientation of the world.
But if we understood that we could even play with it and look at all the orientation.
So there's always a scaling too of awareness, I guess, to go back to that.
No, absolutely.
I think it is.
I think the key question is who gets to define the bias that we're going to adopt for a given
situation.
And that's not a solved question, that that's where we get into ethics.
And again, I think technology is starting to wake up to the fact that they need ethics
in order to do anything because their power can no longer go unchecked.
Like lots of companies have ethics boards now.
So these tools are coming.
I hope they come fast enough.
Yeah.
And there's a transparency in active inference AI, at least that's, they're trying to build
that in your, you know, so it's, people are aware of it.
It reminds me of like the priests who used to only be able to once to read so they could
sort of dictate what the Bible said.
And then everyone learned to read and it sort of changed.
I mean, maybe we're there with AI in a weird way and who knows, but you know, just to kind
of end it and come back to your own, you know, we started with, with your, your story and
I wonder those problems that you started with and ideas and questions, have you found, you
know, in learning to code and going through all of this really hard work?
I mean, this is not easy to digest all the information you digest and like what, how has
that changed your own trajectories and paths kind of in the scope of what we've been talking
about or has it, I don't know.
So initially I started with a very deep love for postmodernism and then I had to exist in
different circles that were very much not postmodernists and it, it changes your perspective on things.
It makes you qualify things differently.
And now I'm sort of going back over the pendulum where I'm like, hmm, this qualification of these
things I used to like had a purpose.
They were trying to do something which was pushed back on the possibility of critique
and pushed back on the possibility of control of what they're doing because they want to
maintain a certain order of things.
And so now I'm sort of going back over these things and having perhaps more nuanced perspective
over my previous leanings, but I'm still finding that these tools are useful, like constructivism.
These are very, very useful frameworks to understand what's going on and how we might be
able to counter it, such as educate everybody, just give everybody the tools to understand
what's going on and use them as well.
Don't just let it be in the hands of a very select few who then get to decide without your
input.
And therefore maybe you'll be on the lucky side, but maybe you won't be.
Does that have to do with self-esteem too?
Another topic that you've written about, does all that stuff you just said, having that
and bringing that back in, do something for the phenomenology of the spatiotemporal sort
of awareness within the Markov blanket in terms of empowering or giving some?
Yeah.
I think, I think self-esteem is, is just a tool, a tool that enables you to either try
to fit within the group.
If you find benefit to it or flip against the group.
If you find that this isn't working for you and there are obviously psychological factors
that either keep you within a low self-esteem or allow you to try to flip such that you can
now grow your self-esteem relative to another group.
I think that's why it's important for certain movements to say X is beautiful, because it
doesn't matter whether they believe it or not, it doesn't matter whether others believe
it or not.
What it is, is a social tool to help them grow their self-esteem, to create enough momentum
that they can now be represented in something where their interests and beliefs are forefront.
All right.
That's good.
There should be more questions, but it's over, the hour is over for now and that was, that
was a fun ride.
So thanks so much.
I really appreciate your perspective and the work you're doing.
Well, thank you for reading it and chatting with me.
That was great.
All right.
Be well.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
