Hello everyone, welcome to an episode with Julian Baggini, who is the best-selling author
of How the World Thinks. Julian proves that being a philosopher and being a best-seller are not
dichotomous. They are both possible at once. He's done it twice, at least twice, and for good reason.
He explains philosophical ideas in a very readable way and presents them in frames and with references
that a wide audience can understand, but a philosopher can read and also get something
out of, no matter how much you've studied. Julian is also the founder of The Philosophers Magazine,
and he's one of those guys you hear on BBC in our time quite often, if you happen to listen to that,
which I do. I met him way back, I don't even know why, somewhere in London, and we've kept in contact
every now and then over the years. He's just a good philosophical mentor and someone who's
one of the rare people who's been able to remain a philosopher and do good philosophy while at the
same time bringing philosophy to a wider audience. And you'll hear that in the conversation because
we talk about a lot of, you know, heavy-ish subjects, but they don't feel heavy at all.
We talk about, for example, this relational versus kind of atomistic way of looking at the world
in philosophy and in science and so on. And he talks about how this book sort of have changed his
perspective a bit in terms of the relationality. But, you know, in so doing, we talk about some
really deep things in a way about how the people that we meet and even the people that we read
become such deep parts of us and the line or lack of a line of where that begins and ends in terms of
life and death and how patterns of being or patterns of thought might be similar in terms of this
effect. He reminds me, too, that even though we do have our own unique spatiotemporal paths in the
world, that doesn't necessarily mean that we all have different truths or that we shouldn't still think
of truth as a social, shared, ongoing, dynamic reality, which is, you know, constantly needing
us to question one another. There's something he says about respecting the capacity of the reasoner
and about respect. Often we think we shouldn't challenge one another or we shouldn't say when we
disagree that that's not a sign of respect. But in a sense, what he's kind of saying at some part
in the conversation is that actually it is a sign of respect to do that. It's more about
where you're coming from when you're doing it. And that's something that philosophy does for us.
And he does write a lot about that, the ability to think differently and to be able to handle being
questioned, but also to know when you're in the space for that and to trust one another and
open up a way of letting that be a safe, a safe space. So there's, there's so much here. And he
offers some really beautiful, quite gorgeous example really of, of holding the paradox, which is one of
those themes I talk about a lot towards the end, we get into that. I don't think we get into map and
territory here as I usually do with everyone, but we get into a lot of really important subjects related
to either ors and dichotomies. And he also, at the end, we talk a little bit about for you young
philosophers out there about life decisions and you know, what, what's possible and life balance.
So there's a lot in here. And it was great to talk to him today. Or no, I didn't talk to him today,
talked to him many months ago, usually takes me like a month or two months before I post the
conversations, by the way. And a lot of them I had before I even started this channel. So
just so you know, some of these conversations happened a long time ago. And actually it's good
I say that because in this one, I think I'm wearing a sweater. So it was in the winter and it's definitely
not winter now. It's been really hot these past few days, but beautiful and sunny. And I hope you're
having a good summer out there, wherever you are. And that we can all do something together to make
more and more summers more and more beautiful. All right, that was a little too idealistic even for
me. But in any case, I am glad you're here. And thanks for spending a little time with us. And here's
Julian. Hi, Julian. It's so good to see you. Thank you for coming on the show today.
Thank you for inviting me, Andrea.
So I want to start with this book. Congratulations, by the way, How the World Thinks.
Thank you.
It's a bestseller. Is that your third bestseller?
No, no, it's a second actually. I mean, who's enough? Yeah. But it's a big gap between this and
the first, because the first was The Pig That Wants to Be Eaten, which is about 2003 or something.
Oh, wow. I was just remembering your first book, or at least the first one I read and How We Met,
which was a really long time ago. And it also had Thinks in the title, right? It had like an apple on
the cover. How to Think Like a Philosopher? No, that's the most recent one. What Philosophers Thinks.
What Philosophers Think. Yeah, the other one I have back here, which is the newest one,
which might become a bestseller too. You never know.
Well, we live in hope.
So I just want to start with maybe it's a little bit of an annoying question. I'm sorry if it is,
but you can tell me. But when we talk about how the world thinks, we're talking about
the human world, right?
Yes. Yes, we are. Yeah. No, no, it's not an annoying question. It's something that I guess
people assume to be the case. They don't even ask the question.
Well, these days, sometimes, you know, there's all these ideas about plant cognition,
animal cognition. And a lot of our neuroscience classes these days, you know, those are
entire classes. So that's kind of why I wondered if you'd even like considered that or just
bracket that.
Well, I mean, it's interesting. I mean, you know, you sort of, the title, I hadn't really thought how
the title could be interpreted in a different way to mean, you know, how Gaia thinks, I guess,
you know. No, I wanted to do a book on global philosophy. And global philosophy is a human
artefact. So I didn't even, wasn't even on my agenda to think about plants or how other animals think.
Well, that makes sense, because philosophy is a human endeavour.
Yeah.
But so what made you want to do this? I mean, this is a quite a big adventure you went on. It
sounds like you're not really in the book, but you are in the book, kind of in the background. I
can, we can tell that, and you say it at the beginning a bit that you did travel.
So I wonder where this idea came for, for this book.
Well, you know, I think sometimes I've come to the conclusion, perhaps that sometimes the
most interesting books are not the ones where the author is setting out all that they know.
It's rather where the author is trying to find out something and shares that voyage discovery,
shall we say, with the reader. Because, you know, I've been writing about philosophy,
I've been doing philosophy really all my adult life. But when you do philosophy and you've been
educated in a British university, you are doing Western philosophy, full stop. And non-Western
philosophy is not necessarily explicitly disparaged, but it's seen as something else. It's different.
It's just whatever it is, it's not what we do. I think there is often also a belief that it is not
really philosophy, right? And it's kind of, it's more, I don't know, cultural thought and religious
thought, whatever it might be. And, you know, over the years, of course, I've been aware of
non-Western philosophy and I do talks and sometimes people ask me why I don't know more about it.
And I think my comfort with knowing so little about it was decreasing. And I thought that I was
persuaded that I really ought to know more. And I mean, actually, you can think, I can think of
some particular prompts, perhaps the prompt, which was perhaps a straw that broke the camel's back,
perhaps, I don't know. I'm not sure about the chronology of this. There's an article written by
Brian van Norden and his colleague, I apologise to the colleagues, I'm terrible at remembering names.
I'll try to find it.
Yeah. And it was really sort of saying, yeah, they'd been trying for years to get people to
teach more non-Western philosophy. And they went for all the reasons why people said they didn't,
et cetera. And they said, okay, look, we give up, but at least from now on, have the honesty,
call yourself the department of Western philosophy, at least do that, you know, just be clear about it.
But their explanation of why, you know, the unconvincing replies people gave as to why they
shouldn't bother. They did seem unconvincing. So I thought, listen, I need to find out more.
And actually, you then look around and you see that there really was not a book, not a single
book, I think, which was aimed at the, you know, the general reader, which was trying to be global,
had sort of depth, but wasn't, you know, which was accessible. The nearest book I can come up,
there's a very, David Cooper wrote a very, very good book on world philosophies, but it was very long.
It is accessible, but it was, you know, pretty academic in style and tone. So it's like this
book is needed and I need to read it. So in order to read it, I have to write it. So that's the long
answer to your question. Yeah. Well, those are usually the best books, the ones we need to read
until we write. And obviously a lot of people were interested in this. It came at the right time. And
I think we've all noticed that there's been, all of us who keep track of philosophy or do philosophy
or just read philosophy that it has changed lately to where people want to open up beyond what is
usually called this kind of Western canon. But in your book, there's a lot of tension in doing that,
isn't there? Because in a way, the whole idea, the word philosophy, sort of in the way you assume it's
human, we just almost assume these particular parameters. So from where we are, from our position,
it can be kind of hard, can't it, to understand where something like religion and philosophy can
be distinguished, if they even need to be distinguished. I remember in school, I was
always interested in what is Eastern philosophy, but I had to study it in the religious department.
Yeah. And of course, you go into this a lot in your book. So was that a hard part of writing this
book? Or is that an interesting part, both? Yeah, well, no, it was an interesting part. I think
I think it's difficult. I mean, what's very interesting about philosophy, one of the many
things about interesting things about philosophy is that there isn't a straightforward answer to what
it is. So, you know, if you ask a philosopher, what is philosophy, and you'll get very different
answers. And often you'll get a bit of fumbling around and not really doing much. I remember there's
one, I can't remember, one of the 20th century sort of British philosophers who, when asked the
question, what is philosophy about? He simply gestured to his bookshelves, it says, it is what
all these are about, you know, which was not a very helpful definition. So I think it's pretty clear
that most, lots of things, particularly human endeavours and artefacts, that they don't have
some essence which is pure and untainted. So we may overuse Wittgenstein's idea of this family
resemblance concept. In other words, we use the same word for something because it has
sufficient things in common for it to make sense. And I think that when you look at philosophy,
the thing is, if you look at philosophy within the Western tradition over its, you know, over
2000 years, there's a lot of variety within it too. So it's not like you can say anything
clear about philosophy which will make it clear that makes it very different to non-Western philosophy.
So, for example, the big one is people say, oh, well, the thing about philosophy is that
it's, it's not a religious, it's independent from religion. That's just historically inaccurate,
right? I mean, people will study Augustine and that sort of like explicitly religious.
Descartes was explicitly religious, you know, Kierkegaard was explicitly religious. So
the idea that there is this sharp dividing line doesn't make sense either. So I think, you know,
you have to kind of nevertheless make decisions about what you include and you don't, don't
include. Well, I think if I'm asked what philosophy is, the answer I used to give for a long time was
that it's a combination of a set of questions and ways of answering them. So the kind of questions
it deals with are the kind of questions which are not straightforwardly answerable simply by
accumulation of more facts, right? So how far is the earth from the moon? Go measure it. Now,
for, for, for, we didn't know how to measure it for a long time, but it's an empirical question. We know
that. What is good? What is justice? Well, you know, you can't just go out and measure that. You could do
an anthropological or historical survey about what people have taken justice to be, but that's not
doing philosophy as such. So we have all these questions, which are, if you like, left over by
the special sciences or particularly empirical disciplines. But then the way you answer them,
I think, is important. It is important that philosophy is defined by its commitment to, to reason. Now,
there's a big story about that. But all that means is that, you know, if you answer those questions
by appeal simply to a religious authority, or perhaps some insight you claim to have had through
some spiritual experience or something, or just by what your tradition says, you're, you're not doing
philosophy. Now, of course, what makes reason is itself another concept which is contesting. I've
read a whole book about that too, which is called The Edge of Reason. But I think that the key thing
about reason is that it has a certain kind of openness and intersubjectivity, if you like, that
if I, if I offer a reason for something, it is something which you have the capacity yourself to
understand and to assess and to test and so forth. That's what makes it rational. If I give you a
reason, which is somehow, it's not possible for you to either understand it or test it or interrogate
it, then I'm not really giving you a reason in that strong sense of rationality. And if you understand
that, then it seems very clear that in all the major non-Western traditions, there is something which
is called philosophy. They will have different views about exactly what is within the domain of
reason. They will have different views about the way faith and so forth fits into it. But that's
okay, because it's within a framework where that is itself justified by reason. Okay. So for example,
you know, in what we now call Indian philosophy, to describe the philosophy of that part of the world,
there is a certain status given to what might be called insight, or even called revelation. But
the point is that that's within a framework whereby that kind of understanding has a rational
justification. So you can reject the justification. And there are some schools of Indian philosophy which
did and claimed that wasn't a valid source of knowledge. But it's not just, you're not just told
to accept it as a valid source of knowledge, and then get on with it. You're given arguments why it's a
valid source of knowledge. And of course, in Western philosophy, you know, again, we have examples of
things like that, whereby people will claim that, for example, the apprehending what is good is
something that we can't give further reasons for, we have to just do it directly. And they'll have
reasons for that. So there are plenty of examples in Western philosophy where it's claimed that for
particular kinds of knowing, you can't rely on a rational argument, but there is a rational argument why
you have to use that way of knowing. I'm afraid I'm giving a very long convoluted answers.
Yeah. No, but that's part of why doing philosophy is important in a way. And also what I like about
this book and what I want to get into, or both the books, actually, the newest one too. But I think it
might be in the newest one, How to Think Like a Philosopher, where you talk about philosophy almost as
like a practice, or critical thinking itself as being something as being a practice, or I've
always thought of critical thinking as being, I wish we all had to learn how to do it, because it's
hard, as you say, also in your books, it takes work, it's challenging. But there's something about
the practice of it that, I mean, you point this out in your latest book that, you know, it really helps
like your quality of life, but also just connecting and all these other bigger themes that you talk
about. And you also talk about philosophy as being something, philosophers are distinguished by not
having a safety net or something, I think, too. It's kind of this place where we can try out things,
investigate, and try to develop some sort of rigor, I guess. But as I hear you talking, and just to come
back to this book about how the world thinks, you start at the beginning saying there's something that
all these, because you talk about really, the world, you know, that's very new about this book,
looking at philosophies of the world, which is very hard, but you somehow do it. And you but you
start at the beginning saying there's this kind of through line where everything is one ends up being
a kind of message that we get in Greek and Indian and Chinese and various philosophies. But that as we
get into the book, we realize it's really quite complicated, right? Mostly for how we this critical
thinking and so on. So I want to just start with that, like that idea of everything is one being
a kind of starting point of the book, and then how we really start to look at that in a way through
critical thinking. Was that on purpose? Did you? Did you think about that, that you're actually doing
the philosophy of telling the philosophies of the world? Well, no, I don't know. And I can't remember
why I started with that. I mean, I should say that, you know, I had a chapter on that. I mean,
what the chapters were going to be about evolves as you look into, you know, what are the recurrent
themes. And it was interesting that this idea of unity of a fundamental unity of some thought
sort does seem to be quite a universal thing. And also, I think the one reason I went for that was
that's a very common theme in non-Western philosophies, not so much in Western philosophy,
because I wanted to, one thing that I really wanted to avoid was an implicit kind of
what should I say, privileging or primacy of Western philosophy. Now, I think I acknowledged
that to a certain extent, it was going to have a privileged position because it was my background.
Yeah, you do say that, you make it clear. Yeah, but I didn't want it to sort of be
more so than that. I didn't want Western philosophy always to be the reference point. And with the idea
of unity, I think it isn't, you know, because it's with particularly Indian Chinese philosophy that
you really see that as a more central theme. I mean, actually, interestingly enough,
from my own point of view, I mean, first of all, the big metaphysical issues are actually the ones
I'm probably most agnostic about, I'm not sure about. And I'm not entirely convinced. I'm not
sure how best to understand this idea of unity anyway. So I think that's why I brought it up,
because the paradox you were presenting, actually, we start to realise that that is different. I mean,
because you go into something, for example, like the where there's no third way, the law of excluded,
of excluded middle, which I think this, this gets to the heart of, I mean, you can see the flip,
right, from a Western position of thinking about reductionism or atomistic thinking, and how just
that's what we take for granted, in a way, you're, that's a really flip from what you're presenting
of this idea of starting with awareness and becoming more aware that we kind of get in other
philosophies. Of course, I'm generalising, but you do start to see that that's actually very
complicated to try to even understand what unity could be. It's not, there's not maybe a beginning
or end to it.
Yeah, I mean, you talk about the sort of the flips and everything, I mean, it was,
there were all sorts of traps you can fall into doing this book. And one is sort of just an
overgeneralisation, and an over dichotomisation. I mean, I felt in your introduction, I really had to
make it clear that, you know, to talk about Western, Eastern, Indian, there are generalisations you can
make, right?
And that we are making, even if we don't know it enough.
Yeah, so, yeah, there are generalisations, there's a difference between making a generalisation and a
universal statement. So the problem is to say, Eastern philosophy is like this, Western philosophy
is like that, in a way that implies this is universal. We have to accept there's a lot of
diversity within each disciplines. But there are generalisations, generalisations tell you about
what tends to be the case. So the simple example you give of this, which is obviously true, is
around sort of, you know, male and female, right? There are generalisations you can make, which are
factually true, for example, around average height, weight, fat to muscle ratios, all these kind of
things. I mean, these are incontrovertible. It doesn't mean that every woman is, you know,
shorter than every man. Of course it doesn't. We know that's not what it means. So we can make
generalisations about the general trends in British, American, French, Chinese, Indian philosophy,
as long as we are aware we're not making universal statements. But I think the other really important
thing is, and I think the single most important book that I've read, and every time I talk about
this book, I always mention it, is Tom Kassoulis' book, Intimacy or Integrity. Because I think he nails,
he's describing a distinction, which he thinks is to do with Eastern and Western and non-Western
philosophy, shall we say. And he has a very good way of getting us to understand it. And he says it's
not about an either or. It's rather the, to sort of almost quote him, he says, what's foreground in one
intellectual tradition, his background in the other and vice versa. So the great things, I think the
good, what he really alerted me to was that very rarely do you find anything in a non-Western
philosophy, which if you think about it, is completely alien. It's often just something which
is not as salient, hasn't been given as much prominence. And you can, you can find it there.
And so when you look at it in that way, it becomes very, very, very helpful, I think.
Yeah, that's a very helpful diagram that you give. I don't know if that's yours or his,
with the circles, where they're kind of overlapping and touching or separate. It's more atomistic.
Yeah. Well, that's the other thing. Okay, so this, this, this, so what I've described is the meta thing
about comparative philosophy in general. That's about the specific different orientations he calls them
towards intimacy or integrity. Very, I mean, the words aren't particularly helpful, I have to say.
They're difficult. I'm still trying to get past it. I only read it for the first time in your book,
but I talk about, I tend to put it at some atomized and relational, right? Yeah. So the Western way of
thinking is more atomistic. It tends to always assume that the way to understand anything is to
break it down into its constituent parts. And those constituent parts are the most fundamental level
of explanation. And everything else is kind of built up from the bottom from them. So, you know,
atomistic, because that's the kind of paradigm of natural science, which has actually served us
very, very well, but it's kind of become the paradigm of everything else too. So the great example we have
in Britain, people, everyone around the world knows Margaret Thatcher, who was prime minister during
the 1980s. And she very famously and controversially said this speech in which she said,
there was no such thing as society. There were only individuals and families and so forth.
And society was just the word we use for the collection of these things. And it was interesting
because people saw it as a bit of an attack on, well, yeah, an attack on social cohesion and
everything. But the general principle, I think, was one which does resonate with people. That's kind
of what people think. Society is nothing more than the individuals. Whereas the relational way of looking
at things says that that's kind of a mistake because, well, not always, sorry, I shouldn't say
it's a mistake. The relational way of looking at things is that to understand what anything is
as an individual thing, you have to think about how it relates to other things. So what's primary?
So if you take you, Andrea, right? I mean, to understand what you are, we don't sort of like
first start by isolating you from your history and your environment and your relations,
and then think about how you might relate to those things. You are who you are. We can only
understand who you are by understanding that you're a person who grew up in a particular
culture at a particular time with particular parents or guardians, siblings, maybe in a certain
community, that you've done certain things in your life. You've been members of communities of
learning, of work and so forth, neighbourhoods. You know, you are in a sense the totality of your
relations and that's how we best understand you. So the diagram you're talking about there is when
if you have two, he has two overlapping circles. And in the Western way of thinking, if you have
two overlapping circles and you pull them apart, you have two entire circles, you just pulled
them apart. If you remove one circle on this relational view, it's like there's a little
crescent left where it overlaps. It's like the missing piece.
The missing piece, yeah. And what I think is interesting about that is, one of the things I find
interesting about that is, that actually kind of fits a lot of our, around people, that fits
our experience. Because when people lose someone who's very close to them, they say it's like I
lost a part of myself. And I think the point is that we take that to be a kind of a very powerful
metaphor. And I think the Cassoulius way of putting it suggests, well, it's a bit more than
metaphor, really. There is something kind of literally true of that, because you are, to a large
part, constituted by your relations. And so if those strongest relations are sundered,
a part of you is quite literally taken away. So I think that's true.
Yes, I think that's definitely...
I've used the word interesting, by the way. I use the word interesting all the time.
That's very interesting. No, this is really true, and it can go the other way around, too,
that you can never, like, once someone, once someone has become part of your life, be that,
you know, even if it's someone like Leibniz or Spinoza, or, but especially when it's a
person like your father, your mother, your lover, your, you know, they're also always part of you,
too. So there's this kind of way in which when they're gone, something is gone, but also that
they're always, that they've changed you, and they're with you. So I guess why I'm saying that
is there's a way in which, like, we could think of the, those are kind of 2D things on a page in
the book, of course, because it's on the page, but it's also, it's probably very much complex and more
multidimensional, and there's many, many, many pieces there. And in the book, I feel like in the
same way you kind of started this discussion, you're, you're sort of demonstrating what can't
be said with words, which is another theme, language, which is that actually both of these
are true in a way, in a kind of situatedness that you've also described via place, but it could also
be a situatedness in landscapes of thought. And because as you described it, also in my life,
I've read certain books, I've been taught certain things about religion, I've heard certain
conversations, and all that goes into my, my path, or my blockchain, or whatever we want to call it
these days, that, you know, that, that does what you were also describing. So is that true, am I
reading you right, that you're kind of trying to hold this, open the space, multidimensionalize the
space a little bit? It's a nice way of putting it, right. And I think one thing you said there is,
it's worth stressing that Kasuda says you don't have to choose between these two orientations,
they're, they're orientations that we take up at different times. The question is really sometimes
which is the most appropriate one to take on a particular occasion, right? Right. But I think
what you said, yes, I mean, I'm not sure, I just agree with what you, what you said, but what you
said about these things becoming part of you, I think that's, that is so, so true, you know. And I
think, again, we see that most clearly with the people we are most close to. And it's a very common
thing for people who are bereaved when they have lost someone close to them. A lot of people report
that they continue to talk to them, right. And they, and they hear their replies. Now,
some people interpret that in a literal way, they think they are existing in another world and they
are communicating with them. But other people can have exactly the same experience, but they understand
what's going on as they have internalized so them so much that they could, as it were, continue to
kind of, you know, in the software analogy, as it were, their, their, their software is used to run
in their brain, in their body. But by spending a long time together, it starts to run a bit in yours
too. And that, I mean, that's kind of a cold way of putting something which is actually much more
emotionally powerful. No, I think it makes sense. Even if you think about language and how you learn
certain patterns, what's the example you give in a different context, but I think it's of
aboriginal philosopher, maybe talking about patterning is the, is the kind of main theme.
There's something about this patterning action that literally becomes part of you. And you,
you, you're kind of playing those scripts, so to say, when you're talking to someone like my
grandmother, for example, I can kind of remember what she, I can think of what she might say in a
situation, coming out of that path that was my grandmother. Yeah, yeah, that's right. That's
right. And so in a way, you know, this is the sense in which I think, you know, we live on in
after we, if we live on for at least for a short while after we die, there's no literal sense at
all. Yeah. Pattern is, pattern is, pattern thinking. This, this, this is, you talk about it
somewhere and it has to do with place, the placeness and the situatedness of it, which is a theme I do
want to bring up here because you literally traveled to these places. And I wonder how
important it was for you to travel in body geographically, not only in text or not only
in conversation. Maybe you could have just had, you had a lot of conversations with a lot of people
who are, you know, really schooled in this. You're not just trying to come up with these ideas
yourself. So how important was the place for you? And because it's, it ends up being where we come to
in the book in a way. And it's, it's a theme that resonates there a lot. And I think it also has to do
with what we're talking about here about this. When do you choose the right practice or the right
angle, the atomistic or the integrated when you're, you know, has to do with what you're orienting
towards. Okay. So, yeah, I mean, it's worth stressing what you say. I mean, I kind of approach
this as someone who I didn't set out to become an expert in global philosophy. I set out to speak
to experts in the various things and bring it together. So that's right. I'm not sort of like
trying to overreach. The travel aspect was interesting. How important was it? Because
I think, I think it helped in two ways. It probably wasn't strictly necessary. And I actually have to
say that I've become a little bit sort of fed up with, it's become a bit of a cliche now for serious
nonfiction books to focus on the journey of the author, as though that were the most important thing
when it really isn't. You know, and sometimes it's all it does is simply reveal how, I don't know,
how little the author knew in the first place. There's a, there was a book, the Sea Spiracy book,
I think, a film, sorry. It's a documentary about, you know, serious issues about what's going on in
the seas. But it was told through the perspective of this really naive young guy who set out to make
a film. And you kind of thought, you know, well, he'd arrive and show how amazed and surprised he
was. I think, well, didn't you do your research? You know, that's not the interesting thing that
you're surprised. I know what you mean. It's kind of an easy plot. Yeah. Just, okay, it's going to be
a journey and that's going to be the plot. Yes, exactly. Exactly. Because everything's a journey,
so it seems to make sense. So, I mean, I, but I think, I think there are two, there are two ways in
which it helps. I mean, one is, well, I think it helps for me and the reader in two ways. That by
travelling, I was sometimes able to come up with or just stumble upon some sort of cultural
examples. Because I was very much interested in a way in which cultures reflect the thought and
vice versa. So, this wasn't just like a history of philosophical ideas that you'd only, only of
interest if you were interested in philosophy. If you understand a bit about Chinese philosophy,
you understand a bit about China. I think there's, I only had three pages on Russia,
which is a shame, but, you know, but to be honest, you know, if you understand a little
bit more about the history of Russian thought, you understand a lot better what's going on
in Russia now. Well, you make it, you make up for it with Dostoevsky quotes. Yeah, yeah. Okay, yeah.
So, it is a window into culture. That's the key thing. And by travelling, I think I was able to
just sort of like spot things and put things in there, which clarified it to myself, but also
hopefully made it evident for the author. Sometimes they're little details which I could
never have got just by being here. So, one thing that comes to mind is the Islamic
philosophy, religion difficulty, and that kind of conversation that you overheard. I think that's
the one. Ah, yes, there was. It just lays it out very perfectly. Yeah, in that, you had the
debate, you know, the tension between, you know, how much is Islamic philosophy actually essentially
connected with religion or not, and how much is that a problem? There's almost literally a kind of
as close as you get to a proper fight in an academic conference. Yeah, from that, from that
situation and context, not from a Western one. So, it's very helpful. That's right. But I mean,
one of my, I think one of the favourite examples is such a little one was when I was in Japan. I was
only in Japan very, very briefly. But there was this wonderful sign I described whereby it has
a picture of somebody with, with headphones on, and there's nothing around them, and someone else
with headphones on, and there's noise coming out. And it says that, and it had it translated
into English. It said something like, music emanating from earphones is just noise, or something
like that, right? Yeah, it's a very gentle way of calling attention to this loud headphone
thing. Yeah. Now, it has been pointed out to me that it's not that in Japan you don't get
signs saying, don't walk on the grass, don't do this. It's not that they don't do that. But
the very fact that they could have a sign, which didn't give any instruction at all, it simply
reminded people that noise from headphones is an irritant. And that would be enough to
stop people doing it. And you do notice on public transport in Japan, that people are
very, very, very, very, very, very courteous about other people's space. You don't get any
of the issues you get on the New York subway and all that kind of thing. Everyone is given
space, everyone is very respectful. And I think that tells you something about that importance
of the social. It still has that primacy. Whereas if you go to something like Britain
or the UK, we have become so now fixated on our individual rights that there is an erosion
of that public space. It drives me crazy. Public parks, for example, in a public park, people
think they'll sit down and they'll play their music really loudly. And they think that why
can't I'm having a good time? If it bothers you, that's your problem. People don't think
other people don't want to hear my music, you know, on the subway where people, you know,
the music comes with the headphones or people. Anyway, I don't know if you have it here.
Actually, I live in Utrecht now, but I was in Berlin for a really long time. And people
had started just playing their kind of music without headphones as they go down the street.
I don't know if that's happening in Bristol.
It can happen a bit. I mean, sometimes you do see people on the train, you know, watching
a film on their laptop, not with headphones. And you're thinking, what's wrong with you?
Yeah, I think that's what that sign in the book that when you describe the sign of the
Japanese subway told me was back to that idea of space and place and how we think of even that
the individual as something, you kind of learn that through media that in my culture, from my path,
this Western more, that you're supposed to kind of own your space, right? And there's something
about that, that you're almost showing that you have confidence in that you are an individual,
which is very different from that sign and the way that sign is interpreted. And that whole section
is, is very, is really interesting there too. And that kind of goes back to that Thatcher example
that you gave too, where, and that was, you know, around the time when I was going to be born and come
through. And there is that way we're supposed to be individuals and that's what it's about. And you,
you contribute as an individual. And of course, as you point on in, in your books, I'm not sure which
one, because I read both of these closely, maybe both. That's kind of one of the problems that we're
facing now. I think at some point, you say that a lot of this, what we've seen politically, that's
just been difficult and challenging in terms of not being able to communicate or the populism ends up
being a problem with belonging. How's that connected? Do you think you look at a lot of that in the book,
belonging and individualism? Okay. Yeah. I mean, I think, I think, I think it goes back to the point
that these things aren't either ors. And I think that the problem is when you get the balance kind
of wrong. And my concern is not the, I mean, I, I am a product of Western culture and I think of
therefore inevitably going to value certain aspects of its individualism. And I would find it very,
very difficult. I wouldn't find it desirable to live in cultures where there was a lot less of it,
where I always had much more pressure to conform. So it's not about, you know, but I think that it's
reached the stage where it gets out of balance and it creates a kind of backlash. So in, in,
if you think in Europe now, and also in North America, the sort of nativist populist nationalism,
I mean, this is, this is what happens when people are feeling like the world has been taken over by these
rootless cosmopolitan liberal elites who don't place any value on community tradition and value,
then it gets asserted even more strongly and in, in ways which are not sort of healthy. So I think,
I think the sort of the, a lot of the populist stuff is a reaction against the kind of fragmentation
of society than excessive individualism has created. Now, of course, the point is,
a lot of these people who support these parties, of course, there are certain things around their
own individualism, which they really value. In America, I think you probably see this really
strongly because on the one hand, you have the make America great again, nationalism, chuck out this,
that and the other. But in America, you also get a very strong, we don't want the state involved,
the individual should be free, etc, etc. So this is sort of like an intention both to assert the
supreme sovereignty of the individual over their own lives, but also somehow to assert the importance
of nation and community and state. And it becomes rather a messy, a mess where people don't really
realise what the compromises and the balances need to be. Yes. And I think to try to get into this messy
nuance, a lot of that is that we do still have this either or mindset. Not that we hold both of them
and think that at some point, this might be right, or this might be right. And there's not only two,
there's always multiple dimensions, we don't think like that, it's very hard. So it's usually either or.
So in fact, as you just described it, most people are most things just in extreme in one situation or
another. And so it's not that just like one party is individualistic, and the other one is not,
but we tend to try to put it like that. And then we end up sort of fighting about, about those things.
Do you see that? I mean, you talk about the platonic Cartesian path, I'll say, you know, that,
that a lot of these countries that we think of as Western have, have followed. Do you see that as
connected to this problem? I mean, in the end, is it about all of us opening to one another's paths a little
more around the world to balance this out? I mean, because harmony is not an easy idea either in the
book. Yes. Well, well, these are these are very big questions. I think I think that, as you say,
the kind of sort of dichotomous ways of thinking and black and white thinking are problematic, because at
the end of the day, the world, important things don't tend to be like this.
Yeah, they've been very helpful, too, as you show. So it's, even on this issue, it's kind of,
you can't say one or the other. Well, sure. I mean, you know,
we wouldn't have computer programming without binary, the binary, binary, binary logic sits behind
computer programming. Reductionism is behind most of the great successes in science. But even there,
you see, the point now is that even in the natural sciences, again, to prove this isn't an either or
thing, a lot of the most interesting fields in science now, I think, are the ones which are
about the systems levels rather than the reductive levels. So there is lots of very serious science
going on, which is saying there's only so far you can go. On a reductionism thing, you have to look at
the interactions and the systems, etc. But maybe that's maybe that's maybe I'm dodging your question.
But then, no, I think that's true, too, because we're even trying to create quantum computers,
which get past zero one or the idea of spatial web. So there is some change. But here, I'll put
it in a different way. We could generalize this and say, okay, there's been one way of thinking in
the West, which is either or based on platonic or Cartesian ideas, where we think there's a mind and
a body, there's a right and there are wrong. And then there's a more Eastern way of thinking,
where we start in presence in some like in India, or it's more about the feeling, the awareness, the
consciousness, and we start as integrated or intimate. And that is that is life. And it's
just about that. Like, so we could think of it as these extremes. And is the point now to integrate
those two things? Is that going to be helpful? Or?
Yeah, well, I think it's about integrate, maybe that's the right word. I'm not sure. As I say,
it's about finding the appropriate place for each and to use the two sort of ways modes of
understanding modes of apprehendment, and to bring them bring them together. I think that's true. And
I think it's, I think it's kind of possible. I mean, if I do talks on this, a lot of a common
question would be something like, Do you think it'd be possible to create a single global philosophy?
Could you, as it were, synthesize all the best elements? Is there is is there perhaps a perennial
and singular philosophy behind all of this? And I think I think the answer to that is kind of no,
actually, I think that we have to accept there's a fundamental pluralism about humanity, which means
that there's always more than one way to do pretty much anything. There's more than one way to do anything.
And one way to more than one way to think about anything, more than one way to order a society,
more than one way to live a good life, more than one way, perhaps even to do to do science,
it doesn't mean anything goes, there are certainly bad ways of doing things and wrong ways of doing
things, but there will be more than one right way of doing things. So I think you'd be kind of mistaken
to think that we should ever expect there to be a single kind of a value system or moral order or
political order, which will work for everyone. But nonetheless, I think that where we understand
commonality, I have this analogy, which is the most helpful one I can think of. And it is, I think it
does help, it's helpful. So I think of, if let's think about ethics, just six ethics, it works best for
this, the idea of this mixing desk. So what I'm asking people to imagine is, if you are recording,
let's say you're recording a keep it simple, a 12 piece band in a music studio. Well, the typical way
you do that is that each instrument would be have its own channel, and it would go into the mixing
desk. And if you're producing the record, you have to decide at what level to set the different
instruments, right? Because there might be times where you need to put up the guitar in the guitar. So
they actually might raise the volume on the guitar. But if it was that loud through the whole song,
it would be too loud. And so you have this kind of balance. So this is what the mixing desk does,
you've got 12 elements, and you put them up and down. Now, I kind of think when it comes to most moral
values, most moral values are universal in the sense that you find them all over the world.
What's different is the settings, right? And the point is, you can't turn them all up to 10.
You can't have them all down to zero. They're going to be different settings. So typically,
for example, in the West, you know, we have a higher setting for values around things like autonomy
and personal freedom. In most places in the West in the past, and in lots of other places, there is
a higher setting for kind of community and for, you know, relational values, etc. Now, there's no reason
why we should expect or suppose or even hope that every culture is going to end up with the same set
of settings. But understanding that we are working with the same basic set of values, and it's not
about denying the importance of any of them, I think can help us to, first of all, understand other
cultures, but also learn from them, so that perhaps there'll be a little bit more convergence, you
know. So societies where, let's just be critical of the rest, where the individualistic setting,
we can see we've set it too high, right? We may not want to set it as low as it is in somewhere like
China. Well, China now, we definitely wouldn't want it that low. But, you know, as low as it is,
say, in Korea, you know. But nevertheless, we might say, lower than where we are now,
not as low as Korea would be right for us. So you might therefore, hopefully, the most optimistic
scenario is that by learning from each other, we can take out some of the extremes, and we can all
end up living in a society which all of us can look at and see as reasonable, fine, and good,
but not exactly the same. I like that answer. It reminds me of, I think you talk of it as a
multiple perspectives, or cubist, or trying to really understand the yin-yang, which isn't
actually opposites, because they're all part of each other. So, but when you're talking about that,
it sounds, we could assume there's a thing that's knowledge that we're going to find,
or that we're setting. But I wonder if you see it, you mentioned complex systems, dynamic systems,
more as, here's how I kind of was imagining it as you were talking, that coming from a particular
society, I come from the Western society, but as I've visited other landscapes, be that just through
books, Eastern, books from Japan, or Korea, or China, or India, or wherever, it opens up what I can
imagine, and what I can know. And I can then, when I'm in a situation, I know there's different
alternatives, other than just those ones that I learned in my, on my little path, you know, because
now there's all these other paths, and I can start to think, oh, maybe I could look at it this way,
or this way. And then that mixing board comes in well, because then you have a lot more tools to
negotiate whatever situation you're in. And I guess that could be true for any of us,
no matter where we're situated around the world. But then knowledge isn't a static thing, is it?
It's because it's, as I'm doing that, I'm changing what's possible, what knowledge can be possible,
what I can imagine. So that question you get asked, could there be like one set way,
almost doesn't make sense, because there would always be so many moving parts about that,
that we're all constantly having to renegotiate?
Yeah, yeah. Well, I think, you know, it'd be hard to imagine a point at which our understanding was
finished. I think it is perhaps where it is helpful, one of the more helpful kind of themes you get,
particularly in Chinese philosophy, East Asian philosophy in general, actually, is this sense of
the fundamental nature of reality as being something which is in a process. It's not static,
it's not fixed. That's a contrast which a lot of people have remarked upon. So, again,
go back to Plato, there's kind of an idea that ultimate reality has a kind of unchanging permanence
to it. And our goal is to sort of recognise what it is and then approximate to it. Whereas, you know,
I think in most East Asian thought, things are in process, things are in flow, so there would never
be some final state. And, you know, and I think that we don't have to sort of, you can get a grip on this
simply by thinking about, okay, let's put it this way. Human culture and society has evolved and
change and will continue to change. And as long as you accept the basic plausible assumption that
as the material and physical and social conditions change, so too might some of the ways in which we
have to live and think in it, then you can see that, you know, just as we would say it would
have been terrible if we were still thinking as they did in the 18th century and the 21st century,
we have to assume that for people to be thinking as we do now at the beginning of the 21st century,
it's probably going to be inappropriate in the 23rd. Now, there's going to be plenty that's
continuous. Just as we look at 18th century philosophers and ancient philosophers and we recognise
lots of things and we learn from them, it's not like we have to chuck everything out, but it's
the constant sort of evolution I think is really important. So, yeah, we have to think of, we have
to be prepared to see things as having a certain open-endedness. And I think going back, you know,
perhaps relating the themes of the two book in a way, you know, that sense of provisionality that
we're never there, that we've got to keep at it, is really important. And the moment we think we have
cracked it, that's the end, we've got the full stop. That's the beginning of kind of, you know,
mental stagnation. There's the old maxim in business, they say, you know, in business they
say in order to even stay where you are, you've got to move forward, that if you stop developing,
you're going to go backwards. I think the same kind of thing goes with thinking, you know, as individuals
and as a society, if you don't try to keep improving and keep developing your thinking,
the quality of it is probably going to get worse. It won't just stay the same.
I think you share that very well in the second book, which we won't have much time to talk about
now, but maybe another time, How to Think Like a Philosopher. Because I think in there you actually
say, if something seems obvious, or if it's not going questioned, that's probably a good reason to
start questioning it. I guess what's hard about this is that people want to go back to the idea of
belonging or feeling sort of secure and situated. We do want that. And so you quote Rorty a lot,
I think in these books, Richard Rorty, who I've gotten a lot from, especially as earlier, or not
the really late stuff. But in any case, you know, he talks about truths, like plural, not a truth.
But we can also go overboard with that too, where it becomes, I think you talk about pluralism.
It doesn't mean that everything is a, what's the word?
It's not relativism. It's not the same as relativism.
Pluralism isn't relativism.
Yeah.
So there's also, you know, we're constantly having to kind of go to the other side of where we are too,
and remember that it's not a linear, easily contained thing. But things are, there are real
paths. There are real things that can be traced that, that are truth.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, this is, this is just so true, because I think that, again, people want
things to be either or, and, you know, they think you've got to choose between the singular unshakable
truth or whatever is true for you, and, and sort of a democracy of all truths. And clearly,
neither of those things are tenable. It's got to be something in between. And time and again,
I find this, you know, I mean, one of my books is on personal identity, you know, and it's the idea
that... That's what you wrote your thesis on too, right?
And that's my thesis on, yeah, my PhD thesis. So, you know, it's a very common idea, which you
find in neuroscience, David Hume, Buddhist thought, there is no singular self. The self is not this
indivisible, permanent entity. It's a collection of things. And that opens up certain possibilities.
But, you know, I've had people sort of saying, I sort of bury my head in my hands, yeah, because I
try and stress this isn't the case. That doesn't mean that the, the notion of the self is completely
empty one, that there's literally no sense at all of talking about the individuals. And it certainly
doesn't mean that we have absolute freedom to constitute ourselves exactly as we want. The fact
that our identities are to a certain degree, malleable, changeable, not fixed is liberating
in some ways, but we can't just imagine that we can be anything, you know, that's, that's kind of a...
Yeah, for me, it gets to what you said earlier about the, when you were describing the individual,
uh, that, that kind of, it's not the self, but there's a, there is a spatio-temporal,
literal, uh, path that I've had through life. And that's also through all my knowledge landscapes.
And according to that path, I'm going to experience my context in a different way. And no one person
has the same path. We can't spatiotemporally have the same path, no matter how similar everything we
experience might be on some level or how far away. So there's a way in which if you can open it up and
start to see it like that, you can understand that we're sharing the same space, but we're not
experiencing it the same way. Like my parents didn't say the same thing to me or treat me the
same as you. I didn't read the same books as you. I haven't been to the same places as you, so on.
And maybe that's kind of in your book or in a lot of, I sort of like to think, try to think of it like
that. And that maybe opens up that space, uh, a little bit too, in terms of not choosing either or,
but still believing there is, I have a truth and you do too. And how do we communicate about that?
And in so doing sort of change what's possible.
Yeah. Yeah. Yes. I think, I think I, I get you there. And I think I agree, but you know,
I think when we say you, you and I have our, our different truths, we just got to be a bit
careful what we mean by that. Certainly the case that we have our different experiences,
our different et cetera, et cetera. What it can't mean is simply that whatever you think is true
is true. And I can't contest it and vice versa. In fact, it's very important. It's the opposite.
I mean, I think that the point is that we only, one of the things we underestimate have underestimated
in Western philosophy is the knowledge formation is a largely social enterprise. We have this
sort of image of the solitary thinker, you know, the, the philosophy works all that. It's all in
your own head. It isn't the case. Uh, challenge anyone, you know, to think about, make a list
of the things you believe in everything and ask yourself, would it have been possible to even
form those beliefs without other people doing some of your mental work for you? You know? And
the answer is no. I mean, sometimes people have found things out and explain them to us. On other
cases, we have a very shaky understanding, which is based on taking the word of someone who we have
reasons to believe their understanding is a lot better. Every time you go to a doctor,
it's kind of like that. So there is this kind of collective communal dimension to knowledge,
which is vital. And so that's why it's really, really important. We don't think that it is wrong
to challenge each other's beliefs. We need to be challenged because that's how we get better at what
we think, right? I, I, I, I'm going to be right more often if people are prepared to tell me when
I'm wrong, right? I'm, I'm going to be right a lot less if people just say, oh, well, no,
you have the right to believe what you believe. So if you say it's going to, it's going to rain,
and I know it's not going to, I'm not going to challenge that view, you know, it's crazy.
So I think, I think this is weird. It's completely misguided to think that the way in which you show
most respect for someone is simply not to challenge what they think. In a way that's not respecting
them because you respect someone's capacity as a reasoner by assuming that they have the capacity
to respond to challenge either by having a good answer to it or by revising their views accordingly.
And I think it's also, it goes back to the theme actually of, you know, global philosophy.
When we talk about sort of intercultural dialogue, I think that it's important to sort of understand
what respect really means here. And I think sometimes people think to respect something,
you have to be free of all criticism. That is not your place to criticise. And again,
I think that's just wrong. And actually it's also, people don't genuinely believe it,
because a lot of people who say that actually will be very, very happy and will actually want
to criticise Western thought on the basis of the wisdom of non-Western traditions, right?
So they think Westerners should absolutely be listening to Aboriginal wisdom, to Amazonian wisdom,
or whatever it might be. But Westerners must not be critical of other cultures. No, we,
we, what we should never do is wade in with great confidence, no sensitivity, no desire to understand
and sweep aside and dismiss the views of other cultures. But engaging with them properly means
being prepared to say, I'm not sure about that, or that seems wrong. And being willing to have
yourself challenged too. You know, that's, that's how we make progress.
I'm really glad you said that because it is really important that we don't,
I think that's part of what we're trying to maybe figure out is how to, and maybe that's
what critical thinking can do and why we do want to know how to think like a philosopher in a way,
because it does teach you that it's okay to be questioned and it's okay to question,
and it's not questioning some kind of, it's not questioning some kind of essence or something
that you have to defend. It's, it has to do with what I hope is changing the idea of self too,
to open it up a bit, that we're not just oneself and we're, and we're part of this larger community.
As you say, we're not solitary thinkers, even though we do have to take responsibility for our
actions and ourself.
But maybe there's some way in which if people can think like a philosopher or take some philosophy
classes, you do, it is a kind of practice, isn't it, to be able to take criticism and give criticism
from a position that isn't judgmental or taking it personally, because that is not an easy thing to
learn how to do.
Yeah, it's interesting. I think you sort of come full circles. I think early in, early in the
conversation, you talked about philosophy as a practice. And I think it kind of is, but I think
what's important, and the thing I really, I think, try to stress in, in how to think like a philosopher,
is that in a sense, it's a kind of an, it's an ethical practice, or it's a practice with a very
strong ethical dimension. People sometimes think that philosophy is primarily about, you know,
sharpening up your logical chops, as it were, you know, getting, being rigorous, is about the
formal aspects of good thinking. And those things are all important. But I stress quite a lot in the
book, the importance of what are sometimes called the virtues of thought, which is, you have to bring
the right attitudes to your thinking. And the right attitudes are things around things like a
sincerity of intent, a genuine desire to understand more or to get to the bottom of it, rather than
a desire to vindicate yourself or to be correct. A real determination and effort to where the facts
are important, getting the facts right, and not just simply accepting what you've been told as though it
were fact. And also that perhaps another really key one is the genuine intent to try to understand
the other that the person you're encountering with the idea or encountering with, to really trying and
get behind it and get a grip on it, rather than sort of assume that you kind of know what it means when
you first hear it, whatever it might be. So it is, it's a kind of ethical, it's an ethical practice, you
know. And I think that's why a lot of, not all professional philosophers are good thinkers.
And, and also why, not just in philosophy, why, but there are some very, very smart people
who are not very good thinkers, in the sense that they, they basically use their brain power
instrumentally to get them to where they want to be. If you've got a really powerful brain, you can do
that. But that's quite scary. Because I think one thing we learned from psychology, I think you
have to understand psychology, you've got to be a good thinker as well. We know,
psychologists, that's one of the big things. Psychology tells us how we are very, very prone
to self deception, to self serving, reasoning to confirmation bias, all these kinds of things.
So if you have a really clever person, who hasn't got the right set of motivations, they are going to
almost certainly be able to come up with some very, very powerful and strong and convincing
arguments for why they're right. But they're not going to be right. You know, yeah, that's a really
difficult thing, too, is this kind of once you, it is a skill to think critically, and you can practice
it and become really good at it to the point where you can bully others. And also, you can just
sound like you know what's right, and there's only this path. So, but I do think part of critical
thinking is you start to realize people can do that, you know, and then you're on the lookout
for it a little bit. Yeah, no, I think that's right. I think what is true, you kind of like,
you have to sort of like spot the semblance of great intelligence for what is actually something
else, which is often overconfidence and arrogance. I think it's actually, and I think, you know,
I'm prone to that. You know, it's not something you can ever sort of, a lot of these effects are
really strong. Even today, when I meet someone who speaks with extreme confidence and erudition
and articulately about something, you know, it's difficult. You find yourself thinking,
oh, are they right? Are they right? Actually, I had someone, before it was published, I gave a talk
about this. And there was someone who, you know, whose family was from Indian descent, who really sort of
laid into me almost, telling me that I was talking nonsense a bit. And again, they had confidence,
they were articulate, they seemed to know what they were talking about, they had a certain cultural
background in it. So, you know, I sort of like, you know, I did have to sort of go home and sort of
double check a few things. And, you know, I said, no, no, I'm right. You know, the point was, and I could
see then, this was a classic case of overconfidence, that this person simply, I don't know, they were
talking with, they weren't actually, okay, they were from the Indian subcontinent, but they're
not philosophers and all that kind of stuff. And they were talking with an excess of confidence,
but you know, it can really, really shake you. And actually, it's almost like an inertia,
you just, it's really hard to resist it. I would say that as a rare occasion where
the person of that kind was a woman, it has to be said, I don't know, it's probably cultural,
I don't know whether it's cultural or, you know, but for various reasons, most of these excessively
confident, arrogant people, they're more male ones around than female.
Yeah, I won't, I won't go into that. There would be a lot to talk about with the whole
male female thing that we'd have to have a whole other conversation.
Yeah, I think what's good to know is just that you did that, that you took it in,
and you went home and checked the facts. I mean, that's almost an example of what you're
offering in how to think like a philosopher is, you do take it seriously, and then you check it,
you know, it's not just because someone's confident that you say, oh, they must know what they're
talking about, which I think the more like now there's so much going on, and we have so little
time, it feels like that we often just go with that, whether it's online or in person, you just
kind of think they must know what they're talking about. You don't even question it, you just go with
it, you know. Well, this is actually quite important, because I think how much you, you know,
people often say, well, you can't check everything. How much do you check? When do you check? And you have
to get the balance right. And I'm not saying that I always go away and double check when someone very
confidently says stuff. You know, you have to have a certain kind of reason to perhaps worry that
you're right or wrong. But you've reminded me of something I've kind of forgotten, which was many,
many years ago. I remember interviewing or speaking to a philosopher who said that what their philosophical
training had given them was more confidence, as it were, to hold their ground in a way. It's not,
I'm paraphrasing a bit. But I think, I think, see, that's kind of the wrong lesson. I think that's
what does sometimes happen. Sometimes people do their philosophy. They think, I'm actually a good
critical, I know how to do this critical thinking stuff, thank you very much. So now, if someone
comes along, and they say something which I don't agree with, I can just destroy them more powerfully
than I could before. I'm so glad you brought that up. It happens a lot that people become such
good analytic philosophers or critical thinkers, and then it just becomes a fight of who can be the
better arguer, which in a certain space is very interesting. But there's a lot more to think about
and to worry about than than just that. Yeah, absolutely. I think we're almost out of time. So
well, we are out of time. But I did want to ask, it seems that this changed you, the travel, the writing
of this book, in the first book, though, How the World Thinks. The second book, it's a different
kind of book than the other books you've written in a way. Is that do you think so? I mean, there's
a wider perspective in it. I don't know, I wonder, did it change you this thinking about How the World
Thinks? Well, I think, you know, I think that change is, in some ways, it's depressing how little we
change. But we do, it tends to happen gradually. But I think that it did change me in various ways.
And I think that there's perhaps the single most important thing is the one I alluded to earlier,
which is that I think that having kind of become sensitized to the ways in which a lot of typical
Western ways of thinking are very compartmentalized and atomized, I've become much more, I think,
sensitive to that sort of relational dimension and the importance of that. And that I can sometimes
now, I think, kind of see... So that changes the way I think about a lot of things in that way. So
I think that's been a really big, big shift. There are other things as well. But I think,
you know, the way in which we change is interesting. It is naturally generally quite
incremental. You can sometimes have an experience in life where something so fundamental changes,
such as you lose your faith in God, or you gain your faith in God, that a whole load of changes flow
from it. But the point about our belief system and worldviews is that they are interconnected holes.
And, you know, if you change one part, it changes another. And that means that in effect, usually it
means that it's very rare for lots of things to change completely. It'd be too much would have to
be disrupted. But I think it does. And I think in general, the way in which we change is fascinating.
You read, funnily enough, I read, I don't get to read enough fiction. And I was lucky enough to have
to have an excuse to read a couple of novels recently, very thoughtful, intelligent novels. And,
you know, you have this kind of effect at the end of it, that it's done, it's somehow, it's tweaked
your worldview a little bit, see the world a little bit different, and it's all incremental. And perhaps
it goes back to this idea, you were talking about how it's important to see this thing as like a process.
It's a process without end. Yeah. I hope I hope I never reached the stage where my worldview is not
constantly being, my model of the world is constantly being tweaked and updated, according
to the new stuff I've come along. But, but how the world thinks, I think was a, you know, a major
reboot in the sense that it gave me that whole different way of looking at things relationally,
which opened up perhaps a big area which was missing in my thinking before.
Yeah. Well, what felt important for me is kind of at the beginning, I mean, you're an expert in
a lot of ways that people would come to you as an expert, you're on BBC as an expert, you know,
but you kind of say, hey, I'm not an expert on this, I'm going to go learn about it from people
who know a lot more about it than me. There's something about that in life, if we can keep
doing that, because we're all not experts of everything. And it can be hard to do that. But to just
realize you say you're a little embarrassed in a way that there's this whole other area of
philosophy, let's go learn about it. Yeah, that for me is a really wonderful gift or offering.
Well, thank you.
There was other things I wanted to ask you about, but I think you probably need to go.
Yeah, not this second, but if you...
Okay, well, let's just get into this a little bit then, and then we'll like, I'll let you go. But
this idea of thought, thinking, it's in a lot of your books, thinking, thought, and this is all about
how we think and knowing. And I'm not going to ask you about the relation between knowledge and
thinking. But do you, are we just our thought, Julian? I mean, in the book, you talk a lot about
thought, and then in these other cultures, awareness, or something like being, attention,
consciousness, those all get lumped together as almost like the same thing. But I feel like in the
book, they're not always the same thing. So I just, I wonder if you have any thoughts about that?
Well, if I go back to the personal identity issue, the philosopher that I was really,
my PhD was writing the footnotes to was Derek Parfit, who's a very well-known philosopher.
And, you know, his basic view that personal identity, in other words, you are the person you are
as a consequence of the psychological connectedness and continuity over time.
Now, psychological connectedness and continuity, it really suggests that you are what's going on
in your head, primarily. Now, I think there's something really important to that. But I think
that there's a, if you're a philosophical kind of person, there's a great danger you're going to
overestimate the extent to which, you know, your experiences, as it were, are primarily of the
intellectual thought. It seems to be very obvious that we are, we are, let's put this
way, I'd put it this way, we are the collection, the order, an ordered collection of experiences,
essentially. But the point is, a lot of those experiences are not just intellectual, purely
intellectual or purely mental. They're sort of physiological, they're embodied as well. So
some of Parfit's critics said he underestimated the extent to which we are importantly embodied.
And I think he did and he didn't. He did not talk about that, but it was compatible with his
framework. And I think perhaps, again, perhaps, again, a change after the book is, I'd say,
not just embodied, but, you know, socially, physically, geographically, ecologically located as well.
So I think we are the sum of our experiences, if you like, but those experiences can't just be
reduced to little private, purely mental things. They're the whole of our experience, social, bodily,
as well as purely private and mental. But I think that is kind of it. I mean, I don't see what else
we could be. Because what else could we be on top of that, you know, some little soul stuff?
Well, just being just, I mean, bodies, I think it's good you brought, that's where I wanted to go.
But I think what we think of as thought isn't all of cognition, it's a little tip of the iceberg,
you know, in terms of what we're aware of this kind of language based thing. And, and I guess what
I'm saying is, there's a kind of, you know, we could think of it as Kant with perception and cognition
or something. There's, there's a, in the same way to how it's been difficult to talk about these
either ors. And these, there's no third way, but everything's the third way. There's a kind
of way to where we confuse cognition and perception and the body and the brain.
Well, yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean, there is a temptation to say we are essentially our bodies,
we are these biological organisms. And I think that, I think what's true is that our experiences
are very much dependent upon our bodies. I suppose it's also what's also true is that you have to,
we wouldn't be who we were without a whole lot of stuff, which we are not directly consciously
aware of. So to say, to say that we are essentially defined by our awareness is not to say that,
therefore, the things we are not aware of aren't vitally important, right? So that's where it
gets a bit tricky. But I think the reason why the end of the day, you'd want to say that the body isn't
the identity thing is the simple kind of thought experiment, which is that, you know, if I,
if I have a terrible accident, and they're able to replace pretty much all the parts of my body with
other parts, and I come out the other end, I'm still me. So I need a body, and my body informs
who I am, etc, etc. But what what would identify me as who I am would has to be centered around
what we call the psychological, let's call it the experiential. But that's not to deny the absolute
importance of the social and the biological in that, right?
Yeah, that's a kind of ship of Theseus thing, like, how does the ship that starts on one side of the
world, let's say it's a wooden ship, and then it's by the time it gets all the way around,
this is a long time ago, all the parts have been replaced, all the crew has been replaced,
how is it the same thing? I mean, for me, that it has to do with this, this path, the spatiotemporal
position and patterning, that pattern has been the same. So as a spatiotemporal continuity, and I don't
see that that's different from body and brain and mind. And like it, for me, that's, that patterning
is not discontinuous, you don't do, you don't separate it in a Socrates way, like the soul is
trapped in the body, but it's all kind of one patterning. That's, yeah, I think that's true.
But I think the point of, I think what's critical about the patterning, there's something critical
about the conscious awareness aspect of that for a person, because the point is this, that if you go
through your life as a single biological organism, but you experience some kind of brain trauma such
that, you know, it totally erases your memories, and transplant your personality, most of us would
say that to all important senses of the word, the person who was in that body is no longer there,
right. And I think that's, I think that's, that's true. I mean, it's not a strict either or,
you know, I think even being the same person is a matter of degree, because we change over time.
But there are some ruptures, which are so strong, that it would be possible to say that even though
the body continues to exist, the person doesn't. And I think that's why you, it's not exactly the
same as like the ship of Theseus, because, again, it's a whole other discussion, really. I mean,
what's important for making it the ship is not that it has the same parts at each time in its life,
is that it has a certain ongoing structure, history, blah, blah, blah. That's what matters
for it being a ship. What matters for us is very, very tightly connected to our awareness and our
memories and our plans and our intentions and our beliefs. You know, without those things,
we're not, we take, take away those things, you don't have a person. I can't say, you know, look,
I'm going to offer you the opportunity to be, I'm going to do something to you, which is going to
give you, it's going to improve your capacities in 100 different ways, right? The only problem is
the operation is going to eliminate your memories, your desires, your projects, your, you wouldn't do
it, because it would be in effect saying, you're going to kill me and use my body for something else.
So that's why I think it's the experiential side is absolutely core to being who we are.
But again, I don't think it's either or, again, this would be a big conversation, but yes, like,
let's somebody changes their personality or their memory, there's some kind of like HM where there's a memory loss,
or there's still continuity. We could still think of it as a ship. Maybe the ship used to have some
certain kind of kitchen capabilities that it kind of loses. But I think the way I would answer that
is in all, if we think of the self differently as not only like me or let's say my grandmother, right?
When she did lose her memory towards the end and she wasn't the same person exactly the way you said,
but she was for us. So we were holding those patterns. Those patterns still exist.
I still have them now in the way we talked about in the beginning. So I don't think it went away.
It's just that the ability, the navigability, how she could make her own way changed.
Like she was no longer able to find her way in the way she had before. But, you know, at some level,
it was still, those patterns are still there. They're still there now.
Okay. So perhaps we should, because this is a whole other conversation.
Yeah. I didn't mean to get into that.
I talk about dementia as an example in the Ego Trick, the book about this. I think the key
point is this, that what you're saying is an experience which I think a lot of people find
to be true. That even towards the very end of dementia, people do not feel completely that that
person has gone. Now, the point is, you can understand that in a couple of different ways.
One way is to think that everyone has some kind of like essence and the essence never goes.
Right. And I think that's the wrong way of looking at it. I think what you'd rather say is that because
we are a collection and a pattern, all that kind of stuff, as long as there is some degree of
continuity, there is something of that person still there. And because the way in which we relate to other
people is through bodies, et cetera, et cetera, you know, thankfully, you know, we can still
have care for someone when at the same time we recognize they're virtually gone. So I think there's
a certain kind of, there's almost an ambiguity there. There was a great example I had of someone
I spoke to for that book who his wife had dementia at a horribly young age, I have to say, you know,
it was pretty early onset. And I actually, he's very kind, I went and visited her with him. And,
you know, she barely recognized him anymore. And he was saying within the sort of community of
people whose relatives have dementia, they have this sort of phrase of like being like half a widow.
So, you know, people have this question mark, are they free to have a new relationship while the
person is still alive? And this is this sort of like, you know, the holding of the two things
together. There is a sense in which he is still the husband of this woman, in which he still loves her,
and which he is still there for her. And there's a sense in which she's almost completely gone.
She's not the wife, etc, etc. And it's holding both these things at the same time.
That makes sense. If you do not see personal identity as an either or thing, as a matter of
degrees of continuity. So I think that's the kind of point there. Yeah.
And also to the situatedness that we talked about earlier, because my grandmother was a different
person to me than she is to my father. And, you know, a lot of it is just that my story,
it has been broken, not not her so much. I mean, it has for her, but in a way, I can't
really understand. So I mean, there's a lot of different ways we could look at that. But I think
it's a very important thing to think about on all kinds of levels. I mean, I think it's a good example
of why philosophy is important and critical thinking, because it matters on emotional levels,
but it matters on ethical levels. And it matters on medical levels, how we, you know, try to assess and
where all that really gets together. But, well, I'll have to read that book, and then we'll see.
Is there anything that you really wanted to say that we haven't said?
Oh, no, no, we could go on. It's been very interesting.
Yeah, I could go on and on. I didn't even get through half my things.
Yeah, I don't feel there's anything sort of pressing that I ought to have got out,
which I didn't. I've probably spoken too much already.
Yeah, no, no, it's been really good. I guess, just to kind of end it, if somebody's never
thought about philosophy before, where would you kind of tell them to start? With your books,
by the way, or any books.
Did they start with How the World Thinks, or should they lead into you?
No, I have to say in a way, I mean, it sounds sort of arrogant, but as I say, I wrote How the
World Thinks because the book didn't exist, and I think it should. So in a way, it's not a bad
place to start, I have to say. But these days, of course, I would suggest maybe, you know,
you don't even have to start with books. The Philosophy Bites podcast series is very,
very good. There's a huge archive there, like 15 minutes, typically, with philosophers,
you know, and you get a good range of them. Or even sort of going a bit more sideways,
Kieran Setia's Five Questions podcast is a series of interviews with contemporary
philosophers. And, you know, you get a good flavour, I think, of what philosophy is by
hearing these people. It's not kind of like, it's not kind of a history of ideas kind of podcast.
If you're really feeling ambitious, you should, and you're interested in global philosophy,
you should get Peter Adamson's History of Philosophy with No Gaps podcast,
which I think is now got about 800 episodes. Oh, wow. It's extraordinary. I mean, he is. I said,
when I started the book, there wasn't there. Not many people could really claim to be an expert in
global philosophy. There are lots of comparative philosophers who do Eastern and Chinese Western
and whatever. Peter Adamson has taken on the whole of global philosophy and has created this amazing
and there's some books coming out of it as well. But I mean, that will take you years to catch up.
Wow. I mean, I guess there's no end to that. If it's without gaps, he's just got to keep going and
going. Yeah, exactly. Without any gaps, I guess you're right. There's no way you can stop.
Exactly. He'll just be filling. It'd be a fractal thing. You know, once you've got no gaps at that
level, you zoom in and you see that there's more. Exactly. Well, Julian, I wonder, you know, you've
always had success as a popular philosopher, but you're also like a philosopher's philosopher.
There's not a lot of people like that. Was that an accident? Like, how did you become
kind of a bestselling philosopher and still a consultant by the BBC when it comes to philosophy?
Yeah. Okay. Right. But, you know, I mean, bestseller is a, is a,
let's remember bestseller is kind of a technical term. It refers to you have, you have appeared on the
bestselling chart in a week. It doesn't mean that you've been in, you know, etc. So let's not get too
carried away. Okay. But when I go into bookshops in the States, I see your books. When I go into
bookshops in Utrecht or Berlin, I see your books. This is pretty unusual, especially today where
people don't buy books much. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that is good. I mean, I think, I think there are,
I think there are popular philosophers who sold me. I don't know. I don't know because I don't
compare or even check my own things. Look, it's, it's just, there's no master plan. When I, when I
finished my PhD, I wanted to keep doing philosophy. I've always wanted, I've always liked writing in a
sense, you know, if it wasn't a philosophy, I'd be hopefully writing about something else.
I was going to ask you, did Tim Crane in that comment, do you think he set you on the road
to becoming a writer when he told you, I can't remember exactly what he told you.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh no. He was telling me, he was telling me that I had to sort of be a much better
self editor as it were, but I was already interested in, you know, I'd wanted to do that before. So I mean,
I think, I think it didn't turn me on the path. I think it's just that I have never had a master plan.
And I think the things have worked because I've never had a master plan. And I've also,
thankfully, for some reason, never had any great anxiety about how much I should be earning or where
I should be, which is not by the way, sometimes when you say that, I think people think that means
you must have some kind of private income or something, which is very, very far from the true.
I didn't have any family. You're a secret royal somewhere.
No, no, absolutely not. But I wasn't bothered. I was just, and I really only ever looked more than
most about three years in advance, if you're doing a PhD or something. And yeah, I started the
Philosopher's Magazine with Jeremy Stangrum after the PhD, and that gave a bit of a platform which
enabled me to write and it built from there. So it's just been, you know, the old cliche,
you put one foot in front of another, and then you put another foot there.
Yeah.
And I've been very lucky. But there's a lot of luck involved, isn't there?
There is, yeah.
I mean, the pig that wanted to be eaten, you mentioned it, we mentioned earlier, did sell very
well. And had that not sold very well, I don't know, I could might not be able to do what I do,
because, you know, you're given the opportunity to write books on the basis of how your past ones have
done, you know. And to have a successful book at that stage in the career gave a little bit of
wind in my sails.
Put you in the writing community, too, to continue publishing.
Yeah. So, you know, yeah. So, you know, I've stuck at it, you know, I haven't.
I guess my real question, I wonder, is you let your interests and passion guide you,
which I guess you kind of answered that you don't really worry about.
Well, I mean, yeah, but I wouldn't want to, not in a purist sense, you know, you have to be
pragmatic. If a publisher doesn't want to publish something, then you can't do it.
So I couldn't afford ever to say, I'm going to write what I want to write. And if the public wants
it, great, if not, not, because otherwise, I'd have to go and got a job, a cafe or something,
because I wouldn't have any money. But I think I've been quite fortunate in that I've been able to,
I have never, I can honestly say I haven't written anything that I haven't wanted to write in some
way. And the projects which have been a bit more instrumental, they've still been worth doing,
but they haven't been, so I've been pleased I've done them and I've judged they weren't going to
sort of so occupy my time there to distract me. But you know, you have to kind of, you have to have
a certain patience as well. So for example, I mentioned the Ego Trick book, that was about
personal identity. That's my PhD thesis. And I always wanted to do a book on that.
But I was aware that in the early days, the kind of books that I could do had to be more
general introductions, because I had no, I wasn't established in any way. So I had to, as it were,
earn the right to be able to do that book, I had to be able to have a track record where I could
convince the publisher that I was capable of doing that. And it would be, you know, potentially one that
would sell. And in fact, yeah, that has actually been one of the most long sellers of all of them.
So it's a balancing act, you know, but I think I've been, yeah, I think I've been quite lucky.
Do you work every day on something? Do you plan your next book? And like, do you have a kind of
schedule? Or are you more, you put it all, go really heavy in it for three months?
Well, I mean, I've normally, I mean, I'm at a moment, one of those rare situations where
I just finished a book, which is coming out in the autumn, and I'm not working on a book at the
moment. I'm trying to deliberately take my time before committing to something else have various
things, ideas, I have various stuff where I've got material written sort of early draft and things,
but I'm trying to sort of take my time a bit and think about what to do next. But there's always
something to do, because apart from books, there's always articles, reviews, things like this. So
there's always something on the go. When when I've got a book, and I've got a contract to deliver a book,
then you know, you have the challenges to make sure the other things don't crowd out the time.
Yeah. So in those times, I tried, I tried a bit more discipline there. I think what I
typically try to do is I try to say, the mornings for the book, you know, yeah, whatever else is
happening, try and make the morning for the book. Yeah. That's good. Well, thanks for writing this
book. I've read not all of your books, but most quite a lot of them. And this one, I think, really
gives something that we really needed. They all do. But I guess because I just read it, maybe I feel
even closer to it. But I think it's like you said, it's a book you needed to read. So you wrote it. And I
think a lot of people probably want to read it. So thanks. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Great.
