Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea. Today I'm talking with John
K. T., who is a poet-philosopher. We talk about the oscillation of self and how this
is a way of bridging dichotomy. Holding the paradox becomes necessary when you begin to
understand yourself as oscillating between categories such as poetry and philosophy.
John K. T. is both. He's both a poet and a philosopher, but he's very well known for
his poetry. He's won quite some awards, like the Lenore Marshall Award, which he won for
95th Street, his poetry book from 2009. John is from San Diego. He was born in 1945. He
started writing poetry in the 60s when he was an undergraduate at Princeton University,
and he became friends with poets like John Ashbery and even Frank O'Hara, as we talk
about here. He got his PhD in philosophy from Harvard, and he's been teaching philosophy.
He's actually retired now, but he taught in Wisconsin for many, many years. But at the
same time, he was always writing poetry, and we talk about how he balanced those worlds
of poetry and philosophy and how they are each in both in different ways. You can definitely
feel it in his poetry. It's one reason I love it so much. A friend introduced me to it way
back, and I've been reading him ever since. His books tend to come around the world with
me, which is fitting because they're a lot about exploration of landscape, both geographical,
but then it ends up feeling very mental and emotional. Quite often when I read his poems,
I have a sense of childhood or nostalgia or something from years past, which is not quite
a memory, but more a feeling of being on a street or a smell or something sensory. So he's pretty
amazing in the way he can conjure that with his words, and there's nothing flashy about it,
but it becomes very intimate. So we talk about his writing and what poetry is and philosophy and
how ourself is an oscillation, and we can never really pin it down. But there's a way in which
we can notice that movement, and that happens in the best poetry or the best philosophy even,
where you feel the movement as you are the movement, so to speak. There's one book I just
happened to pick up that I've been carrying around of his called Falling Water, and I just
noticed for the first time, but the cover is a Van Gogh painting, and this painting is hanging,
about 40 minutes away in the Amsterdam Van Gogh Museum, so maybe I'll have to go see it. But I
bring it up just because it reminds me of his poetry. There's a kind of revisiting of places
and seeing them in a new way. So anyway, I opened this book and there's a poem called The Realm of
Ends, which has a lot to do with extremes and moving beyond them, which is fitting. So I'll
read that at the end of our conversation. I'm really glad you're here. I hope today is a good
day for you, wherever you may be, and that you have a little poetry in your life of some kind,
the kind you like. All right, here we go. Hi, John. It's so nice to see you. Thank you for being
here today. So you're in Milwaukee today, right? I am, yes. I've lived here since 1973. I love
your poetry. I love your writing. You're a poet and a philosopher, for those who might know you on
one side or the other. But as we get into your work, you've often said that poetry is about
conversation with yourself or talking to yourself in a particular way. I do sort of think of it that
way. I wonder when in your own life, or if we can go back to when you were a young man, young boy,
you started to think about that conversation with self, or when did you begin to talk to yourself,
if I could put it in those terms? I'm not sure I can put a date on it. Though I don't have any
religious beliefs anymore, but I was brought up very religiously, first Catholic in Catholic school,
and then my mother restaged the Reformation and we all became Lutherans. So I said religion is,
you know, always, for me, has always involved a great deal of introspection. And even though
that religion kind of fell away during my high school, still that's probably when I sort of
first thought of it. Though I didn't come to literature until later, but I suspect that my
religious upbringing has something to do with my introspective nature. That makes sense. It makes
me think of prayer. Yes. And as I say, I really believe these things quite seriously. And then
all of a sudden they just evaporated. And now it just seems to me superstition though. Though I
still can consider myself a kind of spiritual poet, but not in any religious sense. I mean,
even though Eliot's one of my great models, I don't share any of his religious beliefs.
Though I'm not sure what they are, actually. Yeah, but he had a degree in philosophy, right? I think
you talked about that. He finished his degree at Harvard, and if he had come back, he would have
had a job waiting for him at Harvard, but he never came back to the United States and pursued that.
Yeah, it's interesting. These are definitely not disconnected, even if they're separate pursuits,
the what might be religious when we're younger and the philosophical and the poetic. But when
did the break come? You said it just suddenly evaporated. Was it through education?
Well, I don't know that there was a break exactly. It's just, you know, when I think
to, by the time I was in high school, though we went to church and whatnot, but I didn't really
have any strong religious beliefs by the time I was in high school. So I suppose it started to
evaporate probably around old junior high, sixth, seventh, eighth grade around in them. But what
replaced it really was an obsession with science and mathematics. So I didn't go directly into
literature and philosophy. In fact, those came rather later. That's interesting. So your first
passion was the more scientific mathematics side. Yes. Well, I've been thinking about that lately.
In fact, it's in some sense, it's the theme of my new book that's coming out next year. But yes,
I, well, I was a kind of science fair quiz kid. And though I, what I worked on, you know, for my
science projects were things having to do with rocket engines and models. But what I was really
interested in was physics and mathematics. And I was determined that I was going to become a
mathematical theoretical physicist. And in high school, in my senior year, it really came down
to choosing between MIT and Princeton. And I thought I was about to go to MIT. And then a
thought occurred to me that, well, what if I were there? And though it would never happen,
what if I'd been lost interest in physics and math? And then I'd be stuck there at MIT. I didn't
realize they had a good philosophy department. So I thought, well, what Princeton's math and
physics departments are, if anything better than MIT. So I think I'll go there. And sure enough,
after my freshman year, I, for somewhat different reasons, I kind of lost interest in physics and
mathematics. And I had started taking, I didn't really know what philosophy was about in high
school. I always thought that, you know, it was Walter Kaufman. I didn't realize that what real
philosophy was like. But I decided I really liked philosophy and decided to major in that.
And then in high school, even though I did all my serious, my serious obsession was with science,
I did read an awful lot of modernist fiction, Joyce and Faulkner and Hemingway Fitzgerald,
Dostoevsky. But I even wrote a little bit, but I'd never read any modern poetry. I
read maybe a little Frost and that was about it. But then in my sophomore year in college,
I took a course in modern literature from Carlos Baker, who was Hemingway's first biographer.
And it included both poetry and fiction. But that's where I first read modern poetry,
in particular, Yeats and Eliot and Pound and others. And I was just bowled over by it. And I
didn't really know what it was, but I thought, well, I just want to try to do this, whatever it
is. And that became my obsession. And then I also stopped running track and started smoking. And
so it was a complete collapse of decadence for my high school.
That's interesting because that seems like a different kind of phenomenology or a different
kind of way of approaching the world once you read the poetry. Of course, I'm generalizing it
too much. But I mean, in your poetry, for example, you do talk about writing almost like with a sense
of disillusionment, I think is the word you use, of trying to see the world from a particular
place, which makes sense with the science and math side. But then there's this very spiritual
undercurrent, which I mean, we already talked about the religious a bit, but was that what Yeats
woke up in you in a different way? Or how can you think of that?
And Eliot in particular, and Pound too, but it seemed like a kind of, well, it was a kind
of deflationary impulse that I responded to in particularly in Eliot. But it's basically
my impulse has always been a form of romanticism. And I think romanticism really is,
you know, basically a way of talking to yourself. I always think of Harold Bloom's book titled
Shakespeare, The Invention of the Human, where he thinks of the Shakespearean soliloquy as
the quintessential human romantic gesture. And though I became obsessed with modernist poetry,
I think of modernism as really a continuation of romanticism. It's just a
deflation of romanticism. Instead of an affirmative gesture, it becomes a form of
deflation or disillusionment with romanticism. But it still shares the same obsessions. It just
is no longer affirmative. So that's the way I kind of, and I also like the fact that
I pursued philosophy as my major. And there wasn't even there wasn't a writing program
at Princeton, as there were hardly any places in those days. This was in the early 60s. But
there were a lot of very serious student poets, and we all hung around together and told each
other what to read. And we kind of had a disdain for the English department, with the exception of
R.P. Blackmer, though he died just before I would have met him. So I never did get to meet him.
So I always thought of poetry as separate from my academic, you know.
Even with the smoking and the quitting track, it's almost like a rebellious kind of
space. Or a freedom or emancipation.
That's the way I've always thought of it. Not being tied to it professionally,
I had a freedom to do whatever I wanted. And as I say, well, I first responded to
people like Eliot and Pound, which was themselves, you know, were represented a kind of
rebellion against poetry as it was at the end of the 19th century. But
the poets I was drawn to when I first then started reading contemporary poetry,
I never really cared much for the beats. And I didn't initially, you know, kind of
academic poets like Robert Lowell and others. But I was first drawn to Black Mountain poets,
Robert Duncan in particular. And I liked the kind of disjunctive
way they wrote and with, you know, a lot of-
Focus on the language itself, right? Or do I remember correctly?
It was very much the focus on language and representation. And then there was a poet
undergraduate a year ahead of me named Lewis McAdams. And he knew a lot of people in New
York, poets in New York, and would bring them to campus for readings. And through him, I was
introduced to the work of the New York School of Poets, Frank O'Hara and John Ashbery and others.
And I was just blown away by Ashbery in particular, that it had all of the kind of
disjunctiveness and concern with representation that the Black Mountain poets did. But it had a
much more deeply lyrical and romantic, well, Duncan was quite romantic too, but I just,
and it had a kind of informality to it that I really responded to.
Especially the mountains and rivers, I guess.
The first book of Ashbery's I read was the Tennis Court Oath, which is-
Oh, yeah, wonderful.
But I read it just before Rivers and Mountains came out.
Rivers and Mountains, yeah.
I read them both at the same time. And I didn't, you know, a lot of people thought that,
you know, there's a radical difference between Rivers and Mountains and the Tennis Court Oath.
But since I really read them around the same time, I saw more of the affinities between them.
And I was involved in, there was a big arts weekend at Princeton, not just poetry,
but all the arts. And I was involved in that. And Louis McAdams had arranged the poets.
And the people who read were Alan Ginsberg and John Ashbery and Ted Berrigan and John Wieners.
And I introduced myself to Ashbery there. And we hit it off immediately and became very good
friends and remained so for the rest of his life. And he invited me to a poet party the next week
where I met Frank O'Hara. And then I had-
Oh, you met Frank O'Hara. Whoa. Wow.
And then a week after that, I had dinner with Ashbery, Frank O'Hara and Kenneth Coke.
Oh, my goodness. For me, that's just spectacular. I don't think I've ever met anyone who- well,
didn't you know Larry Fagan? Did you ever meet him?
Well, yes, yes, I did.
He was teaching me a bit. So there was sort of- I was sort of at the edge of that world.
Ashbery was around a little bit, but I always loved O'Hara. So what was that like having dinner
with- Well, it was amazing. In fact, there's a long poem in my book, 95th Street. The title
poem of that book is- it starts with recounting that dinner from there. But yes, it was amazing.
I was not supposed to- I was supposed to just stay for- have a drink. And then they were going to
stay and finish a play that they had started years before, but had never finished. They hadn't
actually seen each- all three of them together for quite some time. But you know, one drink
led to another and everyone- soon I stayed for dinner and the play was forgotten. I just
remember Kenneth Coke looking over at me at one point saying, love to see a boy eat.
That was really the start of a marvelous relationship. I mean, I think
John's first come on was, oh, John, you're the only boy I've ever loved. And I said, well,
well, but John, I'm straight. And I said, oh, that's all right.
How wonderful that you just fell into that world.
I was driving Lewis's Austin Healy and it was foggy and I was driving too fast and had an
accident. So that kind of sealed our friendship. Neither of us was hurt. I thought I'd killed a guy
here yet, but he wasn't actually hurt very badly.
Oh, that must've been scary though. But yeah, you go through something like that. It kind of bonds you.
Yeah. But so I knew most of the younger New York poets. In fact, the first one poets I met
before Ashbury was Peter Sheldahl and Kenwood Elmsley. Lewis brought them to campus.
So I would hang around with them. I met Larry Fagan that way. I think I met him in 67 or 68.
I can't remember exactly.
His wife, I can't remember her name right now, but she was always around. But it's interesting.
I just talked to Darryl Pinkney. I don't know if you've met him, but I've been thinking a
lot about this time period because that generation was for me very inspiring that there was actually
a group of people talking about poetry and literature in this way and sort of living it.
I don't know. I almost feel like it's a myth. From Darryl's side, it was more Elizabeth Hardwick
and Lau and that Brahmin kind of tradition that he was in. But for me, I was much more
interested in New York school too. I worked at St. Mark's Bookshop. But I wonder from your
perspective, was it real? Was it a myth? It was quite real. In fact, I initially thought
of myself as a kind of New York poet. The Blue Vents is kind of in that style,
right? Was that your first? It's very sort of imitative of Ashbury. But Ashbury actually had
very wide-ranging tastes. It was through him that I was associated, say, Elizabeth Bishop with
Robert Lowell. At the time, I didn't know about Lau and Barrowman at all, though subsequently I
did. But I knew her. John was very fond of, you know, Elizabeth Bishop was his favorite poet.
And then Marianne Moore also. And I gradually, and then I, you know, I had a real temperamental
affinity with John's poetry. And so when I was imitating that, it felt natural. But when I
started trying to write like people like Ted Berrigan or Ron Paget or Frank Barrett, it really,
I didn't think it was very good in that. And also around that time, I began to realize, I mean,
one of the things about the New York school was they were very, they were very strict on who you
should and shouldn't read. And I began to rebel against that. And I decided I was going to read,
you know, even though I still like to be limited to that. And I remember
W.H. Auden was giving a number of interviews and he talked about how he wrote six poems a year. And
I remember thinking, it would be interesting. I think I'll write a poem that I take a really
long time on and I revise a lot. I wrote a book called Domes, which was the title poem of the book
After Blue Vents that won the first place. And that was, I was reading Hart Crane and a biography
of his poetry. And I don't know if the influence showed, maybe a little bit in some things that
you don't see. Well, Domes itself, the title does. Yeah. And it was really successful. Everyone
liked it. And I remember Larry Fagan particularly liked it. And Poetry Magazine published it right
away. And so ever since then, I still write that way, just a few lines a day, and it takes a long
time. But after that, I still liked, you know, a lot of New York poets, especially Ashbury and
James Schuyler and Kenneth Coke too. You know, there are kind of five Frank O'Hara's I've decided.
And I like some of them, but not all of them. Yeah, there's just something about him and the
whole art theme. Oh, right. And he was really the center of that New York school as a social
movement. And after he was killed, you know, that in an accident, to talk about that. Yeah,
I mean, you almost hit someone, but it was making me think of him in that card. Well, he was killed
just a few, it was just, that was just about two months after I had dinner with him at that. Oh,
goodness. Yeah, it was just, in fact, I remember Peter Scheldahl sent me a postcard that summer.
That's how I learned that Frank O'Hara had been killed. Oh, goodness. He wrote me to tell me.
Yeah, but there's something in all those poets, maybe I can sort of start to bring out the idea
of contrast, because when I was reading them, and also you, there's this kind of cadence of not,
I guess, disillusionment, but not almost like a step back, talking to yourself, right? You have
to step away from the subject in order to talk to the subject. But there's also almost, sometimes at
the edge of, of reason, or almost an ecstasy is kind of bubbling in there. Does that make sense
to you? Almost where something doesn't quite make sense, even though you're being so sensible?
Yes. And I think it, I basically, my basic impulse, underlying impulses is romantic. And I think
I've written about this in a number of the pieces in book thought and poetry. But, you know, the
fundamental romantic gesture is the Kant's gesture of the sublime, in which you, well,
in its Kant's form, you're confronted with some, some physical enormity, the, the Alps who were big
at the time. Yeah, an overwhelming enormity, I think you said, in thought. Yeah, you come to the point of
annihilation, but then you have a kind of counter movement in which you realize that, you know,
great as those Alps are, you can take, hold them in your mind and, and in that sense, transcend them
and rise above them. And that's the gesture of the sublime. And I kind of think of Thomas Nagel's
subjective versus objective point of view as a kind of very generalized version of that
oscillation of the sublime between, you know, the physical world and the,
then the transcendent self that overcomes it. It's just that in classical romanticism originally,
you know, it culminates in this affirmation of this transcendent self. And that's what you
find throughout Wordsworth. Though, I think what happens in modernism is you realize that's,
you can't believe that anymore, even though you're tempted and drawn to it as Stevens is,
you really can't engage in romanticism in good faith as an affirmation.
So is that because, is this what you mean by romantic opposition when you talk about that,
or, and by the romantic, is it just for people who don't know all these terms or don't want to
go try to figure it all out? I think it relates very much to things all of us can understand,
whether we're neuroscientists or a poet or whatever. The romantic, do you mean getting
carried away a bit in taking the subjective too seriously? That's why you have to leave it?
Well, that you just can't, you know, the Kantian sublime is not really an argument. It's just kind
of an, it affirms the transcendence of the self because it can take in the physical world. But
of course, that's really not an argument. That's a kind of a, in a way, it's kind of almost a
superstition. It's a kind of another form of superstition like religion, though I actually
have become a kind of very qualified philosophical dualist, so I can talk about that if you want.
But you can't really, I mean, so instead of this, the Kantian sublime, it is a real experience
that the people, everyone, most people have had a version of it, even though they don't know what
it's called or how Kant. So would you mean, just for those listening, something transcendent where
you forget yourself? So where you so identify, for example, with nature, if we want to talk about
Wordsworth, or if you want to, or you so identify that you are overwhelmed by something that you
don't consider yourself, lose yourself, is that? That you feel yourself apart from nature. It's a
kind of philosophical dualism that you're, you know, there's the physical world, and there's
the mind or the soul or the self or whatever you want to call it. And that's distinct from nature
and trend in some sense transcends it. And that's at least in the classical, romantic version in
Wordsworth's. But at some point you, you know, you just can't in good faith really believe that,
though I do believe something like that, a very qualified form of philosophical dualism.
You can't believe that the self is different from consciousness and mind. I mean, the body is
different from consciousness and self. Well, I do actually think so, though this is reflects
based on a kind of reading of Wittgenstein by my advisor Rogers Albritton in an unpublished paper
that, so I think, yeah, I think there's a paper that I included in Thought and Poetry called
Metaphysics and the Mind-Body Problem. That's where you talk about Nagel. Well, I think I first
talk about Nagel in a paper, an earlier paper called Poetry and the Experience. That one's,
no, the one on the mind-body problem is that's a straight philosophy paper and doesn't talk about
poetry at all, though I did give it an epigraph from John Ashbury's, Christina on Popeye,
that reads, if this is all we need from fear from spinach, then I don't mind so much. So
it picks up, Rogers Albritton has this reading of Wittgenstein in which he thinks, yeah,
Wittgenstein really does think that we refer to pains and those things, and there are such things.
It's just that he says they're metaphysically thin, is his phrase. They're real, but they aren't as
real as things that are metaphysically more robust. And that's kind of the way I now think of the
status of the mind in what are called qualia, that yeah, they really are real. And for
basically Cartesian reasons, the mind is distinct from the body. It's just metaphysically thin and
you don't have to worry about it. And yes, we're completely material beings. It's just that this
gives rise to perspectival consciousness. And for basically Descartes reasons, we can't identify
the mind with the body or any part of it. But don't worry about it. That's kind of my current-
Well, yeah, something I think about a lot and that maybe draws me to read you and that you talk
about in different ways in the different essays. I'm sorry to keep them all separate, but you do
talk about the self being real as one extreme and then the other extreme would be that it's
an illusion, a de-illusion. And this is what we're talking about now, but then you can't really
believe in either of those fully. Even if you know one is true, you can't fully believe in it.
So what I think of a lot is holding the paradox. I mean, talk about Elliot and coming back. This
oscillation, Elliot, where you come back to where you were started and know it for the first time
and you talk about oscillation and your poetry is a kind of oscillation between the subject
and the objective exploration. But overall, you're sort of holding the paradox. You're sort of,
as you just expressed, we're using language just to get to know this movement. It's not that we can
ever really freeze it at some spot of opposition. I think that's right. And I think there's a
tension between the subjective viewpoint and the objective viewpoint, to put it in Nagel's terms,
and that both of them are incomplete. I mean, from a subjective viewpoint,
to use Wittgenstein's phrase, the world is my world and I'm the only mind there is and my world
is the only world there is. But then from the objective point of view, I'm completely insignificant
and not even fully, not even real. And there's just this kind of oscillation between these two
things. And in fact, that's kind of the theme of my new book that's coming out next year called
Cemeteries and Galaxies. And it actually has a lot of physics and mathematics and astrophysics
in it too. You have maybe one or two physics-ish poems that I'm remembering at least. There are
a few. And this book has some ones that are explicitly so. In fact, the last poem is a
longish poem called Solvay 1927, which is Solvay Conference was the big conference of all of the
great physicists of the day, Einstein, Bohr, and Dirac. They were all there.
Well, that speaks to sort of particle and wave. And I can see a through line in all of this.
I'm probably projecting because again, the philosophy I work on is trying to understand
how we hold this paradox and even start to understand that as more of the reality instead of,
which is what you're doing, instead of saying, okay, we have to choose between subject and object
or mental and physical or self and illusion or whatever that are real and illusion, that we
understand those are different ways of trying to understand this process by which you have to hold
it, which is what you do, I think, with your poetry. That's absolutely right. And what I've
also come to think in the last couple of years, and which is really the theme of this new book,
is that, I mean, we think of modernism as constituted by art and literature, but
modernism is equally applicable to not just to philosophy, but also to physics and even
mathematics. I mean, look at Douglas Hofstadter's book, Gertel Escher Bach.
I love that book. And Strange Loop, too. It's even more.
And in fact, I think the reason, I'm still very interested in physics and keep up with it,
even though I don't know enough to do it, to actually work on it. But I mean,
quantum mechanics is a real mess. There is no accepted interpretation of it now, even though
it's clearly right in the terms of what it predicts and what makes possible, but no one
knows what it means. And I think the reason is the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics,
which has now pretty much been abandoned and discredited. But I think that stuck around
for many modernist reasons, namely, it's weird, it's modern. And I think the Copenhagen
interpretation was a manifestation of modernism in physics. And I think modernism is now kind of
over for various reasons. It's true. But it's also, if we put that in the context of holding
paradox, you know, there's always this oscillation in the same way. So we can never really pin it
down. For me, it's almost like quantum physics is trying to teach us a new practice of how to
understand the world, which something like your poetry could also maybe be trying to,
not trying to teach us in a conscious sense, like you sit down to try to do it. But
through reading it, I've been reading it for a long time, and I get a similar feeling of this
practice of how to look at myself and hold what is myself and also in that process change self or
open to a new self. You know, you do this too, you almost, we could talk about how you
talk about embodying the perspective, right? That's what you're doing in the poems too. And
this feels like a practice is not so dissimilar from what happens even in all the debate about
physics. Oh, yes. No, I think that's right. But I think, well, the philosopher of physics that I
like most, well, there are a number of them, but Tim Maudlin in particular, but the quantum mechanics
was really held back by the refusal of, in fact, that's one reason why when I got to college, I
became disillusioned with physics because it turned out that when I started taking physics,
you didn't really learn this kind of sexy stuff that you learned in reading in high school,
you had to learn classical mechanics. And then it turned out that physicists weren't really
interested in the foundations of quantum mechanics that was left to philosophers. And in fact,
that was a good way to get tenure was to worry about that in a physics department. So a few
exceptions like David Bohm and a few others, but by and large, physicists didn't worry about the
foundations of quantum mechanics. And now they do, and no one knows what to say about it now.
I wrote about David Bohm as part of my philosophy thesis, connecting it to Hegel. And I got so much
pushback because people didn't consider him a real physicist. And plus he had political problems too.
Yeah, I know. I didn't know about all that at the time.
But he's one of his views or one of the three possible. The other is the multiple worlds
version and the other is kind of Italian version. No, it's not Rovelli, though he writes about it
a lot too. We could talk about physics and it's really fascinating to me. But I think what I want
to try to come back to is this oscillation. And I guess what big picture quantum physics is trying
to deal with, which is that we can always see things from more than one perspective and see
them as true from that perspective at that moment, so to speak, which doesn't mean it's going to be
true from another perspective later. And that's very confusing and hard to hold. But I feel that
with your poetry that you through exploring perspectives, you're finding ways to do that
that I wonder if it's satisfying in the sense of because we've talked about religion at first,
you're very into that. And that's kind of going to one long side of the oscillation.
And then math and science, that's another side of the oscillation, but neither are going to be
satisfying because they can't be forever, right? It's one stream. And the poets and philosophers
who I'm most drawn to. Well, there's an essay in thought and poetry called, what was it called?
Gestures of Temptation and Refusal in Wittgenstein and Stevens. And they both exemplify it. I mean,
if Stevens is constantly saying, making romantic affirmations and then taking them back.
Does he say in one of his poems, I am my world and you are your world or something like that?
I kept hearing that when I was reading thought and poetry again, because you talk about Wittgenstein
and he says that too, right? Is that connected? I am my world, microcosm, that's from Tractatus.
But I wrote that essay on Stevens and Wittgenstein because they both exemplify this kind
of oscillation between being tempted by, you know, in Wittgenstein's case, a philosophical picture
and then reacting against it. But then, I mean, people, I dislike these kind of facile readings
of Wittgenstein, in which he somehow showed us how to stop doing philosophy because he doesn't,
he thinks it's a temptation that you're drawn to. And even though you know it, you may know in some
sense that it's illusory, you can't help it. You can't break its spell. So you're constantly being
drawn to it and then attempting to see through it and then being drawn to it. And it's exactly
the same as in Stevens too. That same kind of strange loop. I don't know if you've experienced
this, but when I think of the constraint, that's a word too that comes up, maybe if we talk about
the difference between philosophy and poetry, for example. But when I think of Wittgenstein and when
I think of Stevens, both of whom I love very much, I also feel, okay, life is full of feeling and
suffering and you almost need some constraint in order to deal with it. And this oscillation can
become almost an illness if you're not careful, if you're too sensitive and too smart. Does that
make any sense? Well, I don't know about an illness, but it can certainly be frustrating.
I think one of the astrophysics poems in the new book has an epigraph
from the comic strip Calvin and Hobbes, which reads, I'm significant, scream the speck.
And so it is this oscillation between, from a subjective point of view, you and your world are
everything, but from an objective point of view, you're nothing. And you can't sort of stay put
with either of those. And with Wittgenstein, I can see that's where I meant it could become almost an
illness. You quote, I think, in the book or one of your books about that quote about the happy and
unhappy man inhabit different worlds and how this kind of perplexed you. But I can understand
that because it's a similar oscillation to where if you're going to give yourself to one of these
different views, just in order to have a bit of peace, just a kind of foundation, then it can
seem like very different worlds, right? Even in the poetic romantic versus the sort of more
philosophical or disillusioned. I've never been quite clear as to what Wittgenstein meant by that,
but it seems like a very powerful idea. And it's quite, the last part of the Tractatus is
quite at odds in temperament with the first part. But I mean, the beginning stuff in the Tractatus,
the world of the happy and unhappy man, they're just the same. They're just configurations of
objects. But by the end of it, it's a completely different view. But I'm not sure what it is.
How do you think of the world and the way Wittgenstein? That's an important word.
Well, I don't know. I mean, early Wittgenstein, he did have a conception of
what the world was, configurations of objects. And I think the best account of it is found in
Robert Fogelman's book on Wittgenstein. I think by the later Wittgenstein, even though
my book on Wittgenstein is called The Continuity of Wittgenstein's Thought, and it's about the
similarities between the early and the later philosophical outlook, certainly the idea that
there's such a thing, a single totality called in the later work. So he puts forward a version
of it in the Tractatus. I guess I was trying to get with the subjective-objective idea too, or
what we're broadly discussing is more scientific or artistic or poetry or philosophical or
this oscillation.
I don't know where in Wittgenstein you'd find something comparable to subjective versus objective,
but Nagel was a student of my advisor, Rogers Albritton, and was deeply influenced by
Albritton and through Albritton by Wittgenstein. So I think Nagel's, the root of his
subjective versus objective is to be found somewhere in Wittgenstein, but I'm not sure
precisely where he would find it.
Yeah, I feel it in there, but I don't know how to make the
continuity. I think you express it, but not explicitly in these terms.
That's the way I see it. So it comes out of there somehow. I remember Rogers Albritton once telling
me an anecdote about Isaiah Berlin. I remember when I was in college, Terry Penner said he was
telling someone else who was wondering where to go that he should go to Harvard so he could
meet Rogers Albritton, the smartest man on the Western hemisphere, he said.
And I remember once Albritton told me a story that he'd heard a remark that Isaiah Berlin made,
I guess Roger's name came up in conversation and Berlin said, oh yes, Albritton, good man,
he invented Nagel.
Oh, that's strong. I guess we all invent one another,
or we're invented by what we read, in a way, and how we put it together.
Well, Rogers wrote hardly anything.
Or what we hear, the conversations, or yeah.
Well, he's famous, his reputation rested entirely, almost entirely, on his conversations.
This idea of conversation I want to think about a little bit, because you've said that poetry is a
conversation with yourself. You also write about how it's a conversation with other poets,
and there's scales of it, it's nested, it's not just an internal self, it's like what you're
saying now, these conversations with these teachers.
Well, I think that's right. I think it's a conversation with yourself, but you have to
remember, you can talk to yourself about anything. So it's not to say it's talking to yourself,
it's not solipsistic, or private, or introspective. It can be about everything, though.
I do think that, and this is part of what I mean when I think of modernism as having
run its course, I do think one thing I reject is the idea of writing for an audience.
I never once listened to a conversation with an interview with Billy Collins, in which he
said that the way he writes, and actually I like a lot of Billy Collins' work, but he said
when he writes, he begins by thinking, well, what's going to catch an audience's attention
and draw them in? I was listening to that, and I thought, my God, that's the exact opposite of
the way I think of writing. In fact, I went on to write a poem called To An Audience,
just to explore that idea. But I do think what has happened in poetry with the rise of
identity poetics is that the sense of poetry as a form of talking to yourself, which is, I think,
what romanticism is, I think that represents a kind of repudiation of that, because identity
poetry really is directed at an audience. It's meant to affirm your connection to an audience,
and that's what I've become very, I mean, I think it's fine if people want to write that,
but it's just foreign to the way I think of poetry, and it really doesn't, it's so taken over,
poetry these days, that it's kind of, well, I don't really care at my age,
because I'll be 79 soon, but still, and so I've kind of done what I'm going to do, I guess,
anyway. You have a new book coming out, so it's still coming, you never know how many more will
come. But it's interesting what you say, because that is a really different orientation. If you're
orienting towards what do people want or something, or what will resonate the most with the most people
or something versus this more what I think of what you do, which is subjective exploration of
perspective, which it's almost like you're looking at one person or one part of yourself and trying
to embody that and explore it. Yes, no, that's right. That's the way I think of it. But again,
with the proviso that you can talk to yourself about anything new. Right, and also what you're
talking with yourself about, all of that is patterned by the other conversations you've had
with your teachers, the other poetry you've read. It's continuous in a similar way to what
we were talking about with Wittgenstein. It is. I know Harold Bloom is somewhat controversial,
but that's the way he thinks of poetry as a conversation with yourself and with other poets,
and I think that's absolutely right. And you wouldn't think of philosophy this way,
because I want to get to this idea of the problem, which you talk about this word problem and about
speculation, and we could talk about it from the position of the poet or the position of the
philosopher, but it makes me think of in one of the essays you talk about this idea of Heidegger,
this ultimate question of why is there something rather than nothing and how you never really
thought that was much of a question, but then the way Wittgenstein orients it, it gets to me that
this thing we're trying to talk about of this feeling of awe and of talking to yourself,
realizing you're aware, that can go too far into the religious. It can be addressed philosophically
too, but it's a different set of constraints, you might say. Well, I think philosophy, I think of
philosophy, and I think I can't remember who, where I got the description from. Nine to five
philosophies, someone wants, but I do think that nine to five philosophy is subject to constraints
of coherence and consistency and relevance and that that poetry simply isn't constrained by,
and it's, it is directed towards truth in some sense though, of course truth is somewhat nebulous.
I'm, philosophically, I'm kind of a realist, so I really believe in, you know, a kind of coherent
notion of truth, a kind of correspondence notion of truth, but I think both philosophy and poetry
can originate in the sum of the same impulses. It's just that philosophy pursues them
with a goal towards truth and subject to certain constraints, whereas poetry is really more in
kind of concerned with feeling the force and spell of those initial impulses and
exploring them and trying to inhabit them. I know that's kind of vague, but that's the way.
Not at all. I like that you brought up spell because there's a way in which the constraints
of philosophy, it reminds me of your, you know, your fascination with the math and science and so
on. That's a different way of it. Can we say they're both investigations, but with different
freedoms? I lost you for a minute. Are you there? Oh, okay. Sorry. Yeah. Can we say they're
kind of investigations with different constraints and freedoms?
I think so. I think so. The philosophy is more subject to those constraints. So, I mean,
Wittgenstein is the most important philosopher to me, and he certainly,
again, it doesn't really conform to the model of nine to five philosophy. So you have to read
that in a fairly loose sense. So what he says about Heidegger is I've always found very
interesting because I don't understand Heidegger and what I've tried to, but I don't care for it
that much. And I kind of share Bernard Williams' suspicion that Heidegger is maybe the only
important philosopher who's basically a fraud in some sense. But he would think that Wittgenstein
would react against Heidegger negatively the way the positivists did, but he didn't really,
is one of his few remarks on Heidegger are quite sympathetic. And, you know, the question,
Heidegger's obsessive question, why is there something rather than nothing?
Heidegger apparently thought it really was a question. And of course, for both Wittgenstein
and the positivists, it wasn't really, it wasn't a real question, but Wittgenstein was actually
sympathetic to it. What he thought, where he thought Heidegger went wrong was treating it
as a question when really it's an expression of a sense of awe at the existence of the world.
And that he thought was important and genuine. But if you then turn it into a question the way
Heidegger seems to have, yes, that's wrong. But it's something Wittgenstein was sympathetic to.
It's just a matter of, you know, mistaking this feeling of awe, which is important and genuine
for a question, which isn't really a genuine question.
That reminds me of a few things. Earlier, I was thinking about in your poetry and also in the New
York School, there's a playfulness that keeps things in a space that doesn't get towards what
I was talking about with illness, which can kind of happen in philosophy. The people who live
philosophy fully, maybe in a Walter Kaufman kind of sense. But the other thing is that
I wanted to ask you about, do you ever in, I mean, you keep your poetry and your philosophy
separate, or at least that's how I understood it. You did it like half a year, you would write the
poetry and half a year, the philosophy. Yes, I did. Now, after I retired from
philosophy in, well, it was 2010, I guess, I've really only written that paper on the mind-body
problem. I'm not really doing philosophy anymore. But when I was doing philosophy,
I would keep them separate, though not because I thought that they were somehow incompatible,
but it's just that the way I wrote both poetry and philosophy was to throw myself into them for
extended periods of time. When I first wrote that poem, Domes, I developed this way of writing
poetry, which was writing in small amounts over an extended period of time. So I just need to
inhabit that frame of mind in order to do it. It's almost like putting yourself in two different
modes of, I mean, I know you don't like this, or you like it, but this idea of there being
a happy world and an unhappy world being the same world for Wittgenstein. There could also be a
poetic world and a philosophic world being the same world, but you're almost, you're not a
different person in those worlds, but you are because you get into, isn't it almost like a
pattern? It is that, but it's also just, there's a more practical sense. When I was in college,
and at least initially at the same time, I'd work on philosophy and then I'd write a poem.
But that's when I wrote poetry more quickly, and I'd finish something in a city
or in a few days or something like that. It's just that when I started writing poems,
this extended period of writing poems, I really had to sort of, I'd do philosophy during the
academic year and then in the spring and summer I'd switch to poetry. And so it was in part
because it's a different frame of mind, but it was really also just because of, for practical
reasons that I need to have the time to devote to. Well, we've talked about these different parts
of you and these different parts of life and these different, and they seem like opposites,
but we've also talked about kind of holding the paradox and how they're both different parts or
different ways of understanding the same process. But what I wanted to ask you and the reason I
brought it up is this notion of the sublime or what we were talking about with Wittgenstein
is actually probably more accurate of awe, of the amazing fact that we can become self-conscious
and of self-consciousness, of consciousness. This is important in your work. And I wonder when that
enters in, because I know when you're writing, sometimes it's in the shower or when you're
shaving that the ideas come and the idea of flow or being in awe, where does that come in
your life? How's that changed over time? I don't know when it starts, but I think it's just,
I mean, it really is just remarkable. The fact of
perspectival consciousness and self-consciousness is just, I mean, it seems just a miracle and we
don't understand it. And it's really just astonishing. I know it's something that most
people just take for granted, but I find it the most puzzly thing there is. You call it the most
common thing and the most unique, again, the paradox. And that's true of human life. I mean,
each person is utterly insignificant at the same time, the most important thing there is. And that's
true of each of us. And I think it's just, I don't know if you want to call it a paradox,
but I don't know what else. It's both two things being true at once where you don't need to,
they seem irreconcilable, but they're not irreconcilable. But I guess what I'm getting
at too is that what role, has that changed in your life or is this a practice towards,
because sometimes I feel like this disillusionment is the word you use, but it can also feel like
meditation, which you do talk about in some of your writing. It's almost a Zen practice too,
point of view. Well, me, I just don't have any knowledge of that tradition,
though I wouldn't be surprised if it is. I just don't know anything about that firsthand.
Well, in your own life, has it been a place you find, for some reason I'm thinking of the
swimmer now and there's this line of, I can't remember it very much right now, but the feeling
I have of the line is that you think you're alone, you think you're with others, but then
you're just alone. What I'm trying to say is, has it helped you sit with yourself and also to access
that place of just being aware of consciousness and in awe of it? Because there's a kind of
orientation or a practice to doing that, to being able to sit with it and be aware of it in the
sense of, oh my gosh, this is something amazing. That doesn't come naturally for everyone.
Well, I guess it doesn't. I don't know why it doesn't strike everyone as so strange,
but it does me. On the other hand, I'm not a kind of, I enjoy people and I enjoy social life
and having a good time and seeing other people, so I'm not at all a kind of withdrawn or a very
private person in the sense of, I think about these things, but I enjoy being with people,
so I'm not someone who likes to sort of withdraw from the world.
No, but I guess there's a tenderness in there that maybe it's easy for you to express in your
normal life. I don't know, but I don't think it's easy for most people to express. It's something
that when people read you, they can feel without it completely overwhelming you.
Well, that's nice. I'm glad to hear that. I'd like to think that's true, but I hope it is.
This is love and philosophy, so when you think about the practice of poetry and philosophy,
even though they're different and the ways you've said they're different are the ways in which we
speculate and can answer that speculation through constraint and then the way we enact
subjectivity and the way we've been talking in this embodied kind of perspectivalism.
But I wonder how that word love, is it uncomfortable for you? Do you ever?
Well, yeah. Does it connect to any of these?
Well, it's not uncomfortable to me, but it is true that it's not...
My poetry has very little to do with relations with other people, romantic relations.
Even my long poem, Falling Water, which is the history of my marriage, it's not really
a psychological poem about my relations with my ex-wife, though the poet named Joshua Weiner
said something about that poem, which seemed to me to be right. He said he thought it was
the best poem he knew about how what you are is the result of your past experiences in time.
And that's what it's really about. It's really about the feeling of the passage of time. It's
just that it embodies that in this marriage relation, but it's not really a therapeutic
poem about a history of a marriage or something. No, I don't think you use the word love very
much. A couple of times in the essays, maybe, but...
Yeah, very little. It would be great if I could write about that more, but it's just something
that, you know... Well, weirdly, I think it's there.
We didn't talk about it, but architecture, I think, is an important word, and place,
because at least in the poetry, a lot of it, it's a very subjective, as we said,
exploration or investigation without much constraint, and yet the place constrains it.
Or I can tell you've thought about the architecture of the poem itself, and you've said that before,
and there's some kind of interplay here where you're creating a kind of space where we can
feel what I think of as love, which is this conversation or connection with ourselves
and others that is a continuity. I don't know how else to really say it, but...
Yeah, I wonder, are you thinking in terms of architecture and place, setting the
constraints so that you can have no constraint? No, I think that's right. In fact, the concluding
lines of the long poem Falling Water make quite exactly, but I think it's something like
the start of love and then the loss of love and all the intricate years between.
It's about the years, but what the years are framing is the course of this love,
though it's not a love poem. I don't know. It's not a love poem in a
Valentine's Day kind of way, but I'm not sure that love is that. It is something that's over time and
that is oscillating in terms of our awareness of it. Our awareness of it or our participation in
it is a kind of oscillation of awareness. There's something about, again, I keep thinking of water
and swimming or submersion, or there's some kind of feeling reading your poetry of that being
the space we're exploring, if that makes sense. I think so. I mean, the way I came to write that
poem Falling Water was when I was in the process of getting divorced. That's when I
acquired this interest in arts and crafts, furniture and architecture. The poem sort of
coincides with that interest and that's the subtext of the poem. Actually, there's a Frank Lloyd
Wright house just around the corner from me where I'm sitting now. The history of this
merit, but then the subtext is the development of arts and crafts, architecture and art.
I think that's what allows the poem to sort of hold together over that being so long.
Yeah. At least speaking just from my own feeling of reading you and what it's given me, I feel
like I can go into a safe place and be carried along a bit and think about things deeply and
feel sort of safe about it. Maybe that helps one to feel things strongly in doses that don't
overwhelm and yet are in that place of awe that we were talking about or love, I might even call it.
That's just me saying thank you to you, actually.
Well, I'm glad you hear that. As I say, some of these things are tied together a little more
explicitly in this new book, which in two weeks I should be getting the Bound Galley should be
ready. I'd be happy to have them send you one if you'd like. I can't wait to read it.
And I can tell, send me your address and I'll tell the publisher to send you.
Okay, great. I will. Even if it's in the Netherlands or should I give you my AUS?
Oh yeah, it can be in the Netherlands. In fact, I think I mentioned...
Oh yeah, your editor.
I think he's in Belgium, but he's...
Wonderful. I really appreciate it. It's been wonderful to talk to you.
And yeah, thank you for what you do in both these worlds of philosophy and poetry.
Okay. And send me an address and I'll have them...
Okay, I will. Can't wait to read it. And I hope you keep writing because yeah,
it's wonderful. I'm sure you will.
All right. Well, have a good day there.
Well, you too.
I'll send you an email. All right. Bye.
Bye-bye.
Hey, everyone. I'm back to read a poem from John K.T. from Falling Water on page 11. It's
called The Realm of Ends. As John and I talked about in the conversation, you just heard he
is very influenced by Wittgenstein. And I just noticed there's a phrase in here. Nothing is
hidden from Wittgenstein. It actually reappears many times in this book, but I hadn't really
noticed or connected it with Wittgenstein. In any case, here is the poem I opened to today when I
was looking at this book, and it seems fitting for Beyond Dichotomy. It's called The Realm of
Ends. I wish there were a state of being of a different kind, not compromised and caught
between the twin extremes of something inconceivable and something else untrue, between the overarching
heavens and the merely human. Some things are not to be sought after in reality, not even in the
mind, but in a hidden region where the soul is free and unrestrained and thought proceeds like
weightless stars across an unseen sky. Oh yes, I realize this inner paradise is just like time
or other worlds or selves, impossibly remote or deep within, another intimate illusion on the
border of intelligence, a thing you have to touch and brush away because nothing is hidden.
These heavens are the only ones there are, an all-inclusive frame displaying every aspect
of the real against an infinite night sky, the thick, dark, translucent color of obsidian.
Yet in the wakefulness that comes towards dawn, I still sometimes think of myself in a style of
thinking whose trajectory must have once seemed clear, but now seems loose, strange, and difficult
to follow, as somehow distant from a universe of merely changing things, eternal in the way
each moment is, and free the way each star becomes increasingly elusive once it crosses the meridian.
