Hey everyone, this is a research conversation with Lynn Nadell. As you know, I'm trying to
understand cognition as navigability. Towards that, what really got me into that was my study
in neuroscience of the hippocampus and this area of the brain. There's many areas associated with
navigation that are also associated with memory, a specific kind of memory, but just in a general
way, let me just say that, you know, this area of the brain was really famous in the 50s for memory
from a guy named H.M., which I'll just link to some writings about this if you're interested, but
he had this area of his brain removed and he couldn't create new memories. That's a very
generalized conception for those of you who haven't heard of him. And then later in the 70s, a man named
John O'Keefe had this kind of discovery of cells in the same area of the brain that work almost like
a GPS. Again, this is all very generalized, but there are cells in our brains which fire in very
specific patterns relative to how we move through the world. And they are referred to often as the
sat-nav of the brain or the GPS of the brain. They're called place cells and grid cells and
border cells, head direction cells. And many people were involved in this process of discovering
these cells or in the case of Lynn, writing about them, thinking about them theoretically in concern
to the hippocampus. And he and John O'Keefe wrote a book together, which has been a really formative book.
The book is called The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map. And cognitive map comes from work from another
man named Edward Tolman. Tolman conducted these experiments where he started to develop this idea
of latent learnings, maybe how you've heard it, heard of it. Kind of just how we move through the world
is a kind of knowledge gathering. Or just that we move through the world and we don't realize that we're
learning certain routes and paths, but later we can find our way without thinking about it because
we've just learned it. And this is where this connection is between cognition and navigability.
And we can see it in many different landscapes, not only these geographical landscapes, but also
how we move through landscapes of language, emotional landscapes, and so on. But in this conversation
with Lynn, we really talk about this very early time period where the idea of cognitive maps was just
starting. This is just a research conversation about those early years. And all the names that he and
mentions here are famous names in this little world of neuroscience. But these names and this little
world of neuroscience actually has really big implications across how we're coming to understand
what it means to develop knowledge and memory and how this connects us to other beings in the world.
Maybe you've heard of a place called McGill University in Montreal. Pretty much everyone I've mentioned so
far was there around the same time period in the 50s, 60s, 70s, when neuroscience was forming and
Penfield and Hebb, Donald Hebb, this idea of neurons that fire together, wire together. Lynn and I talk
about it. He was there. He was also at McGill. So was John O'Keefe. So was Brenda Milner, the person who's
famous for the studies of H.M. relative to the hippocampus. I think of this time period and this
university is like the superhero headquarters of what became neuroscience. So we're going to talk
about the superhero world of scientists at McGill in Montreal. And we're going to talk a little bit
about the development of this idea of cognitive maps. So thanks for being here. I hope you're all
doing really well. Let's go. Yeah, let's get started. I guess it's probably best to jump in and start
with the McGill years. And as I told you, I'm really looking for ways to connect all of you. Actually,
it's not that hard to do because of this extraordinary time period at McGill and that you and
John were actually there and so on. But what I'm still struggling with a little bit in the text is
the Tolman because his story is so interesting. It's so crucial to your work. And I'm trying to
connect the dots a little more between maybe even just this kind of academic family tree,
how it sort of got from Tolman to you, Heb, and so on. So I'm just throwing that out in case
anything comes to mind. So we can go ahead and start after you'd gotten into McGill, you were
studying chemistry. And then I guess you could tell me a little bit about how you first sort of
discovered psychology department and this superhero world of scientists. To say that I was studying
chemistry is to go is to put much more on it than existed. I was not a very good student in my first
few years. And I was there because I had an interest in chemistry, which was not deep. It was based on
the fact that my father had been a chemist. And so, and McGill was a good place to study chemistry,
but I wasn't really studying chemistry. I wasn't really studying anything.
Few of us are our first year of college.
Exactly. I was.
So, but, but one thing did become quite clear, um, from the chemistry labs that I did,
which was that I probably shouldn't become a chemist. Uh, why was that not so good in the lab?
I was not sufficiently careful, shall we say. Did you drop some beakers?
I might've damaged my system. So it became clear that I was not, that was not a course. So I was just
looking around for something else to do as an undergrad. You needed to have a major or something.
So I, so I switched over to biology and then I started taking, you know, a variety of courses
in biology, including, including psychology, because why not? I was always interested in that
kind of stuff, but not particularly focused on it. And of course this was the intro to psych course was
taught by Hebb. So I, I didn't go to McGill because of Hebb. I didn't sign up for that class. I didn't even
know who Hebb was. Oh, you didn't even know when you signed up. Oh, wow. I didn't know how famous
he was. I had none of this knowledge to me. I simply signed up for a class in intro to psych.
Was he already really famous then? Oh yeah. He was already. Okay. He, because he was writing his
book still, or it was already out. This was 1960. This was 1961. Okay. He was probably president of APA.
His book came out in 49. I mean, right. The fire together, why together thing was already.
That was already out. All of that was out there. Although it hadn't been,
was not that popular in North America yet. Right. Right. That's a, that's a part of the story here.
Anyway, he was very famous in Canada. He was famous around the world, but you know, that didn't mean
people agreed with his approach, but he was very famous. I didn't know. I took his class. It was
fascinating. And I, so I started to basically just took a lot of psychology classes without majoring
in psych. And I was on a bit of a pre-med track, so to speak, thinking. Okay. Do you remember what
caught you in his class? Just how interesting the way it was just, I know I was, it is the case that I
had been interested, even when I was a kid about, you know, brains and when they go wrong and what
happens when somebody's crazy, you know, but it was like, I was interested in that. And I was also
interested in baseball and hockey. It wasn't like a passion of mine, but it was something I was in.
And so it, it matched up with some early interests I had had, vague, inchoate sort of stuff.
Mm-hmm. And I just tickled it. So I started taking a lot of psych classes and I was pre-med
and then I didn't get into medical school because I, because of my first two years and my grades were
pretty poor. And, uh, so I had a year. And by this point I was married with one kid and another.
You got married young. Yeah. I got married young, foolishly, but did.
And so I ended up getting a job working for a year in a psych lab because I thought,
let's see what that's like, right? On campus or? Oh yeah. In the psych department. I somehow
myself with people in the psych department, got a job as a, you know, a gap year, so to speak,
a unforced gap year working in doing behavioral psychopharmacology work with Dalbir Bindra,
a professor in psychology. Uh, and that really sold me. I, I mean, even though it's really pretty
boring research that really sold me on. And I was, because I was there the whole year in the department
in the animal lab area, I mixed with all the graduate students and so on. I was treated like a
graduate student almost. And then remarkably, they let me into the graduate program, which they didn't
used to do, which they tend to, they didn't have a policy of not taking. Right. You're not supposed to
get to do both at the same school or something. Exactly right. That policy was more strictly
enforced in those years than it is now, by the way. Um, anyway, they let me in and, uh, that was the
beginning of it, you know, and, and O'Keefe was a, was a first year graduate student, the year that I
was working in the lab before I started as a graduate student. So John, John showed up at the
same time that I more or less connected with psychology at that research level. Do you remember
the first time you met him or an early time, any like first impressions or? He was a little older,
nice guy, smart, um, a little different, you know, settled, you know, married to, to a nice,
nice woman who's still, he's still married to, I mean, um, nice, quirky, smart and a little older
and sort of wiser and not, not as, uh, not as wild and crazy as some of the rest of us were a little
more, more self, a more settled person. Always was and always has been. Yeah. Yeah. He'd already had
some other life before that too. Yeah. I think so. And, and, and he was, um,
the thing was that at that point that year, the psychology, the animal psychology thing was split
between a couple of different places. We weren't all in one place. And John was working with, uh,
Ron Melzack in a, in a different house, completely separate from the rest of us who were working,
you know, with Milner or with some of the other students with Melzack, me with Bindra, or, and if
Hebb had any students working with animals, we were all together in one place near the medical
school. And then there was Melzack who had recently been hired. Uh, and John was one of his first
graduate students. And they were doing cat research in an old building, separate from everyone else.
Oh, okay. It's kind of off to the side now. Off to the side. Actually, didn't see a lot of John,
other than in, you know, when he would just happen to be around for seminars or for
somebody coming to give a talk and stuff like that, because he was a year ahead of me. So I didn't,
I was not in seminars with him specifically. So John and I were friendly during grad school,
quite friendly because we shared political interests. We were both semi-socialist kind of
politics, but other than that, we didn't have a lot to do with each other research-wise,
because we were not in the same space. Mm-hmm .
I'd like to hear a little bit about that, this, this social thing, because it's a bit
different than now. I mean, during that time, what did it feel like? There's a.
Well, I mean, that was a time during which if you were a graduate student, even if you were married
and had kids like I was, the lab was the center of your life. It was not a nine to five job. There was
no balance, you know, life, quality of life, balance nonsense, nothing like that. You were in the lab all
the time basically. And as I was, and as my wife would hang out in the lab and the kid and the little
baby thing would be sitting off to the side while I was doing surgery, all mixed together, basically.
There was no separation of any of that. And it, and it really dominated, you know, one's life and
one's. So the, so I did not have a social life outside the sort of group of people that I was a
graduate student with by and large, some did, some didn't, but by and large, we were all,
and we all hung out together all the time. We spent all of our time together.
Did you have seminars with Brenda Milner?
Brenda Milner was, it was on the periphery of what we were, of what we were doing because
Brenda Milner was at the Montreal Neurological Institute, which was, you know, away, away, a ways.
We didn't be there very often, unless there was a talk to be heard or something like that.
She would show up at seminars. She, at that time, of course, was married to Peter Milner.
Mm-hmm. So he was closer to you, probably.
Way closer. He was the one that you were all the closest with because Peter was, at that point,
Peter was writing his 1970 physiological psychology textbook, which is, which is an absolute classic,
you know, by far the best textbook ever written. You know, it's really stood the test of time,
that one, hasn't it? Yeah. It's an impressive book, basically. And so he was, he was writing
that book when, while we were graduate students and we were reading mimeographed. There's a word you
probably haven't heard, or maybe you don't even know what that word means. I've heard it.
It was a, was a, um, a machine for making copies before faxes. Prefax thing. All I can tell you is
it used ink and your hands got messy. Okay. That gives me a good image.
And, and the, and the ink it used was to tend to be purple. Have you ever seen old reprints?
That sounds familiar. I mean, I've been in a lot of libraries and
archives and I've definitely seen purple ink. That's what identifies it. Anyway, he's passing
around mimeograph copies of his chapters of his book that we were, that we were reading in seminar.
So Peter was in full bloom and he was the one we all went to for questions. And he was the guy who
knew everything. I mean, it's remarkable because he's writing a textbook about the whole fields.
He was, he was the one we all went to. Melzack was new, uh, and a little bit less accessible,
but very smart and nice guy. We, we, we interacted with him a fair amount because even though he had a
lab over in this other building, he had an office in the place where the rest of the animal researchers
were, he had an office there that he was in and out of not all that frequently. My, my advisor,
Bindra was a, uh, human researcher mostly. And he had just started getting involved with animal
research so that he could look at some pharmacology things. And he didn't know much about animal research.
So I interacted almost entirely with Milner and Melzack and he did not have his office where the
animal researchers were. Okay. We're in this, in another building where the human researchers were.
That was the main hub of the psychology department at old house on an old street. And, but you know,
Montreal at all, I've been there like twice at the base of the mountain. There are some old streets.
Anyway, he had lovely old house. The psychology and psychology there would meet every afternoon for tea.
So kind of, you know, thing, which I got used to. And so it would be tea in the afternoon at three or
four o'clock in the psychology building where Hebb was. And if you wanted to spend time with Hebb,
you just would walk over, stroll over there. It was about a 10 to 15 minute walk from where the animal lab
was. And you do tea in the afternoon. And I did that, you know, fair. So that was how,
and so one interacted with Hebb that way, but one also interacted with Hebb by virtue of taking his
first year seminar, which was famous, you know, for it's. What were those teas like? I have to,
I have to stop on that one a little bit. Did, did, did people ask him questions and he would talk about
things or was it, it was, you know, they, in some ways they were less memorable for me than the teas
I subsequently had at UCL with John, with people, anatomy and physiology department where the tea,
every afternoon there, you, you sat around the table with three Nobel prize winners.
That was a little more, that was a more daunting tea sort of episode than having tea with Hebb,
which itself, but Hebb was friendly. And, and actually the, the person who was most present
during the teas I'm, I'm now remembering was the head of the department, uh, George Ferguson,
who was a statistician, who was, was a real bon vivant and a bit of a poet and wrote kind of
doggerel poetry and gave great Christmas parties. And I sort of, I modeled my behavior as department
head a little bit after what I observed in him because he was really the, a bit of a social glue
person in a, in a department. Anyway, so we had tea in the afternoon, we would see Hebb that way,
that would be the interaction with Hebb, you know, it would be in and out sort of over the time when
he was a graduate student, but he was a presence. Then we moved into a new building in about a year and
a half before I finished up and John finished up. And then suddenly we were all together in a new
building. Were you already working on the hippocampus? Because your PhD was on the hippocampus,
how did that happen? Already working on the, why did I, ah, okay. Was that any connection between
Peter and Brenda and all? Oh, absolutely. We'll segue straight. So the big, the big issue there,
if you were, if you were in that department, you were probably interested in memory as a graduate
student, probably not only, but already have, you know, I mean, right. So, and then there was Brenda
Miller and then there was HM. Which was already, those papers were already well-known. The
Scoville and the Penfield stuff was already, yeah. All right. Now, so, you know, some of the background
here. I was trying to get a sense of when it all started to fill. I mean, from my point of view,
it feels like it was already kind of huge, but I know it, it took some time in different parts of
the world. It took some time and it was somewhat, progress was, was delayed, you might say, by the,
by the fact that the early attempts to, to kind of create an animal model of HM all failed. So that's
set the stage for, right off the bat in, after the 57 paper, Brenda Milner and a, and a postdoc,
Orbach joined forces with Rasmussen and to do an experiment where they tried to replicate the
surgery that was done on HM in a group of monkeys and then to demonstrate that they have a memory
defect like HM had a memory defect, you know. The hippocampus is different though, but I guess
you could still, you know, models. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I know. So they prepared the, you know,
surgery as close as possible to the, what Scoville had done in HM and, uh, oh and behold, these monkeys
had no memory deficit whatsoever, virtually no memory. Wow. A little bit, but nothing, nothing. So,
and then people then did hippocampal lesions in rats, early hippocampal lesion work in rats in the early
1960s, same thing. No general, nothing at all, like what was seen in HM. So that was the conundrum
in the early sixties. There was this conundrum in the field, like what's going on here. That's
fascinating. Was there any spatial, uh, deficiencies? No, nothing. Space was nothing. Nobody was even
looking at that, I guess. Nobody was even looking at any of that stuff. It was the, the reigning theories
of hippocampal function in animals were, were not memory. They were things like response inhibition or,
or avoidance behavior or emotional. Oh, wow. Fascinating. A whole range of things,
not, none of which were memory or space. So closer to amygdala, like behavior. Exactly
right. Closer to sort of amygdala, like thinking part of the limbic system still. Yeah. From that
perspective. And so that was, that was the setting in which I was a, firstly, an undergrad and then a grad
student in that setting, you know, kind of brewing in that broth. And that was the atmosphere in the
department, you know, that there's this, you know, we're interested in memory and it has ideas about
synaptic memory. And then these ideas that the hippocampus, you know, based on HM is crucial,
but what's the story in animal models? We were animal researchers. You can't do much work in humans.
So we, you know, what do you do right now? There's a couple of, now a couple of small points. When I was an
undergrad taking that first year intro course in psychology, I think I was my second year as an
undergrad, I roomed with two other undergrads. One of whom was, was somebody, Odling Smee.
When you say roomed with, was it like a dorm room kind of thing?
We shared an apartment. I shared an apartment with two other, two other people. We each had our own room.
Odling Smee was his name. I can't remember his first name now. And he ended up doing work in,
in the UK, some interesting behavior work. And then an American from, from Boston called
Charles Budd Corkin. So my second year roommate, you know, got involved with a graduate student in
psychology and ultimately married, Suzanne Corkin. And so while I was rooming with him in my second year,
taking the course from HM.
So you had that connection. You already had HM in your...
Also hearing a little bit about this crazy, you know, HM person, none of it registered with me at
that point. Okay. Now you dial forward a few years. Now I'm a graduate student. HM is in, you know,
and, and there's this disjunct between human and animal stuff. So I had the hypothesis, the hypothesis,
which was based on some reality, which is that in the, in the work with humans, HM, for example,
the surgery removed most of his anterior hippocampus because that's the way the surgery came in. In,
in the rat work that was not confirming what was seen in HM, everybody was looking at the dorsal
hippocampus, which is the posterior hippocampus in humans. So I, I had the idea that, well, you know,
maybe the disjunct between animal and human work is that they're looking at different parts of the
hippocampus, that the human folks are looking at the, what is the ventral hippocampus in rats and the
rat people looking at the dorsal hippocampus. So obviously different things. So that was my dissertation.
It's a good hypothesis. I guess it wasn't quite true, but maybe it would have been if you'd had
really better information about where HM's lesions really were, because didn't it change a bit?
It changed a little bit, but you know, I think, I mean, this, this was the first,
Len Gerard, who just like died like four months ago, I think, uh, also published something on
comparing dorsal and ventral hippocampus in the, at, in the same time, 67, 68.
We were the first ones to even, you know, think about that. And I did it for the reasons I
described, and then I dropped it more or less. However, I've come back to that.
Didn't you write about that too?
Yeah, I recently just published another paper in 21, published a paper on the long act of the
hippocampus. And I'm thinking about, and I really think there's something very important about the,
about what's going on, but you know,
you know, that original intuition was onto something, but it was not what I thought it
was anyway. So that's why I worked on the hippocampus. I ended up working on it because,
because of that, but I did not do my master's thesis on that. I did my master's thesis on,
on memory using cortical spreading depression to study the role of the cortex in the memory,
in habituation memory. Is that where you started looking at the stuff that you would eventually
propose for your PhD? I'm wondering how to connect those two things.
There's no correct. There's no connection. I mean,
you just had different interests.
There wasn't necessarily a connection. In those days, you could do your master's on one thing and
your PhD on something else. Now it is, people don't do that much anymore. Anyway, I did my master's.
I didn't want to, there was no way for me to follow on with that research, given the technologies I had
available to me at that time. The, the, the kind of world leader in the technique that I used in my
master's thesis, this cortical spreading depression, the world leader was in Czechoslovakia in Prague.
That's why I went. Oh, okay. Well, there's a connection. That's the connection. That's why I went to
do my postdoc here, but I dropped my technique temporarily to jump on the hippocampus bandwagon.
That was everybody else's hobby horse in that psych department at the time. So I was following
the crowd, you might say. So you, you went back to that anyway, but first, can you just tell me a
little bit, do you remember, have any sort of sensory memories of the lab and of being at McGill? I
mean, was it a lot of the most, like, what do you think of when you think of it? Was it cold?
Was it cold? Yes. That's the first thing. Yeah. First thing. Always cold. It was always cold.
Because you, although of course I spent, you know, a number of summers in Montreal and they were,
uh, they, they were very nice, but anyway, cold, the lab itself was, you know, the two,
two completely different eras. The one where we're in this old animal research building next to the
medical school off by ourselves. It was like a grungy pre, you know, pre-regulation era,
you know, animal lab. I mean, none of the heavy duty stuff that is, is, you know, you go,
have you ever been, have you been to Trondheim ever? Uh, no, actually I never went there.
If you visit, uh, the Trondheim lab, if you go to their animal lab,
uh, you can't even get into the lab without putting on like full surgical, it's all behind
barriers. You visitors, I've, you, everybody, proper shoes, everything is completely, you know,
aseptic. Oh, wow.
Well, that's, that's one extreme. Very sci-fi.
We were at the other extreme. Okay. You're smoking it in the lab and stuff.
It was, everything was going on. It was also 1960s, you know.
Right. Yeah. Well, I want to hear a little bit about that too. I mean, you said you and John shared
interests. What was the vibe like when it's, what other kinds of things were you talking about at the
time? Cause there was a lot going on. We were very politically engaged, both of us. He a little bit,
even more than me, but we were both politically engaged. I know, I know that he, he and me a little
bit on the sideline was involved in bringing Chomsky to the campus back in the sixties to give
him talks. I mean, we were, we were engaged. We were not like, you know, on the front line,
we were graduate students, but we were very engaged. We were both engaged politically.
It mattered to you.
It mattered to us a lot. We were both very political. Uh, and so we, a lot of what we talked
about was politics. And you both seem to be very, rather philosophical. I mean, he was already reading
a lot of philosophy. He had a background of philosophy a little bit, and his wife was a, was a PhD
philosopher. I lean, I lean is trained in philosophy. So he had more, he had much more,
you know, background in philosophy than I did. Mine, mine was second acquired.
Were you interested in that? I mean, were you trying to understand bigger issues then?
I got interested in, you know, in the space issues of, you know, in philosophy of space and
philosophy of science issues. What about the political things? Did you see that as connected to
the work you wanted to do in your life when you were young or did they seem separate or is it like
separate compartments? I was always interested in politics, even from when I was young. I remember
from what I was like, even trying to date it, you know, when Stalin died, I mean, I was 10, 11, 12.
I was, I was, you know, seriously reading political stuff when I was a kid. It was always fascinating,
always interested in politics. Very, you don't know, you don't know the New York political scene,
but I suppose, but in, in, in New York in the fifties and sixties, you know, the, the Jewish
community of which I was nominally apart, but not really, um, was very progressive and very socialist
in its, in its leanings in the fifties. Yeah. Times have changed. And anyway, the point is back then
to be in the, to be in the community I grew up in was probably to be kind of political,
socialist leaning and political. If you have ever thought about those things at all. And I did.
So I read newspapers, voracious and John was just like that. John grew up in the same environment.
Irish Catholic environment, you know, where it's either the church or politics, one or the other.
Right. And that's New York. New York was, was three, three, it was three cities, four on one of which
the other three ignored. It was a Jewish city and Italian city and an Irish city.
And they represented, you might say almost one third of the population. And then there was the
fourth world, which was the Hispanic black part of the city, which the rest of us ignored back in
the fifties. I'm being brutally honest, right? Yeah. Very, very different world, but it was a
world in which politics mattered a lot. John and I bonded on the interest in politics.
It reminds me of a quote. I, I guess it's a true quote that you said. I can't remember it
perfectly right now. A Jewish boy and a Catholic boy had to go to
Canada to meet or something like that. Yeah. Something like that. Not very far
from each other. Yeah. But I guess that helped that
you understood each other in this way. Yeah, but probably it did. Yeah, it did.
So we didn't have a lot to do with each other in graduate school. We were friends, but I would not,
we did not interact a lot socially in graduate school. I was hanging out with a different group
of graduate students. I wouldn't say we connected the work to the politics. They were separate lives at
that point and they really stayed that way mostly. We weren't working on politically sensitive issues.
The work, the work was, I mean, we were all crazy in that. We hung out at the lab all the time because
that was all we were thinking about, you know, and the blackboard was always full of, you know,
this diagram, that diagram, you know, how do we figure, how do we figure that out? How do we,
how do we test Hebb's, how do we test and disprove Hebb's hypothesis? And I mean, it was,
you know, we were all there to kind of figure out how the brain did learning and memory and we were
going to do it. It was a pretty intense atmosphere of that, of that kind of intellectual, you know,
ferment and, but we also were fun. We all played and John was part of this too. We all went out in the
afternoons and played soccer on the reservoir. We all had a good time, you know, we weren't doing that,
but, but mostly it was, and we had big, big ideas. I don't know. I don't know how that happened,
you know, quite honestly. Yeah. But you had a feeling that you wanted to do something in the
world. Like you were, you were trying to change the world in a way. We were in a place where people,
where the people we were interacting with had already done that. That was the, that was the,
the kind of soup that we were basically swimming in. Yeah. It was still happening. I mean, it was,
it was still happening. It was a world of people who were achieving at that level.
I didn't know any other world. I didn't go somewhere else in undergrad. So I wasn't like
aware that the atmosphere at McGill at that time, in that particular era, the fifties and sixties
was unmatchable. It was, it was absolutely, it was unique. Now there are, it still is really,
it's kind of without precedent. There are other places like that, you know, and they were probably,
and there were other places like that at the time, but I did not realize that somebody who only went
to that place, unique and special it was. I'm not sure. Are there really other places like that?
Because I, it's hard to trace back so much, I guess, at least in this time, a few places that
were sort of like that, then maybe this will connect back with Tolman. Berkeley was a little bit like
that. So the Tolman in the Tolman era was a little bit like that in the, in the days of Solomon and so on.
Paul, you know, the group that he, you know, there were clusters of, of places where there was real
strength basically, but the cluster at Montreal and at McGill was unique in the way that it combined
brain and behavior. Right. It was really starting neuroscience. Exactly. That was really what was
unique about him. So the, and so the people who were attracted to go to graduate school there were
already of, of a mindset, you know, that they were, you know, that they wanted to jostle with the really
big issues, you know. Yeah. It's very exciting to think about. It was a very exciting place, but you know,
again, what was, I was so immersed in it that I didn't understand how unusual it was. It took me in other
places to realize and to talk with other people, you know, and to experience other universities and other
cities and others that not many of us have experienced to realize how unique that was, you know,
Were you always a lucky person? Even when you were a kid? I can only assume that that's the case. Yes.
Yeah. You've had pretty good luck, but you also, I've been very well, you know, you, you go with the
luck. You go with the luck. You make your luck a little bit. You take advantage of the, of the lucky
opportunities that, you know, and I've been probably good at that, but yeah, I've been extremely lucky in that
regard. I mean, just being in the right place at the right time. Let me, let me give weave another
thread for you. So I, so the name you mentioned included Bronk and, and who's fabulous by the way.
Yeah. He deserves a lot of credit too. There's a lot more credit than he gets.
And Bob Muller and John Kubi. So Bob Muller. So dude, so there's a connection to Bob Muller.
Okay. This is, this is the small world in which we all navigate. Yeah. Bob Muller and I went to the
same high school. Oh, you're kidding. We not only went to the same high school in the same exact
timeframe, but we, we were in the same official class. So when we were in Stuyvesant, which is a
test in high school in New York city for supposedly smart kids who want to do science. And we, and, and 30 or
so you're broken up into groups of 30 and you each have your homeroom that you start the day in right
before you move off to your separate classes. And you did alphabetically in this class.
So Bob Muller sat in front of me and I stared at the back of his head, which was pretty, you know,
hairy. So Bob Muller and I were friends in high school. Oh, that's wonderful. And you dial
forward and he ends up befriending in graduate school, completely separate. He ends up befriending
in graduate school, Eileen O'Keefe. How weird. Gosh, makes you think the world is just really
is a small world system. And then separately, all of us converge on the hippocampus. It's crazy.
That's crazy. And how it connects up. The story, the story gets better. But all the years that,
you know, Bob was working on hippocampus, you know, he and me and John had a lot of, a lot of good time
together. We really knew each other and really liked each other a lot. Bob's dying was a big,
there's a big tragedy. Yeah, that's must have been. Yes. Yeah, that was, that was really sad.
Anyway, dial forward to 1990. I'm jumping now. But it's okay. I'll take you back later.
The Bob Muller story. In the 90s, I'm working on the beginnings of the multiple trace theory with
with Morris Moskovich. And I go to give a talk, actually in Eastern Europe, you know, about it.
And in the audiences, Bob Muller, for one reason, I invited a bunch of people, I put this conference
together in Eastern Europe, and invited people who are connected to Eastern Europe through the
McDonnell Pew grant mechanism, they were funding Europe to try to jumpstart cog neuroscience in Eastern
Europe. Anyway, so I put together a conference and Bob was involved with one of those groups.
Anyway, so he, Bob was in the audience. I gave this talk about the beginnings of the multiple trace
theory. People thought it was a little bit nuts at the time. But anyway, Bob, Bob said, Oh, that's
really interesting. I'm editing a special issue of the current current opinion in neurobiology, which is
this journal that does reviews the field in different, I'm going to do the one in cognitive
neurosciences of 1996. For 97, how would you like to write this up for that journal?
So, okay, that's great. That's a great opportunity. So me and Morris, you know, wrote what became the
97. So we write, we wrote up and submitted it to the this journal. And then we started to hear back
channel of furious attempts by various people in the field to sabotage this paper so that it will not
get it. Oh, no, why? Because the paper was a direct attack on standard. I will not go into
names, you can, you can, whatever you want. But let's probably figure it out. But let's say that
behind the scenes, there were some attempts to sort of squelch this, this stuff, which, you know,
is really ugly when you hear about it. But this happens in science and certainly happened a fair
mountain back in the day. And we, and a lot of us knew, know, and knew the main culprits were,
but they were generally people of power. So you, you, there wasn't much one could do anyway. So Bob,
so Bob sort of responded to this pressure by telling the people who were pressuring him
to go fuck themselves. And that was to have, it's good. You knew that. That was Bob baller in a
nutshell. Yeah. I love that. I love that New York personality. That's the New York person. And it's
partly because he was a friend also. Yeah. You knew each other. I think he would have done it for
anybody, but I think it mattered that he was somebody who knew me, knew John and he was in new us. And he
wasn't about the bad guys basically determine what we, so he literally said that I've heard this
from multiple sources. So the thing got published and, you know, it has had a fairly impact.
Yeah. It's had domino effect. Now this trace is like such a word.
Yeah. That's Bob Muller's, that's Bob Muller's contribution.
Oh, that's great to hear because I want to put him more into the mix.
Yeah. He's a hero. He should be one of the heroes of your story, whatever the story.
That's good that you say that. It's good. You highlight that. But let's, we're already going.
Yeah. It's already 715. Gosh, I have so much I want to talk to you about, but I do want to
figure out, I want to go to Prague, but had you already been thinking about Tolman at all when
you were still in McGill? I mean, so told me, and you asked, how do we get to Tolman? Well,
Hebb was a big fan of Tolman and Hebb was a big fan of, you know, of cognitive approaches to,
and Hebb was a fan. We talked about, you know, cell assemblies and phase sequences. Well, what,
what were those other than Tolman's, you know, internal models? And so we were very sympathetic.
So was he speaking about that in those intro classes or was that?
At his seminar, we would read, we were reading all about the debates that were going on in the field.
And Tolman at that point was central to them and Hebb was sympathetic. Even though Hebb was very
positive about Skinner and about Hull and their contributions, he was also very open to Tolman and to
the points that Tolman was making and the emphasis that Tolman was putting on, you know, what was
going on inside the head. Yeah. Because Hebb was there also, there was stuff going on in between and
Tolman was the only one who was saying that, you know, from the point of view. So we were open to
Tolman and it was, you know, it was, we were not like heavily focused on Tolman because we weren't
looking for that. John was not looking for space. John was looking for memory.
Yeah. I guess I wonder if, if Hebb ever mentioned anything about seeing Tolman when he came to speak
there at McGill or any of, I mean, just to connect back to that political social issue because Tolman
had all that going on. Tolman was very political and that was another reason why both John and I
liked him. We were aware of Tolman's political sort of lead. So that, you know, that gave Tolman a leg
up, you know, right off the bat for both of us. Because he really did something big for science
and kind of opposing that McCarthy stuff. Absolutely. Tolman was a hero for both of us
already, you know, even before, even before the cognitive math stuff, you know, but, but we didn't
know a lot about, you know, his political heroism. We knew about it, but we didn't know a lot about it,
but it was enough to, and our, it was an easy jump to Tolman. Once this, once the play sells,
where it wasn't like, oh, what could that be? You know? Yeah. You couldn't have even imagined
it at the time, but once you saw that. So, okay. So why Prague? Was it all this political stuff? Or,
I mean, you could have done a minute. It was partly political. For me, it was partly political,
but it was, first of all, I applied to three places for postdocs. Both John and I applied to NIH
for postdoctoral fellowships to go, to go overseas. And you both got them?
Yeah. We both got them. That comes a bit later. We, I applied to three places. I applied to
Hernandez Payon, who was a reticular activating system researcher in Mexico City.
Oh, cool. You know, so, so let me point out, I had, I had the adventure bug.
Yeah. I was about to say, you were already looking to get away.
I was ready to, I, you know, my family, you know, basically never left New York,
but I was ready to, I was ready to go. Okay. So you hadn't used your passport yet, except for Canada.
You know, I don't even know if I had a passport. I don't know if you needed it. You'd been in the
US and Canada at this point. I had been in the, I had never been outside of the east,
eastern part of North America. Okay. Okay. Very, very parochial, but I,
but I knew there was a big world out there. But New York is sort of international. So it's
hard to be parochial when you come from there. Fair enough. I applied to Hernandez Payon. I never
heard back from him. He got killed in a car accident during that, in that timeframe. Oh gosh. So that's
why you've never heard of him. It was very famous. Did it work then that you had to write directly
to the person you wanted to supervise you and before you got into the school? Yes. And these
days you wrote and said, yeah, you got a, you got the, you have a postdoc opportunity for me,
you know, could I come here and work and so on. I wrote to, I wrote to somebody in, in California,
in Stanford, who did work with monkeys. And I wrote, you know, signed my name, et cetera. And,
you know, are you, you got any room on your lap? And I got back a letter saying, dear miss,
miss or mrs. Why are you, why are you interested in coming to the Bay area? You know, does your
husband have a job here? Oh, Lynn, I see. Oh gosh. That's funny. I asked you my first name. I've had
this, this, this, this mistake has been made multiple times, actually. Oh, what an insight you
must've gotten into. Oh, you betcha. The way things work. Oh, you betcha. This was,
I tell this story frequently, by the way, to my, to, you know, every class I've ever run. I tell
this story about what it was about, about how I got a little bit of insight into what it's like to be a
woman in the field, right? Then that was a wake up call. So I know, so I didn't write back to him.
That was it. I just dropped it. Good for you. Yeah. I'll, you know, I can tell you who it was,
because he's dead now, but it doesn't matter. But, but subsequently I met him. It's a him,
of course. Subsequently, I met him and he, and told him about this. He didn't remember it at all.
And he apologized profusely and became my champion forever, basically. It's true. He became my
champion after that. And he was a man of considerable, I guess he was embarrassed, but
a considerable power. So I, you're not going to tell me who it is. Okay. Should I try to guess?
It was called Prebrum. Oh, that's huge. That's quite a name to,
yeah, but he just played out. So you just turned that one down and the third one, I guess.
I just, all right. Now, now my third choice. And my third choice was the guy in Prague who
basically brought spreading depression to the world, Jan Buresh. And I had, so I wrote to him
and said, Oh, that goes back to your masters. Yeah. Okay. Can I come to Prague to, to work on,
you know, when I have some ideas about using spreading depression to study learning. And he said,
yeah, I'd love to have you. You know, I'm just, he was just beginning to have some Westerners come to the lab.
Uh, I'd love to have you, but you know, I can't pay you. So if you can get money, you can come.
And I applied for the NIH postdoc. John applied for one as well to go to London. We,
we both got it. And you both got it. Was that hard to get at the time? And that sounds like
winning the lottery these days, but it was winning a lottery, but, but amongst the reasons I was
interested in going to Prague dials back again was the previous year, maybe a year and a half before I was
ready to go leave. Another graduate student, whose name is Phil, Philip Liss is not a name you would
know. His story did not end well, but Philip Liss, who we all acknowledged was brilliant, crazy,
but brilliant. He was part of your crew there. He was one of the, he was one of the apps,
absolute brilliant ones. He took a postdoc working in Poland, in the Neski, in the Neski Institute for
here with, with Konorski in Warsaw. Why do I know that name? Well, Konorski is very famous.
Konorski was the most famous Polish neuropsychologist. He was already famous in the West.
He published a book in 1967 where Philip Liss is acknowledged in the front of that. Konorski
had come to visit McGill because of course, if you ever got out to the West, if you were in Eastern
Europe and you got out to the West, that's where you want, you came to McGill because you wanted to visit
with Heb. We got to meet everybody. So Konorski, not only did we have access, but it was a crossroads,
like UCL very much. So we met Konorski. Konorski stood in front of that blackboard that we all,
the room that I was telling you, the surgery, the lunches. Konorski was in that room at that blackboard
talking to us about synaptic this and that. It was spectacular. He was a dynamo. He was like,
you know, I now think of him as just this short guy, except that he was probably the same height I am.
He was the short guy who looked a bit like me with no hair at this point. I'm thinking,
not a bad comparison. Anyway, he was really something. And Phil got taken with him and applied
to do a postdoc with him and got a fellowship and went with him. And so Phil, who I was quite close with
and stayed with afterwards, wrote me from Warsaw and said, this is great. You really ought to try
something like this. Why don't you think about going to, coming to Eastern, go to Eastern Europe?
And I got some curiosity going on. It was that. Got me, sort of said, it's doable.
Right. And he had a wife and a kid. He was there with a wife and a kid.
Mm-hmm. Okay. You had two kids by now.
I had two kids by this point. Okay.
Two little kids. A, it was doable. And B, you know, it was fun. And you know,
you could get a grant. And I was interested in politics too. Phil wasn't. Phil couldn't have
cared about the politics at all. Okay.
I thought, wow, I could go there and see what it's like to live in a socialist country. You know,
see what it's really like to live on the social. Had you read anything about Prague before?
Well, I had read something about Prague. I didn't know a lot about it. Luckily in 1967 was the world's
fair, the world's expo in Montreal. Oh, that's great.
And so there was a, there was a Czech pavilion, which was fantastic. It was innovative. It showed off,
you know, a Czech culture in a very positive way. So that was what we knew about Czechoslovakia.
Mm-hmm. So at the Czech pavilion in Montreal at the expo. That's great.
We went inside unseen, basically, and just showed up, you know.
That must have been spectacular because Prague, I remember the first time I went,
how spectacular it was. And by then it was already very well known to the west.
Showed up at the train station and you walk out, come out the train station.
The train station has been modernized. So what you're seeing when you come out,
the train station is not the train station that I arrived at.
Okay. But you mean the one near the monument there, the main one?
Yeah, the train station.
Okay, okay.
It's right there, just, just off to the side of the, the top of Wenceslas Square.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. All right. And you walk out and then almost immediately,
a little bit to the right, I know Prague extremely well, a little bit to the right
is the powder tower called Prazna Brana. So you step out of this train station,
you're a kid from New York, you have never seen anything.
First time in Europe.
Oh.
Okay. First time in Europe.
Well, actually, we'd been in Paris and Amsterdam for a few days, but first time in medieval Europe.
Yeah. And you step into the middle of that.
There's nothing like that. Yeah.
And it was mind-blowing. It was absolutely mind-blowing. Prague was, you know, dirty,
but, but gorgeous in those years. It was just spectacular. Prague to me is the top.
It's, it is.
I love Prague.
There's something very special.
I went, I loved it. I loved it. And go back to Philip List, the guy who started it all. On the evening,
on the day before the Russian invasion of Prague, I got a telegram from Phil List, who was visiting in
Warsaw, telling me I'll, I'm on the flight to, I'll be in Prague tomorrow.
Oh, on the day of the invasion.
He was about, on the day of the invasion, he was about to visit me in Prague. He had been,
he had been in Warsaw. And then of course the Russians came instead of Phil.
So you arrived in Prague at the train station with your two little kids and your wife and
some suitcases?
Two little kids and my wife and, and was greeted there by our, by my mentor, uh, Jan Burish.
He had a wife who was famous too.
He had a wife who was famous too.
He had very famous, Olga Burishova. She was not with on that occasion, but I met her.
Okay. He picked you up in a car or something?
Yeah. Picked us up. I guess he had a car. Yeah, he did have a car. That's right.
And he drove us north. We didn't know this. He drove us north to an apartment that we were meant
to share. We were going to live in one bedroom of a shared apartment about 45 minutes from the
Institute. This was the arrangement. Goodness.
And in a day or two, my then wife rightly said, this is not going to work. This ain't working.
And I went to him and said, this can't work. I mean, this will not work. And he then found within
a 10 minute bike ride of the Institute in a little town, adjacent, you know, suburb of Prague. It was
like a village at this point, right across from a pond, a lake, the upstairs of a, of a house that we,
we could rent, you know, that was like perfect. I found the perfect place having, you know, found
this place that was totally unacceptable. I have no idea what, what they imagined we could, how we
could function in that setting. But the first few days were funny because of course, we had no
language whatsoever, you know, and then just go around trying to find some food and trying to explain to
people what it is you want. Was it stressful or was it kind of exciting? It was amusing. It was
stressful in the sense I couldn't find anything because everything then, this was not the Prague
of now. Again, this was Prague 1967. That means the grocery stores didn't have like fancy packages.
Everything was in brown paper bags with a lake on it. So how could you tell what you want?
I just wanted to buy some cereal for my kids. And I walked out with a bit, with a pound of rice.
That's wonderful. Yeah, no translation devices to help. Yeah, no translation device, nothing. We
were just completely on our own. For the first few days, it was pretty fun. But we adapted pretty
quickly. The place we moved into in the countryside was incredible. The neighbors across the street were
an older couple with some kids of their own, young married couple included. And the older couple kind of
adopted us like grandparents. I mean, it turned out to be. Oh, that sounds wonderful. And did you
learn? Did you pick up the language? Did the kids pick up the language? The language probably because
I had to. Oh, wow. Okay. I'm not looking to find out what was just about out of it. I, you know,
when the invasion came, I went, I left. Yeah, I want to hear about that. But somehow you had gotten
a VW bus by then too, I know, because I. Oh yeah, we had a VW bus. When did you get that? Did you go get that in
Germany? Because you couldn't have gotten that in Prague. In Germany. Got that early on, basically.
And, and I, I did not drive. My wife was the driver. I was, I did not drive. It was a little
unusual. But she was the driver. It's not like that anymore. I learned how to drive finally. We,
you walk in New York, you don't need a car. Go to Montreal, you don't need a car. You go,
I turned out I didn't need a car most of the places I live. But yeah, Prague, it was used. It was good
that my wife drove. Anyway, we, we left because the Burish said, I can't guarantee the safety of
your children. You should probably leave. And I called up John, who was the only other person I
knew in Europe. The only other person. Yeah. And we said, we're leaving. Can we come and camp out
with you in London for a little while? And he said, of course. So we, we packed it up. We drove out.
There's a lot of stories there, which I won't go into now. And we, we decamped in London,
in John's apartment for a couple of weeks. But by then it was clear that that marriage
that I was in was not worth preserving anymore. So we split up. We, in the midst of all of this
turmoil. Sounds very chaotic. It's very chaotic, but under conditions of chaos, sometimes you take
decisions that you are not otherwise. Things become clear. You're bumped out of your local,
your local minimum and you're, and you can, you know, do things you might not otherwise do.
That's true. We did that in a certain sense of clarity. The right thing to do. It wasn't.
But I need to hear about this trip. So you, you drove in the VW bus to London. Yeah. With the kids.
We drove down with the kids. We drove down to Austria. Yeah. Out that way to the south. And then
from Austria, all the way across Europe onto the ferry and over to London with the kids. Stayed there
for a little while. Then we decided enough. And she took the kids and went to Spain in the, in the van
and left me behind. And I stayed for eight months. Transferred my grant to London and did some work
there. Found a place to live, all of that kind of stuff. And then went and took the kids back because
they didn't want to be with her and she didn't want them. And I took the kids and went back.
Sounds really challenging.
I went back to Prague with the kids as a single father, which in Prague turned out to be a lot
easier than you would think it would be in most places. Because you had so much community maybe.
They had, well, it was partly the community, the people that crossed the street. I lived in the same
place again. But it was partly that, you know, it was the free daycare, the free healthcare, the free
everything. It was all laid on because all the women had to work there. Everything was set up
so that women could work. That's true. Right. That's my friends tell me that too.
It was a lot of more. So the thing that the father was actually,
was actually very sustainable. You know, I mean, I had was on my own. I wasn't, but that,
and I'm getting back to why I had to learn Czech. If I wanted to have any kind of a social life,
I had to learn some Czech. Oh, okay. So that's a good motivating force.
That was partly what drove me to learn some Czech. Also lots of lovely people around, I imagine.
There were a lot of people around that I wanted to interact with. Yeah. So I have to go back to
this one moment though, when you arrive in London, because I have kind of written about this a little,
I'm trying to kind of visualize it. So you arrived there first with everyone, right? In the bus?
Or did you arrive alone? And was John, what was the weather like? Were you exhausted? Did you,
did John come out and meet you? You know, I, you know, probably, you know, although they live up on the sixth
floor of, of, of, I think then it might not have even had an elevator or had an elevator. I remember.
So, yeah, I think John must've come out, but, but I can't honestly say any of the details.
Uh, I don't remember the actual moment of arrival. I do remember that the weather was crappy.
This was August. The weather was pretty nap, lousy. I remember that. I remember that the,
the trip over on the ferry was, you know, not so pleasant, but other than that, I don't remember
very much because it all got jumbled up together and trying to figure out a guest room that you all
slept in. Did you sleep on the couch or? Yeah. He had a big apartment. He's the same apartment
that he's been living in since forever. And it's a big apartment. And we, um, we were, yeah,
in one of the rooms of this big apartment, but after about 10 days, it was like, well,
what are you going to do then? Yeah. Maybe you should find something.
They had a baby as well at that point. So they were not without their own responsibilities and,
you know, they've got, and I realized it. So we moved on. Sounds like a time of very big changes
because you went back to Prague, but then by then you, did you know that you wanted to go to London
to work with? Yes. Yeah. And during the time that I, that I was in London, John and I figured it would
be nice if we were in the same lab, not that we would work together. That wasn't the idea. Okay.
Just to be nearby. We were very simpatico. We thought about, we had a, you know, we had a very
similar background training wise that would, let's see. And then we actually cooked up a job
for me. We arranged a job, a lectureship in the anatomy department. It was all set up. I went back
to Prague with this already clear. I was going to go back to it, spend a year and a half there,
you know, deal with them in a, in a setting where I could, and then I would come back and I would have
this job in the anatomy department. And that's exactly what happened. A lot of other things happened
in between, but that, but that happened work wise. That's exactly how it played out.
I went to Prague. I got a lot done. I published a bunch of papers. I had a really good time there.
It was really fabulous. Sounds like it was very productive for you,
even though you had so much personal stuff going on. It was quite productive in the midst
of all of that personal stuff. That's true. But I think I've always been sort of good at
compartmentalizing. Yeah. And, and then, and then I went back to London and then, you know,
that's the whole other chapter started there because fairly quickly this play cell thing happened.
And then I abandoned what I was thinking. So the, I mean, when John discovered the play cells,
I abandoned the visual system, which I had been thinking I was going to go back to for, you know,
that's a whole, that's connect to the Prague work that I did. I, and I thought this is just too
interesting. And, uh, we, uh, we started to think about what would be the implications
of there being a cognitive, a Tolman-like cognitive map. What would, what would that mean?
You know, for how we think about the hippocampus, how we think about its role in memory, how it relates
to other structures in the brain, how to interpret all the data that's out there already. What would it
mean for all of those things? And, uh, and we sort of, you know, there's a kind of an interesting
theoretical framework here. So, but you were, you were working in the same hallway or how was it
like, how were you in the same office building? We were in the same hall. We were like two doors
from each other. We were in and out of each other all the time, but neither of you were really working
on hippocampus yet, or you were starting to, at the end of the sixties. You were, of course,
started. I had done, but I was not at that point. I started, when I showed up there, I started with
the intention of physiology of vision lab, where I was going to trace down visual, visual memory
traces from one hemisphere to the other building. But I have this, I have this image, tell me if
it's correct or not, that he sort of came to you because you had done so much work on the hippocampus
already. And when, when he found these at the very beginning, he had seen the cells. He had had his
ideas already a little bit, but yeah, he came to me because, you know, literally it was early in the,
in the, in the discovery. Look at what I'm seeing in the hippocampus. Yeah. You know,
you know something about the hippocampus. You did your dissertation on it. What do you think,
what do you make of this? It was, you know, just like that. And was it just immediately like,
oh, it's definitely something with space. It was immediate to him. He didn't need me to tell
him what he had already seen. He just wanted to, you know, confirm. Yeah. And then like,
okay, what, what, you know, what now I jumped on it. I thought this is fabulous. And then,
and then we very quickly saw that this would have big ramifications in the hippocampal world,
that this, this might offer a way of understanding, you know, the disjunct between animal and human stuff.
It opened up lots of possibilities if one explored it and we started to explore it. I don't think we,
at that point understood how it could also open up sort of possibilities for thinking about the brain
more, more generally, more broadly way of thinking about the brain and behavior, you know, that, you
know, in other words, we were kind of making up, you might say, you know, a framework for cognitive
neuroscience without actually thinking that's what we were doing. We just imagine. Yeah. We have to talk
about that later because there's so much there, especially like you really blew my mind a little
bit when you brought up the predictive processing, because I've studied that and I just hadn't really
quite connected it, that mental models basically are cognitive maps. And a lot of the stuff in that
book actually is already presaging a lot of what's coming out. Without realizing it, I don't think we
understood just how, but it's, but it is all there. The whole notion of that that's what the system is
doing is constantly predicting. And then the misplay tells are the kind of prediction error
detectors. I mean, it's all, all there. Although I don't think that was our intention. So I don't
want to take credit for it. No, of course not. And it's coming from different lineages,
because I don't think you mentioned him holds and all this. Yeah, it was part of the framework,
certainly that we, that emerged because shortly after I, and I've told this story in a couple of venues
where I insult, I insulted the editor of psych review. We had, we had initially been intending
to publish in psych review. So, so having, having insulted the pompous editor of psych review.
I love that. I love it that John went along with you too, and just left.
What else was he going to do? Yeah. It's good that happened because otherwise you would have had a
paper maybe instead of all these years working on that. Who knows? We might have ended up with
a psych review paper and, you know, and, and 35 citations and that would have been the end of it.
Yeah. Could have been. But that avenue having closed, we then decided, all right,
well, we'll write a monograph. You know, now in those days you could publish thin little monographs.
We'll write a monograph and we'll publish it as a one-all monograph. Thin little monograph. Haha.
That was how it started. It started as a thin 70 page monograph. And it just kept on building.
It just kept building because we kept on, we kept on seeing that this story had more
tentacles than we, we were aware of. Yeah. And each tentacle tapped into a literature
that if we could connect to it would strengthen the overall story because it would be one more
bit of converging evidence, so to speak. So we kind of, again, invented and didn't invent,
because again, other people have kind of, the notion of converging operations and bringing
multiple level analysis. I mean, we built that in right from the start. Even the idea of the
philosophy being interdisciplinary. The more we saw that, the more it looked appealing,
but then the more it meant we were going to have to, at some level, master the literature in five or
six different areas. Which is crazy. I'm still blown away that you know all this about Kant and so on and
so forth. It's really hard to imagine. Well, but that, you know, in those days you could. In those
days you could. I'd like to tell the story. It takes years. I'm looking at my, at my bookshelf over
here because I have re-bought pretty much all of the books from the 1950s and 60s from the great
conferences that were held. Those are, there's on, in the space of two sections of books, maybe 40 books.
That was all you had. If you read those 40 books when you were a graduate student, you'd know
everything that we had needed to know in the whole world. That's crazy. Now it's like that many papers
in an hour. Now it's that many papers every week, right? So it's a totally different world. It was
possible to somehow master it. Even then we missed a bunch of stuff. It was possible then to get a grip
on everything or at least wrestle with everything. Now it would be absolutely impossible. Yeah, you
would have to decide. So once we realized that then the next thing we knew we were in the middle of a
six-year project to write a book. We didn't think it would take that long. We didn't anticipate,
we didn't anticipate all the ups and downs, personal and otherwise, that would get in the way.
We didn't, we wrote a first draft. We wrote many drafts, typed out by hand in those days.
Oh, do you have any of those still?
A little Olivetti typewriter, if you know that name. Olivetti was a
famous back in the 1960s. College kids, they were cheap and available. Olivetti.
Do you still have any of them? You better put them in an archive or something.
John has them. He, hey, John has file cabinets full of them because we put them on different colored
paper. They're all going to, we think they're all going to end up at the Welcome, at the Welcome
Institute for the History of Science in London. He's negotiating for what's happening with those.
They're the, you know, I have one, he gave me one chapter, the chapter on anatomy so I can track a
little bit and, you know, we, he and I have been going back and forth, but anyway, it's, it's,
doesn't matter as long as they end up somewhere. Yeah, as long as somebody, as long as they're there.
We sent, we ended up with a draft that we thought might be worth getting some feedback on. It was
about 300 typewritten pages. We paid for 40 copies of that 300 pages and we sent them, we sent it around
unbidden to a bunch of experts in the various fields that we had to philosophers, to psycholinguists,
to hippocampal people who knew about it a little bit. We just sent it out for commentary and we got
comments back from a lot of people, a lot of useful feedback, and then it took another four or five years
to, to finish it, to finish the job. Sending it out on the manuscript or how did that work? Some did,
some didn't, some, some took some of what we said and plagiarized it. I mean, who knows? We took a big
chance. We had to hold that out. It was a, yeah, I don't know that one could get away with doing
anything like that now. Yeah, probably not. But yeah. And during this time, we also didn't publish,
we also didn't publish very much. Yeah, I guess not. How could you? But I guess you were taken
care of in a way that you didn't have to so much. We're sort of protected and taken care of. Yeah.
So that's the story behind the book. There's a lot more. Yeah. We'll get into that later. I think
I'm out of the country now for, for three weeks. Well, you know, I'll be in Amsterdam for a few days.
Yeah. Go over there and they'll help you. If you all need anything, but I'm going to the States
to present some papers. We're switching places. We'll only be, we'll only be there for three days.
It's really just to see the Bermuda. I'll connect with you again in one percent.
Bye. Thanks so much. I really appreciate it. Have a good trip. Bye. Bye.
