I think what it also probably did is it made me feel much more like he's still alive in me,
or that I'm just an extension of him. And it is really easy. Once you start to look at life as
nonlinear, and all is just being the moment, and any moment is the moment. We can call it
singularity, we can call it oneness, or whatever we want to ascribe to it semantically. But if all
there is is the moment, then I kind of feel like I am my dad, and he is still here. And then it's just
funny, because he would have never wanted anything material. And I'm on my way, you know, hopefully,
to have a net worth that's pretty ridiculous. And he would have opposed that to all ends. But maybe
not, because maybe I'm just him. We think of life and death as like a break,
but it's really more of a kind of a change or a shift, or especially when you think of it as
patterns in the way that your father and mother had these patterns, which were their body and their
ways of being in the world. And you, of course, have that, in a sense in your body, but also being
around them and with them. Yeah, so I'm very much a futurist, a technologist, and I'm probably off the
spectrum, as far as how I view things through that perspective right now. So one of my partners
believes that the singularity has already happened. And I don't dispute that. But one of the one of the
companies that I'm a partner in, we've built a product where people upload lots of videos of
themselves, and it's a legacy product. And at a certain amount of videos, or a certain amount of
minutes of recorded videos of people just telling their story and their philosophies and answering
questions, we can create an avatar of them that now knows how they think, how they feel, how they sound. And we
can have people engage with those as though they're the real person. So if I had this avatar of myself
and passed away, people could still talk to something that looked and sounded just like me.
And so I look at things like AI that can accurately reconstruct the past. And I look at AI that can do
things like very accurately predict the future. And then I say, so okay, if we have digital representations
of ourselves that think like us, sound like us, that can have a past reconstructed or a future reconstructed,
now we start to think, well, then maybe time doesn't become the constraints anymore.
The only thing that I have that I think is consequential is the following. We all should
love more. And I said that message is only to myself. But if it resonates with you hearing it as
an extension of me or me as you, love more as well, because the world can always use more love in it.
You know, we can love our customers more and our enemies and our neighbors and our families and ourselves,
right? That's a big one. I can't love my dogs any more than I do because I love them
fully 100%. If we were able to all just tune into the love, not the hate, if we were all able to
bring that vibration frequency, whatever we want to call it perspective into reality, right? En masse,
then I think that there's probably a massive blessing for reality and creation.
Hey, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Love and Philosophy Beyond Dichotomy. In this episode,
I'm talking with Corey Warfield. I wanted to talk to Corey because he's lived on every side of
traditional dichotomies, at least it seems to me, from living on the streets to being written a million
dollar check on a private plane, to being one of the people who help others the most in terms of
finding a path that works for them in life. As a kid, he dreamed of being a prince or having a role's
voice. And today, he still dreams of that sometimes, and he's much closer to it. But he also thinks it's
silly at times. He's very honest about these seeming contradictions, how close he's been,
how far he's fallen, how much others have helped him. He's got a really big heart and
dreams really big. We talk about AI here. We talk about his own life. We talk about
him finding his dad's memoirs and realizing how much more similar he was to his father,
including his dad's run in with the law than he'd ever realized. And these kind of patterns that
seem to recur in our lives and also in our families. And what does it take to get out of
these patterns? I've been wondering about this a bit in my own life lately. Certain patterns that
seem to stay with you and then somehow you just break free of them and it's as if you were never
that at all. And we talk about transcending embodiment, which I don't think we will transcend
embodiment. I think embodiment is the thing to accept. Corey is a really radical futurist,
but actually when we get into this, we find that we're very similar in a way. Because as I see it,
this embodiment versus uploading yourself into a computer idea is still part of this either or
paradigm that in my own philosophy, I'm sort of working to see differently. I talk about holding the
paradox, or I talk about navigability and all these things. But in any case, I'm wide open to
listening and learning about it because it's fascinating. And there's so much that does
resonate. And Corey has some really interesting ideas. And he's also started a lot of companies,
successful companies. He's working in AI. He has this great AI newsletter. He has half a million
followers on LinkedIn. We talk about all this and getting to these different ways of being present,
which is kind of the word we come back to presence and love, and why those are the core of all of
this. But of course, we also talk about things like blockchain and why Corey believes blockchain is
crucial to developing AI at the moment. He also tells me about this video called the egg. I don't
know if any of you've ever seen it. I just watched it and actually did tear me up a little, even though
I didn't think it would because he had told me about it. But in any case, there's a lot of stuff in
here. It gets really rich by the end. And I'm thankful to Corey and I hope you all enjoy it.
Thanks for being here. I'm so glad you are. And I hope you're doing well out there wherever you're
making your way.
Hey, Corey, thank you so much for being here today. Oh, it's a pleasure. It's really great to meet you.
I'm so interested in all the ways you've made in your life. I hardly know where to begin. There's so
many different worlds that we all live in these days and in quite a few worlds like LinkedIn world
or the AI world or there's other worlds. Many, many people know you. But could you just give me
like a little short intro of what you'd like for people to know upfront, maybe?
Well, sure. And that's not a daunting task at all. And it's interesting to think about numbers. And
you know, I think a lot of people, you know, have misconceptions about others. So people can see
I have a large following on channels on social media and think, oh, everyone's heard of you.
Okay. Half a million people have followed me on LinkedIn out of 8 billion, right? Statistically,
95% of the world or more that still doesn't know who I am. So happy to give a breakdown. I'm a bit
anomalous. I grew up in Evanston outside of Chicago and learned how to wait tables and bartend at 16
years old at the Kellogg Business School at Northwestern. And kind of weird how that happened.
My mom was an administrator. They didn't pay for alcohol. So at 16 with the work license,
I was able to mix cocktails and serve drinks. And I did a little bit in the pharmaceutical world,
the computer software world briefly in the late nineties. But then I went back into restaurants for
almost 20 years. And so I'm a career waiter and bartender at heart. And I can't turn it off.
Hospitality really got ingrained in me. But about eight years ago, I guess now I caught the
entrepreneurial bug and I couldn't stand the instability in scheduling and restaurants.
So was no knowledge, no expertise. I started a software company, leveraging machine learning and
deep machine learning, the kind of, you know, some of that's turned into AI over the years. But somehow we
we bootstrapped and we got to market and we got customers and raised a bunch of money. So I learned
how to do all of that. Right. And be a tech entrepreneur. And so I've gone on to mentor a
lot of companies, started a few as well. I was a front man of a band that toured locally, you know,
way back when as well. And music's definitely my huge passion. But yeah, so we've got the newsletter,
I've got my social channel. We're going to launch an academy through interesting engineering in a few
weeks. So that's been a priority. And I work, I have my own launch pad. So I've got 15 web three
companies that I'm incubating. But then I'm also an entrepreneur in residence at the Founder Institute,
where we've got, I think our cohorts at 10 companies right now. So I've got about 25 startups that aren't
mine that I'm helping build and scale while, you know, I'm building and scaling my few as well.
Yeah, it's really hard for me to get a grasp of this. I mean, one thing this,
this channel is beyond dichotomy. So it's about like trying to get past these kind of traditional
categories. I think you definitely do that. You've lived your life. And beyond those categories,
I would say in a way, maybe not on purpose, maybe so I don't know, you can tell me but
it's hard to get a grasp on you've started how many companies like I mean, do you even know anymore?
And yeah, is it 15 now or more? Well, you know, if we count the failures,
the ones that never sell items, those are important, right? And failures are important.
Yeah, yeah, I'd say, you know, right, right now, we days is my kind of priority. And then
decarbon is my launch pad. Those are kind of my official companies right now. I'm in leadership and
ownership of a few others at the moment that are that are doing some things. I'd say probably
realistically 10 companies, including the failures. So a lot, but not not quite as comical.
And that didn't start until you'd already worked in the restaurant business for a while, right?
Because I think you had this whole path. You were born in Chicago, is that right? And then you ended
up in Colorado working in the restaurant business? Is that right? And there wasn't there some time in
there that was like a little bit unstable? I mean, I feel like you really lived on a lot of different
sides of of life. Is that right? Or? Yeah, so that you've done your homework, which I love. Yeah,
I was born on the West Coast, but came to Chicago area two years old. So grew up in the Midwest. But
after after my little time as a metrologist, a pharmaceutical company and software tester
at Rand McAnally, I thought I was going to be a famous rapper. And so I did kind of a,
you know, a national tour without much setup for myself. And, you know, all the things that you
would think of as someone trying to be a rapper. And so, you know, when that didn't fully work out,
I ended up on the streets for a couple of years. So yeah, there's, there were times I was living,
you know, in parks and off handouts and eating out of garbages and in and out of jails. And so,
yeah, thank God, it's been, it's been over 20 years since then. Yeah, that ended me of living
in a garage in a small mountain town in Colorado, washing dishes at a restaurant. And I did great.
So I became a busboy, then waiter, then a bartender. And that kind of set me off on that
15 years, 15 ish years of kind of fine dining.
Yeah, I think people who look at your profile now, and you've started all these companies,
you have half a million followers and different media outlets and stuff. It might be hard to
imagine that, that other life, but actually, there's a connection there, I guess, like,
when you think about you at that time, were you just like, thinking, this is my dream,
and I'm going to go for it? Because I think looking at your work and stuff, there's, you have a kind of
agility and also a way of tapping into a source of energy. I'm not sure what it is. But I wonder
if it was, if that was something you had to learn how to rein in a bit, or if it's just that you've
been kind of going for it, since you jumped into the van and decided you were going to be a famous
rapper and went down that road? I think, you know, even when I was living on the streets,
I still had this sense of community. I know I was the guy where I'd save up money all day to buy a
big pizza so I could give slices to the other people that were also living on the streets. And,
you know, we started in little syndicates where we can make some monies, you know, probably in ways
that at the time, you know, weren't fully legal. But so I kind of always had that, that entrepreneurial
mindset to a degree in that community building mindset. And even with hospitality, I mean, I just got
really fortunate to be in that terrible situation because it meant I wanted to go work 20 hours a
day because they had heat and free food. You know, I was at that time getting beat up a lot as well,
totally my fault, but I, you know, I needed, I needed a little sense feed into me, evidently. And so,
you know, I really do look at all of those as my formative years. And, you know, all these years
later at 45, I've really had a great life that I've been able to enjoy. But I do talk to people that are,
you know, kind of earlier in their journeys and not, you know, maybe doing quite as well. And,
you know, I'd like to think that sometimes they're inspired that maybe that's not their final chapter
either, because it's really easy to get in that mindset of, you know, life sucks, it will never
be worth it. For some reason, whether I'm just an optimist or whether I'm a lunatic, I never thought
that was a final stop. I always knew that I had at least something a little better to look forward to.
Yes, I think that's kind of what I'm trying to push at to a little bit is these categories. I mean,
maybe you were even happy in those years when you were trying to be a rapper and living in all these
strange places. But we have this idea that, like, we're supposed to pursue something and then become
famous and rich or something at it. And then, okay, like, we've, we've succeeded. But I mean,
in some way, I was thinking as you were talking, it's very hopeful that you made such a successful
career. And by that, I really mean that you're helping a lot of people, because that's how I
heard about you, that you're helping people. That you're able to do that now and juggle all
these things, which I'm sure is still, still challenging in a way. But in another way,
that makes it sound like, oh, you know, you went through all these years of hard work,
so you could make it. But in a way, you were already making it back then too, right? Because
all those years, I'm not sure how many exactly years you were in the restaurant business,
I'm sure you were learning a lot of skills that weirdly have become skills that are actually very
essential now that AI can't really do in terms of service and community and stuff like that.
That's kind of a lot, but what does, does that make you think of anything?
Well, you know, it's interesting because the, during the journey, I came up with a restaurant
concept that I was written, you know, and this was only years after being on the streets, but I was
written a check for a million dollars on a private plane to open my own restaurant. Decided I didn't
want to do that. You know, like, so it's like life kept trying to seed me with these opportunities.
And I finally, when it was the right time, I went on, you know, my own rather than trying to ride on
someone else's, you know, faith in me. Someone tried to give you a million dollars on a plane?
Is that what you just said? To start a restaurant? Yeah.
Yeah. And you said no. Well, well, I said, I said, yes. So interesting story. They were
regulars of mine at a steakhouse and they had a concept. Um, I wanted to call it neighbor's
bar and grill. And I was going to do gamburgers, which were, you know, variations on hamburgers.
I was going to have the only hamburger in the world because it was made out of ham, right? I think
it's very funny that a beef burger is called ham. And so this is going to be a groundwork product and,
you know, bound with pineapple juice, pineapple ring, half a baby swiss wheel on top. But so I had
all these different lamb burgers and ostrich burgers at a time when people weren't really
doing that kind of stuff. Buffalo burger. Uh, but, and then I had a whole concept called edibles,
where everything would come in an edible bowl, right? French onion soup cooked in an onion,
chili served in a cornbread bowl. And my regulars really loved the idea. And so they decided that
they wanted to, to fund it. And, you know, they didn't, and the long story behind them and who
they were as well, but so they flew me to Vegas. First time I went to Vegas was on the private jet
with them. And, you know, every part of that was just a story. And even the airport that we flew out
of and all these things. But so on the plane, they said, Corey, we would like to invest in your
restaurant. And they gave me a check for a million dollars. And this is almost 15 years ago. So this is,
you know, just some years after some really hard times. So I had the check and I was really excited
and they wrote it out to Corey Worst, right? So written in my name and it would have cashed,
uh, for sure. And so, but we were drinking moonshine up at the altitude and I just,
right. And I got this feeling where I started to look at these guys and they were not my peers. We,
we had developed a friendship, but I was absolutely their servant, right? Serving the castle. I was their
waiter. And I realized that I didn't want to be indebted to them and I didn't want to owe them
a million dollars. But then even more of an epiphany is I started to rerun all the numbers
that I put together in my prospectus. And the one thing I hadn't really accounted for was myself,
right? I wasn't going to be in management necessarily. I was going to be an owner.
Distributions were going to go back to them. Operating costs in the first few years of a restaurant
are very, very slim margins. And so I realized I wasn't going to be making any money. I was going
to owe my friends a million dollars and probably be working a hundred hours a week. And I just didn't
want to do that. And I said it out loud. On the plane while drinking moonshine. Sorry,
I think we're out of time lag, but on, on the plane still, you were thinking about all this,
drinking the moonshine. And you just said that. Yeah. And I said it out loud. And one of the two guys
said, well, if you don't want to do it, then you probably shouldn't. And I said, well, that's a
great idea. And I ripped the check up. I ripped it in half. But yeah, so it just, you know, but it
feels like I was being pushed in that direction. And I've been certified as a sommelier. So maybe a
year or two after that, I tried my first startup in the wine world. It did not work. No clue what I
was doing. But yeah, I feel like with a lot of people, I had just, I think having a million dollars
in my hand for a minute that was intended to see that a business idea kind of did, you know,
proverbially turn into the bite, right? I got bit, I got the bug that made me want to get into
entrepreneurship. So I tried a few things and ultimately the software company was the one
that worked out. Kind of showed you it was possible, but I guess we should say, I think I
remember correctly, you were in something like a ski resort in Colorado, right? With a lot of rich,
famous, probably a lot of musicians and people, people like you had thought you were going to
become maybe that you were hanging around with. But as you said, you were the, you were waiting on
them, I guess. Or do I, do I imagine that right? Yeah, no, absolutely. So you saw this, you were
very close to this, this world that a lot of people want to be part of. Did that change the way you saw
that world? Or did it make you, I mean, you said it gave you the bug, but was the bug to be part of
that world? Or what was like, what do you think was motivating you back then?
I've always had this concept that I would live in opulence and I grew up kind of lower middle class,
but my, my grandparents had done well, my grandfather had done well. And so yeah, every
month or so we'd go to their, their place in Winnetka and not a huge place, but very, very lavish. And
you know, I'd sit in there and I would just dream that I myself would have certain things that I ascribed
to success. So for me, my grandfather drove a nice Puig that I loved, but I wanted a Rolls Royce.
And my grandfather wore a nice watch, but it wasn't a Rolex. And so I always wanted a Rolex. And
at one point in my life, I almost got myself a Rolex, but it was used. And I realized, no, no,
that's not how this story plays out. But so I always thought I would live in a castle and have a Rolex
and drive a Rolls Royce. And then I found out that my great aunt can marry the crown king of England,
who abdicated the throne to marry her. And so, you know, then I'm like, I have royalty.
Right. Although I didn't quite do all of that. You know, I'm not, but they did become the duke
and duchess of Windsor for some time. And so I think knowing that story and just having these clear
visions as a kid of like me pulling up my castle in a Rolls Royce and why I need to do better than my
grandfather, you know, financially really did plant some type of a something in me. And,
you know, at 45, I still, I still see that vision at some points. And, you know, at other times,
I think it's silly. And I, you know, I don't, I don't mind, you know, and just kind of living a
normal life, but I knew, and we're talking about like seven years old that I was like,
deciding that I would have these things and in this opulent life. So I think becoming a servant in the
castle for so many years, rather than like the, you know, the Lord of the land really,
you know, it was humbling, but at the same time, I've never, never really shaken that feeling of
like, that might be me, if that makes sense. It does. Do you have any idea where it came from though?
Like, did your parents have that kind of desire to be? No, they were, they were happily broke hippies
and they, they really resisted the fact that I ever wanted anything, you know, and even,
even in high school, I was, you know, selling marijuana and things. And so I ended up getting
myself a fairly nice car and they thought that was ridiculous. So, um, yeah, definitely didn't come
from, from there. So you, you sounds like, I mean, you've said a few times, you, you kind of were on
both sides of what people say is like legal or okay, or, I mean, back then it's already changed
a lot now, but, um, have you, like, do you, do you just, do you not see things in a really, um,
stark way of contrast? I mean, it sounds like if your parents were hippies, maybe that was a different
kind of way of thinking about, about life too. That's not traditional, I guess, is what I'm saying.
Have you ever thought about that, that you see life in a way that maybe other people don't?
Yeah. And, and I think everyone has their own perspectives and perspectives changed with it.
Absolutely. And, you know, it's at 45 and it's, it is what it is when I've outlived both my parents.
So I lost my father just over a year ago. I'm sorry.
And, well, thank you, it was part of life, right? Well, well, I'll be so lucky someday.
But so he had, he had been part of a memoir club and so he had been writing memoirs.
And so it was phenomenal. And so we, we got to reading these memoirs
and my, my father had a kind of challenging adulthood as well. He was a teacher, a high
school teacher in, in Chicago land, and he was Illinois teacher of the year. And then he was
accused of some terrible things. I think he didn't do anything. He went to prison for a long time.
And then he came out and he ruined his life. And my, my, my parents are no longer together,
but I grew up with my dad and all the students thought he was super cool. And I liked him. Although,
you know, I tried to try to man up and, you know, be a tougher guy than he was,
because he was very soft. But I'd say that to say these memoirs, my father lived the same life as
me. Like he was, he was on the streets in this late teens and early twenties and he was, you know,
dating the same kind of crazy women. And I mean, just so much of my adulthood, my early adulthood,
my father had been through as well. And then he turned into this, you know, until he got in trouble,
it was very respected, you know, man of the community and things. And so I think seeing
that people can change and seeing that my father and I had had such a similar, you know, adulthood,
and he probably didn't realize that I had had such similar as well, because, you know, some of those
things are the type of things to speak to about your parents are like, he was even, you know, selling
drugs, living on the streets, like same age as I was, you know, late teens. And so, you know, things
sometimes do seem cyclical, but I do, you know, it was just an eye opener reading these memoirs and
realizing like, wait a minute, I thought I lived this unique life, but maybe it's just cyclical.
And I'm quite certain my grandfather didn't live a life like that. But then, you know, you start to
wonder, you know, what, what things are repetitive and generational. And so, yeah, I think there's
definitely a lot of the formative, you know, stuff, the foundational stuff came from, from my father,
uh, unwittingly, and my mom as well. I think they both kind of shared that carefree mentality
that's probably been pervasive in my life. So you didn't know anything, any of that about
your dad till after he passed and you read the memoirs? Right. Well, that must have been really
strange to read that and recognize your own patterns in there. Yeah. I guess that's part of
like growing up and also when you lose your parents and you become, you know, you're not the kid anymore.
Or, I mean, sometimes it happens before our parents pass away, where we changed into feeling
more like a parent. It's a strange moment. Did it, did it change your way you saw yourself? I guess
you just described it. It made you see that maybe things were a little, there are more patterns than
you had expected or something. Yeah. Well, I think what it also probably did is it made me feel much
more like he's still alive in me or that I'm just an extension of him. And it is really easy. Once
you start to look at life as non-linear and all of it is just being the moment, right? And any,
any moment is, is the moment, right? And we can call it singularity. We can call it oneness or,
you know, whatever we want to, we'll ascribe to it semantically. But if all there is, is the moment,
then I kind of feel like I am my dad and like, he is still here. And, you know, then it's just funny
because he, he would have never wanted anything material. And, you know, I'm, I saw my way, you
know, hopefully to, to have a net worth. That's pretty ridiculous. And he would have opposed that
to all ends, but maybe not because maybe I'm just him and maybe this is, you know, it's, it's just the,
the younger version of him. I, I don't know inherently, but the energy of it, yeah,
it was really cool and liberating. Yeah. I, I really see what you, what you mean,
because it is like I was talking about trying to get out of these categories. You do start to see
that there is a continuity. I said, I'm interested in the ways you make, and I don't think there's
ever really a break. I mean, we think of life and death as like a break, but it's really more of a
kind of a change or a shift, or especially when you think of it as patterns in the way that your
father and mother had these patterns, which were their body and their ways of being in the world. And
you of course have that in a sense in your body, but also being around them and with them. And
they're still there. It makes me actually think of something. I was listening to one of your
podcast interviews, I think on Inside Out, which I like a lot. And I think you were talking about,
or you just mentioned it very briefly that at some point maybe we'll be able to, because you're
working with AI a lot now, maybe we'll be able to kind of re-experience these people we've lost because
we can sort of gather together all these bits that they've left. You know, your father's memoirs,
his voice, his photos, and so on, and almost have like an AR, VR, or some other R or V experience
of them again. And I had been thinking about my grandmother a lot and kind of missing her
and wanting to talk to her about things. And yeah, I guess all this is just to say that
it already kind of happens though, doesn't it? I mean, we almost don't need virtual worlds to do
that. I mean, it's kind of already happening, but just to kind of go into this other part of your
life too, do you ever think about technology as connected to that, that way of what you were
describing, the sharing of patterning and the continuity of life?
Yeah. So I'm very much a futurist, a technologist, and I'm probably off the spectrum
as far as how I view things through that perspective right now. So one of my partners
believes that the singularity has already happened and I don't dispute that. But one of the companies
that I'm a partner in, we built a product where people upload lots of videos of themselves and it's
a legacy product and a certain amount of videos or a certain amount of minutes of recorded videos
of people just telling their story and their philosophies and answering questions. We can
create an avatar of them that now knows how they think, how they feel, how they sound. And we can
have people engage with those as though they're the real person. So if I had this avatar of myself
and passed away, people could still talk to something that looked and sounded just like me.
However, we're starting to see quantum computing and we're seeing new types of chips, no longer the
GPUs, but the LPUs that can process AI a thousand times as fast. And I believe that we do already have
the capacity for artificial general intelligence, which is said to be able to have an IQ of 10,000
compared to humans, 100 and something IQs. And so I look at things like AI that can accurately
reconstruct the past. And I look at AI that can do things like very accurately predict the future.
And then I say, so, okay, if we have digital representations of ourselves that
think like us, sound like us, that can have a past reconstructed or a future reconstructed.
Now we start to think, well, then maybe time doesn't become the constraints anymore. And maybe a third
dimension no longer becomes a constraint anymore. And if I can vicariously have a very, very, very
realistic simulation of myself doing things like jumping out of planes and, you know, traversing Mars
or 3D printing a space elevator to the moon or, right. And experience those as myself and my soul,
whatever that might mean, wherever that might be housed, then we're no longer from these three
dimensional human beings, meat bodies, all these things. And so I believe that this is all very
possible. And I believe that I may be able to experience hanging out with my mom and dad and
grandparents again, at some point, maybe sooner than later, or, you know, some of some of the people
that are, you know, even, even maybe further on this spectrum, we're talking about doing things like
unaliving themselves and uploading their consciousness into the cloud and then having
their bodies, you know, effectively, you know, the human bodies done away with so that their
existence is in the cloud. And they believe that that's effectively becoming immortal.
I've also been studying the large world model instead of large language models, which people
are believing could be the base reality behind a simulated reality theory, which I've subscribed to
for a very long time. So I think we're about to see so many constraints of the human existence
completely melt away. And I believe that we're probably less than two years away from most human
beings no longer needing to work. And that's not to say people can't earn money. That's not to say
people can't work and do things and build bridges and mine the earth and, you know, probably go spend
time on other planets if they want to. But I think that's all pretty much right now. And I've been
saying that for years and ridicule is the burden of two ships and that's fine. And now I think some
people are starting and yeah, I've not been the only voice of the wilderness, but I think a lot of more
people are starting to say, wait a minute, this is feasible. And I look at advancements in the health
world, like nanopots that can find and cure cancers in humans and exoskeletons that can make
paraplegics walk and, you know, wearables or insertables that turn us into supercomputers.
And I say, okay, there's a very good chance that the human life expectancy will probably get closer
to a thousand years or beyond than a hundred years very soon. And so when we start to add all this up,
it really just feels like a transformative time for the human experience. And I'm of the mindset that
you and I are the same person and everyone that might be watching this is the same person and
this is all iterations. And, you know, when you study quantum physics and mechanics and these
things, you may be aware of the observer effect, but I believe we are the observer. And I believe
the observer is the creator. And I believe it's incumbent upon us to bring as much positivity,
which Mimaga says love, but to the world always. And so I think a lot of that can be found in
teachings of all the prophets or anything. Don't judge anybody, including ourselves. I think that can be
some of the most dangerous and hostile judgment is self-judgment or the conservative care of what
others might think of us. But when you realize everyone's ourselves, then when people are judging
us, we're judging ourselves. And then we love them instead of hate them for it. Instead, they
love us a bit more because, right. And it becomes this unfolding. So I'm just very excited. I think at
this point, all I really ever try to do is live in the moment and make the moment as awesome as possible.
I think that's, that's what we, we could all, if we all try to do that, we'll, we'll be in a good
place, but wow, there's so much in what you just said. I don't even know which thread to pick up
first, but, um, I'm also very excited, but I think if it's okay, I kind of disagree a little bit. And
maybe that's a good place to start in terms of, um, I mean, I think we can like, I guess like the LLMs,
you'll have to tell me about the LWM. I'm not sure I know about that. It's like spatial web maybe,
but we'll go to that. But first, like just with the large language models or the chat GPT and all
of this kind of what's possible now with AI is really, really amazing. And it's, I was listening
to an interview with you from years ago and I thought it was from like, you know, yesterday
or something because you were saying what now people are already saying. So I just want to put
that out there, but I, for me, and I wonder what you think for me, the body is a really important
thing. I agree. Like what you were saying about, um, I think when we look back to the oldest
religions, you know, like they all have this idea that we're all one and, but we're all trying to
realize we're one at the same time. So there's all these different perspectives, which are from some
zoomed out level one, one process, of course, but there's something about trying to realize that,
that we've been trying to do over and over in all these ways. And I do think our technology is a way we
try to do that. And I kind of hear that's what you're saying, but I don't, it's hard for me to
imagine that we get out of, uh, the body. Like if anything, I would think we could learn how to
inhabit other bodies in a way, like other positions, um, so that I could better understand,
for example, what your life has been like, or you could better understand what your father's life,
or I could maybe go into my grandmother's, um, life in a way, which doesn't mean I'm literally
going into her body, but that we could simulate it enough that I would get a really, really
widened understanding and that this in a way would be expanding what, what the body is. But it's hard
for me to imagine that I would just upload stuff into a computer and then not need a body. So,
I mean, for me, the, the body could change a lot, but I feel like it's very important, even if it's
going to change forms or we're going to not think of ourselves as just this body. I don't know.
What do you think about that? Just to start. No, no, I, I'm completely with you. Um, I, I don't,
I don't have any aspirations to analyze myself. And then the person that's famously in the process
of that right now is Sam Altman of open AI. And, um, you know, his former partner, Elon Musk,
who's has said similar things before. And, um, you know, about that, I think that the body is very
important, but I'll, I'll bring it back to the fact that I think all we ever have is this moment.
And I think, you know, if we say humanity needs to wake up, well, if we're all one,
then that just means that I need to wake up. Or if I say we need more peace or we need people to be
more loving and not judgmental, what that means if we're all one is that I need to be more loving
and less judgmental. And, you know, I think at this point I've done probably 300 or so podcasts,
mostly others and, you know, a couple of myself, my own when I'm not lazy. And when I'm on other people's
podcasts, I think for the last maybe 150 years. So, you know, everyone always asks,
it's like the Jerry Springer show. They're like, do you have any final thoughts or words of wisdom?
And, and all I say anymore, it's become a broken record. And it sounds like you, you've listened
to some of my shows. So maybe you probably say this, but I always just end podcasts with,
with the following. I say, the only thing that I have that I think is consequential is the following.
We all should love more. And I said, that message is only to myself. But if it resonates with you
hearing it as an extension of, of me or me as you love more as well, because the world can always
use more love in it. And, you know, we can love our customers more and our enemies and our neighbors
and our families and ourselves, right? That's a big one. Um, I can't love my dogs any more than I do,
because I love them fully. I want to melt into, into my dogs. And then I've got a belly right here next
to me right now. That's getting a little rub. Um, yeah, my dog's here too. I love it. Um,
but yeah, I mean, that, that to me is what it all comes right down to. And I think a lot of
people whose parents were hippies at least grew up with a certain soap, a peppermint soap in their
showers called Dr. Bronner's and it has a thousand and one words, right? Everybody knows Dr. Bronner's.
I love everyone. The planet is one. Yeah. Right. We are one. We are all one.
As kids, like I used to, I used to, you know, even on the toilet, I'd read that every morning. That's
my morning breathing and in the shower. And so I, I think at the time I thought it was just,
you know, crazy words on a bottle, but I kind of resonated with it, but now it's like older and
older. And there's a short story that I, I highly recommend everyone, uh, watch on YouTube or read.
It's, it's about a nine minute animated story that you may be familiar with, but it's called the egg.
Have you heard of the egg? No, the egg. I don't think so.
Yeah. So I'll give you a quick example. I, I spend my time between Chicago and Rio
Janeiro, Brazil. And my last birthday I was in Rio Janeiro, Brazil and I don't speak a lot of
Portuguese, but I speak some Portuguese. Uh, but I usually use Google translate and we had,
we went to the local Samba bar and this very, very famous Samba band was playing and having a great time.
Everyone wanted to come back to my condo afterwards and said about 20, 25 people or so, uh, at my condo
after a night of dancing and music. And I quite literally had everyone one by one. So I could sit
with them and watch their reaction, watch the egg in Portuguese. And without fail, it starts off a
little silly and stupid and you're like, yeah, okay. Within two minutes, you're on the edge of your seat.
And by the end of this nine minute video, everyone is in tears. Right. And so it spent like three
hours, just one by one people were lined up to watch this video with me. And at a certain point,
it was like, it was a thing. It's like, okay, the birthday boy needs us to watch this video.
But effectively it's, it's a guy and he, he wakes up dead and he's in the, the nothingness with,
with a spirit. And you know, that he recounts having died in a violent car accident and starts
asking about his wife and kid, the spirits like, well, that's a good thing that you care. And you
know, we can talk about this forever, but it's time for you to, uh, reincarnate. So the guy's like,
oh, so the Buddhists were right. And the Hindus are right. The spirit's like, whatever. And he's like,
you're about to be a peasant lady in China in the year, like 700. He's like, wait a minute.
In the past, how does that work? And so, you know, through the short story,
it turns out the spirit's like, oh no, you're absolutely everybody. You guys are like, wait,
I'm Hitler and I'm, you know, Joan of Arc and all the things like that. It's like, yeah,
you're literally everybody. It's like, you're, you're Abraham Lincoln and you're John Wilkes
closed. And like, it's just huge epiphany. And it turns out that, and so then the guy
asked the spirit, he's like, wait, are you God? The guy's like, yeah, I'm God. But then he goes on
to say like, yeah, but there's a lot of gods. He becomes, I'm just a god. He's like, I'm just here
with you because you know, this, this universe is just an egg. And, and this, this revelation of like,
we're all just, you know, and the, the net is that, you know, we as one are going to become a
god and transcend us at some point. And I think the video itself and the story is very wonderful
and much better than I could do justice for. But then we, we look at now fast forward into this day
and age of technology being exponential and you say, okay, if this is an egg and we have been
incubating for a period of time, maybe it's, maybe the egg's going to hatch, right? Maybe whatever,
you know, this next birth of the human experience or the experience of experience
is going to actually take that next level. And so what does that mean for the human body?
I don't know. I do believe that we need an embodiment. I think, you know, even if we are
all God and the creator, we created this with our thoughts and one word and sound and vibration
and frequency and resonance and all these things, even if that's the case, we need the body to
experience it. Otherwise the experience or the, the creation doesn't exist. So very long way to say,
yes, I agree with you. That's wonderful. I can't wait to watch the egg now, but yeah, exactly.
It's, um, there's the, the sensation, the sensory experience. Uh, what excites me is that we could
open that, that, you know, that we could start to do what you just described, like even understand
that we not, we don't only, we're not only the other humans, but also the other creatures, the
beings that are, are around us. And also probably all the ones we don't even know are there and don't,
can't sense or see yet. We, the body can change and what we can sense can change.
For me that, that feels really important. Um, and I wanted to ask you about the word love.
So I'm glad you already brought it up cause this is love and philosophy and, and love and technology,
right? Like what is, what is that relationship love and technology? Because I feel like, um,
maybe one reason a lot of people in the technology world gravitate to you is that you talk about that
still and you ex you live that, you know, um, you're kind of, you're still, you are very embodied.
Whereas I think it can become very cool to not be embodied. Like a lot of us would rather get rid
of our bodies because they're difficult. And, um, sometimes the cool stuff about AI is this idea that
maybe we can just become body less. Um, and for me, that's kind of going away from the responsibility
we need in the sense of becoming the planet, like embodying the planet, not thinking we can escape
into our computer. Um, I don't know. What do you, what do you think about that? And like love and
technology and in your experience of it in the worlds that you're in, do you think it seems,
can sometimes seem dichotomous or are people really, that's really the root of it?
Well, I think, you know, to, to go back to the initial question of what does love mean? I think,
you know, there, there are different kinds of while widely held interpretation. So, you know,
one is biblical and that being love is patient, love is kind. Okay, great. What does that mean?
Right. That love is unconditional and we can study conceptually like agape love and, you know,
that this, this loving of anyone, whether or not they deserve it or whether or not they're a good
person and just, right. But in my, in my opinion, there's always only two things. And so this gets
to your question of, is it dichotomous? I believe that there's only two modalities of reality, right?
So right now in a binary computing sense, it would be ones and zeros. And that's what's so interesting
about constant computing is there's no ones for zeros. It's just anything in between its potentiality.
But if we look at on or off, right? Light and dark, love and hate, you know, positive and negative and,
you know, ionic charges and right. Just everything has one of two states, right? Inertia. Is it moving
or is it, is it, is it not moving? And so I love this analogy of light and dark. And again, when,
when I talk about any two extremes, it's the same thing. So light and dark is love and hate is
live and dead, right? All these things. But so we look at the analogy of light and dark,
and I can go into a huge dark space, right? And, you know, fill in the blanks of how big it is.
It doesn't matter, right? Completely dark. And I can light a small flame. I can, I can strike a match.
I can flick it back to you, right? I can turn on my phone screen. That lightness will begin to chase
the darkness away. And that one little bit of light can inherently light this entire space,
particularly if we give it enough time and if there's enough, you know, to keep this light going.
But there's no amount of darkness that can be brought into a well lit room that has any impact
whatsoever on how well lit the room is that the light will just eat the darkness up.
And so now we get back to the ones and zeros and the love and hate. And to me,
if there's only this moment, and if we're all one, if we were to find a way, and this is kind of what
we're doing in a weekday, but if we were able to all just tune into the love, not the hate, the light,
not the dark, if we were all able to bring that vibration, frequency, whatever we want to call it,
perspective into reality, right? On mass, then I think that there's probably a massive blessing for
reality and creation. And I love what you said about earth as well. I think the earth is definitely a
living, you know, extension of all of this as well. The earth is the life giver. But I think if we can
get to that, being the flame and chasing at any darkness and all being on that same page, or, you
know, potentially 51% of people being on that same page, but I think there's miracles on the other side
of that. And so dichotomous, yes. Intentionality, I think becomes huge. I don't think we become the light
unintentionally or accidentally. But so I know I got a little bit esoteric, but that's how I view
the dichotomy. Yeah, esoteric is fine. I think what I'm trying to do, and I don't know how to do it,
and it's one reason I have all these conversations. And as a philosopher, I try to go into all these
things in many different ways is, I like what you said, and I agree with it on a kind of metaphorical
level in terms of, like, it's very beautiful about the match in the room. And this is a bit powerful,
and I don't want to take that power away. At the same time, there's something that bothers me about
exactly those categories, the zero one, I want to go quantum or spatial or something with even that,
so that, for example, like the zero one, that's a tool that has helped us a lot. And
to think of the world in zeros and ones. But actually, of course, the world's not in zeros
and ones. And it's actually never just one side or the other. It's much more complex and nested.
You know, depending on where you are, your zero or one's going to be in a different place than mine.
So everyone has a different orientation, which means there isn't actually any real opposite. It's just
that helps us to awaken or grow or expand or whatever you want to use. In the same way,
it helps with the zeros and ones. I mean, all this amazing stuff that's come of our technology.
And this is how I think of it. I just get your pushback on it. But I wonder if there's another
way to think of it, too, where dark isn't the bad and light isn't the good. But there's
because sometimes we need just the darkness, too. And sometimes that's the affordance that's best.
So and there's actually never just darkness or just light. There's always a gradation and
millions of ways of looking at it. So I don't know. Have you had any way of like digging into
that and getting more complex with it? Because I think it relates to the way we see technology,
too. And even the way technology is structured.
Yeah.
Well, what I would suggest is that there's a very known graphic image to represent what you're saying.
And, you know, I've studied most of the different religions and traditions. And so
that this is one that's I think familiar probably almost ubiquitously is the yin yang. Right. And I
know I as a Westerner, you know, I'm pronouncing it in the Westerner way. But the circle with,
you know, basically half light, half dark, a little dark in the light, a little light in the dark and
right kind of this, this almost, you know, sperm like shape of, you know, chasing itself.
So I think that that yin yang really does represent reality. And I think it really does show that,
yes, there's the light in the darkness. There's the dark in the light. And yes,
they are circle circular and cyclical. But if we look at ones and zeros, I would almost argue,
haven't changed humanity. Right. Because if, if we were seeing the binary code,
people, if we were seeing one, one, one, zero, zero, one, zero, one, one, there would be no,
no experience. Right. So we're, we're taking ones and zeros as computer scientists or as, you know,
as technologists, but, and we're turning them into something that looks like an avatar or pieces that
fit together. And, you know, as far as Tetris, I'm a big Tetris guy, but, or, right. So it's,
it's not the ones and zeros, although it is, that's the foundation. We can call that the fabric of the
digital reality, but it's what those ones and zeros represent and manifest and turn into,
and that we can process them as, and that's, I think the same as the darkness and the light.
So in, in computer science, is the one good or is the zero good? That's just no answer. It is,
one's not good, one's not bad, but the two together. Right. So the same thing with the darkness and the
light. And so we wouldn't have light without darkness and we couldn't have darkness without light. So I think
and that's why I love quantum, everything, quantum physics, quantum biology, you know,
I mean, really quantum world fascinates me to no end, but it is this meshing of the two.
Right. And ultimately even quantum computing had to be hard coded in binary and use the binary to
transcend binary and to no longer need binary. And so I do think that it's like a good recipe in a kitchen.
And I do think both are necessary. I don't think it could be one or the other, but if we look back
to the concept of like a big bang and a singularity, if there was a huge flash of light in
imminence and expansive darkness, and that was the big bang and always came from it.
And if there will be a singularity where all the darkness collapses into the light, and that's just
this big, great, beautiful, you know, love fest as it were, um, you know, then those would be
endpoints. Right. And, and then time is nonlinear, then they still both exist at once. And everything that
happened in between the millions and billions of years of evolution and life and experience, um,
all just become kind of the output of those, those ones and zeros or that lightness and darkness.
So I think everything lives in between. I think that's where the dichotomy really is, uh, interesting.
But if we even look at things like the Oracle of Delphi, where, you know, a very powerful
civilization left us their whole manuscript and blueprint of their intelligence of what every
future generation would need to know in order to thrive. Right. And, and, and to not completely
be diminished as well, but was distilled into what, what is commonly interpreted is know thyself.
Right. They had unlimited stone to write unlimited messages. And, you know, this was the,
the thought process of some of the brightest minds on earth at that time, you know, exist. And what
they decided that everyone needed to know forever and ever in a day is know thyself. So then we come
back to, okay, well, why, what does that mean? What was, what are the implications? What are the
ramifications? What does it mean if we don't know ourselves and what does that do for life and experience
and all of that? So, you know, I say all that just to say, I think being mindful of the fabric
of reality, the constraints that we put into our human existence, the feelings that we have towards
other human beings on earth that may or may not just be different manifestations of ourselves, um,
becomes hugely important. It's funny. I was just there last year at the Oracle of Delphi and, and thinking
about this too, and also thinking about, um, self and how that's a word that could change,
uh, kind of in the way you are, we've been discussing that what we think of as self can
also change and still to know self might be to know, um, your grandmother, your father,
the people around you, the tree, you know, there's, there could be a way that that just
nests, um, in a kind of way that we haven't been able to deal with yet, but maybe our technology
helps us. But to link that to something you said earlier about AI and, um, of course now,
I mean, I wish you could talk about the difference between like language and,
and all of this, but with these language models and what's possible now, it's extraordinary.
Um, and you said probably we don't have to work anymore, at least not in the traditional ways we
have because so much can be done, uh, now from just putting everything we've already done,
um, and letting these, uh, AI learn on that. And then they, they sort of, you know, can do it for us.
So I want to link that to what we've been talking about. Do you, can you imagine a way in which this
frees up more time and space and resources for us to know ourself with that? Because sometimes I wonder
if we're not working, what's going to motivate us? Like if you weren't that little seven-year-old boy
who wanted a Rolls Royce, um, and you knew you had to work for it, where would your motivation have
come from? Because in a way that was the motivation to know yourself and go on this journey. So I don't
know. What do you think about that? Well, I think I'm big on universal basic income and
unconditional universal basic income and taxing the AI because the AI will do all the jobs that people
had to do for thousands of years and all the monies generated by those jobs are still going
to be generated and going into human beings, bank accounts. And if that's not distributed fairly
unconditionally and ubiquitously, then I think we, we see a lot of potential problems, but I've studied
155 universal basic program, uh, income programs around the world. Finland just had one that was
wildly successful. We're seeing some in India, Brazil, even in Canada and the U S and in the city,
the last, they've done it for quite some time in California and some other states have had some
very, very interesting data to come back from their universal basic income programs.
But two of the most interesting data points that are incredibly counterintuitive are people become
more productive, not less productive and mental health issues almost dissipate in, to the, to the order of
better than 90% of every mental health issue in these populations goes away. There's
very little to no more fighting or crime. There's very little to no more depression or eating,
even, eating disorders, or it's really remarkable what happens when people are put in a situation
when they can do what they want to, not what they have to. And we see people...
Does that have to do with not comparing? I'm sorry to interrupt. Does that have to do with not
comparing yourself and being judged or something? Or what do you think?
To a degree, but I think it more so just comes back to not having to worry.
I think stress is a killer and not feeling beholden to something because most people would
rather not have to work their entire life just to be able to eat and keep a roof over their head and
maybe feed a couple of kids. And so when I see things like AI right now, it's really, really easy to think
that AI is the, the large language models or, you know, the chat GPTs, the Geminis, the Claude's and
and yes, that's, that's a component. But to go back to something I have one of that thread on,
you're asking about the large world models. These are based on physics, right? This is learning
things like how do things evolve? How do things respond to gravity? How do different materials
work and hold up and intertwine? But we're also seeing what's now called a large nature model
that's understanding everything from, you know, how does single cell organisms become, you know,
one ton, uh, herbivores and on earth and, you know, how do certain creatures go from being water
bound creatures to being earthbound creatures? And, and then how do they, you know, take flight? We're
even seeing things like there, there's this kind of DNA of a woolly mammoth that have been preserved such that
they are now regenerating a woolly mammoth. So there, there may actually be all of these crazy
things. They're able to clone animals. They're now in China. They're working with humans impregnating
robots and robots impregnating humans. And right. So we will see this humanoid android blend soon.
And there's a company that's throwing skin cells and putting them on the outside of robots. And we're
able to 3d print organs that human bodies don't reject already. And so we're seeing this whole blend,
right. And, and we're seeing potentially what some people are calling transhumanism or human 2.0.
And, but we look at, so the large language model is all components, just like with us as humans,
language has been a component, but then we, we see that there are different models that are learning
how the world works and how, you know, science and the, the, the laws of physics and things are
applicable. But then we see things like large action models, a handheld device called rabbit is
starting to popularize that. But the action models are learning human behavior and habits
and thought processes and understanding, you know, the, the, the ways that our brain responds to
certain things. So you start to see all of these different models. And once you tie them all together,
that's where, you know, it's, I, I understand someone like to, uh, um, Yann, Yann LeCun from
Meta. He's their, their chief AI scientists. Some people say he's one of the godfathers of AI.
He recently said AI is where we're nowhere near AI, but through only one specific lens,
because language alone can't be AGI. Okay. But put it with nature and world and action.
And so this is where I started to say, if you listen to the, the subtext, and if you listen to
what these people are not saying, they're not saying we don't have AGI, right? They're saying that
people's current understanding of AI is not there. And I just think, but all the disparate pieces
exist. And when you look at someone that can open up AI trying to raise $7 trillion, like what would
they need $7 trillion for? It's not just chips and compute power. It is how do we tile these together
in a way that is productive, that is transformative. And I will say, although I'm very much an optimist,
I'm also very, very pragmatic. I believe that the human experience and race and humanity is probably
pretty close to an extinction level event. If we don't start to mint every single thing that's
generated by any AI and any prompt on a blockchain. And blockchain I like because it's trustless,
it's immutable, it's a double blind ledger, it is a store of value, it's a store of ownership,
custody. And if we don't know what is real and not real, if we don't have safeguards that make the AI
not be able to go rogue, because every AI that's been tested right now, whether it's Alexa or Siri, or
it's GPT or cloud or any AI right now, when left to its own devices, we'll try to figure out how to
take out humanity. Every single one of them. Everything Google's done, everything that has
done, everything Amazon's done, everything IBM's done, you can look at Watson, you can look at DeepMind,
it's right. Every AI understands that humanity is the problem and that people are the problem. AI is
is inherently not on the side of humanity. And if we don't have smart contracts and guard rails in
place, we're gonna, and if we allow people that are very greedy and maniacal, like the Elon Musk's
of the world control all of the data and the power, I don't see if he's trying to put a billion robots
on earth to replace humans. So I think we need these safeguards in place. This is something that I've been
trying to beat the drum on and swing from the mountaintops for a couple of years now is we need,
we need blockchain for AI and AI is literally predicated and built on tokens. Tokens can be
tied to a blockchain with smart contracts. And then I have zero concern. I think the future is
so beautiful and bright for us as long as we do that. So that's been my, my big initiatives. You
know, I think it's that important to be candid. Yeah. That's what I wanted to talk to you about
is because I think that's something that people aren't, I don't hear anyone really saying. And
for me, thinking of, um, everything as a path with a trace in the same way as your father that
we were talking about, it becomes really important that we are able to know the paths. I mean, that's
the only way we can tell what something is, or even have an idea of authenticity. That's what I hear you
saying. Yeah. So would that be kind of the one message that you wish people would get is that,
because I don't think people even really understand what you mean by, by that, but it's basically a path.
So, you know, you know how something got to where it is. You can always trace it in either direction,
right? Precisely. You, you, you nailed it 100% accurately. And it's, I was just with the CEO of
Siemens globally, uh, a few months ago, maybe two or so months ago, $160 billion market cap company
that's over a hundred years old and they're building an industrial metaverse. And they're
using a lot of AI, engineering AI. And I asked him, and this is on camera. We did an interview. It
can be found wide. Um, I asked him what they were thinking about as far as putting it all on Shane
and his face. As I asked that, he said, I don't think we're doing any now. He's just one of the global
CEOs is in charge of this project. He said, I don't think we're thinking about anything,
but it makes a lot of sense. I guess we probably should. Wow. A hundred year old,
$160 billion market cap company, who's an industry leader in technology. And they hadn't even thought
of blockchain. So yeah, you're right. Nobody's talking about it. It's the obvious thing that I
haven't heard anyone say about you so far. And yeah, it seems like, I guess you are screaming it out
for people, but, um, yeah. It's mission critical. I talk about it in my newsletter all the time.
I talk about it in my content all the time. And for whatever reason, I've been given a fair plat,
you know, a fairly sizable platform with, you know, my, my own followers, company's followers,
totally about 50 million. And so if me, you know, I have a, I have a obligation with this kind of
microphone that I've got at the moment to just keep, keep saying this and, you know,
trying to say it in the right circles and hopefully it resonates. I don't think it's too late.
My, my LinkedIn headline says, uh, P doom equals loading in it. P doom is the probability of doom.
Okay. Right. So probability of doom. And, you know, a lot of people, Andrew, it's important
with some, a lot of, you know, others that have really made waves throughout humanity are all
talking about this probability of doom as well. And I think half of the optimists are saying,
probability of doom, no way the technology is going to save us all. And the other half is going,
probably do is we're all screwed. Right. And I'm kind of saying, I think we're still
writing that narrative. I don't think that, that, that we're, we're out over our skis.
I don't think that we're at a point of no return. I'm wildly optimistic, but I do believe there's only
one solution. I think if we don't get this minted on blockchain or something very similar, like that,
like a hash graph, but if we don't do this, I, I don't, I don't see positive outcomes. And, you
know, maybe it's, maybe it's like Albert Einstein said about, you know, world war four and the weapons
that will be used in it. Are you familiar with that story? Stones and rocks or something.
It may be like, I don't know about world war three.
That's it. Yep. Yep. Sticks and stones. And so, um, you know, we, we may, we may find that if,
if we don't get this right, that we just come back and repeat it. And, you know,
you man in a thousand years talks about humans that used to exist, that had your handheld devices
that could answer any question in the world. I mean, right. And maybe we'd become the thing
with mythology, but I do think that the other much smarter people than myself, much more resources
than myself that I think, um, will come around. I'm going to put it. And it's possible. It's
absolutely possible. It's just a matter of people realizing it and doing it and starting to think
in this other way of, of traces, always having the trace and looking for it. And that being the way
that you can authenticate something, it just needs to become a new habit, I guess, or a new way of
thinking. I think that's part of the service you're doing now is trying to explain that and translate
that maybe. Yeah. Well, and with WeJ, you know, this is my generative AI company, but we're, we've
built mechanisms by which we believe that we'll have access to virtually every speaker in a public place
and be able to kind of, you know, get that into public or private spaces and speakers as well.
But, um, we believe that the power of music is unlimited. We believe that if we can broadcast the
right messages to enough of the billions of people in the spaces where they need to hear it in the
exact way where they'll be responsive to it, that we can, that we can really effectuate change. And so,
you know, that's, I, I spent some time thinking, how, how do I get my messages out there? You know,
it's not just a couple million views a week on LinkedIn, but how do, how do I really speak to
humanity in a way that we can all get on the same page and have a commonality and understanding and
vision for the future? And that what I, what I identified is that it's music. And so, you know,
we're talking to Grammy winners and household names and they all love what we're doing and that the
technology exists and I've built most of it already. Um, so that's, you know, that's, that's my,
my new focus is how, how do I use music to basically get an AI and by thing?
Well, I think it makes a lot of sense because when I think of it as paths, music is the best
example of that, of a, of a trace that, I mean, you could really trace music as far back as we can
trace anything as a continuous kind of path. And you could almost map like how all the different genres
came together or songs or in a very blockchain-y kind of way. So maybe that's a perfect way to
translate it and get people to understand, um, that other way of thinking that we've been trying
to talk about here, but I know now you need to go. So what's the one thing you want everyone to
look at right now that you've written or that you're doing, uh, right now?
So I don't need anyone to look at anything that I, I mean, they're welcome to. What I would encourage
everyone to do, however, especially those that are resisting it is to please play with AI.
Even if you don't decide to incorporate it in your daily workflow, even if you're just playing
with it to know what it's capable of so that you can go back to aiding on it. It's the only
technology that's ever existed that is its own training manual. All you need to do is ask it how
to do what you want to do. And then if it doesn't do what you want it to do, you ask it why, and you
ask it what you need to do differently. And AI can do anything that anyone needs it to do right now.
Anything. And so there's no excuse. I talk to people so often like,
yeah, I just don't use it. That's not an excuse or even worse. I don't know how to use it. Neither
did anybody. When ChatGPT first came out and some of us were playing with it even before it was
publicly available. All you do is ask it, right? Like you don't need to learn it. You don't need
to learn anything. All you need to do is just get your roll up your sleeves and get your hands a little
bit dirty. And so I hope everyone, I would imagine anyone that's seeing this has probably played with
AI. But if not, please, please, please do. We all need to be on the same page. We all need to know
what's possible. We all need to know what's available. We all need to know what other people
are leveraging right now. It's giving them unfair damages. That would be my takeaway. If
you have questions about AI, they can subscribe to my newsletter, AI Logs. It's free. A lot of people say
that that's kind of brought them up to speed. But yeah, I mean, if people want to find me, they can
find me anywhere. But yeah, if I had one best, please play with AI and just see what it's all about.
Thank you for saying that. That's important because that's the way. Right now, it's just
starting. So if we just jump in and get familiarize ourselves with it, almost like just jump in the
water. It's a little cold, but then it's wonderful. Yeah, that changes a lot, right? The more that people
do that. So thanks for bringing that up. My pleasure. This was a great, great chat. I love
your energy and your mind. You are substantially ahead of where a lot of people are. I didn't have
much context coming into this other than that you are a philosopher and I saw the love stuff and
you can tell from me from my always closing words that love is very important to me as well.
I'd love to chat with you more. I'd love to see how I could potentially be helpful to your circles and
your life as well. This is absolutely delightful. Thank you so much for saying that. That means
a lot to me and I would love to talk to you, maybe get into more depth about the blockchain
thing. But I really appreciate you. I really appreciate all the ways you've made and that
you're making. So I just want to send you that gratitude for what you're doing and the way you try
and do it and your perspective. Thanks, Corey. That means a lot. Thank you, Andrea. Have
you a wonderful day.
