Hey everyone, this is Andrea, back with another research conversation, and I'm trying to write
some papers and connect some dots as I build this general navigational framework for cognition.
I'm trying to sort of clarify the similar movement that I see across various fields
and disciplines that's sort of reorienting us ecologically, so we can understand cognition
and consciousness, which are not the same thing, by the way, but more on that in a
solitary research post. In any case, I've been thinking about all this as I work on
some papers, and so I revisited a conversation I had with Michael Levin, and I want to post
it today, and it's been a very important conversation. This is just part one, I'll post the other
parts later, but this dialogue that opened between he and I is very important for me
because I only just discovered his work, at least the work relative to navigation, a couple
months ago, in the summer, when we were both part of this Society for Multidisciplinary
and Fundamental Research. It's SEMF, S-E-M-F, Society for Multidisciplinary and Fundamental
Research. We both were talking there, and one of the papers that he was talking about then
was Analyzing Cognition in Diverse Embodiments, or what does it know? Competency in Navigating
Arbitrary Spaces as an Invariant for Analyzing Cognition in Diverse Embodiments. And that paper
is saying something very similar to what I've been sort of saying in a more generalized way,
and what I've been using hippocampal research to delineate philosophically, which is, in
short, that the best way to understand cognition is as way-making, or as navigation. Although
I don't use the word navigation because it has a really specific meaning, which means
goal-oriented, which is actually how Michael uses it and is an important part of his work.
So we discuss this a lot. I think it's more in part two than in this section, but all
this just to say there's a lot of really interesting themes that overlap, but not fully. They're
not parallel between his work and my work. Of course, I should say he's a very successful
scientist working as a developmental biologist with a lab. And what I'm trying to do is come up
with a philosophical framework that would sort of unite his work with other scientific work
that I see happening in other different fields. I'm more or less trying to come up with sort
of the background framework of how we can really think of cognition. So finding his work has
been incredibly important for me for that reason. I'm still trying to understand it all.
That's why I'm having all these conversations with him. And this is the first one where we meet
each other. So I want to go ahead and post it and just leave it sort of as it is. I imagine
you already know Michael Levin, but if you don't, he's a biologist at Tufts University,
and he's making new paths towards understanding complex pattern formation and biological systems.
I had seen a talk he gave a couple years ago when I was studying neuroscience, not a couple
years ago, like in 2017, and about planarians, which just totally, it rocks your world if you've
never come across this biology that he's doing and you see him talk about it. He wasn't talking
about cognition as navigation then. But that paper came out just very recently, I think.
I'll put it all in the show notes. In any case, his work is amazing, not just for what
I'm talking with him about for many things. So really check him out and look at what he's
doing. It's pretty mind blowing. He's also developed something recently called TAME, the
technological approach to mind everywhere. I won't even try to summarize it, but I'll put
it in the show notes. But again, it has a lot of overlaps and a lot of stuff that I want to
really think about, like how we use these terms mechanical and life. I see them as
differently different. But I think Michael would sometimes just say like machines, he
would say, you know, these different life forms are machines. And in a way we are saying
the same thing, but we're using different language with really different trajectories
coming from different places. And part of all these conversations is trying to figure
all this out and get some clarity on it. Because a lot of time and a lot of times in our
disciplines, we talk about the same things, but we use different language trajectories,
if you know what I mean, like we're using different references and sometimes different
words to mean different things, and we don't realize it. And this obviously can get really
messy. So as part of what I'm trying to figure out here too, because it is a form of way making
and it relates very much to this overall framework that I'm building for cognition. So all that
just to say, uh, Michael Levin is doing some amazing work. I was lucky enough to get to talk
to him and to be in a conversation with him. And I'm just going to keep posting those here in
different parts. Um, so that's what this is. It's, I'm not even going to edit it much or anything. I'm
trying to see how it overlaps with a lot of the phenomenological and network models that I've been
working with. Everything from like Varela and Maturana to Hans Jonas and Nadal and O'Keefe and the
hippocampal stuff, active inference. There's a through line through all of this. And I'm trying
to sort of bring that out. And Levin's work is really important as, as a part of that. Not only
an example, but something that's, I think, shifting this paradigm of how we see cognition in very real
scientific ways. There's something he says in here, for example, he's talking about, uh,
intelligence. And he says that, I think he's telling me a story and he says, when you say the
word intelligence, people think human intelligence. And he says, well, that just has to stop.
So he's just sort of bypassing a lot of the dichotomies that people accept and people love
his work. But of course, also they have a lot of trouble with his work at times because exactly
for this reason that he's using words in ways they're not used to, especially when it comes
to technology and machines and how it relates to life and intelligence, for example. So some
people don't want to think plants and animals have intelligence, not to mention something like
AI. Another interesting part of this conversation I found was him talking about how science fiction
as a kid, reading, opened him up to thinking beyond dichotomies in a way that he was already
able to see some, something like a machine and something like a insect and an animal as
somehow related, not the same thing, but somehow related and continuous because, you know, the
technologies we build don't come out of any, out of nowhere. I mean, they are connected to us.
There is a continuum. It's just, we have to figure out what that continuum is and how
we can best understand it and direct it. In any case, I liked hearing that it was novels
and science fiction that opened his mind and he just sort of, he never even thought there
was a difference, as you'll hear him say, between the TV and the caterpillar or whatever.
He just was trying to understand it all as one process. So anyway, thanks for being here
and I hope you're doing well out there, wherever you are. And write to me anytime if you have
some ideas about how all this fits together. Okay. See you.
Great. Awesome. Got it. Thank you very much. Yeah. No, it's a pleasure to meet you.
Yeah. It's a pleasure to meet you too. And, uh, I I'm really excited about your work and thank
you. Um, thank you for your work. Likewise. Yeah. Yeah. So I wonder if, if it's okay with you,
if we could talk a little bit about how you got into this line of work and maybe how you
ended up thinking about, um, these kinds of bigger themes like cognition and so forth.
Sure. Um, well, let's see. Uh, so from the time I was very, very young, I was interested in, um, uh,
minds and how they interact in the physical world. Yeah. So, uh, you know, technology, but then bugs and
insects, you know, you sort of see, and you ask yourself, uh, so, so what's, what's common,
what's different. Um, we know how the technology got here, sort of, uh, how did the, you know,
how, how did the, the complexity of the, of the living forms get here? And specifically the fact
that they clearly have preferences. So some of them have, um, overt behavioral goals and repertoire
and various repertoires, but they clearly have preferences about what happens. Um, and then that
raises the obvious question of, well, what would it take to, uh, to, to create technology that,
that had that, right. And is, uh, is, uh, the, uh, kind of third person observable behavior all there
is, or is there something else? Right. So that's the kind of first person problem. Um, were you looking
at actually like insects and animals and stuff when you were a kid? Is it, yeah. Yeah. Were you
wondering like, what are they, yeah. What, what, what's going on there? Yeah. I mean, it started out,
uh, I, I was, I was, I had asthma and was kind of, kind of, um, uh, didn't have access to, to
medications at the time. And so my, what my dad used to do is take the back off of this, uh, TV
set with these vacuum tubes and everything. And I would sit there and just sort of get distracted
and stare at it and be like, wow. Like somebody knew how to put all those things in exactly the
right arrangement. That didn't just like somebody knew how to do that. And then, you know, then,
and then I would go outside and play with, you know, caterpillars and, and beetles and so on. And you say,
okay, so, so they also have a bunch of stuff in there. And, uh, and so now what's the same
and what's different, right. Between, between these, you actually remember kind of thinking
that making that connection. Oh, totally. Totally. We'll talk about it later maybe, but
the way you use robotic and biological robotics and bio robotics, it, it's different, I think.
Um, and it, it's also kind of meshing those things together. So it's interesting. You already
saw it almost like a continuum as a kid. Yeah. It seemed, I mean, I never, it never occurred to me that,
that there would be any kind of a discrete break between those two things. It just seemed like
there are various, uh, various kinds of, um, uh, behavioral repertoire, some very simple,
some more complex. And then, uh, you know, the, the plasticity of it, uh, I remember thinking like,
so, so, you know, so you see there's an egg and the egg becomes a caterpillar and then yet it changes
again and becomes a butterfly. And so you ask yourself what, I mean, what's that like, what's that like to be,
to be a, uh, a caterpillar changing into a butterfly in real time, not on the evolutionary timescale or
whatever, but like literally one creature radically changing and living in a different world in a
three-dimensional world instead of the two-dimensional world of a caterpillar and so on. Um, you know,
and thinking about that and then thinking about myself and watching, you know, my older friends
and they would, you know, they get older, they go through puberty, whatever, and thinking, wow,
like we, we change too, you know, and, and right. And, and not only, not only do you get bigger, but
your, your valence changes. So things that you really didn't think were at all important when
you're 11, suddenly new things are important when you're, you know, 15 and so on. Right. And whatever.
So, so, so just thinking about that, thinking about persistence of the self and how your mind
changes and whatever. And so those kinds of things. And so, so later, uh, what I did was I went to,
uh, when I went to undergrad, uh, I went for computer science. I wanted to do, um, artificial
intelligence and, um, pretty soon it became clear that, uh, we really didn't know how to do that.
Right. Uh, we, we just didn't have any idea and then really going back and asking, okay, so let's,
let's take the one, the end of one example that we do have from the biological world and, and figure
out what's going on there. And I was really, uh, sort of enamored with embryogenesis. And so the
idea that it's a, it's a, it's a self-assembling machine, but more than that, it's like this,
we all take that journey from, from, uh, nowadays when I, when I talk to people, somebody will say,
that's not, uh, you know, cognition or whatever, that's just physics. Like, well, you were an
unfertilized oocyte at one point, like you were a quiescent little blob of chemicals. You, like all
of us were, were just, I hate that phrase, just physics. Right. And then somehow slowly, but surely,
uh, here we are. And, and there was no magic lightning bolt during development that says,
boom, at this point you go from being physics and chemistry to being a being that there's,
there's no sharp line there. And so I was really interested in that. So I studied developmental
biology, uh, as well as an undergrad and then, uh, went and got a PhD in, uh, in developmental genetics.
And so that's, that's where these things come together. Like I'm, I'm just really interested in
diverse embodiments of mind. I want to understand what it means to be an agent in a, in a physical
universe and, uh, a lot of the kind of standard barriers that exist between fields, between
journals, between ways that we're allowed to think about things that are some of the terminology.
Like I, I, I think a lot of that is just terrible and it holds back progress because it, um, uh, it,
it, it obscures important in variances that we can use to, to, to merge fields and, and to,
and to do better than we have. So that's kind of my, my story.
So yeah, I, I totally agree. And when I said coming upon your work was exactly what I was
looking for. It's in so many ways because you don't really, um, take the dichotomy seriously.
You're just already kind of, uh, speaking past in a way past them, which I find very unusual.
So what was the continuity that you saw? Like if you're staring at the back of the TV set and you're
looking at all of that, and you're looking at the caterpillar, the butterfly, your friends,
and then, yeah, you obviously got very interested in artificial intelligence, but I guess some
people would say that's really different, right? That, that the television set isn't necessarily
evolving and changing. Whereas, um, what you described like with the caterpillar or your friends,
there's some kind of clear change going on. So can you tell me how you, how did you see that?
Did you see that more, um, as part of the same kind of system?
So, yeah, I mean, it, it was very clear that the TV needed a lot of help to be put together,
right? It needed other beings to put it together. The caterpillar needs a little bit of help because
there's the butterfly that laid the egg. And it was obvious that in the egg, there was some stuff
that had to be also put in, right? It wasn't just a random, not, not just anything turns into a
caterpillar. So, so clearly the butterfly had to do a lot of work too. Now, of course there are
differences. The engineers have a pretty good idea of, of how they're doing the, the TV set,
the butterfly, probably, probably not. Um, however, in both cases, uh, there are, there are two
components to this. There's the, there's the, how much help did you get from outside to be created?
There's that component. And then there's the component of once you were created, how much do you
do on your own? Because, because that's the other thing, right? The people who, and, and so first with the
TV and T, you know, TV is kind of, kind of boring, but with computers later on, you see that there's
all sorts of interesting, you know, after you turn on the juice, right? The job of the hardware
engineer is done. You turn on the juice. Now, some interesting stuff happens. And I remember playing
with a, with an early, uh, you know, it was just a calculator, but, but you could already see that,
yeah, they created the hardware, but there's also some really cool software that happens. And part of that
is not explained specifically by what the engineer did. It's explained by the laws of mathematics and the laws of
physics and then biology. And so, so of course there are different degrees of, of, um, of, of agency
here, but, uh, it didn't seem to me like, there had to be any, uh, strict barrier between them. It
didn't, you know, it didn't seem, uh, and maybe, you know, uh, part of this is, is, is just thinking
about it. Part of it was, it was a lot of sci-fi that I read as a kid. Uh, when you look at these
creatures that live, living creatures, I don't see my, my intuition, isn't that this is the only way to do
mind if this is one way, but why would you think this is the only way? And, you know, people,
people nowadays often say, you know, well, it doesn't have a brain and it, uh, you know, it's
not living where, and, and, and I'm just thinking it can't be that throughout the whole enormous
universe, th th th th this, this thing, but this cortex that we're looking at, that's the only way
to do proper agency. I mean, it just can't be that. I, I just don't see that. So, so, so to me,
it seemed like we have an N of one example of how it can be done, you know, and then, and then thinking
about evolution and thinking, why, why should evolution have some kind of monopoly on creating
real agents? Like that's one way it happens, but surely, uh, engineers can eventually do better
than this sort of random walk that, that evolution does. And, and why, why, why would it be the only
way that real beings come? So I don't, you know, this whole business of, oh, it's a machine, you know,
and what can machines do? I mean, I think it's a terrible question. It completely obscures the whole.
Yeah, but it's, it's almost an assumption, not even a question anymore. And a lot of the way just
that we talk, that the literature is written, that there's these kinds of scaffoldings that
people don't think about very much, which you seem to have, and now I understand that you're
already sort of thinking past it, but trying to get a way for people to understand that,
does it have something to do with like what I call the agent base, or I think you use this
agent a lot too, um, like from your position, of course, the TV is going to look
less animated or whatever in that particular position. We could also scale up or down, right?
Um, cellular or, you know, even like in the TV itself, there's going to be sort of more action
at different scales, right? Maybe like your observer base. So yeah, I wonder, I know that
plays a role in your work that I'm still trying to understand. So I don't know, what does that make
you think of when I say that? Yeah. Um, so, so very much, uh, observer, um, thinking about,
thinking about what, uh, what, what an observer sees at any particular scale and the idea that
what we do see is, is hugely limited by our own scale and what we are, uh, trained either by
evolution or by experience to, to perceive. And so this is, this is something else that I think you
really get, um, if you read a lot of sci-fi is they sort of blow up all those expectations where
something that is enormous in scale or very tiny, or, or happens on a very rapid timescale or a
very slow timescale. You sort of realize that our, our perceptual and cognitive systems are
so, um, narrowly constrained to think about and to, to be good at recognizing agency in a particular
guise. So medium-sized objects moving at medium speeds through three-dimensional space. This, this
is what we have any prayer of, of intuitively catching as intelligence. Anything that's outside of
that, something that happens on a, on a huge scale, like, like whole evolutionary lineages, or,
you know, at one point I was talking to some physicists to see if we can, if we can design
a gravitational synapse, you know, like a, like literally a solar system scale thing that, that
when something comes flying through, that's a signal. And then the next time it comes, you know,
there's habituation or whatever, like you can imagine. So, so these kind of, right, these kind of
giant things where, where the substrate doesn't matter. It's, it's, uh, and, and we, and, and having to be
open to really unconventional, and, and I should, I should be really clear. This, this isn't just me
having all these ideas. There, there are, there are plenty of people in the, um, diverse intelligence
community that, that, you know, see things this way, but, but it's still obviously not, not, not
mainstream in any, in any way. And, but so, so this idea that the substrate isn't the magic, uh, what is
the magic? That's a good question. And that's what, that's what we're trying to understand is, is the
scaling of mind and then goals and all that. Um, yeah. And just this idea that, uh, I mean,
there's, there's also a fundamental thing here, which is, uh, I, I have a very, um, kind of
engineering approach to things in the following way. Uh, I, I think that the way to know, uh, if
these things, uh, if these ideas are, are, are worthwhile or not is, is to see what they enable
you to do, what kind of research programs they open up. And this, on the one hand that makes it,
uh, nice and easy because now we don't have to have philosophical arguments about whether
this can or can't, uh, be, be an Asian or whatever we can, we can lay down specific, um, research
programs of how to determine whether that's a useful worldview or not. The downside of it is that it
catches me a lot of flack from the organicists because they see this as basically capitulating to,
um, kind of the mechanist worldview and, and, and, and, you know, as, as a lot of people write to me,
you know, re reducing the, the magic and sort of majesty of life. And I don't see it that way at
all. My, my point isn't that, that, um, we have, we, we can, or should, uh, try to reduce, uh, high agency,
uh, kinds of systems to, to simple machines, the kind of thing we, you know, people say machines,
they really mean machines from up, up until, you know, the 1940s or so. Um, right. So I don't think it's
that at all. I think it's, I think it's, um, understanding the, the full spectrum and having
a, uh, a prayer of actually making progress, which means tight integration with, with engineering,
with, with the real world. I, I don't think a lot of these things are philosophical questions.
I think they're practical questions. And also, um, you know, it's this, uh, it's this, it's this idea
that, um, it's been the assumption for a really long time in science that it's really bad to make a
mistake to attribute too much agency, right. That every, that, you know, it's a slippery slope.
You start seeing, uh, you know, um, uh, ghosts and all the rocks and things and, and, and you really
should aim downwards and chemistry is kind of the level at which. And so to me, getting it wrong in
either direction is terrible. Like I, the, the slope is actually much slippery or to me, the slope is
much slipperier in the other direction, because once you start seeing, um, you know, once you start
seeing everything as a machine, as a simple machine, it's really easy to, to have all kinds
of lapses that first impair your technology, and then they, they have, um, uh, ethical implications.
And so either direction, I think is bad. And I think our job as scientists is to get it right for
any given system. You don't just want the lowest level of agency you can get away with. You want
the optimal level of agency that you need to attribute. And I think we're, we often, uh, just assume
that, that, that, that it's gotta, you gotta go down as far as, as possible. And I don't, um,
yeah, I think, I think that, that screws us up as often as it helps.
Yeah. Gosh, there's so much in there. It's, uh, you, you mentioned science fiction, for example,
and, um, just thinking about the scales and, and stuff. I think one thing about creativity or about,
uh, you know, reading when we're kids and is that we kind of learn how to see the world from
different positions in a way. Um, and in, in a way that's kind of helping us maybe to get a grasp
on this, um, perspective that I think you're talking about in your work and that you kind of,
that you do demonstrate practically, but that you say the philosophy doesn't matter, but, um,
well, I didn't say it doesn't matter. No, so sorry. So, so I didn't mean to,
maybe I didn't express myself. Well, um, I, I don't mean to say it doesn't matter, but I, I actually
think it matters a lot because people will say, I've, I've had this, um, after a talk, people will
say, well, the data are really cool and the new capability is really cool, but I wish you'd stop
talking about this, all this philosophical stuff. Like don't do that. Just do the science. And I think
that's, that's a, right. That's it's like the, um, it's like the old joke where the way the, the
business guy tells the public, the book publisher just only publish the bestsellers. Why do you publish
all this other junk? Just publish the bestseller. It's the same thing. And I say, yeah, if, if we didn't
have the, the philosophical outlook, we wouldn't have done these experiments that nobody else had
done before, right. That you, you need that. And so I'm not saying the philosophy isn't important.
I think it's critical. I'm just saying that a lot of the questions that are often treated as
philosophical questions, meaning that you can have an opinion on it without doing anything.
So people sitting in their armchair, I, you know, I'll show you some kind of a thing and they'll say,
oh, there's, there's no way that thing has cognition and say, well, what experiments did you do to
arrive at this opinion? They're like, that's, you know, you just sort of came up with that.
That's, you know, that's, that's a, that's a background commitment that you have before
you've done any work. And that's cheap. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This gets really messy,
I think in a way that I like, because actually it's kind of proving the point in a way that
everyone would come at you from their position in agent base. Right. So whatever references,
like whatever way they've learned how to define a machine or to define philosophy or whatever,
they're all going to put that on you. And in a way that's constraining, but at the same time,
like part of what we're trying to do is find a practical way of like, of, of expanding that.
It isn't it, I mean, isn't it connected the way that like the practical work that you're doing
in the lab and how it would change actually maybe a linear way of thinking, for example,
that's an assumption that, you know, there's a beginning and there's an end and there's either
something that has cognition or doesn't that's so entrenched and such a scaffold that you almost
have to call philosophical attention to it. But you also need, which is why, again,
I'm so excited about your work. You need practical, actual examples of how to understand that. Right.
And that's kind of what I see in your work, but I don't know.
Yeah, no, you're right. The definitions that that's really important because it's kind of a,
it's kind of strategic judgment call all the time. And because, because for example, somebody,
somebody said to me once, we were, we were talking about learning and some weird,
unconventional systems themselves thing. And, and she said, look, you're going to have so much
pushback to this. Why don't you come up with a different word? Don't use learning, come up with
something else. And then, and then, and then it'll be fine. And nobody will be upset. You just define
it however you want. And then that's good. Right. And, and okay. You know, sometimes maybe that's the
thing to do for a particular purpose, but overall, like, I just, I think that to me, I think back, you
know, here, here's Isaac Newton and somebody says to him, you know, what we'll, we'll have gravity
for the thing that holds the moon to the, you know, to the earth. And then we'll have shmavity
for the thing that makes the, the apple fall, right. That'll be great. And then nobody has to
be freaked out by like, yeah, I mean, great, but, but you've missed out on the whole point.
You've missed out on the unification. And so most of the time I I'll say, no, I don't want to use these
words the way everybody else uses them because a lot of it is wrong. And, and we, as scientists and as
philosophers, it's on us to, to clear this up because people will say all the time, yeah, but when,
you know, don't use intelligence like that, because when you say intelligence,
people think human intelligence, right. Well, they need to stop. And so, and there,
and it's not going to stop until, until the scientists, you know, put forth a better system.
And then eventually it, it sort of trickles down. So it's a, it's a judgment call, you know, when you
sort of bow to the, to the conventional usage and, and come up with other terms, but much of it,
I think we got to be the tip of the spear in, in changing because that'll change perception.
And eventually the, the, the usage will change. And that's kind of the dance to that,
that discussion and that maybe shock, right? Like, uh, I think even there's a way in which
if you could open the space to understand, okay, we don't all use these words in the same way.
So maybe I'm not using it in the same way as you let's like, talk about that. Um, how, you know,
why is this shocking for you or not? And, but you know, of course, then you can get mired in,
in the philosophy and not, and not in the practical, in the practical aspects too. So
before I came, before we met today, I was thinking like, what are, what are the big issues? You know,
like, I don't know if you think about it too much, you probably do, but you know, you're doing a lot of
work and it's a lot of energy and like, what is it, is it, what's, what's kind of, what's driving
you? What's the motivation behind it? Um, to try to get something practical.
Yeah. I mean, it's an interesting, uh, thing because I, I sort of go back and forth. So on,
on Mondays and Wednesdays and Fridays, I think, uh, the real goal is to come up with
practical interventions that improve people's lives. In other words, I'm not even a clinician.
Okay. I don't do clinical work, but I get emails every day from people in the most unbelievable
circumstances. I mean, birth defects, cancer, missing limbs. I mean, just the craziest things
I've, the things I've never even heard of. They want you to help them with. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And they need, and they need help. And, and, and medicine, uh, is still largely stuck where, uh,
computer science was in the forties and fifties. It's all about the hardware, right? I, when I give a
talk, I show this picture of like, you know, she, she's rewiring the thing. Yeah. This is now molecular
medicine. And I think until we fix that, and until we really learn to take advantage of the intelligence
of, uh, the various layers of our, our, um, body architecture, uh, all of these things are not
going to be resolved. And so, and so, so every other day, I think that that's gotta be it, but
nothing is as important as permanently moving medicine to fix some of this stuff so that I can
finally, like, I mean, just on a personal level, like I'm driven by the fact that, yeah, I get these,
I get these emails and right now, all I can say to them is we're working on it. Like, hang on. Well,
you know, how satisfying is that? Right. And so, and so on alternate days, I'm like, yeah, this is,
we gotta drive everything to medicine. And then on sort of Tuesdays, uh, Thursdays and, uh, and,
and, and Saturdays, I think to myself, um, well, actually that's not, none of that is gonna be
fundamentally, uh, changed until these really basic conceptual things are sorted out. So no one,
you know, no one can really move in that direction. It's not enough for, for me and my lab to be working
on some of these therapeutics and whatnot. Everybody has to, uh, be empowered by it.
And that means getting some of the very basic stuff sorted out. And that means, you know, these,
and so, and so people write to me on that too. I get, I get emails saying, stop doing all this
philosophical crap and just like solve can, you know, work on cancer and then be done.
And then, and then there are the other people that say, you know, I'm seeing your papers about,
you know, this kind of a method and that kind of enough of that, like, those are details.
And where's the, you know, work on the deep philosophical issues. Why are you spending so
much time on this, you know, this, this drug and that drug. So, uh, there, there's a wide ranging
kind of opinions. I, I kind of, um, go back and forth. I try to do some of both, I think, um,
you know, in my group, we, we have, we have some of both going on. So yeah, I, I, I wanted,
I, I want to have a better understanding of, uh, of, of embodied minds. I think that will drive
medicine. I think it will drive, uh, a better, um, a better set of ethics eventually. I think it will
drive, um, you know, uh, human flourishing and so on that that's long-term. Yeah. And I think by being
able to stay in that place, that crossroads, I, you know, it's not even just a matter of
contradictions or different, um, different, uh, desires, you know, uh, it's also kind of,
it can be really hard to try to hold that space and just keep doing, uh, all of it. You know,
I think this gets to this idea too, of how we are usually tried, like we try to go into one discipline
or one group or one something, because it gets very difficult, right. To, to try to be open to
something that isn't, um, binary and dichotomous or just like very clearly defined, even though most of us
us who've explored anything deeply know that it's nothing is clearly defined. And there's actually,
it's like, as you've expressed, it's very hard to find beginnings and ends to anything,
um, depending where you're going to look at it. So is some of the work just being able to kind of,
um, keep yourself in a state of clarity so that you can keep sort of trying to express this because
sometimes, sometimes it just takes time for people to be able to connect the dots.
Yeah, much of it. I mean, much of it is just me, uh, trying to figure it out for myself and,
and, you know, and like on my, on my YouTube channel is a bunch of conversations with, um,
of me and my co and my, my coworkers and, and my various, various collaborators and so on. And,
and that's just, uh, that's just us, uh, in real time, trying to figure out better ways to think
about this stuff. You know, this is very much, um, uncharted territory. It's very much a, uh,
um, kind of, uh, an unknown, uh, uh, yeah, you know, lots of unknowns here. And so, and so a lot of
it is, is, is for myself and, and, uh, and for us all to kind of, uh, try to figure out what are good
ways to think about this. And, you know, this idea of, of, uh, the spectrum and, and, and the change and
all that is, is really key. People, oftentimes people just don't take developmental biology seriously at
all. Um, you know, they'll say, uh, the human, they said, well, what exactly is a human, right?
Because, you know, at one point that human was, uh, you know, was, it was a little, uh,
was a little oversight and, and sort of, so, so where, where did they say, well, when the,
you know, let's say, I wonder when the brain development, that takes months. So what was
actually happening on that? You know, they sort of have this idea that, uh, these things just sort of
pop into, pop into existence. And then, and then there you go, but actually, no, you've got to do
the hard work of figuring out if you, if you, if you're, if we're going to have a, uh, a rigorous
theory of whatever it is that we're talking about, you have to have a story to tell about when it shows
up and why. And, and if, and if you think it's binary, you have, you have a really hard story to
tell about how, how that phase transition happens and, and, and, and so on. Um, I was in, uh, this kind of
funny story. I was in, I was in court one time as an expert witness on something and, uh, some drug,
drugs, uh, yeah, drug, drug effects on, on birth defects, you know, and, uh, and, and the opposing
council was trying to, um, make it seem like, uh, he, he, he wanted to, he wanted to, to, to discredit
to whatever, whatever I was going to say as irrelevant to human medicine. Right. So, so he says,
he says, uh, Professor Levin, you work on frogs, right? And I said, well, among other things, yeah.
And he says, uh, don't frogs come from an egg? And I said, and it just kind of popped out. I said,
I said, well, you came from an egg and the judge was banging the thing. Everybody's yelling because
they thought I was struggling. They thought I was being rude to them, you know, and they go,
Oh my God. And the judge is, you know, and I said, no, no, no. I said, you're on, you don't understand.
Like you too. And me, all of us came from an egg, like, think about it. And then it was just dead
silence and everybody was trying to visualize their seventh grade sex ed and like, wow, we did come from
an egg, but no one thinks about this. You just sort of think that's a movie moment right there.
I mean, it was incredible. I was like, wow, you know, out of all of these, you know, brilliant people,
nobody remembers that, that, you know, that, yeah, we all frog and us and everybody else just
about, we all come from one cell and they have this notion of, you know, you're 18, you're an
adult, like bang, something happened, you know, the clock ticked over and now, you know, now,
I mean, that's, we, we know that's a, that's a nonsense story, right? It's, it's a continuum.
It's always a continuum. Yeah. But just to even have that realization is a pretty big thing for
a lot of people in their life, I think, and also a hard thing. I mean, I think it's,
it's hard to realize you're not as solid as you think, or that everything is sort of continuous,
and there's no clear boundaries. These are hard things for us in the way that we currently think
of ourself, right? Because we kind of come to awareness of ourselves in this particular way.
So we assume all these things, we don't think about all the many, many, many creatures that we are.
Yeah. Do you think, I mean, I guess, do you see that in reactions to your work too,
that people just have an almost visceral reaction of it just being a difficult thing to get a hold of,
due to their sense of self somehow?
Yeah, it's interesting. And I also, I collaborate with, with a bunch of folks who study in the
Buddhist tradition and so on. And they of course have a different, different take on all of this.
But yeah, I see kind of, I see two, I see two reactions, really. Some people are really sort of
liberated by it and feel really good about it. And then because it makes things finally, things make
sense. All these really hard pseudo problems that were bothering them before. Now it's like, oh,
I see if you don't try to make it binary. And if you have a, an observer based kind of perspective,
then, then, then these things go away. There aren't these inconsistencies that are really,
you know, we're not ever going to be resolved.
Do you think of like a practical example of that? I mean, well, well, for example, you know, just this,
just this business of, and we can, we can talk at length about this, this issue, but, but,
but just this issue of the changing of the changing self and the fact that if you think about it,
you don't have access to your past, which at any given moment, what you have access to
are the engrams that were left for you by your past self. And it's on you to interpret them and
to construct memories and to figure out what you are and who you are. And you have to do this all
the time. This isn't just a, you know, what planaria do when you, when you cut their head off. This is,
all of us are doing this all the time. And so, and so, right. And just different ways,
according to who you're with and what situation you're in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And just realizing that,
that, that, that that's okay. There is no, there is no need to try and formulate some
sharp thing that, you know, I am this. Yeah. But you were five years old once. What happened to that
being? And, you know, these crazy questions that, you know, you can ask it, but you don't need any of
that. You can just sort of realize that this is a progressive kind of, kind of process. And it doesn't
mean that you don't exist. And it doesn't mean that, you know, your mind is an illusion. That's these
things people say something. I mean, any of that, but it, but it does mean that it's a,
um, uh, it's a, it's a construction, you know, kind of construction process. And then,
and then people start to think about stuff like, um, you know, because of all the AI stuff,
you, uh, there's some people that are trying to develop, um, proof of humanity certificates,
right. So that it, that it's actually a person. And so you think about that and you say, okay,
what do I want? I'm designing a proof of humanity certificate. What do I want to make sure of,
do I want to make sure that you have standard homo sapiens DNA? I don't know about you. I could
care less about your DNA. Uh, do I write, do I want, uh, do I want a certificate that says I've
got all my original organs? I don't care about anybody's organs. If somebody had a bunch of
stuff replaced with, uh, you know, new, new, new sort of cyborg stuff. I mean, great livers regenerating.
Exactly. Right. What do I care? And, and again, this is all, you get all this from sci-fi people who've
never read sci-fi find all this crazy, but, but in science fiction, they, they did all this a hundred,
you know, 150 years ago, this was all done. And so, and so you think, no, I don't care about any
of that. And so then you ask yourself, so what do I, you know, what does it mean to be a human
actually? And, and, and, and people ask this too, when I talk about, um, and of course, I'm not the
first by, by far person to talk about this, this idea of freedom of embodiment, that at some point,
you know, you want to have tentacles and, and see infrared, knock yourself out. It's all going to be
possible. You want to, you know, have a primary sense of the stock market and the solar weather,
instead of a vision, like, sure, why not? So, so all of this is going to, is going to be possible.
And she says, oh my God, then we're going to, you know, we're going to lose our humanity.
And, and you just ask, you know, was your humanity tied to your wacky set of organs that you ended up
with that are susceptible to our sorts of weird diseases and parasites? Like, was that really it or,
and so, uh, or, or your genes, which were the product of this sort of meandering search through,
through genetic space? Um, and then, and then you, and then, so that leads you to ask, like,
what is really, uh, really critical here? And, and, and, you know, where I ended up was,
we, we have a couple of papers on this, this, this idea of, uh, of, of, of compassion and, and, and
cognitive light cones and this idea that, well, what you want from a human really to, to know that
if, if we, if we're going to be stuck on, on Mars for the next, you know, 20 years, what I really want
is, is for us to have an impedance match in our cognitive light cones. I want us to be able to
care about the same scope of things. You know, if, if, if you're a Roomba.
Cognitive light cones, that's great. Sorry. I just have to say that again.
Yeah, it's, um, so I don't know what is illuminated sort of.
It's, it's, it's specifically, so it has a, I, I gave it a very specific definition. It's, it's the
scale of goals that you're able to pursue. So if you're a bacterium, all temporal, spatial and temporal,
right? Your, your, your scale of your goals are very tiny. And, and if you're a dog, they're
bigger, but they're still, you know, you, you're never going to care about what happens three weeks
from now, you know, two towns over. You're just, it's impossible. Whereas if you're a human, you
might have a planetary scale goals about things that go on long after you die and so on. So, so this
cognitive light, so, so we want to kind of impedance match about the kinds of things we care about.
And, and you want at least the, hopefully more, but at least a human level of compassion to, to
literally being able to care about a certain number of a certain size of welfare of other
individuals. Right. And, and maybe there are beings out there who do way better at that than us.
Um, but, but at least minimally, maybe we'll learn how to be those beings.
That's exactly right. And we talk about in this paper, uh, we, the, the, the, the team and I, um,
talk about this idea of enlarging, committing to enlarging your cognitive light going in and
enlarging your, your, your sphere of concern. And this is something that of course, you know,
in the Buddhist tradition, they, they think about a lot. So, so people, I love this so much, gosh,
well, I need to find that paper. Haven't read that one yet. I'll point you to it. Um, uh, they, uh,
so, so, so some people, you know, sort of get this and it's, and it's, and it's, and it's,
and it's clarifying for them. It makes them feel better. They don't need to worry about getting an
implant or change, you know, or, or, or getting their, you know, DNA repaired or anything like that.
They, you know, sort of feel, they feel better. Other people. So oddly, I mean, I find it surprising,
but, but other people are profoundly destabilized by all this stuff. And it isn't just me. It's
sort of like, there's this and, and, and with that, well, the same group were writing some,
some stuff about this. Um, the, there's a lot of, so, you know, so, so, so if you're a thoughtful
person and you read some physics and some neuroscience and stuff, you know, you find out that,
uh, well, let's see, uh, uh, evolution theory tells us that, um, there really is no, uh, morality.
It's all dog eat dog and survival of the genes. And then neuroscience, you know, you read like
Sapolsky's book or something and they tell you, well, there's no free will. So, so you're just
sort of humming along on what, whatever was, you know, ordained, uh, you know, whenever,
and then, uh, right. So, so you, so you get all this stuff and then, and then here comes,
you know, 11 tells you that you're a bunch of cells in the trench coat and, and, you know,
you, you're this thing that's sort of constantly, um, morphing and whatnot. Again, I'm not,
I'm not a clinician or anything remotely close, but I get these emails that say, um,
well, I know you're not a therapist, but, and then, and then they go on with this stuff that,
and I'm like, wow, this is terrible. I really wish. It's a lot to handle. My goodness.
Yeah. And then from all sides, you know? Yeah. Um, it's amazing. Cause people feel,
I think, even though I don't talk about that stuff publicly, but people feel like this impacts on their
life that, that this, that, that the answers to these questions are not just like crazy, you know,
you know, nerdy philosophers think about this, this is actually matters, right? People feel that,
um, and they get, and some people get really destabilized by it. And, and I try to, uh, yeah,
I try to, I try to walk some, some, some folks, you know, sort of off, off of that ledge and, and,
and, uh, it's, it's, it's funny, even in the, you know, um, have you, have you seen this movie,
Ex Machina? Have you seen that? Yeah, I have. So, you know, you know, the scene where he's at the
mirror and he's cutting his hand because he's worried that he's a robot too. Right.
And so, and, and so, and this, so, so this is, that's exactly right. Because, because many people
think if, if I look inside and I suddenly find a bunch of cogs and gears and whatever, then I'm not
as amazing as I thought I was, and I don't have this and I can't do that. Or how about, how about
the alternative interpretation, which is, uh, you didn't learn a thing about yourself. What you learned
is something cool about cogs and gears. You just found out that, well, geez, I guess cogs and gears
can give rise to my amazing self. Awesome. I'm now going to do whatever it was I was going to do 10
minutes ago and, and good. Right. So, and so, and, and people immediately, some people, I guess,
immediately jumped to this, to the, to the first interpretation that this somehow takes something
away from them. I think this is one of those things that Descartes actually got right. I mean,
he catches a lot of flack from everybody nowadays, but I, but I think he got this right,
which is that you have a primary perception of your primary experience is of being, uh,
uh, an agent that can go do things. And that has certain properties that nothing can touch that.
If you find out that you're made of this or that delightful. Now you've learned something about
whatever material you're made from go do whatever awesome thing you were going to do before you
found this out. It's fine. It doesn't, doesn't mean anything. So, so I try to kind of, you know,
go, go through this with it. So, so some people, so anyway, that's a long question to your answer,
but some, some people find it really liberating and some people find it disruptive.
No, this is great. It makes me think of so many things like, um, even in Buddhism, sometimes,
you know, they say that, uh, you, it can all, that too, can be a very, um, jolting experience.
If you have an experience of kind of non-self or of, you know, a lot of this is just regularities.
And, um, I mean, to get to this idea of navigation or way making or whatever, I mean,
if we try to think of it as like trajectories that we've, we've all come on kind of different
trajectories with different regularities. And sometimes we cross paths with people who have
very different ones. Right. I mean, as you're talking, I'm thinking of the television set
in the Caterpillar and how from very early on you were, this was a comfort zone. You were able to kind
of deal with, uh, all those different, what, what, what's for some people are very different things,
like a machine, like in this TV kind of way and a biological body. Right. I mean, um,
but when you haven't thought about all that stuff and then you're sort of presented with it,
I think it can just be, be very jolting, but in a way that's, if you can walk, walk through it or sit
with it for a minute, it does become, it can become enlightening too. And the way that you described
with the ex machina, right. If you can kind of, some of it is this practice of learning how to shift,
um, scales or shift perspective to look at the life, look at life from the point of view of the
Caterpillar or the television or, or whatever, right? Like that's a kind of practice in itself,
isn't it? That maybe we learn. Yeah. It is. And you know, not to, not to beat this, uh, you know,
dead horse, but, uh, the, um, the sci-fi thing is, is really useful for that because, because it helps
you take the, you know, there was a, there was a story, um, called they're made of meat, you know,
to know this old science fiction story, right? Remember this? And yeah. And these aliens,
find out that, that, that, you know, that, that humans are actually made of meat. They're,
they're disgusted. They're like, this cannot be right. Like what the hell? And yeah. And, and,
and, and here we are, you know, everybody's saying, oh, it's me, you know, it's a Silicon,
the, you know, thing that can't be, all of this stuff is a, is a, is a, is a matter of, um,
perspective until we, we really, uh, develop. And I think this is what the field of diverse
intelligence is about is to develop, uh, principled, um, approaches to, to recognizing agency,
to relating to other beings. And, and by the way, all of this, this goes back to our discussion about,
um, terminology. All of this is about, uh, I, I think practical, uh, interact optimal relationships
to systems, right? So, so, so, so when I, when I talk about the spectrum and I say, well, you know,
yes, a human, but really what human, like a modern human, uh, uh, you know, a, a child,
a little bit, baby, like a fetus, like, well, like, what are we talking about? And then people
say, well, you can do that with anything. That's the paradox of the heap, right? They say that,
that's not a good way of reasoning because you could do that with anything. And you can say,
well, I'm going to pile sand, you know, a pebble at a time. And eventually you've got this heap.
So when do you have the pile? Right. And so, and so my answer to that is, oh no, it's extremely
practical. If you call me on the phone and you'd say, Hey, um, I need you to come,
I need you to help me move a heap. Here's what I need to know. Am I bringing a shovel,
a spoon, a bulldozer? Like what, what am I bringing? And that's all right. We don't need
to have a philosophical discussion. We need to know what bag of tools is going to be the way to,
to, to, to relate to this, to the system. And I think that is exactly what we need to do in science
is to erase some of these, uh, barriers. Um, what, when I was a, uh, when I was a postdoc, I was,
I was, I, I, I was having this, this idea of using, uh, expressing ion channels from,
from neurons in other types of cells to, to manipulate the bioelectrics and embryos.
I wrote some, some letters to, to neuroscience asking for ion channel, um, plasmids, you know,
and this one guy called my, my boss, my, my, my, my postdoc mentor. And he said, uh, he said,
you're, you're, you're, he said, your postdoc has gone off his rocker. You need to do something
about this. He's clearly crazy, but, but the fact, which, which was great, but, but, um, the,
the fact is that actually none of the tools of neuroscience distinguish neurons from non-neurons.
You can use it. All of the stuff works. The optogenetics works, the drugs with the target,
the different sardinergic machinery and ion channels, uh, all the conceptual stuff were,
you know, the, the multi-electrode arrays, the, the conceptual stuff, active inference, and, you know,
all of these, you know, perceptual control, all of these things work outside the nervous system.
Great. They were very well. If the tools can't tell the difference, who, who are we to put up
these barriers and say, that's the neuroscience department and that's the developmental biology
department. And don't try to, you know, they're, they're different. They're just completely different.
I think it's totally artificial. Oh, it makes me, uh, there's so much, it makes me a little too
excited to try to say all of this at once. But I think, again, it comes back to that agent base and
scale. Where are you measuring it from? Right. If you're an ant, a sand pile is going to be
different than if you're a human and also kind of like learning. If, if we take this really seriously
in a practical way, what we're talking about, you, you, you realize, and that's the scary thing
that you're not what you thought you were this like, um, only human, right. You're experiencing
that scale, but we develop all kinds of tools and measurements to measure at many different scales,
whether it's like looking at the scale or looking at the planets or whatever. And, and science
fiction too, we re we tell stories as ways of also measuring from different perspectives and scales.
Like this is obviously kind of what we're trying to do. Um, and maybe there's a way to say, okay,
now I'm at this like human self scale of my trajectory and narrative, but I can also look at like
the cellular scale or the planetary scale, or maybe put myself in another person's shoes or something
like that. Um, yeah, but so there's all that that I would love to talk about, but also I just to
try to get it back to like the science and that you, you mentioned the neurons, right. And I studied
neuroscience and this is really interesting even to kind of tie it to Descartes. Cause you brought up
Descartes of mental physical, right. And how we've come to think of the brain, the cells in the brain are
special because they're mental. Yeah. Like from our agent, from our agent base, that's how we see it.
Right. And it seems different than the cells elsewhere in the body, but I hear you saying,
actually, they're all doing something similar, right? It's just, where are we measuring it from
and what are we measuring? Yeah. Um, well, well, two, two interesting things there. Uh, one is the,
this issue of, of, of, of measurement. My, my feeling is, and, uh, this is just a conjecture,
but my feeling is that the reason that physicists, uh, see the machines and not mind is because they're
using low agency tools. So when you have volt meters and rulers and, you know, things like
this, you're using low agency tools and there needs to be some, some resonance between what
you're using and what you're going to find. Right. So this, this, this, this old, uh, you know,
saying, uh, you know, show me the net you're using and I'm going to show you what fish you can catch.
Like, yeah, the tools, if you use low agency tools, you find low agency stuff. Um, what's a high,
what's a, what's a high agency detector. Well, mines are like, we're, you know, we, we have a lot of blind
spots, but we can recognize at least certain kinds of agency. And so when you use a high agency tool
to, to look for things, it will guess what you find. Right. So, so, so I think measurement, um,
you know, you have to think about what, what your, your, your measurement, uh, tool is going to let
you find. And then, um, the thing about the cells is, um, and the, and the neurons, well, I, I've,
I've been in discussions where, you know, we'll have a conference about this kind of stuff and somebody
will give a talk and they start out and they say, well, neurons. And, and I, you know, I sort of say,
well, it says, so hold on, what's, what's a neuron. And they say, yeah, come on, you know, neurons.
I said, but no, really like what's a neuron. And, and of course you don't do this in, in neuro
anatomy one-on-one because they are, you need to just agree and, and move on with your life. But,
but in meetings like this, is it what, what's it, what's a neuron. And they say, okay, fine. And they,
and they'll write down four or five, um, uh, criteria for what a neuron is. And I'll say, yeah,
but every cell in the body does that. And they say, ah, well, that can't be, or then no, actually.
Yeah. In fact, in fact, the Koshlin did some nice work on, on, on neuroscience and bacteria. Um,
and, uh, and, uh, they say, oh, well then, uh, you know, it's, it's gotta be the, the, the higher
level thing. It's, you know, they work together that they make networks to, um, uh, uh, to, to solve
problems and to, you know, to, to represent information like, yeah, pretty every cell in your body is
doing that, especially during development and regeneration. So, um, and it can all look a lot
like cognition if you take it from the position of whatever agent is using it or is, that's right.
That's exactly right. And so, and so I've been pushing this idea, uh, you know, which is, you
know, not super popular by any means, but, but this idea that, uh, morphogenesis is literally
behavior in anatomical space, exactly like conventional behavior is in three-dimensional space.
And that it's the outcome of a collective intelligence in one case of neurons in the
other case of, uh, whatever other body, you know, body cells you might have, that it's
literally the same process. It shares, uh, molecular underpinnings. Um, we have a, we have a cool, uh,
paper on that coming out soon, but, but, but also, um, uh, algorithmically it does a lot of the exact
same stuff. It gets back to those patterns and regularities and how they scale and how they're
never discontinuous. So if you can find the right tools to measure them, you can probably see their
continuity, um, from, you know, from scale to scale. Um, but this gets at this idea of kind of,
uh, trying to understand cognition in a different way, which is what I'm really interested in because
I feel like it, that's one way we can start to, uh, understand, get past the linear and look at
like maybe a multidimensional, many scaled kind of perspective of the world. Um, if we could
understand that cognition is something that's happening at all levels and in all species,
um, but that doesn't mean it's the same cognition or something. And I know you've, you know, you use
the term navigation, which I used to use in someone kind of in neuroscience, as you know, that only
always means that there's a goal, um, uh, as, as opposed to way making or something. So I changed it
to way making, but, um, I wonder like, when did you start thinking about cognition as navigation and
like, how does it relate to all this stuff we've been talking about? I, I, I like your point about
way making, uh, as kind of a broader thing, because I agree, it doesn't always, uh, the relevant, it
doesn't always have to have a goal, but, but it, well, when, when I, when I, it, it first, the two,
two things sort of coalesced for me at one point, it was about, uh, they, they sort of came together
in right around 2018. Um, one was that I, I, I, I love this idea of, um, uh, the latent morphe space,
this idea that, that shapes that we see are, uh, particular regions in morphe space. And this was,
you know, back in, uh, even, even, um, uh, Darcy Thompson in his classic on growth and forms,
the growth and form, the, the, my favorite part, I mean, the, the whole thing is fascinating, but,
but my favorite part of it is there's, there's four or five pages where he, he makes a grid,
you know, just like a, like a two-dimensional grid and he draws, um, some sort of a, an animal on it,
uh, and then he deforms the grid with these mathematical deformations. And then what you get
is another kind of animal. And so, and so this was, you know, the twenties, I think,
or the, the, you know, up until the forties, something like that, he was doing this stuff.
And, and you look at this and you say, what the hell is that grid? Like, what is he actually
deforming? But what you, you know, physically, biologically, but, but, but, but what you realize
is that, um, any anatomical change is a move in this morphe space. And therefore the normal journey
from egg to whatever is a set of deformations in this morphe space. In fact, more recently,
I've started to believe that actually, uh, every, that development is really just an instance of
regeneration. So, uh, anyway, and so, and so, and so I was thinking about, so I was already thinking
about this idea that these are really all, I'll just, you know, sort of these, these, these,
these movements in morphe space. And then, um, in 2018, I was at a, um, I was at a meeting at a,
diverse intelligence conference, um, in Scotland and, uh, Pranab Das, uh, sort of laid out this
challenge. And he said, um, uh, I want people to think about a framework in which you can put
diverse intelligences. You can, you can directly compare and contrast very diverse intelligences.
And so, you know, people were thinking, um, uh, octopus and, uh, you know, and, and slime mold
and things like that. And, uh, and I heard that and I said, well, so conventional beings, but also
swarms and aliens and AI's and synthetic, weird synthetic shit that we make in the lab. And, uh,
like, like really let's really sort of be inclusive and ask what, what is the, um, underlying, uh,
invariant in all of this, what, what, what, what is, uh, you know, an agent. And, uh, and then I came
up with, so, so my take on it, of course, other people have, have, have said things about this before,
but, but I, I, I kind of, uh, went with this, um, cognitive light cone idea and they said,
whatever you're made of, however you got here, meaning evolution does it, you know, uh, engineering
with however you got here, uh, the only way you're going to be an agent is if you have the ability
to pursue some kind of goal in, in, in that, that, that will your, your, your, your, uh,
set of goals will have some sort of envelope of the biggest goal you could possibly conceive and
follow. Um, and that doesn't mean that every action has to have a goal. You could be exploring,
you could be just hanging out. That's fine. But, but, but as an agent, you have the ability at some
point to pursue some states that you prefer over other states. You have to have preferences,
valence, and so on. And so, and so that then realizing, well, first I drew it and I, and I
said, okay, so this is, you know, spatiotemporally in three-dimensional space. You have these goal states.
And I thought, wait a minute, uh, but this could also be a transcriptional space. It could be, um,
a physiological state space. And of course it could be anatomical morphous space. You could have these
goals. So I'm going to be a limb and I need to get from here where I'm a limb bud and over here.
Um, and of course you have all these. And so then, then I was like, ah, well, what all these things
have in common is, uh, is, is way-making. It's what you said. It's the ability to navigate,
adaptively navigate these spaces to get to regions that are, uh, more, uh, more, more, more, um, you
know, more pleasant for you basically. Gosh, I love it. Um, I have to just dig in here a little bit.
I don't actually, I'm not really clear about how, but I'm just going to talk, but, um,
um, is it, uh, so, so to know you're an agent, you would have to, um, to have a goal, but maybe
you could be an agent to someone else just, um, making way, right? Just you're making any kind
of a way. So I'm trying to get at that distinction. We were talking about measurement before, and that
word bothers me sometimes because maybe because of all the references and the trajectory and the
history that comes with measurement and how it sounds very, you know, it can sound a certain
way to certain people. Yeah. Um, maybe assessment is better or something, but there's like, I wonder
how you see this, this relationship between, um, the observer and what it is to be an agent. Um, and,
you know, if that relates to navigation, I mean, I also use navigation in my, uh, master's thesis
because I think it expresses what people, what, what, what I want to say about what cognition is,
but yeah, we also just wander around. Yeah. We, you know, any kind of life, even a tree or something
is making its way. It's, it doesn't necessarily mean, uh, moving from a to B or, or something like
this, but I mean, it is moving in physiological space. It is moving all the time, right? In three
dimensional space, it's not moving, but in physiological space and also in transcriptional space,
it is, it is moving. Right. Depends how you, exactly. It depends what you're like, the space,
your temporal scale from what you're looking at is going. And which space, right? Like we, like we're
in love with three dimensional space because all our sense organs point outwards. So because of our
eyes and everything, we love 3d space, but you know, if, if you, I think if we humans evolved with
a primary sense of our own, um, internal physiology, so like almost like a tongue, but it faces inward.
So, you know exactly what your blood chemistry is at all points. And I think we would
feel like we're living in a high dimensional space that our livers and our, and our liver and our
kidneys are, uh, uh, intelligent agents that are solving problems in the space because we would be
able to feel them doing this. We just, you know, we see squirrels and stuff running around in 3d space
and we're sort of good at recognizing that. But if we had the sense organs, I think we wouldn't have
that. Yeah. And maybe we're trying to get there in a way with our tools and stuff. And also just how
much can we handle, right? How much can like the, the system handle it maybe can't handle being so aware of
that maybe later we can. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe, I don't know. I mean, you know, with all the work
on, um, augmented, uh, and, and I apologize, I have about four minutes, but, but before my next thing,
but we can, but we can, we will, we'll schedule, you know, we can schedule another, another chat.
Okay. Um, uh, you know, you know, sensory augmentation and, uh, and, and, and, you know,
these weird prosthetics and everything. I'm not sure we know how much we can handle. I think we could
probably handle a lot. And, um, I, I, I fully agree with you that, um, I don't think you need to know
that you're an agent in order to be an agent. I mean, that's a particularly advanced sort of
metacognitive thing, but even back. So, so here's a super simple version of this, right? Bacteria. So,
so you got a bacterium and it can sense the sugar concentration and, and, and, and that helps it go up
the sugar concentration gradient, right? It loves, it loves it. But now what if the sugar is poisoned
somehow, right? That, that thing is going to fail because so, so what some bacteria have is a, they
have a, um, uh, a metacognitive loop where instead of tracking the sugar concentration, they're tracking
the output of their own metabolism. So the question is, so, so, so there you say, I don't know the details
of what's going on, but how am I doing? Right. And, and if the answer is, well, yeah, the sugar sensor
is firing gangbusters, but you're not, you're not doing very well, then the answer might be,
well, then I need to get the hell out of here. Something's, something's not right. So, so this
ability to write a scale. Yeah. Right. This assessment going on. Yeah. Yeah. It's assessment,
right? This ability to, you know, measurement doesn't mean some, somebody, you know, with,
with, with, with a ruler who sort of has a deep understanding of what the hell they're measuring.
It's, it's, it's constant and, and the ability of, uh, beings to, to, to measure internal states as
a, in addition to external states that leads, I think, directly to this kind of metacognitive
feedback loop, where eventually you get, you can tell very complex, uh, stories about, you know,
with the agents around you and all, by the way, I'm an agent too. And so on. So we can talk about
where you actually have to expand into different spaces. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And just, I really like,
we'll have to do it next time, but I want to think about this idea of regeneration too. And like,
can you regenerate, um, if you've never, um, had that trajectory, can you read, you know, even we'll
have to talk about it next time, but if you looked at the planarian or something and could it regenerate,
um, without sharing, like the regularities of whatever is being regenerated. I mean,
there's also some weird constraint there. Isn't there kind of, kind of, um, I, I've, I've got a couple
of cool stories about that to tell you. So we can talk about xenobot regeneration, which is relevant
because, uh, they, they have never existed before. Right. Yeah. That's so cool. Yeah.
Yeah. And, um, even that they're kind of, yeah, we'll, we'll have to talk about it.
Thank you. Thank you so much. Uh, it's great to meet you. Let's, let's talk again. And I really
want to hear more about your work and then what you're. Thanks so much. I appreciate your time.
Yeah. Okay. I'll see you soon.
Love with everything. See ya.
Thanks. Yep. See ya.
Bye.
