Hey everyone, this is Andrea Hyatt, I'm so glad you're here.
This channel is about moving beyond either or, beyond dichotomy, beyond traditional divisions,
while still holding them and letting them be what they are.
Holding the paradox is something I like to say.
All of these conversations are with people who are opening up new paths and opening the
space around what might seem irreconcilable.
The basic idea is how can we develop a new way of thinking that isn't based on either
or categories, dichotomies, divisions.
This way of looking at the world may have served us very well up to this point, but
it feels like it's time for something else.
And I've been working on ways to articulate that in neuroscience and philosophy in a
way that can be understood across disciplines, broadly.
The overall mission here, it's not to have interviews with people, it's to have conversations
with people and in those conversations, try to figure out how we can move into a different
way of thinking and speaking and being together.
There are a lot of conversations on this channel about that from many different points of view.
I'm pretty sure you can find something here that will make a lot of sense to you and resonate
and feel warm and comfortable.
And I'm also pretty sure you can find something that will feel difficult, challenging, perhaps
even a bit off-putting, maybe because it sounds like it's dealing with things you haven't
studied yet or maybe because it's presenting a viewpoint that feels a little bit uncomfortable
or contrary to what you think.
All of that I'm hoping we can embrace together.
I feel this way too, to be honest, trying to be public and trying to respond to everyone's
comments, which I really appreciate, but can also be very challenging.
All of this for me is part of the same practice of how to figure out a way to move beyond
what feels like ruts in not only the way we think of ourselves as individuals, but the
way we think of our organizations and larger groups in society.
Maybe we can develop an entirely new way of thinking that isn't based on contrast and
that doesn't always make us think we have to be on one side or the other of something.
Maybe there's a really different way to be in the world, which zooms out from what seem
like binaries and notices that they're actually connected to many, many, many, many, many
points, almost in a planetary constellation sort of system, a complex system, some might
say.
That's what we talk about here in all different disciplines and ways of life.
I'm really glad you're here and I hope that we can move through this together in love
and philosophy.
Those two words are really important because the love is what connects us and takes us
out of our thought and into our bodies, but with presence.
The philosophy part is more of the critical thinking, which is very important, revisiting
ideas and actions and looking at what they've meant to us, where they came from, how they
might change, but ultimately doing that in a space of love, in the flow of love.
Thank you for being here and I hope wherever you are today, you feel some love and some
philosophy in the best way possible.
