In many ways, I feel like a, was it a feather being blown in the wind because, you know,
like I'll learn about some new approach.
I don't know what I want to do and I'm not supposed to say that out in public, but my
skills were getting deeper and deeper, but narrower and narrower.
And that just felt frustrating to me because I like having my fingers dipped in lots of
different areas and thinking from different approaches.
I've had experiences that I'm the only person ever in the history of the world to have
that experience just sitting in my little lab alone.
It's like, oh, it's real.
I'm hearing the exact pattern of a neuron that is somehow related to the cognitive function
that I'm interested in.
I had to think like, do I really want to sacrifice my happiness for this career or can I do,
you know, something else?
I don't care about my legacy.
And I think if you care about your legacy, it's going to drive you to be in that more
competitive kind of space.
We sold our house.
We sold all of our belongings.
We kept the children and we bought an RV and then moved the whole family into the RV and
then just started roaming around the country.
That's one thing that has only increased throughout my career is knowing how little I know and
being super comfortable because I know no one knows anything.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome back to Love and Philosophy Beyond Ecotomy, which just means we're trying to
get past traditional divides without disrespecting them or trying to smush them together.
Just talk about differences beyond the differences.
And today is a special episode with someone who really helped me do that.
His name is Paul Middlebrooks.
When I was in school for neuroscience, I found a podcast that I just started called Brain
Inspired.
That's Paul's podcast and it really helped me.
It was almost a better teacher than some of my actual classes in neuroscience.
So this is a gratitude episode to Paul and to his podcast, but it's also about what
that podcast has been about these past years since 2018 when it started, which for me is
about holding the paradox.
Isn't everything about that?
I'm just kidding.
But actually, we do talk about that a bit here because just one example, I started listening
to Paul's podcast because I needed to learn about machine learning and I wanted to learn
about AI and there weren't many podcasts about that and he was doing that in the context
of neuroscience.
At that time, I was very interested in ecological ways of thinking about philosophy and psychology
and the four E's, so to speak.
He was not.
And at some point, as I've been listening to his podcast, he's become very interested
in those sorts of things, as he says here, especially ecological psychology.
And of course, I've learned a lot about computation and machine learning.
So I think that represents something that's happening in a lot of nested layers across
the sciences, where we're opening to one another in a way that doesn't cancel out what we care
about.
It's hard to do, comes through in a lot of ways that we use words like computation, representation.
Of course, there's still tons of fights about that.
And as Paul says here, it's still used in a really particular way in most of neuroscience.
I won't go into all that here, but I do think Paul's podcast and what we discuss here does
relate to a lot of other themes and the other episodes where we're trying to open the space
and understand how there can be computation and representation, even if it doesn't mean
that it's necessarily in the process that we're studying.
So that's all a bit nuanced, but Paul and I talk about it from his point of view.
Also, I think something important about Paul and his podcast is just thinking of education
differently.
Because now everyone seems to have a podcast and there's lots of learning online.
And I guess for people who started podcasts long ago, that can be annoying.
But in another way, you don't really do it unless you want to do it and it doesn't last
unless it's giving something.
It seems like there's a new way in which we're thinking about what education is and when
we can learn.
There's a lot of people who go back to school at different ages now for different things
like me.
I'm one of them.
I went back for neuroscience in my thirties and that used to not be so common.
But I think it's becoming very common that we learn for a whole life, that we maybe change
what we do in our life.
Paul is a good example of that.
He did it at a time when it could have seemed dangerous from an academic point of view to
stop after your postdoc and when you're right in the middle of everything and travel across
the country and create a podcast.
But it's turned out well for him, as you'll hear.
So this is really a conversation about how within neuroscience, we may be beginning to
hold what seems like binaries not too long ago, whether that's A.I. and technology and
cognition or embodied in ecological processes and computationalism.
But also in our own lives, how we're starting to open to a different idea of what education
might be, that it might be a lifelong process for some of us.
Process is a big word here.
At some point we talk about Mark Bighart and I say Burkhart because I always say Burkhart,
but it's B-I-C-K-H-A-R-D.
He's talking a lot about mind as process and process metaphysics.
Paul had him on the show and brain inspired.
I'll link to some of this in the show notes.
But main point of this show is to say thank you to Paul and to so many others who put
so much time into learning and sharing what they're learning with us.
It's also about what I hope we can do, those of us who care about neuroscience and philosophy
from whatever angle, whatever we're doing, whatever title we call ourselves or are called
that we can open the space a little bit around some of these labels that have been constrictive
and find something very exciting is actually happening for all of us.
And I hope that's also true for you, wherever you are, whatever you're studying, whatever
you care about.
And I send you good wishes, love and philosophy right now.
I also just want to say thank you to the people who've reached out and shared this
podcast with me and helped and given support.
It's so meaningful to me.
I can't even express it, how much it means to fill your support and to learn from you
too.
So thank you for your support on the sub stack, on YouTube, on the podcast platforms.
Thank you for your emails.
Thank you for everything anywhere that you've supported this.
I read everything and I take it all to heart.
And thank you.
Hi, Paul.
It's so nice to see you.
Thank you for doing this today.
You as well, Andrea.
Thanks for reaching out.
So I think you started your podcast, Brain Inspired, in 2018, is that right?
That sounds about right.
Around about then, right?
Around about then.
I looked kind of for your first episodes and I think they were around 2018, maybe with
Stephen Potter.
Does that sound like the first one?
Man, you really did.
You really have done your research.
Yes.
Yes, of course.
I did.
It is because he had written a paper specifically about the how neuroscience could help AI.
And this is like right when I was getting into this kind of topic.
And so it just seemed like a good place to start and he was gracious with his time.
Yeah.
Well, what I'm thinking of is 2018 to 2024 and in terms of AI has been kind of crazy
It's a totally different world from when you started in terms of AI and neuroscience.
Yeah, it does.
And it's, I'm sure we can talk a little bit more about my path or whatever, but I've actually
I've become of two minds about the use.
So what I was really interested in is using artificial intelligence to help better understand
our cognition, our minds and our brains.
With the explosion of it and with my own learning more, some philosophical background and some
outlooks, some alternative metaphors for how we think, I have become less enamored with
the use of artificial intelligence as a tool to study the mind brain, although I still
think it's quite useful.
But this is a time when neuroscience is very enamored with it.
It's the tool du jour, I suppose, at least in the computational neurosciences in terms
of modeling different brain areas and functions.
I like it that you use the word enamored because there's the root of love is in there.
And I think I've heard you maybe in your podcast talk about neuroscience or academia, but
especially neuroscience having almost a relationship with AI where it's kind of on again, off again
or whatever.
So it makes sense to me actually that after having spent six years really looking into
every little thing and seeing it all happen, that you would be a little ahead of kind of
the love curve, so to speak.
You mean at the forefront of it?
Yeah, like everyone else is still falling in love maybe or getting to know it.
Well, yeah, I don't know.
It hasn't evened out.
I think I've come to appreciate biological processes more and process more as opposed
to the static computer information processing metaphor.
And I can't articulate it yet.
And that's one of the reasons why I continue to do the podcast and try to learn more.
But intuitively, now it's intuitive.
I feel that there are important things going on with, for example, embodiment and the flow
of, I was going to say information, but that's kind of a dirty term.
The flow of our cognitive processes, our brain processes, and that continuum, which is very
different than the static computational approach, if that makes sense.
Yeah, it does make sense.
This is a very big topic and it's something you address very well in your episodes, mostly
with the way that you've gone about discovering the idea of process and with your interviews
with Burkhardt, for example, and that kind of exploration.
Because it can be a really hard thing to talk about in neuroscience, especially computation
and AI-oriented neuroscience, because there seems to be this dichotomy, especially in
terms of something like computation and process or mind and brain or these kind of things.
So it can be tricky to use these words in these very specific contexts that might think
you're going over to the other side.
I don't know.
Does that make sense?
It does.
Yeah.
I mean, I struggle and it's a mighty struggle.
If I am kind of enamored by a process philosophical approach now, what does that change about
the way that I'm doing science?
And it's nothing so far.
It's just the outlook, right?
Although it has allowed me to interpret some of my data differently, but the data are still
the same data and I'm in a state space and we use dynamical systems theory as well.
So that's toward process, but we still talk about everything as a state, as a representation.
How does, for example, motor cortex compute behavior?
So we still use these terms that I'm headed further away from, but then I'm still embracing
them because they're used in our current paradigm in neuroscience.
One must publish and they do lend purchase to how to think about how our cognitive functions
occur.
So it's a struggle because I don't know if we're naturally dichotomous thinkers, if that's
just a human bug or maybe it's a feature.
I'm not sure, but it's very difficult to sort of go between the two, I find.
And it sounds like you, I mean, are interested in this as well.
I mean, Beyond Dichotomies is on your website.
So yeah.
And it's really kind of the name of all this in a way.
Because I think to your point that you were just making that it has been really important.
So I'm not trying to reject it because I think it's actually an important tool.
Maybe it relates more to why something like computation or AIs can be very important.
I think maybe in one of your more recent conversations, the one about abstraction in the brain, there's
Yes, exactly.
Then there's this, another thing I think about a lot is that we confuse map and territory
and things like this.
It feels like in neuroscience, whether it's with Boussaki questioning the words we use
or there's a million ways in which people are starting to try to understand that the
way we speak about those terms you just said, for example, like representations in the brain
as if they're static, coming from that computational lineage and model, that's not quite right,
but it doesn't mean we reject them.
That's what I mean by sort of holding the paradox.
You can, you've probably gotten yourself into a place where you can do that.
With your research now, you can probably hold that space without having to reject it one
way or the other.
You can probably see, oh, this is the way they're seeing representation.
This is the way they're seeing it.
But I don't think that's an easy or natural holding of space.
Well, I don't know that I'm very good at it yet.
But for example, I was listening to your episode with Ines Hippolito, I believe is how you
pronounce her name.
And I was really surprised that she rejected the idea that you could live with both sides
of that coin in the same.
She was kind of staunchly saying that you have to choose one and be in that lane.
And that's uncomfortable.
I think she kind of came around to a different way by the end in a way.
Because I think, well, but that's the weird thing, right?
Where you hold the paradox because within the world she's in, which I know very well,
and you've probably got some good understanding of it too in philosophy where you really kind
of almost feel like you have to choose between the so-called analytic and the so-called embodied.
Of course, nobody really has to choose.
You can't choose.
And that's the point we're trying to get to.
But I think when you push people and they're in that world, they're used to reacting in
that certain way.
So it's almost like we have to widen kind of what we mean by the terms, which I think
is what she and I did together in that conversation a bit.
And by the end, it wasn't clear that you had to make a choice necessarily.
But yeah, let's get to you, though, and think about your kind of path relative to this and
then come back to some of this holding the paradox and dichotomy because you started
out back in, let's say, whatever year it was, let's go to 2016 or something.
You were very much in academia, right?
You were...
Where were you?
You'd done your PhD?
At that point, I was on my first postdoc, my PhD in 2011, maybe.
I'm terrible with numbers, so it doesn't matter, but you started on this road.
Actually, I have to say, you first were very interested in philosophy, I know, from your
podcast.
And then I just found out you studied aerospace engineering first, which kind of blew my mind.
That's the...
I mean, yeah.
I mean, I didn't stay in aerospace that long, only two years.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I didn't like flunk out of it or anything, but it just wasn't...
It wasn't what I thought it would be.
So then I switched to molecular biology is what I ended up getting my undergraduate degree
in.
But you said I began interested or studying philosophy, which I think that maybe the book
that got me interested in neuroscience was the book Neurophilosophy from Patricia Churchland.
Well, I don't know.
But even in...
I took a few years after getting my undergraduate degree and started working in a couple of
labs.
I worked in a molecular biology wet lab.
Then down the hall, there was this developmental visual cortex neuroscience lab.
And I ended up transferring to that lab and working as a research tech.
And that kind of got me a little bit more into the neuroscience in itself, right?
And so I never really studied philosophy.
It's always been an interest, but I have not studied it nearly as deeply.
That didn't mean you had started in academia and philosophy.
Here's what I meant to say.
You were interested in cognition or the mind or something relative to all these themes
early on, like maybe even before you went to university, as I understand it.
Yeah.
I wanted to understand consciousness.
That's like the main thing.
What it is, how it occurs.
Do you remember when you first...
Is there any memory where you were thinking about that?
I mean, I've talked about it before with others where I remember the first time someone in
my family passed away, for example, when I was a kid and kind of having this like, oh,
what is going on here?
So you had a moment of recognition that there is such a thing as consciousness and I can
be aware of it with my own consciousness, some kind of weird meta moment.
Do you have any of those or even things you read maybe like early?
I don't for me, but I have a son who when he was, oh, I don't know, four maybe, he said
one day like that he just understood that other people had minds separately from him.
So he realized, yeah, and so I got to see him have that moment.
What was that like to see him have that especially?
Oh, it was so...
Well, first of all, I thought like, you're just now having that.
He's four though.
I know.
Well, I don't know if he was actually four, I'm bad with numbers, but then I thought that
it's like such a cool realization and I'm not sure he felt how cool it was.
I think I might've felt it more than he did, but to have that realization, you only get
to have that once.
So it was really beautiful to see.
I'm still waiting on my daughter who's older than him for that realization.
She probably had a long, long ago and when she was born, she already knew.
Probably, probably so.
She's very intentional.
Yeah, but you're right.
That's kind of the thing we're trying to understand in a way, isn't it?
How does your son have that realization?
I know you worked with metacognition some too and there's this, I mean, what do we really
mean by consciousness and is it the same thing as cognition?
And I wanted to actually get into that a little bit with you, but let's bracket it for just
a second, unless you have something you want to say, because I do wonder, you were at least
curious about all of these things.
Of course, we're orienting it all in a certain way, but as you found yourself in neuroscience
going towards this through all these other ways, was it something you were still trying
to, was it still motivating the interest in that?
Well, you mentioned, so I ended up developing in graduate school for my PhD thesis.
I went into graduate school thinking like, how can I study consciousness?
The lab that I ended up joining was a non-human primate lab.
So the vast majority of studies of consciousness and higher cognitive function have been in
humans and still is.
So I was like, how can I study, what is the highest cognitive function I can study in
non-human primates?
And we happen to be recording in various cortical areas.
So with the help of my very kind advisor who let me do this, essentially, and encouraged
me, we developed a task that tested monkey's metacognitive abilities and then measured
brain activity while they were doing this task.
And then lo and behold, in some cortical areas, there's a difference in neural activity when
the monkey was performing metacognitively well versus when it was performing poorly.
When it seemed to be aware of what it was doing versus when it seemed to be just doing
it without being aware of it.
So that's the very dirty version of my PhD thesis.
And then I realized, I didn't know anything still.
I mean, I didn't know that the rich historical literature, so this was based in decision
making.
And there's this rich historical literature that I connected with in the PhD level, kind
of rode upon to help develop the experimental task and the questions.
But I still had a lot to learn in terms of the raw neuroscience and cognitive science
of decision making.
So I ended up, like many people, I started ambitious and wide, big questions, and then
you learn how little you know, and then you get a little bit narrower.
Then I started studying specific type of decision making.
And so the questions just got narrower and narrower as I went.
So I'm not sure that the science itself was hard enough.
And the basic science questions were hard enough and unknown enough that became more
interesting, not more interesting, tangible, because you're going to ask me about
cognition and consciousness and what it is.
And it's embarrassing.
Well, it's just embarrassing.
I was going to ask you, have you gotten any closer to figuring out what it is?
Not really.
In many ways, I feel like a, what is it, a feather being blown in the wind because, you
know, like I'll learn about some new approach.
Like recently, I've been learning more about ecological psychology, which even has like
a different definition for what mind is and mindedness is.
It can be overwhelming once you are too curious.
Well, yeah, but that's why you have to hold paradoxes together.
And that's the practice we're all trying to learn in some weird way, as we are able to
absorb the fact that there are more and more ways of coming at something like the term
consciousness or mind or cognition.
But it can be an obstacle as well, because if you take on one viewpoint, you're going
to go down that road as far as you want to go and you can get really deep.
And especially if you have like blinders on to other interpretations of what you're doing,
you're going to have academic success.
I'm not sure if it's satisfying outside of, you know, your career, maybe legacy, I guess.
But it can be, you know, as soon as I get a result, right, then I have to think, oh,
now how do I think about this from a process philosophy perspective?
How do I think about this from an ecological psychology perspective?
Most people would rather not think about them as too much of a computational explosion of
the brain or something.
Yeah, well, then we just go to the bars, you know.
Yeah, well, and then just, yeah, I don't.
But I have to stop here because this is fascinating and something I think a lot of people are
trying to deal with in a way.
So you started with these really big questions, which I think a lot of us do, especially those
of us with philosophical proclivity, right?
And I think they still inspire a lot of work.
Quite a few neuroscientists that I know are very successful people in science.
Let's say not necessarily even just neuroscientists, but it's the big questions
that got them into it.
And then, like you said, you find yourself getting more and more detailed because that's
the process of science that you're refining your question and you're getting the parameters
set such that you can.
And it can seem if you want to have success in a way, you do narrow it down.
Let's say you're going to go into a certain kind of decision making and you're going to
read all those papers and you're going to be in that lineage.
And you almost have to block out the other stuff because it's just how could you possibly
read all the papers and all the it's a narrowing that's almost necessary.
It's a narrowing, but a deepening as well, because otherwise you're just at the surface
of everything.
But then there's this way in which when you still think about that big question and what
motivates you, you can end people that have this now where you feel like what have I done,
right?
I've narrowed everything down.
It ain't easy.
For some people, it is.
And that's amazing to me that.
So I mean, I think that I have this genetically because my father never knew what he wanted
to do and he had like a long career.
And I don't know what I want to do.
And I'm not supposed to say that out in public.
But like my current advisor and the woman who I was just speaking with when I was recording
an episode before we're recording this, they both knew like really early on and were interested
in very specific things.
And I don't know what that feels like.
They knew like, okay, I'm going to study this area of the brain or something.
Is that what you mean?
Or this question about...
Like behavior in general, like how our brains enact behavior.
And that's more tangible.
Like in the case of I was just talking with Karen Adolf, it was development and how
development of behavior undergirds our cognition and how cognition develops through
studying infants and their development.
So those are more directed questions than, oh, I want to figure out consciousness.
That's true.
Good point.
However, I would say even at that scale, I think these are nested things.
Of course, we're talking as philosophers, so to speak.
I know you are a neuroscientist, but you have this philosophical spirit in a sense, right?
But even within their field, if you ask that question, you're still going to have to make
decisions about which side of this or that you're going to be on in the behavior realm.
If you take that scale, it's not that you're narrowing in the sense that it's a bad word,
but you're going to have to make certain decisions and go down a certain path.
And that's not wrong, but you can end up with the same feeling of,
if I try to explore this now, it looks like it goes against this whole lineage that I've
dedicated my life to.
Therefore, I don't look at it, which is actually probably what needs to happen.
But at different scales, and maybe that's why we have philosophers or podcasters,
we want to know how it all links together.
And at that level, you have to start doing some of this work, which you've been doing,
I guess, since 2018, where you do try to look at what are the patterns connecting this,
and you go pretty deep into everything, which is quite time consuming.
But yeah, you find a way to try to do this and hold the space, or at least open a space
where people can talk about it and it can be seen.
So let's get to how you did that.
In this time period before you created the podcast,
why didn't you just go down the path of academia?
What was it?
So I was feeling frustrated.
I guess I was in maybe my fourth or fifth year as a postdoc,
and my skills were getting deeper and deeper, but narrower and narrower.
And that just felt frustrating to me because I like having my fingers dipped in lots of
different areas and thinking from different approaches.
Let me just back up, and it's just because I was just speaking with her,
but Kara and Adolf had this experience in, I think, graduate school,
where she learned about ecological psychology.
And it's like, boom, that's exact.
She knew that was exactly right.
And I think she phrased it like, it was like God opening up to her or something like that.
And I don't have that kind of experience, but some people do.
I kind of had that with philosophy, which it opened up.
What does it mean, philosophy in general?
Yeah, in my first philosophy class, literally,
where I realized you can think about these things.
I won't say the sky's opened up or something, but I've had these moments in life,
I don't know if you've had them, where you just know something important is happening
just because of the physical effect it's having.
It almost feels like everything's lined up a little bit, not to get too mystical,
but it's almost like a great sports experience or something.
But you're like, oh, something is happening here.
If I pay attention to it, it's going to open something up.
Could be with a relationship, too, or book.
So what was your first philosophy course?
Was it epistemology?
It was more like a philosophy of mine, but the professor who taught it
did it in a very beautiful way where it wasn't analytical.
It was looking at what mind is, kind of broader, taking all beyond dichotomy in a way,
like looking at many different forms of philosophy and thinking about it.
Okay, so you didn't have an aha moment or whatever in terms of your work?
Yeah, so I was actually feeling, so I had this narrow skill set,
but it's actually quite narrow non-human primate neurophysiology decision-making
and it was like all that with psychophysics as well, like analyzing the behavior.
So I kind of had to make a decision.
I couldn't be a postdoc forever, but I wasn't that excited about the area that I was immersed in.
So I had to figure out, am I going to look for a different postdoc?
Am I going to try to search for faculty positions, feeling terribly
unconfident and on some level incompetent to start running my own lab?
And I mean, this is sort of a personal side about it because I was using non-human
primate research and that was mentally tough to do.
It wears on you and when you're going to dedicate your research and life to it, it's whoa.
Yeah, yeah, it's also hard and takes a lot of lab.
You have to jump through a lot of hoops in lab and there's a lot of caretaking involved
and so there was that aspect as well.
It's a total sidetrack, but I know when you were doing this work,
you were having to record single neurons, right?
Yeah.
What was that like?
What do you do to record a single neuron?
Can you just phenomenologically explain it in a way?
Because you were doing it every day, right?
Recording.
Yes.
And I think about it a lot, but I never really know how to picture it exactly.
I've never watched someone do it.
I keep meaning to go in the lab and actually do it, but I haven't.
Oh, this would be good because I have a moment I can tell you about.
A lot of neurophysiologists have this moment.
But first, the experimental setup is basically you do a surgery and implant a chronic
chamber where you know you want to record your neurons from
and then every day you bring the organism into the lab and you lower.
This is the way people used to do it and still do it with single neurons
because the technology has gotten a lot better, but you lower an electrode into the brain
and you're listening so you're putting the electronic signal, the voltage signal,
through an oscilloscope and through an audio monitor and so you're going down
and it's kind of silent and then all of a sudden you start hearing
and you're hearing the action potentials of single neurons and or small groups of neurons.
And in my case, so I'm not sure, does that answer your question?
Yeah, I've seen those before.
It almost looks like a little cap that the creature is wearing or something.
So you're removed from it.
You don't sit in the lab.
So organism is in a different room.
You're in the computer about five feet away on the other side of like a thick, thick curtain.
In my case, animals sitting in a dark room because we're tracking where their eye movement
location, where their eye movements are, the location of their eye movements are.
Because in my case, we were showing like dots on the screen
and on every single trial, first off, a central fixation spot comes up,
like a little light in the center and the monkey in this case would start a trial
by fixating on that central fixation dot and then the game of the trial would begin
and it would indicate its decisions based on which target it moved its eyes to.
And we were recording from multiple areas but one of the areas we were recording from
was called frontal eye field and it's famous for having eye movement related activity.
So we're recording their eye, we're tracking their eye position at the same time as we're
listening to neurons.
You're driving the electrode down and then all of a sudden the monkey's like doing tasks
while you're doing it and then all of a sudden you hear neural activity locked onto the time of when
the animal makes an eye movement, makes a decision.
So the beats are like beep, beep, beep, beep or something?
Like a hippocampus, like a play cell kind of like a Geiger-Cat counter kind of thing?
No, it more ramps up.
So it's like whoosh, whoosh and so that was the moment,
a lot of neurophysiologists have this moment where you're hearing brain activity
and seeing it on a screen and it is related to monkey making an eye movement in this case.
And it's, I don't know, I've never even heard it described well,
it's just something that you don't forget.
It's almost magical to hear for the first time.
Can you try to, for someone who doesn't know why, is it that kind of same,
I mean because I just said it, it reminds me of the lining up of when I'm sitting in the philosophy
class and certain ideas I've been thinking about are expressed in a certain way and there's a kind
of alignment or something that happens where, I don't know, does it feel like that?
It's somehow about like, oh, I am listening in on cognition.
You're the only one who knows that or something secret kind of.
Oh yeah, well that happens all the time where, so I've had experiences that I'm the only person
ever in the history of the world to have had that experience just sitting in my little lab
alone, not profound experiences, but that happens a lot to people in lab because of whatever
accidents or accidental happiness happens that day.
You're looking for something or you don't maybe know exactly what you're looking for
and then suddenly it's there in a way or you're witnessing it, so to speak.
Well, in this case, it was just like a feeling that kind of you get chills
because you're connecting like actual brain activity, which is what at the time I thought
was doing everything. That's changed a little bit, but you're seeing it in real time,
you're hearing it in real time and it's like, oh, it's real. We have brains and they are active.
I'm hearing the exact pattern of a neuron that is somehow related to the cognitive function
that I'm interested in.
It reminds me of people saying when they are trying to work on a math problem and they
finally figure out a little thing and it's not that it's so great that they figured it out.
It's like, oh my God, it actually will work.
Yes. I don't know if you are a musician, but if you're trying to write a song or trying to
write a poem or in your case, a book, you probably have those moments all the time where you're like,
ah, I figured out the structure of how I want to do this.
And musicians are famous for saying that those ideas kind of fall out at a given point.
You work really, really hard and then they are kind of given to you.
So it's somewhat like that feeling, but I didn't work for it so much.
But a lot of people did. I mean, you're part of it. But I think that's, I'm not a musician,
but I've been around a lot of musicians in my life and I'm still trying to relate it to you.
I think the story of your guest and there's this kind of way in which things align and
it feels like it makes sense or something. And it's not that you, it feels bigger than
you at the same time. And yet so much work has gone into it that there's also kind of like a,
yeah, a success feeling to it.
That's wrapped up in the history of it as well.
Exactly. That's what I mean. As you're sitting in that little room, you're part of something
bigger than you in a way. And you feel that probably in the moment, right? And also kind
of it's like, oh, this is actually what I've been doing. It's real what other people say or something.
And then you have the experience. I was talking about experiencing my son's moment a few moments
ago. Then you have the experience of when a new student comes in the lab and sees that for the
first time, you know what they're experiencing and you see how it affects them. And then
your advisor went through the same thing and he told you the same story about the first time he
heard a neuron. And there's so many people who have that experience.
In a way, that's probably more of the motivation too. Because just to go to your music example,
I think a lot of music is actually kind of like that too, because we fall in love with other
musicians. I'm not a musician again. I can speak of it as writing too, but music is just so
immediate. But yeah, you fall in love with music because... Yeah? What?
Are you going to say? Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. I'm imagining, I'm predicting
what you're going to say is that you start out by imitating your heroes.
Yeah, or wanting to give other people the feeling that they gave you.
Oh yeah. Okay. Well, that's not what I was going to say.
But no, it's connected to what you're going to say too, because you're imitating them
and you want so much to have those moments that feel kind of magical, right? But maybe you
haven't. And then it clicks and it's like, oh, this is real. It's similar to the lineage thing
we were just describing in science, because then somehow you've connected. You're part of it.
Whatever that person had experienced, now you have. And it's as if you've opened up some kind of
a lineage or line or flow and you know it's real, right?
Yeah. In my case, I'm not there yet with music, but I can jive with you on the science part of it
for sure. So there's these moments, it's beautiful in science, but somehow when you were going to
decide, are you going to do all the work to start your own lab and be the person
spearheading all this, doing the grants, all that kind of stuff, the answer back then was no.
It was a pretty hard no at some point. I mean, you also, as a postdoc especially,
you're getting kind of close to that point and there are new faculty members that you see and
they're always running down the hall sweating and they never seem happy because they're working so
hard because they need to get tenure. So I had to think like, do I really want to sacrifice
my happiness for this career or can I do something else? At least for now.
You know, it's also when you walk away from academia,
the feeling is it's going to be hard to get back into it because you need to maintain a paper trail
of publications and no one's going to want you if you've walked away for a while and stuff.
So it was a hard choice, but in my heart, it was the right choice.
Nicole Zilberbourg
Can you tell me about deciding to stop and what you decided to do instead? Was it just,
okay, I'm just going to stop and how did the podcast come and how does that connect? Were
you already thinking, well, I still want to continue all this. How can I continue all this
in a way that feels more, yeah, in that space that's more natural to you of maybe questioning it and
looking from this wider point of view?
Andrew Kassan
Oh, Andrew, you're telling my story for me. I appreciate that.
Nicole Zilberbourg
Am I?
Andrew Kassan
I mean, a little bit, but okay, let me go back and say one thing in terms of how I was feeling
about whether I should continue or not. I don't care about my legacy. And I think if you care
about your legacy, it's going to drive you to be in that more competitive kind of space. And a lot
of people I admire care very deeply about their legacy and it's just not me. So that was another
factor.
Nicole Zilberbourg
Sorry, that's a really big statement. You really don't care at all about your legacy. By legacy,
you mean in science or you mean you don't care?
Andrew Kassan
Well, I don't care about mine.
Nicole Zilberbourg
By that, you mean you don't care what other people think of you? Is that kind of-
Andrew Kassan
I just don't care about being remembered. I don't think it's a helpful way to move through life.
But I think that is a big motivator for people. So in some sense, I do wish I care. And I'm
probably being dishonest on some level, like I'm just telling myself that story.
But why would I start a podcast if I didn't care about being remembered or something?
Nicole Zilberbourg
Well, maybe you care about- I mean, this is very idealistic, but maybe you care more about
what you leave behind, which is different from people remembering you, or what you give.
Andrew Kassan
Or maybe you're just narcissistic and you just want to do what you want to do.
Andrew Kassan
I think it's closer to that, unfortunately. I think it might be. I mean, really,
there are two most rewarding things about having started the podcast, and we can backtrack and
talk about that transition. Things that I didn't think about. The reason I started the podcast
in general is I wanted to learn. I wanted to learn at a certain level, because there were
a bunch of popular podcasts, popular science podcasts, but they weren't going deep enough
for me. And I loved, as I was learning more, I would listen to these things. I told you
Brain Science podcast by Dr. Ginger Campbell was a super early major influence on me. And she did
such a fantastic job of explaining, asking clarification questions. And I still enjoyed
her podcast, but I wanted to explore the topics a little more deeply without having to explain
all of the very basic assumptions. And that means I automatically would alienate a lot of
a potential audience. But what I found, and these are the two things that have been
the most wonderful thing, is A, just the gratitude listeners feel for the podcast.
So many people come up, and it's not something that I was anticipating,
but they're so thankful. And I'm getting chills right now, just thinking about it.
And having some sort of positive impact on people's lives in that regard. That's amazing.
It is amazing. And it's not something that I thought about that would happen. The other thing
is just, this is going to sound like sort of businessy, but it's the network of friendly
acquaintances and friends that I have made from the guests that have come on the show. Like this
probably won't be the last time you and I chat. I hope it's not. And we're going to probably,
unless I ruin things, we're probably in done pretty good terms today, I hope. But that's also
something that I wasn't anticipating, is I have this awesome network now because of doing the
podcast. Yeah, I guess that's what I was getting at a bit. I don't know what the state of podcasting
was at the time you started it exactly. Now it's just everybody has a podcast now, right?
Yeah, including me. No offense? No, I take no offense. I like it. But back then,
which it wasn't that long ago, but feels like decades ago in terms of things like AI and
neuroscience and podcasting, there was no other deep going into podcasts about issues of AI and
neuroscience. And not everyone was doing podcasting. So I can't imagine you were just sitting there
thinking, oh, what I'll do is quit academia and start a podcast that's going to be successful
and then therefore meet this wonderful network and have people who appreciate what I'm giving
to them in the world. Maybe you thought that, I don't know. Oh, I thought, oh, I want to be an
influencer. No, no, of course not. So by the end of my first postdoc, because I'm now on a second
postdoc. With a big gap in between though, we should say. With a big gap in between.
The AI using artificial, using machine learning models and loosely calling it AI models,
using connectionist type networks was just becoming kind of a big thing in computational
and cognitive neuroscience. And I didn't know anything about it. I knew things very superficially
and so I thought this is super interesting. And I'd already made the decision to leave academia.
And so of course I did a search for podcasts on the intersection and none existed. And I thought,
well, I eventually thought, well, I want to make what I would want to hear. And so that's literally
what it came from and wanting to learn more about it and have, you know, learn from the people who
are doing that kind of work. My podcast has evolved since then, since that early kind of vision.
But we, you know, sometimes artificial intelligence is not even mentioned in an episode,
right? And the original in vision was all about the intersection of neuroscience and
artificial intelligence. So yeah, that's kind of almost cognitive science or I know, like tricky
term to use, but sometimes, because there's always a connection. It's just that a lot of it sometimes
is assumed. So I have to go back to what I started with at the beginning. That was a really
fortuitous choice to make at that exact moment in a way, right? That you saw that there was a kind
of convergence coming because this was before, I mean, deep learning was getting deeper.
Yeah. Deep learning was the term I should have used. Yeah.
But there wasn't this large language model, crazy stuff. Nobody had thought of the transformer
architecture and so on and so forth. So you rode that wave. That's what I'm saying. In a way,
you kind of already can see it from a different place than others because
it was just beginning. Maybe so. Yeah. I mean, like anything,
there was already really kind of a fairly rich history of using these models to study cognitive
functions, but it was just becoming more and more seemingly useful and overlapping and that you could
reliably use a deep learning model set up in the right way to model various parts of how,
for example, our visual cortex works. And I mean, we can get into some of that alignment
is very superficial and some of it is really awesome that you can predict a neuron's activity
based on what the model says. With four layers, four layers deep in visual cortex,
you can predict how a neuron will be activated based on fitting the model to the whole neural
data set. So it's really quite impressive. But because of the nature of the topics and the depth
and the... I'm okay getting into technical discussions on the podcast and sometimes I ask
fairly detailed questions. Because it kind of aliates, let's say, the lay population,
it's continued to grow, but it's been slow, steady growth. And it's not like I exploded in...
I'm not like a podcast land superstar or something like that.
Well, but you made a big difference. I'm one of the people who learned a lot,
has learned a lot and continues to learn a lot.
We'll see. Yeah, exactly. So maybe it was an accident or maybe not, but you actually
found a way to do what one might have done had you stayed in the academic world in a way that
fit to your energy or self in a way. But how were you brave enough to do that? How were you
brave enough to quit academia? And I feel like you moved across the country or something. Tell me.
I think my prefrontal cortex is still not fully developed, I think is the real answer here.
My wife and I, once I came to the... So I was married and had two very small children at the
time of this potential transition. So we had a lot of discussions. My wife is in the wellness
sector. She used to be a yoga instructor and so she's gone down a few different roads.
And we came up with the idea. So first of all, we sold our house, we sold all of our
belongings. We kept the children and we bought an RV and then moved the whole family into the RV
and then just started roaming around the country, which was a lot of fun, also a lot of work.
But while we were doing that, neither of us was employed anymore. And we focused on starting an
online business for essentially my wife. So the plan was to get her online business going,
start getting some income from that and I would figure out what the hell I was going to do.
And so I came up with the idea of the podcast, but also I need to update it or get rid of it now.
But I made an online course eventually about the topics. So that was kind of the vision
for Brain Inspired 2 was to have some kind of income coming through that as well. So we were...
That sounds all very simple. We had a half plan. And also this was a time when online business was
becoming more and more normal. And so we thought we would give this a try to not have to be tethered
to a location. Post-COVID, this is like standard now or something, but not have to be tied to a
location, have our own income from our own businesses. And so Brain Inspired started as
kind of a shot in the dark in terms of like, can this become something? Can I make it into
something, a recurring livable income? So we were working like crazy living in this RV with a
two and a four year old. That must have been a close relationship that you can or still as I hope,
because it's like you against the world, you too against the world in a way. But I guess you
were a team or something, right? Well, yeah, we were a team. So I helped her. So the main thing
was figuring out how to do online business in general. We had to develop her business strategy,
her logo, the way her videos would look and all that jazz. Were you just driving around in the RV
discussing it all day and then working on it when you stop or something? Oh yeah. We would do shifts
and have task lists. We're trying to really make it work, but it was a real struggle.
And my wife still has her online business and I still have Brain Inspired. So I guess
it worked. We kept through it. But I mean, we were struggling financially.
Of course. So then we had to, yeah, yeah. That's why partially why I'm back in academia now is
confluence of reasons. We needed more income. Our circumstances, we ended up living in Durango,
Colorado after a year and a half traveling around in the RV and our financial circumstances
kind of changed in Durango. We had to figure out, do I get a job? Does she get a job? I guess I'll
get a job. What can I do? So I started looking around at academic opportunities partially because
of this boom in deep learning and AI of which I had learned a lot about now. I hadn't implemented
anything, but I had learned a lot about it through talking with people, which I'm not sure. Maybe we
can come back to this because I don't know. The podcast world is a little out of control these
days in terms of, but in terms of sort of the self-importance of that podcasts are important.
And I don't know how important they are. Maybe you have a position on that.
Gosh. I don't know if any podcaster in particular is necessarily,
needs to be said as important, but I think that there's something about, and I'm not talking
about myself because it's kind of weird, but more I'm thinking of, let's talk about you. You're the
guest here. How you were saying, right? I kind of imagine when you go to a conference or something
now, everyone, a lot of younger people would know your name or a lot of the students and it's a weird
world that is changing at this moment and you're a part of it. But I do think there's an importance
to you having taken that risk, which was not easy. And I'm not trying to make you into some
kind of a hero, but you did at least listen and meet with the person that you loved and think
about it. And it doesn't mean that it all worked out perfectly. It sounds like it was quite hard,
but it also didn't fail because that's kind of a precious time from my perspective that you traveled
around with your kids when they were still young enough. There's so much richness about just life
that's in that. And that you then also found a way to use what you're interested in,
explore it in an authentic way without catering to trying to make it popular.
Cause that probably would have been weird. I mean, I made the best thing that I knew how to make.
And so it would have been great if it had become super popular, but I didn't really think that was
going to happen. But it did in this world, I think. As far as neuroscience goes, and everyone's famous
in their little world these days. That's the thing. So it's all kind of, we're learning,
it's a bit relative, but the important thing is the reason I'm saying the podcasters are important,
some of them, right, is because they've become, I think, like the new kind of teachers in a way.
And this can be good or bad, but just in your case, what I'm saying is you opened up a forum
so that a lot of people in a lot of positions that have since become very important, because
we're talking about cognition and mind and consciousness. And yeah, this matters, right?
It just, it does. And it matters because the science that gets done today trickles down in
some way through whatever popular books, but also through papers and grants and money and
experiments. And it influences life and it influences AI, even though people are saying
maybe not so much now, but it does. It influences our technology. It's all connected, right?
So I can understand why people would like, you kind of became a teacher in a way. So teachers
are important. I agree with the statement that teachers are important, but it's sort of
indirectly teaching by asking people questions and learning about their work at a level that I could
kind of keep up with them and just know them, know a few questions that might lead to them saying
something interesting and could teach people about things. Someone told me about a year ago,
someone told me I was in science communication. And it kind of took me by surprise. And again,
so I guess I am. Do you feel like you're in science communication, philosophy communication?
No, I don't think about it like that. I mean, for me, it's a more of an obsessive curiosity,
desire to connect. I just feel like it's something that I have to do and I like to,
I want to give people a way to see that they're not, that things connect more than they think,
right? Or they're not. It's okay to get past this either or that I've seen stifle a lot of people
and stuff. But I think what we're doing is different because I'm really trying, I mean,
I'm really thinking of philosophy of mind and really trying to kind of build a philosophy
and trying to do it in a transparent way and trying to do it in a community way instead of
me being like, oh, here's the philosophy that I've come up with and here it is.
That's such a cool project that you're involved in, that you are spearheading because you created it.
It's just really, I admire that you're doing it this way.
Well, thanks. It just kind of happens. But it feels right to me. It's hard in a lot of ways and
I'm putting myself out there. But in terms of when you're trying to come up with what,
an idea of philosophy in mind, I feel like it should be that way and everyone should be able
to just see what's happening and critique it. But to you, I think it's really important what
you said about, because you're, I said you were a teacher and you said you're opening up the space,
but that's what Socrates did too, right? In a way it's a lot of the best teachers learn,
you know, what they're doing is being students. And somehow you kind of found that format of
being a student that's done a lot of homework. And then we get to listen to it. And like,
we don't have to do all the homework, but we get to learn, right?
If I do it right, yeah.
But what I'm getting at is it's fascinating that the switch because
what's now the switch of what matters in academia is connected to this because
it's becoming more like we were talking about narrowing and you go really deep and that's still
very important too. But we were also talking about how we need to be able to see how things
connect because that's also important for advancements in science and also just like in
terms of how we understand technology and all these things. And so you've kind of come up with a,
you've found a way to educate yourself in a way that now universities need people to have been
educated. Does that make sense? So what I'm saying is, because we are skipping, but you went through
what? Five, six years of trying to build the podcast, trying to survive, raising kids,
moving, all this kind of stuff. At the same time, putting out what? Like almost 200 shows.
Yeah, I'm nearing, yeah, nearing 200.
That's going to be a big one.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't have the bandwidth anymore to make it. I did a whole
special for my 100th. Yeah, there's like a series of them where I asked a lot of previous guests
questions, you know, and I put a lot of effort into it. I'm not sure 200 might just be,
might be a normal episode. We'll see.
Well, that's okay too. It's just, I mean, it's wonderful that you've gotten 200 and they're
all very substantial. And yeah, but I guess the point is now in doing that, in doing 200 episodes,
it means you've done so much research across so many fields. You've connected a lot of dots.
And actually that's what neuroscience needs now, just in terms of how to think about whatever the
subject matter is a little bit differently. So it's weird, isn't it? And I guess we can get
into it a little bit because I want to know why you decided to go back to school. I know it was
also partly financial, but you could have studied philosophy, for example, or philosophy of science.
Why did you go back into neuroscience and specifically into what you went into? And
does it make sense what I'm saying? Do you feel like you have a perspective
that's somehow helpful compared to where you were in 2017 or whatever?
Yeah. So there's a lot there that you said. Yes, I do. But I get asked that all the time,
so what is the perspective now? And that still feels like what's the answer now that you have
learned so much? And that's really what a lot of people want to know. And that's a frustrating
question to not be able to precisely answer. I'm definitely not asking what the answer is
because I don't even know what the question is. I'm more thinking, have you learned how to learn
better? Have you learned how to ask questions better? It's more of the practice of thinking
that I think the patterning of your thinking might have changed in a way that's helpful.
I think so, but I think the proof will be in the pudding as I move along back in academia.
Part of the reason why I wanted to get back in academia was to see about if I could use all these
new thinking tools and machine learning tools and perspective tools and see how it has affected
not just my outlook, but my science. And now my day-to-day is very much more, so mostly like any
other neuroscientist these days, depending on what field you're in, I sit in front of a computer and
code in order to analyze data. And the questions, because of the advancement of machine learning,
the questions that you can ask of the data are a little bit different now than the questions that
you could ask before. But we're still mired, that seems like a strong term, we're still
very much embroiled in, no, that's negative as well. We're still, by sort of the default
perspective in computational neuroscience is that computationalism perspective. So it's like I've
changed, but my surroundings haven't. The people who I could have conversations about these things
haven't changed. I remember when I interviewed for my postdoc job, I had to describe what
process philosophy was and why I was interested in it and stuff. And I'm not sure if it's changed.
It has changed my interpretation of the data and why it might look the way it looks. So
this is kind of hard to describe, but I have a data set now that is messy relative to what
a traditional neuroscientific data set would be. And now I can look at that and say, okay, well,
it's all because of the process and it's from ongoing continuous behavior from a mouse,
which is messy. And now that I think about things in terms of continuous flow of motion and motor
output and from the environment back into perceptual, and that is just a continuous
transformation of energy, right? Is one way to say it. Another way to say it is that,
oh, it's doing computations. But when you look at it as like a continuous transformation of energy,
I'm sorry, that's not my favorite phrase either, but I'm going to use it.
Then you start to be okay with the fact that things don't look perfect in the data. That the
data is, it can't tell you a perfect story, which we already know. No model is perfect.
All models are wrong. Some are good. Is that that, George P. Botchers?
Some are better than others.
Dang it. This is something I should have wrote in my mind. Anyway, all models are wrong.
Some are more useful.
Oh yeah, that sounds better.
Some are useful. Yeah, so that's the way I think about modeling these days too. You were mentioning
the map and the territory and then getting confused. And I think early on in my career,
I was right there being confused by if you can make a model as good as the data, then that's
telling you a lot. And that's somewhat conflating. The model isn't real. It's not perfect. It can't
be perfect. It's a metaphor. It's a model. So you can use it to try to infer and interpret
your data in certain ways, but you're not making the thing. You're actually making a model. You're
not making the brain region. You're making a model. And I think I used to just kind of accept
that, that if you made the model, you understood. If you could make a perfectly predictive model,
you understood the brain region.
I think it happens all the time that we assume it. Having studied neuroscience,
an fMRI image, we talk about it as if it's the brain, right? Instead of a picture of a really
parameterized, pixelated, one little tiny thing that's going on. We just can't hold all that. We
just think, oh, that's the brain. There is emotion right there. There is emotion, right?
And this gets back to trying to hold the paradox and look at it a little bit differently.
But because I do really honestly believe that we're at a moment in science where we can finally
maybe do that for the first time. However, it's very important we understand that they're just
models coming from a particular path and that needs to be seen. All of that needs to be accounted
for in the experiment and our understanding of the experiment and the way we talk about it
and the way we use the words. At the moment, it feels way too big to try to do that. But I
really think we can and we're all trying to. And you're kind of bringing that in is what I'm saying.
I don't know how to exactly say it, but you're bringing that into that world,
even with just conversations you have or the way you just presented it, right? If you just presented
it in that way to a few people, it changes a lot in that little environment, I think.
Oh, yeah, these are the kinds. Of course, anything you learn new that changes your perspective,
you think, oh man, if I had only learned that as an undergrad or something, like before,
it would have changed my whole perspective. So, I mean, I'm coming at this kind of late also
in terms of when it... Well, I don't want to say that. I'm just an old man. That's what I'm saying.
But I feel like you're giving me a lot more credit than I deserve. You're being very kind
with your words. But hopefully that's true. And I'm somewhat surprised at your... And I'm
impressed by your optimism that we might be on the cusp of being able to, what you
phrase as, hold the paradox together. Is that... Well, yeah, just understand the paradox can be
what it is. And when you let it do that, you notice patterns in it rather than trying to resolve it.
Or I think we just assume if it's a paradox, it's like a contradiction, which isn't actually true
or something. You can have the computation, but you can also know that the process itself can never
be computed. Those don't have to mutually cancel each other out.
I understand that. And now that I understand that, it's hard to understand
why anyone else would think any different. Because you've done so much hard work though,
because I think it's very hard to... It's so nuanced. And as you were just saying,
in the same way that once you know something, you wish you'd known it your whole life. But
it's one of those weird things, kind of like your little son when he realized the mind thing. You
realize it only one time, and then it seems like it's always been that way. And this is another one
of those moments, I think, where we just haven't articulated it in our science in a way that it's
kind of shifted widely in that sense. I do think it's happening. I really think there's been so
much annoying debate about the word representation for good reason.
From philosophers, mostly.
From philosophers, but from neuroscientists too.
Yes, it's true. It's true.
Everybody's kind of in it. And yeah, it's the same, right? Of course, we have representations,
and they're real, but the brain is a process, right? So it's still even hard to talk about it,
but these are hard things. But I do feel like we're trying to do that a bit and getting there.
I can see it.
You're doing that work.
So are you.
But you're doing it intentionally. I'm sort of doing it as a...
I'm trying to articulate it literally, which is why I'm doing it.
I'm trying to articulate it in my own head.
But you're also doing it. I'm really not trying to put you on a pedestal and give you a lot of
credit. I've just seen it in labs. This doesn't get seen, but little things, like a couple
conversations where people just suddenly make that little switch. I keep thinking of your son,
the light goes off. And if that happens in a few labs around the world right now,
it's a big switch, right? And I think your podcast does that. And I imagine you do that in
whatever context you're in, because that's who you are now. You have this path.
Going back to that realization that you can hold the paradox, it's almost like
you just realize, oh, it's okay. It eases the burden of trying to think about it in one way
or the other and to realize, oh, it's all one thing and just different.
Perspectivalism is a popular word these days, pluralism. And it's all part of accepting
different viewpoints as explanations from different perspectives. And that they're all
like valid, not all, but you can have multiple seemingly contradicting things that people
assume are dichotomies that are living actually together and it's such a freeing feeling.
It is such a freeing feeling. I think of it sometimes as a landscape or in a more general
sense, because if you take a landscape or a mountain, for example, there's so many ways you
could explore that mountain and you're going to see very different things, but you could go to the
same kind of place. And I think models can be like that. That's different than saying, oh, all the
models can be true. No, what's the question? And then you critique which model might be best. And
then you go through all that rigorous stuff too. You still have to do the hard science, but with
the background in your head, it's like much easier to proceed even if you don't feel like you're in a
fight with the concepts. Right. That's what I was hearing when you were talking about the way you
look at the data now. Because we often talk about trying to fit the data to the model, but maybe you
can... Again, it's very hard. I think that's of that quote of Fitzgerald that I love of the sign
of intelligence as being able to hold to opposing ideas at once and not go crazy or something like
that. Because it is kind of hard to look at all that data and then you can understand, okay,
if I let it be a little bit loose, there's a lot of different models that I could find here and
that I could use with the data. And then maybe choosing one and going with it. But there's
something about being able to hold the space and let it be one model among what could be more many
that might fit. That's right. And in the end, you're going to be telling a story either way.
And so how you frame that story can affect how people interpret your results, right? But
it's still a story about how we think things work. And something can be super predictive
and then something else can add a slightly different take on it, a slightly different bent
on the way... And not be as predictive, but it can still add to the story. I have trouble articulating
these things as well. So I'm glad you're doing it. I look forward to your book coming out so that
maybe that can help me do that better. Yeah, thanks. But I think you do it very well in
your conversations and so on. And it's a reservoir, right? Where people can go and get a lot of this
without having to talk about it directly because it's in there. But let me just say, so you were
at my place of work now. We're just running into the average neuroscientist. It's still very much
the default assumption that we all think the same way and that there is the correct way to think.
And it is this one, not that one. And so that has not changed. So among my podcast audience,
perhaps it has, but they are diluted across the world. So... Diluted, not diluted. Yeah,
it sounded like you said there. Yeah. Oh. No, but still that's how it starts. And these things
seem not to exist and then they change and it's as if it always was that way.
I really just think it's a different kind of assumption. It's a different assumed starting
point. And it's hard to get there, but I think we're all trying to get there in a certain way.
And we were talking about podcasts and everyone has their podcast. And I see it as,
in a way, a good way. I think we're at a moment where everyone's kind of doing it,
but it's very hard to do. And it's not like you're going to, you don't, unless you just become,
you have to have millions and millions of followers to make money because it's not about...
You have to almost already be a celebrity. Yeah. Yeah. People think you're getting rich
or something, but it's really, you have to do it because you want to do it.
Oh yeah. That's very true. Unless you are a celebrity.
Yeah. Or there's some motivation behind it. But I guess what I was going to say is that maybe
that's part of what we're talking about too, is that's also opening up a way for us to be able to
open the space a little bit and communicate a bit differently in our kind of assumed starting place
when it comes to science. Because yeah, there's also a lot of motivation in there, isn't there?
I'm thinking of philosophy where you want to debate and fight and so on.
So that seems to be the majority of philosophy, which is kind of eternal. I really enjoy
philosophy for a couple of paragraphs. And then you kind of get lost in the nitpickiness
of definitions and the philosophers can work their way around any topic, any way they want,
it seems, so that they're just good rhetoric, just the path you choose. And then you just kind
of are back where you started. And then you're going to argue again about representation the
next day and the next day and the next day. And so that gets a little... That wears me down a little
bit. That's why you didn't go into philosophy. Maybe, but I did think about going into philosophy
instead of going back into neuroscience. But I thought I would have to get another PhD,
I would have to get another degree and be starting all over. And that wouldn't be enough income
either on a graduate school stipend and stuff. So that factored into it as well. But I'm still
interested. Maybe I'll go back at some point. Yeah, you could probably do it online in a way
from school. That's true. When I first heard you say you were going back into academia,
I thought you were going to be a consultant or something, be in the lab, which is the philosophical
role anyway. So who knows as it progresses, because you're still doing the podcast and
academia is changing and everything's changing. So who knows how it all evolves. Well, yeah,
they had to invent a new title for my position because of technicalities of my experience.
And it was a great thing. But I would love to be a consultant. I just don't know that it exists yet.
I think in practice, it definitely does. And that's what a lot of philosophers do in labs.
So in a way, they're already doing them. Is that becoming more popular to have a
philosopher consultant? I mean, they wouldn't use the word consulting, but yeah, I think it's like
that because that's what you bring. You were just talking about how philosophers are such
good critical thinkers. So you learn that skill. And then what happens is if you stay in a philosophy
department, you just argue endlessly about stuff that doesn't matter to show how great of an
arguer you are. And it's kind of exciting and titillating and all that. But you can just end
up going around and around in loops. I'm not trying to completely disparage that, but it can
become that. And it can progress things. It's just not part of the philosophy world I
am interested in pursuing. And the real, when it comes to the subjects we're talking about,
consciousness, cognition, mind, trying to understand what this is and all the implications
that we need each other in various fields. And to speak to all these subjects we're talking about,
what a philosopher can do. A philosopher in that sense is someone who can think critically or who's
looked at a lot of different paths and arguments and can then... So in a lab, you can more or less,
your best contribution is to have easily a way to think through all those different paths,
which is what I'm saying you've learned how to do with your podcast. Saying, well, we could look
at it this way or this way or this way. And did you know about this and this study? Because I
find a lot of times people are doing redundant work or they're doing work that would connect
perfectly with someone else if only they had ever heard of that person.
Yeah, that happens more and more because there's more and more science being done as well.
Yeah, that's a problem. You need replication, but you don't want to be redundant in science.
And from your position, you probably would catch a lot more of that stuff.
I would hope so. And I think I've become more fluid in terms of being able to
think between perspectives without too much pain because it's still hard and there's still friction
in terms of doing that. I think that that's one of the more valuable things is just
allowing myself to entertain more perspectives. So hopefully that's...
That's what I've noticed in your podcast. And also that you're not afraid to make people a
little bit uncomfortable, which is important. That's a fine line. I don't know how you feel
about that because one of the early criticisms that I would get is that I'm not tough enough
on the people. But I want mostly to highlight their work. I don't want it to be a gotcha moment.
No, no, that's not fun. That's not what I mean at all. That wouldn't make any sense for your
podcast. I mean more that you've read it so deeply and that if you don't understand something,
you're not afraid to say, what about this? That kind of discomfort where they have to actually
explain it. And sometimes it's, oh, I hadn't thought of it that way because that's what we need,
right? When people can do that in a way that's not trying to do the gotcha moment because that
is not beneficial. Well, that's one thing that has only increased throughout my career is knowing
how little I know and being super comfortable because I know no one knows anything. And so
I'm okay by vocalizing. I have no idea of what you're talking about and I'm super comfortable
with that. I don't know what that's related to. That's more like just showing people that it's
okay to not know something. Yeah. I think that's part of the benefit of the podcast too is that you
can show people that being a lifelong student is okay. In a weird way, that's what we're all
trying to learn because I'm sure you've probably noticed it too. I don't know if we go back to
your early years in academia, but when you do make it into academia or science, often, of course,
it's still very inspiring and amazing. But there's usually a moment, there's those moments like you
described of, whoa, you're part of something incredible. And then there's also moments where
you're like, oh, these are just normal people making mistakes, doing normal stuff. Nobody knows
anything. Yeah. Mostly trying their best. But also, this has to be true of all fields,
but I have met so many amazing, generous, kind people in academia. Not just smart, of course,
there's a lot of smart people too, but those don't always go hand in hand. And so I've just met so
many people I've just enjoyed so much and I feel so lucky to have gotten to know and interact with
and whom I feel are going to be lifelong friends at this point.
I think that's beautiful that you said that. There are some incredible people and it's so motivating
when you come across them and it's so inspiring. Just someone who you just can't believe how much
they're giving and how good they are and nobody even sees it and they don't need the recognition.
And it seems like nobody sees that, but when I really look at academia, I think that's what's
keeping it going. And that's really at the heart of all those big discoveries, even if the person
who gets pinned with a discovery sometimes isn't doing that. Yeah. Yeah. I want to temper that also
with, of course, like in any other area, there's so much politics involved and not backstabbing,
but massaging things to get your view in the spotlight and trying to seem right more than
trying to be right. And so I should have said that at first and then ended with the super
positive thing instead of ending with the dark side, right? No, but it is there. But that's what
I meant by that's the stuff that you, even in current politics, it might seem like the kind of
sexy stuff or the stuff that's powerful, but when you really start looking at it, you realize the
real power is actually something else, especially when it comes to just life quality to sort of
move towards back to your life and towards kind of wrapping up this talk for today, at least.
That feeling that you're describing and that motivation, I wonder, I know this word love isn't
like an easy word to talk about, but when I, just having listened to your podcast now for years and
I feel like it's motivating you, whether it's with you and your wife making these big decisions
or whether it's the way you talk about your kids, even though you're very funny, but it's very clear
you love your kids a lot. But also the way you respect your guests and that you've created this
community and so on. I know we don't want to talk about that word too much in connection to all this,
but- Do you get a lot of pushback from other guests on this? I think it's hard to talk about.
It is. I don't get pushback. It's hard to talk about. And I think I'm actually very careful
about it because I want us to recognize, it doesn't even have to be the word love,
but even just connection, human. I don't want it to get too saccharine where it's, you know,
because I find love to be quite like uncomfortable at times and a harder thing. Like it has an edge
to it. A feeling of love or an act of love? Well, how do you think of love? I can sit with
different paradoxical views of it, right? Because on the one hand, I think I grew up
assuming that love was something one felt. And as I get older and have had children,
it doesn't matter how you feel, it's what you do. And so I've shifted to at least include
love as a behavior or action, like a loving action. And I tend to lean toward that over
the feeling itself, because you can have a feeling and nothing will be different, right?
Well, we can go into all kinds of neuroscience and philosophy on that one. Like what's the
difference between the feeling and the action and the mind and action and all this? And I guess,
like to summarize, we would say we hold the paradox, right, after this conversation?
Yeah. But I do want to dig into it just a little bit, because the feeling we're fed in media
of what love is, where you really feel this kind of everything is good in the world or something.
I don't think that's necessarily the feeling of love all the time. For me, because to be honest,
even as a kid, love has been, when I feel love, I almost feel pain because you can't do anything
about it. But you just have to feel it. It's like with the kids, right? You can't do anything about
it. You just got to be with it. And it's not, it's painful in a way. And yes, you have to act,
acting out of that is the real love. But yeah, so what do you mean by the feeling of love?
Oh, the feeling, you know, like meeting, watching my children being born, meeting,
and getting to know my wife and, you know, that gut kind of visceral tingling sensation that
your thoughts gets right, like your current situation gives rise to. And so that's kind of
what I mean by, and then realizing, oh, like, I really, really love this person. And so that's
sort of the feeling or realization. Or recently, a little over a year ago, my grandfather died.
And he, I was kind of, he'd been bedridden in the hospital and he was really going downhill.
I'm sorry, I don't need for this to be a morbid tale. But he did the thing where he like, people
had gone and visited him and I hadn't been able to make it yet. He did the thing where he waited
for me before he died, you know? Like that's my interpretation. I know there are other,
but that's what everyone has said. And I know that from, you know, nursing home situations,
that that happens quite frequently. So I got there, I got to say goodbye to him. I was the
last person to see him alive. I hung out with him, you know, for a couple hours in the night.
And then he died, you know, an hour or two after I left. So he was dead the next morning.
And I say that like, so I don't know what that is from his perspective, but I felt such love.
And I felt such love for him also, as a grandfather, as a man, as a human being,
really. He's a very kind, generous, funny man. But I felt that connection between he and I as well.
And so that's another feeling of love.
Thank you for sharing that. I think that's very beautiful. And it actually speaks to a lot of
what I was trying to express, but not so well, because there's your grandfather, right? He has
no, there's no motivating factor for him to do that other than love.
He was not in a great situation. And you're right that it is accompanied by a sort of crushing
feeling, right? It almost destroys you in some sense.
Yeah, I've really felt that at times. Even the love for your grandfather, in my case,
my grandmother. And she's been gone. I don't know if you still think about your grandfather a lot,
but my grandmother passed away, but I still have it sometimes. Where it's just so,
I cannot believe how much I love this person who's not even in the world anymore. But
there's a continuity.
I was just crying a couple nights ago about it. Just sitting with just the reflection
and thinking about the person. And if, you know, it's not just my grandfather,
I'm just using that as an example. But.
You can't get away from it. You know, there's some meaning in there. There's some,
even when it's painful, there's some feeling of life, real meaning and real, you don't care
about your legacy, but you have a legacy, right? And so these things you're creating
and your relationship with your grandfather, how that's going to be transmitted into your kids,
like you don't, you have no choice. It's happening.
Yeah. I'll go along with that.
You don't have to. Do you disagree?
I mean, I think you do have a choice, right? To act differently. You don't have maybe a
choice. The action is a choice.
But the feeling, perhaps not. But I mean, it's a cycle, right? When you act a certain way,
it's going to potentially dictate your feelings as well.
Actually, that's an important point. Yeah. Okay. Was there anything we
haven't said that needs to be said or any final?
I think so. I just, I really appreciate the conversation. Slightly painful in a very good
way at times, but I appreciate your interest and your gratitude. I mean, you said a lot of nice
things about what I'm doing and I just, I feel a lot of gratitude for your appreciation. Thank
you, Andrea. Keep me posted about your book and how your work is going. I'm sure we'll be in touch.
Yeah. Okay. Thank you so much, Paul. Have a good day and thanks for being patient and staying on.
