Hi everyone, it's Andrea. I have been asked to continue with my research diaries.
I'm coming to the end of my PhD but the research continues and someone pointed out recently
and it kind of breaks my heart a little bit so that some of this stuff on this channel
is a little too much for people who haven't studied philosophy or science when they first
come to it. They're interested in it but they don't know where to begin or, you know,
they feel like they need to have 5,000 degrees from whatever in science and philosophy and
technology and yes I've studied all these things but that's just because I'm strange
and obsessive and I have way too many degrees and honestly the degrees don't matter. That's
not what this is about. I want you to know this is about care. It's about what we care about and
just because this channel is about all kinds of nerdy things that I care about doesn't mean that
if you don't know what they are, if you've never heard of them, that somehow you're missing
something. You're not. There's just so many little worlds in the world and this is one of them.
That's all. But there is a bigger point here that I think I do want everyone to understand
and that has to do with the way we think about our brain and our cognition and what brains and
cognition are is. So I do just today I want to talk off the top of my head because that's what
these are. I have no idea what I'm gonna say except that I want to say that right now in the world we
have an assumption that our brain is our mind and that that is somehow something like a computer
and this is not the whole story at all. In fact we created computers in order to try to understand
a very very very small little tip of the iceberg part of what is actually cognition and cognition
is a bodily activity. The brain is part of the nervous system which is part of extends through
your whole body. Your central nervous system is kind of like the the road or the highway or the
mycelium that's connecting all your body to itself in a dynamic ongoing way. There's also
the peripheral nervous system. You have neurons in all kinds of parts of your body. So this idea
that you have a brain where all your mind is and all your intelligence and everything's locked in
your head isn't true. That doesn't mean that computational ways of thinking about it aren't
very helpful. They are. But part of what I'm trying to get at here is to express that what
cognition is, what we understand as mind, our mind, our intelligence. Intelligence is a tricky word
but let's just say in the most generalized way what we think of as our mind, as ourselves in
many ways because we often identify with it, is a very small part of a bodily action and there's
no beginning or ending to that. It's ongoing. It's your whole body, everything you feel,
all of your senses. My dog is down there making noise. Say, Holly. Holly, what are you doing?
She also has mind and body and her own sort of way of being in the world. It's nothing like mine
or it's connected to me because we spend so much time together. But the point is she also has a
nervous system and a brain and it's not a computer. But I just want to, if there's a kind of takeaway
right now from this channel, I want you to know that what I'm trying to explore is that we are
incredibly lucky that we have come to this place where we can understand that we're alive and that
we're connected to one another and mind is part of that. The brain is definitely part of that. I
studied neuroscience, I love the brain, but I also want us to remember our bodies and that we're in
an ongoing participatory dynamic relational interaction with the world all the time. It just
doesn't stop and that can be tiring and overwhelming and hard to understand, but our cognition is not
separate from that. It's not locked away in our heads. It is that process. The brain is doing a
lot of special stuff for humans and other creatures, but it's not the only way to be
minded, to have a mind. Mind is an activity. It's a process. It's ongoing. Right now we're
engaging in it together. That's something we think about a lot on this channel of how when
two people come together, they're creating a sort of third entity, so to speak, although it's not,
it can be multiple, many, many layers of what that is, but we're doing something together here
and we're extending what's possible for each other and that is also part of what mind really
is and there's a lot of people who've been studying that and you can think of cognition as arising out
of or with all these creatures, including humans, especially humans in this conversation at least,
and our bodies and our environments and our contexts. So when we talk about embodied cognition
or bodily cognition, it's not entombed in the body, but that the body is part of it. It's not that
there's a brain and then there's a body. It's all together. The brain is incredibly important. It's
part of the body, all our senses, and when we talk about ecological, there's a lot of ways to think
about that if we want to look into the literature of psychology, but we can also think of it as
ecological in the sense that it's an ecology. There's a lot of parts to it and it's immediate.
It's ongoing. There's also this sort of ongoing activity, this coupling is a word that we're doing,
this participatory sense making. We're making sense with the world. We're making sense like
our bodies are making senses as we move through the world, even as we sit, as we breathe, as we
are, and that's sense making. And then there's also making sense of things, which is this amazing
capacity we have to think about our own life and have language and feel like we're experiencing
our own habits relative to what we've been going through all our lives.
I know all that can sound really complicated, but the very basic idea, and the reason this is love
and philosophy, is that this is a process of care. Your body is caring for itself. It's
in a world that's caring for it, and at least that's the way that we want it and hope for it
to be. It's not always like that, and we aren't always cared for, but we do have the power to
care for each other. It's harder for some of us than others because we're in situations that
demand so much and that hurt and that are painful, but the reason it matters to understand
mind as embodied is that the way we act with one another and with everything around us,
including our technology, is setting sort of paths for what's possible for us as minds and as
interbeings, as creatures or as humans that live with many other beings and that live with one
another. There's not a computer in your head that's like dictating some kind of a code that you have
to follow. You're creating that code with your interaction, and if you aren't in a good place
right now, hopefully others can help you change that, and you can help yourself, and we can help
one another because all that we're having to go through in our daily lives, wherever we are in the
world, it's physical and it's mental at the same time. Those are just different words we use to
talk about what we're experiencing because it's so overwhelming it's hard to talk about it
all at the same time, but your feelings are mental, your emotions are mental and physical,
all of this, and it's your whole body, and it's all our bodies together, and the care is such an
important aspect to it, and not in a sentimental silly way, just that we really are all connected.
There's no space, there's no gap, and we can help one another, and we can help ourselves, and
only if we start to understand that we're not playing out some kind of information, data,
pattern that's arrived in the computer that is our brain. Instead, we've developed computers and
technologies and LLMs and all these wonderful, amazing, mind-blowing technologies as a way to
try to get a little tiny glimpse of what actually is happening as life and as mind, as what we call
mind, and they're so much more possible with our technology and with how we can understand one
another, but if we don't really understand that the mind is the body and we're just beginning with
technology to understand it, we are not computers, we are much more literally, and we can create much
better technology the more we understand of ourselves, so love and philosophy is about
trying to develop our critical thinking, that's the philosophy, looking into what moves us,
that's also the philosophy, like what really kind of makes you come alive, and how do you explore
that in a way that's going to add something to your life, but also the love, that that word is
not a silly word, it's not a rom-com, it's hard, it's challenging, it's about caring for yourself,
even if you, it's about understanding you're worth care, you are worth care,
you're worth being cared for by yourself and by your environment, and if you're in a place where
that's not happening, it's because things have just gotten really too chaotic and out of order
and confused and people have started trying to take power and control of what is shared
and what is all of us, and this metaphor of the brain being a computer can help that get worse,
and we don't want to help that get worse, so computation, computers, wonderful, they are doing
so much, at the same time, it's not what your brain is, and your brain is not anything without
your body, so like how can we think of mind as this ongoing process, and the brain tells us so
much about it, but because it's a body, the brain is embodied, it's bodily, I think that's my ramblings
for today, and I don't know if that's going to help anyone who's been reaching out to me,
but I'm just beginning, you can tell me what more you need, and when you read these more difficult
papers or books or whatever that I'm writing and putting out into the world soon, that's just
another level of really what I'm saying here, yeah, so I hope you're okay out there wherever
you are and that you find something to care about, a plant, an animal, another human, your own self,
you know, you care about what you put into your body if you can, and for those of you who can't,
I hope we can find a way to make it possible for you, and there's my dog saying hi,
it's time for a walk, all right, thanks for being here.
