conceptually, the body is a data gathering device. So sensory inputs come in, and then we are trying
to make sense out of those inputs, trying to construct some sort of understanding about the
world. The body is an ecosystem that includes the brain, but is not restricted to the brain,
and that the mind is that ecosystem in the world. You would think that between people who can't
make sense, they're the ones who are making sense the most, even if it's bad sense. You argue all
the time. It's nonstop, right? But there is, you also feel that third entity. And the third entity
is so shaped by love. And that's what I noticed. If I don't like what's happening, if I don't like
what's happening in my body, if I don't like what's happening in my relationships, if I don't like
what the world is doing to me, is it mutable? Is it changeable? I arrived at the profound relief
of the realization and acceptance of the futility of communication. And by that, I mean
that I had thought it was my responsibility for almost my entire life. It was my responsibility
to manage my communication with other people in such a way that they would understand what I was
saying and see my perspective and replicate my perspective. I am sort of in a place where I feel
people's social media needs to be taken away from them. And then they need to be forced into a room
with other people and made to sit there and hash it out or whatever.
The number one thing I think that's helpful for anybody is learning how to recognize when you're
hitting the end of the ramp. Because the responses to being overwhelmed or overstimulated or
complexity fatigue, the responses to things being too complex is either to shut down
or to go full suplex, right? People are so shaped by trauma because there is so much sense making
going on because there's such a desperate need to make sense of what's happening.
And the third entity is whether when the dance is not any one person making choices and making
decisions, but the agency is sort of in this third entity that is greater than the sum of the dancers.
If we don't care enough to want to connect with each other, we do not persist in the conversation.
Hello everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. Complexity fatigue, that term probably speaks
for itself regardless how you're coming to the idea of complexity. But I think I want to let
this conversation be what it is, stand for itself. It's an experiment or an example of participatory
sense making, social cognition, and this idea of the third entity which we talk about a lot here.
So if you and I come together and have a conversation, there's something that is the
third entity which is us in interaction. It's our relationship as one thing while we're connecting
and communicating. And we have these all day, all the time, in many different ways. We create meaning
together in this way. At some level we could even think of the entire world and every relationship,
even the ones that we have as our bodies, through something like this lens of interaction.
Everything is interaction, everything is relation. I'll link to a lot of papers about that in terms
of the more detailed and academic senses of all these words. But I just encourage everyone to
think about participatory sense making in whatever way that hits you right now and
what sort of sense are we making together? What meaning are we making together as a world right
now in our conversations, in what we prioritize, in what we seem to agree is important or is
successful? And the ways we do that is through making sense together towards different options
than perhaps the ones that are making us rather tired or rather overwhelmed at the moment.
I want us to have hope, to really believe in the power of love. I don't care if it sounds cheesy.
The fact that it sounds cheesy is part of the problem right now, perhaps, because making sense
together, making meaning together, making life together, making love together, this is why we're
here and this is how we find new worlds that we want to live in. This is how we make new ways and
this conversation is an example of all of these things that I'm talking about with three remarkable
women, Rebecca Todd, Shay Welch, and Penny Jean Gracefire. They will all introduce themselves,
so I won't give a long introduction here, but they're neuroscientists, philosophers,
mental health counselors, working with brain waves, working with philosophical texts
and words, but very concerned with the idea of participatory sense making,
and this is a very rich conversation, a very real conversation. It's not always optimistic,
but it's authentic and with a lot of heart, and I hope you enjoy it. Thank you for listening,
thank you for your support, and wherever you are today, I hope you make
some sense of the world with others in a way that uplifts you.
So my name is Bec Todd, and for work, I am a professor at the University of British Columbia
in the psychology department and at the Center for Brain Health, and my research is in the general
area of cognitive neuroscience, how patterns of brain activity sort of map on to what we
understand as cognitive processes like attention, learning, and memory, and I've really been
interested throughout my work in how our life experience shapes us so that we see certain
things in the world and don't see others, and as a result of seeing them or hearing them,
we perceive some things and not others of all the things that are in the world,
and by perceiving those things also think about them, remember them, learn about them in certain
ways, and so I think that's something that's interesting on a lot of different levels,
and lately I've been very interested in studying something that in adults has not been very well
studied, which is how the dynamics of our interactions with other people actually shape
what matters to us and therefore what we actually perceive of the world, and I think that is the
area where in different ways I overlap with both Penny Jean and with Shea.
And you also have written some really beautiful articles which talk about that work and about
their work, which I'll definitely link to. So I do, I write some stack newsletter where I
kind of think out loud about the things that really interest me and have the privilege of
interviewing interesting people like the people here today.
It's actually very good writing too. I think you must be a journalist in your other life, but...
I was a journalist in this life, actually.
Oh, in this life, okay.
Is that this is my second career before I came back, went back to school actually in my 40s,
I mean, no, sorry, 30s. I turned 40 in grad school. So my late 30s I went back to school,
but before that I was working as a choreographer, a contemporary dance
choreographer and a journalist writing about the arts.
So we share that.
We share that we both went back to school in our 30s at least.
Oh, yeah.
Shea or Penny Jean or whoever wants to go.
Penny, that was right into you.
Well, all right then.
Yeah.
My name is Penny Jean Gracefire and I'm a licensed mental health clinician
who specializes in neuro technology. And part of the reason I went that direction
is that anyone who has sat on a couch across from a person on another couch
and attempted to exchange information can probably recognize the inherent limitations
in that informational exchange with another person.
And so my core interest has been how do I data gather about how people work
and how they construct their kind of unique individual experiences
of their environments in their world and then communicate that to other people.
And what are the actual possible tangible, measurable, observable data points about human
function? Can we actually gather to try to match the narrative that people develop for themselves
and talk about? And so for me that ended up being neuro technology.
Can we measure brain activity and what it's doing to give us insight into how people
construct that lived experience that they then try to communicate to each other?
Wonderful.
Penny, did you not want to say what your company is or the name of your fancy?
I also founded Brain Start Innovations, which is a research and design and consulting company
specifically around helping to bring newer, maybe more, let's just say we're trying to take
advantage of the actual advances in technology that we have to bring products to a wider
accessibility and affordability level so that anybody can just do, anybody can look at their
brain and actually look at the information and do something with it. For example, I follow a
tattoo artist that I followed this guy for like seven years on Instagram and a couple of days ago
I was scrolling. Turns out he got one of those little more accessible, affordable little EEG
headsets and he is measuring somebody's EEG and then turning it into, you know, images and line
art that he can then tattoo onto them so he can look at their brain states and then make tattoos
out of visualizations of that data. And the humorous element is that when I followed him
seven years ago I thought, you know, I'm really into EEG. This guy's line work looks like it's
perfect for doing like a unique EEG tattoo of me and myself, of my own brain waves.
One day when I want to do that I'm gonna put this guy first in the line and reach out to him.
Seven years later he's out here naturally being drawn towards sort of the artistic capability
of taking bio data about ourselves, visualizing, and then turning it into art. And I was like,
yeah, we're all drawn towards this idea of understanding ourselves and expressing that
through art. And as the technology becomes more affordable and usable, more people are like,
yeah, I'd love to find out what's going on with myself and express it.
Yeah, and just for, if there's anyone who doesn't know what EEG is, maybe you could just really quick.
Sure. EEG stands for electroencephalogram. In electrical, encephal is brain,
goriam is picture, Instagram. So it's a picture of the electrical activity in your brain.
Most people have seen the little squiggles maybe on TV or like a medical drama show or even
potentially in real life. We're essentially measuring what the brain is doing at any given
point in time. And over the last 20 to 30 years, the analytical programs we have to turn those
little data points into significant meaning that's representing human function experience
has really just rocketed. So we're at a pretty fascinating point in human capability and
development where we can understand things and have insight about things that wasn't possible
even 20 years ago. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay, Shay. Okay. I am the glue that holds us all together,
or at least that stuck, got us stuck together. I am Shay Welch. I am an associate professor of
philosophy at Spelman College. I do all kinds of weird things that range all the way from like
feminist ethics to public art, to the cognitive science aspect of it. And so there are two sides
of my research right now. So like one side of it is related to the participatory sense making,
which I assume that we'll talk about, about the way that bodies can communicate between each other
purposefully through the use of public art in public spaces. And then, and that's where Penny
got involved with me because Penny Jean was running EEGs on people while they were watching
the artist perform. And then Beck came in and helped me do some experiments and some ethnography
work. And then we were talking about the, the neuroscience of it all in terms of the participatory
sense making. And then my work also relates to both of them in another direction, which is that
they're both interested in the ways in which the brain figures out what matters to themselves
in interaction with other people. So like how interactions with other people determine the
way that people see the world in terms of what is valuable to them for shaping their own lives. And
so I use that information to also talk about the reciprocal nature of how that works,
about how people are subject to the treatment of others and then see the world in a certain kind
of way. And then that boomerangs back and they start to enact the world in a certain way that,
especially in trauma cases, which Penny Jean is also related to, that can cause disruptions in
the ability to have a symmetrical comprehension of the dynamic. And so then you have people who
can't make sense of each other because one person's worldview has been shaped in terms of what matters
are significant through a traumatic lens. And then so it just kind of boomerangs back and forth where
there's just disruptive attempts to make sense between each other and is typically constantly
resulting in failures of communication and abilities to make sense. So I guess I take more
of like the ethical interpersonal aspect of what Beck and Penny Jean do. So it sort of starts with
Beck being very science, neuroscience brain, and then Penny Jean gets more interpersonal. And then
I'm literally at the applied ethical interaction stage. So we make a nice line between each other
in terms of a direction. So all of you together can solve everything. The three of you have
everything. Yes, naturally. We'll all be waiting. No, but it's very fascinating that it's so many
different sides of are we trying to understand what's going on? We all have different sensitivities.
We all have different perceptions. Maybe we can start with the body. What is the body for you?
And by the way, feel free to ask each other questions or whatever you want. Everybody can
do whatever they want here. But I want to think about the body and how you think of it. Is it a
interface for all the stuff that you all just described? Is it?
Beck, I'm calling on you because I know y'all are just going to sit back and like wait.
Yeah, that's a really good question. I mean, to me, as somebody who has for
my academic career studied mostly the brain as a part of the body, I think that the body is an
ecosystem that includes the brain but is not restricted to the brain and that the mind is
that ecosystem in the world. So I think of the body of being a certain level of ecosystem
that contains maybe smaller micro ecosystems of which we can think about the brain as one of
those, but again, not as an isolated one. And then that ecosystem, of course, that is the body
is embedded in larger ecosystems of culture and family and the more than human world.
It's embedded in all of these. So I see it as being sort of one scale of ecosystem within
nested ecosystems at different scales. Is it kind of the ultimate ecosystem or not ultimate? But
if you're thinking about sense making and participation on the most kind of normal level,
even dance, because we separate the body into all these different senses and it's all categorized
into many different ways, but in just an everyday interaction, is the body, is there a way of
being in that situation or the word interface comes up a lot, but I wonder what that really.
No, it's a wild because I'm literally sitting here going,
I'm trying to find another word besides interface.
Yeah, I hate that word. That's why I was hoping someone would say no,
but it does kind of, because it's this place, as Beck just was saying, we could look at any
sort of membrane as an interface and all these different nested levels, but I guess I'm trying
to get into someone mentioned, I think Shay, you talked about how you were looking at the EEG
recordings while someone was watching a dance performance. I think you and Beck are also doing
something like that of thinking about a performance and what was happening there. So are you thinking
of it as you're trying to understand this body in relation to this external world? Are you trying
to understand the inside and the outside or how can people understand what's really going on here?
The whole time that y'all are talking and y'all are saying things like ecosystem and interfaces,
I'm just thinking like a wet sponge that just goes out into the world and it's kind of leaking
affect and then it's like absorbing affect and then you can squeeze it and then it just leaks
more affect. You know what I mean? So like in my mind, there's like this little cartoon shaped
body that's like swirling in colors and I'm just like, you know, in my mind, it's like, oh, affect
is just pumping out and affect is stopping in and then the emotions are all coloring all over the
body and so so Beck's like ecosystem and I'm thinking, oh, I'm very unsophisticated in my
conception of the body because I just being like the ethicist aspect of it, you know, thinking of
the body is nowhere in sense maker and actor, right? It doesn't seem, the body doesn't seem to
me to be a place or a space or a thing or I feel like the body as person, right? The body as person
frolicks about the world and just has this permeable interchange with everything that's
going around it between the sun and the sound of the ice cream man and like all of these responses
to it and sending it out and it's like dogs are barking when you're walking by and the window's
blowing into your eyes and I'm just thinking of the person and the body and like everything
is making sense on the body and through the body and then coming out of the body and so for me,
it's just this big whirlwind that's going around having these whirling interactions with other
bodies and that's- That's good. That's messy and that's good you brought that up because there's
not these little nice neat loops like the ones we draw in pictures of all these kind of things
happening. It is very messy but we're not stuck in our bodies. We're not stuck in our heads. We're
not in the world or- I think it's everywhere. I mean we're in the world and I mean we have a head.
The head is in the world and the world is also on our head, right? So it's for me, it's always
thinking about the fact that we are- we are not enacting the world without the world enacting
itself on us and so whatever push there is, there's a push back from whatever it is, right?
And always trying to think about the body is in interaction. Like it's in interaction all the time
and so because it's always making sense of the world and it's always having a response to the
world even if it's dialed down. I know if I'm on the phone but I'm walking to the park or whatever
you know I'm paying attention to my phone call but I'm also paying attention to the way that
the earth feels beneath my feet and I'm also paying attention to the ways in which the wind
is blowing and I'm also you know I'm paying attention to all of these things and all of
those things are talking to me at the same time. I have so many different interactions going on
with my body. I think sometimes our body is so enacting in relation with the world in so many
different ways that it's almost incalculable and can't calculate the extent to which we're
literally in interaction in our spaces, right? So I guess and I don't think that it's messy,
I think that it's ginormous and exciting, right? So I think of it in this really bubbly
kind of exciting dynamic way instead of like concerns for all the leakage.
But when you can measure, is that the right word? These frequencies, these brainwaves of a person.
So how do you see that? Because there's some modulation, right? There's something,
the way that I'm going to be in the world and what you're going to measure
that's happening to me when I watch Shea dance or something, when I watch Shea the aerial dancer,
is going to be different than Beck. So what's that? Is that right? Is that what you see in your work?
I am going to appropriate Shea M. Beck's phrase, participatory sense making,
and redeploy it in the way that I would potentially use it myself. So if we're going
to break down the concept of making sense, then sensory inputs come in. Conceptually,
the body is a data gathering device. So sensory inputs come in and then we are trying to
make sense out of those inputs, trying to construct some sort of understanding about the world.
And I think for a lot of us, it's quite true that we don't do purposeful intentional
evaluation or data gathering behaviors to actively intentionally participate
in the ways that we make sense of the world. And so I think for many of us, there's a lot of
understandable bandwidth difficulty. So many things are happening. There's so many data points.
We can take in a lot of sensory inputs simultaneously. But at some point, we have
to then select or choose what to prioritize or what to pay attention to and what to engage with
when we shift from I'm taking stuff in to now I am responding and I am attempting to make
sense back to you. I'm participating in the sense making and now you are going to have a sense of me
and then you were going to try to make sense of that and then you're going to try to express
something back and then we participate together and making a third. So as we are constructing
our own experience, constructing experience for other people, constructing experience together
and trying to communicate about it, as I break down those concepts, the thing that always stands
out for me is how much we intentionally inquire, do data gathering, ask questions, and then attempt
to purposefully construct how we make sense out of things and what that means. And so when
we're taking something like EEG and trying to understand, make sense out of how the brains work,
what is your brain capable of doing? What insights does looking at electrical brain activity give us?
Everything I'm doing is very inquiry driven because I as an individual am an incessant
question asker who has just attempted to leverage being an annoying kid into a career.
And so when I listen to Beck and Shay talk about this very corporeal, physical,
invested, interactive experience they have with the world, I reflect a little bit on how one of
the things that's very helpful in a therapeutic rapport building approach is to genuinely ask
somebody sort of towards the beginning of trying to interact with them, understand what's happening
mental or physical health wise, is ask them, if I were to ask you to physically point at the place
where you exist, like you are conceptually, there is a you that you conceptualize, physically point
where you exist, I have had such a wide range of answers. Can you share one or two? Now I'm
definitely going to share. If we were to do that now, if y'all were to physically identify
where your sense of yourself exists, where would you point? I don't think I can point. It feels
like because I've been doing this fill your whole body thing. Every single one of you had an initial
immediate reflex response to that idea that she was inhibited and didn't share and are now
thinking about. If you were to just go back to that first initial impulse you had,
what was it? Your whole body, you said? For me, it was my whole body because I've been trying to do
this meditation where I fill myself as my body. So that's lingering in me, where you actually fill
your body as it's living. You can almost fill the energy in all of your body if you put your
attention on it. The attention awareness thing is what changes that, I think. But what about Bec?
Yeah, almost the same. My whole body, but also a little bit of electrical field around it.
And then I guess mine is like this zoom zoom through my fingers and my hands. So it's like,
where do I exist? But it also probably makes sense with my nerve issues because I have
nerve sensations that just go through my fingers up and down my legs and to my toes.
And it's kind of, you know, Bec was like the electrical field, whereas even right now I just
feel electricity circulating through my body. So I think that I don't have a spot. I am electricity.
So yeah, so mine's just like racing around, which is cool. It's like a little race track
of my body of electricity. That's good. What about you? The one who asked the question,
does it always the same answer for you, Benji? So it is, interestingly. For me, I exist up here.
It's probably about two feet to the left of what I would consider my head to be.
I didn't expect that answer. That's fascinating.
Here's what's interesting. And here's part of why I ask these types of questions, right?
Is because the way that we consider an orientation response, a lot of what we do,
like cognitively and subcordically and subcognitively to try to interact with the
world is parts of our brain are trying to track what's happening around us to do that data
gathering and also to prioritize what's important for like attention or survival or social
interaction, whatever. And so all of us have a very visceral kind of lower brain orientation
response that can be impacted by brain injury or trauma or a lot of other things. So the idea of
that proprioceptive conceptualization, where am I in space? Where are you in space? What does that
mean? I'll ask people. A lot of people put their hands on their belly and say,
I'm here. Some people will say chest. I've had throat. I've had full body. I've had,
I don't exist in my body. The description of I'm a field around my body. People will say
really different things. They usually come in some relational language because I'll say,
but you'll notice that I phrased it, point at a location in space. I didn't say point in your
body. I didn't say, I leave it very general. And then people interpret that in different ways. So
the way they even interpret the question, because I said point and you said, I can't point.
And so some people have like a pinpoint location that they believe sort of. And so the point of
the exercise is even just that early inquiry data gathering stage of going, how am I even supposed
to have this conversation with somebody about what they think our body is or who they think
they are in relationship or where? How do I have these spatialization conversations without doing
a little mapping first? And we're all doing a certain amount of cartography emotionally or
situationally in any given point. And so the brain mapping, which is what we call it, is us literally
doing some data gathering and then trying to lay that information out in kind of these analytical
frameworks to then make sense out of what we're looking at, right? And I think that the whole
reason I went on this arc, it was the participation, the participatory element of the
sense making is that I don't think all of us are maybe the level of map makers that we have the
capability of being. And we're not always considering that we've got options and choices
for how we intentionally drive our interactions with the world. And so really I think everything
behind whatever I'm trying to do is can we ask questions that help people better conceptualize
or even just be more curious about is if I don't like what's happening, if I don't like what's
happening in my body, if I don't like what's happening in my relationships, if I don't like
what the world is doing to me, is it mutable? Is it changeable? Like, can I do a different thing?
What am I capable of so far as changing my own participatory sense making procedures,
maybe make different sense?
Yeah. And in a way, that's what a lot of the work that you all described at the beginning is
oriented towards helping people. And as you were asking these questions and we were all answering,
I was thinking of two things. One, you said your feeling of yourself was to the right. That's
very interesting. And I thought, yeah, I kind of understand because sometimes when I'm outside and
I see a bird fly or something, I kind of have this feeling like I'm the bird for a minute.
There's a sense in which you can kind of fill yourself as other movement. But the other thing
was, I wonder as a kid, if we are just so immersed in the participation that we don't think of,
if you ask a kid, where are you? Have you ever asked a kid where are you or point to where you
are? I wonder if it's different. You said something about awareness or that words come up a few times
too. And I guess what I'm getting at is a lot of us, we notice that we're feeling the world or
feeling our bodies differently from others around us at some point. And that's when a lot of these
troubles come that then we're all here trying to heal. What does that bring up all that rambling
for any of you? The conversation that I had with Beck that turned into part of the recent article
she wrote about a multiplicity of worlds. In that conversation, we discussed the idea of at
what point during your sort of growth, your maturational experience, you start realizing
that you are different than other people. And then how does that affect your conceptualization
and you're trying to interact with the world? And I think Beck probably has some
thoughts and insight on that. I was thinking actually of what you said, you had a very
clear way of describing how there was a certain point when you were a kid where you realized
that the way that you were perceiving the world and what you enjoyed from the world was not
what other people perceived and enjoyed. And I think you said in a way that was both articulate
and very funny in a way that you found that you were talking about how we tend to be attracted
to people who share the sort of same pleasures and dislikes in the world and that you really
didn't feel able to interact with the people around you because you didn't take pleasure
in the same things. So that was one thing that really struck me and stayed with me about what
you said, Penny Jean. The other thing, and I think a lot of us probably have very similar
experiences. If it wasn't one moment in development, it was just sort of getting
that impression over time. You kind of feel different or weird, but it was interesting.
It really struck me, Penny Jean, what you said about that you experience yourself,
you know, up into the left or that's my right, but up into your left, because I wonder if
how we experience ourselves doesn't change over development in interesting ways.
Because I have a memory of when I was about four years old, like right now after, you know,
so many years of doing dance and yoga and feeling my body as like, you know, within its electrical
field as a whole. But when I was about four, I went through a period where I perceived myself
sort of from the direction that you described, probably upper right. And from the perspective
of this very judgy mother and child that would look down on me and comment on me.
And later when I grew up and studied developmental psychology, I realized that that is about the
age where you're developing this sort of very, very explicit theory of mind, right? Where you
know that other people have a perspective on you that is not your perspective. And that's when
a lot of shame develops and stuff like that. So for me, it was this very literal, and the mother
and daughter came from, I think my mother had this book called Mothercraft, and in it there was this
photo of this judgy looking mother and daughter. And that was what I somehow was viewing myself
from their perspective. And you know, that was a brief period I think I don't know about before
then. I don't have a lot of memory before then. After then, I did seem to find myself located much
more in my first person body. But there was a developmental phase. And I wonder how common it
is that as we learn that other people have perspectives on us that are very separate from
our own first person experience, that we sort of have these weird shifts of how we locate ourselves.
That's wonderful. But you don't have that feeling, Pinedjine. You're not seeing yourself as if you
were a critic or something. When you see yourself to the left, fill yourself to the left, whatever
it is. So I'm going to try to keep this as brief as possible. I could absolutely talk about this
indefinitely. One of the reasons I think I have a little trouble relating sometimes and have spent
so much of my both young and adult mental energy on the idea of how can I relate more effectively
to other people does come from a very early theory of mind conceptualization as a kid.
But also is born out of I have recognized at some point that my experience of life is more of a
cumulative historical record than it is a shifting ongoing sort of more central nowness
that many people seem to interact with the world and a lot of people are very episodic.
As they change and develop over life, they don't necessarily retain and reference all the way back
to the beginning of the historical record in a cumulative way, not consciously. And I think
the fact that I do that, that I remember things from when I was six months old,
one year old, I have distinct sense memories from very early on that I haven't lost over time
and everything accumulates for me. There are two things that come out of that that I think are
in some ways useful and other ways does make it more challenging for me to kind of relate to
people in helpful ways. And those two things are that if you think about everything that has
ever happened all of the time at the same time, the amount of bandwidth that that regularly
requires from you to sort of engage ongoingly with a constant present stream of data bits
shapes kind of like what you have available, but also in a way as an exercise,
I think may have expanded the range of what I consider to be normal to be thinking about
simultaneously all the time. It took me a little bit of effort to understand that that's not like,
everyone's not working with this big historical matrix regularly as just like a background hum.
The second reason that I think this has kind of shaped everything is because as I realize people
don't typically do this, that they sort of move through their lives, they change, they develop,
you have episodes or eras as the kids say. I'm now entering my era of because I don't sort of
live in a period of eras, there's this long geological record that also means that I'm
having trouble sometimes sharing experience with other people. And so if I try to talk about things
and I see words that make no relational sense to how other people experience the world,
then communication is not achieved. So that means that I am regularly operating from a
theory of mind perspective, that I have to constantly think about how other people see me
at the same time that I try to think about what's a me, you're a you, I'm a me, we're a you know,
as I have to constantly keep all those constructions simultaneously. And it's very rare
for me to just say things in any sort of unfiltered way without trying to consider
how you might be experiencing the thing I'm saying. So I genuinely can't live in my body
if I wish to interact with other bodies, because my natural interaction style would be
unintelligible to most other people.
Jump in with a question, Nanny. That's like really fascinating. Do you know the research that
at UC Irvine, Jim McGahn, Larry Cahill did on these super, super autobiographical memory people?
Joe Price and stuff.
Yeah, yeah, they're these people who, who like, it sounds a lot like you describe, they can like
any day, you know, you name a date, they can tell you what they ate, what they wore, what happened,
and that they don't, you know, the idea, the idea in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience
before these people, you know, before researchers became aware of these people is that we,
we need to forget, we forget for a reason because we don't have the bandwidth to retain it all.
But now it appears there are people like you who do retain it all. Are you, are you that extreme
and that you can remember if I could say, you know, July 17th, you know, 1983, that you could
remember it? Or is, are you just just like very high bandwidth?
So it isn't that extreme. In fact, it's not numerical, right? Like a lot of people do,
like when you ask most people, like, tell me what was happening to you in seventh grade,
like people will block their eras out into grades or when I had which kid or, you know,
where I was in my schooling. And so like we, where we lived geographically, if we moved around,
most people have ways of blocking out those eras in their life history, right? I don't really
have a good blocking mechanism because it's all just sort of the same thing. And then I use an
inquiry mechanism to go in and attempt to like just emerge whatever I think a salient data bit
that I want to go back and retrieve is. So for me, it's almost always conceptual and rarely
that static, I ate this color apple on this day, right? Every apple I've ever eaten merges into
concepts of apples into infinity. Now I say that, I think this is part of the reason that
my friendship with Shay has lasted as long as it has and has been as helpful and interesting
as it has been is because I'm a very visual memory person and I'm like a strong visualizer
and Shay and I recently through trying to kind of work on visual aids for educational purposes
together have learned that the way I visualize and the way she visualizes are very different.
And I really like every two months, every two weeks, I'm constantly discovering things I
didn't realize about people in my immediate vicinity and having to update the mechanism
for information processing. And so even just a recent conversation with Shay,
she was going, explain this brain map to me. And I was like, yes, it's so simple. Just look at the
map. And she's like, quit telling me to look at the picture. Just tell it to me in words. I'm like,
well, but the picture has the data. And she's like, tell it to me in words. And I'm like,
okay, but I can't separate the words from the picture. And she's like, I'm pretty sure you
can. Quit pointing me at the picture. But it was just that process of like, for her, the pictorial
information was not very useful. And for me, the pictorial information was everything. And I was
trying to meet in the middle about what was the genuine like concept in between those two
conceptual. That was like actually tremendously useful for me. And I'm having experiences with
people around me who are really very intelligent and expressive and analytical, but they're not
processing and holding content in the same way I do. So that attempt to exchange content and
experience is, I mean, I don't know if anything is participatory sense making except for like
exactly what I'm talking about, which is why I'm actually deeply interested in what Shay and Orbeck
mean when they say like from a cognitive neuroscience or from like an analytical
philosophical perspective, when they say participatory sense making, what did they actually
mean? Yeah, well, so yeah, yeah, because it mean a lot of things. A couple of thoughts that just
came to mind. First of all, the example you described, do you think that's partly training?
Because you and I are trained to read brain maps and you showed me your brain maps and I immediately
saw what you see. But Shay is trained in philosophy. She's trained in a very verbal, I just,
the training is a different way of thinking. So it's just like you and I have the same like years of
looking at brain maps and talking to other people that look at brain maps that when we look at brain
maps, we see certain things that are not going to be apparent to somebody who's spent years training
in a whole different other way of thinking. But the other thing I wanted to say about participatory
sense making and kind of add to what you've been talking about Penny is, so first of all, the term
gets credited to Hannah DeAger and Ezekiel DiPaolo. They really coined the term. They published a
2007 paper. So I just want to give proper credit to the concept. And the other thing that is,
I guess, a key component to the idea of participatory sense making to me is the fact
that beyond the individuals who are constantly trying to make sense of and be made sense of,
there is the interaction. There's a dynamic of the interaction itself. And that takes on,
it's this sort of emergent property. It takes on a life of its own. So that we participate in it,
and it participates in us. And the sense we make is sort of different with that sort of interactive
dynamic than it would be without it. And one reason I'd like to use dance as a way of looking
at this is, if you look at dancers who practice a form of improvisation called contact improvisation,
they talk about something called the third entity. And the third entity is when the dance is not any
one person making choices and making decisions, but the agency is sort of in this third entity
that is greater than the sum of the dancers. And I think that's kind of a wonderful way of thinking
of it. And when you talk about sort of, when you think about that in relation to say an audience
and a performer, you can think about, and it can be on a highly conceptual level, but also a very
embodied kind of pre-reflective level, which is where I tend to focus on looking at it.
So that you could, for example, measure coordination between brain waves, between heart
rates, between movement patterns, between that person in the audience and the performer, and see
the degree, to see the frequencies on which they resonate and don't resonate. I'm interested in
looking at how these different patterns of falling in and out of coordination, maybe shape our
attention. And they shape what matters. And by shaping what matters, shape our attention.
And that's something that's been pretty well studied in infancy, with dynamics between
infants and caregivers and how it shapes what they attend and care about, but not so much in
adults. So that's the sort of a layer I wanted to add on to what you described. And again, you look
at it a very, like, it sounds like your experiences is very, very conscious and very explicit. You have
access to what's going on at all of these levels. Whereas I would say, just taking myself as an
example, I have very ADHD, poor attentional resources. I don't have the bandwidth to do that.
So I feel like a lot of my engagement in those levels is much more pre-reflective, just because
I don't have the bandwidth for it to be reflective. I think I was going to add on to that. The thing
about the brain map is, like, that's just an example. It's not about training. You can't show
me a visual cue. Like, when people use PowerPoints during presentations, I have to close my eyes or
turn away from it. Like, if you give me anything visual, it causes me, like, literal distress.
So Penny and I were having quite a traumatic exchange. It was a very long interchange, and I
was getting very, like, distressed. And Penny was like, look at the picture. And I was like,
Penny, please stop telling me to look at the picture. I can't look at the picture. I was,
like, traumatized. I was like, stop showing. She would, like, send me more pictures. And I'm like,
Penny, stop. Why are you being so mean to me? And it's like this weird thing, because Penny and I
are very similar people. And we have very similar histories. And if you can tell, our communicative
styles and our affective styles are polar opposites. So you have, like, Penny and me in a
kitchen, and I'm all over the place, and I'm hyped up, and I'm all arms swinging around everywhere.
And then Penny Jean is just sitting on her stool, and she's gathering data from the things that I'm
talking about. And she, you know, I throw things in the air, and she plucks them out. She sorts them.
And it's like this weird thing where I'm throwing things at her, and she's trying to organize them,
and I'm like, stop it. Stop it, Penny. And she's like, she, it's okay. We're gonna make sense out
of this. It's gonna be, and I'm like, but we can't make sense out of it if you just keep moving it
around. And so that's just, she and I will just sit there for hours. And it's like, that's how we
interact. And it's like chaos. It's, Beck, I think you saw this with Anne-Marie and me. I tend to,
and Penny Jean saw this, the way that I partner up with people who are more organizational.
And so we have these sort of really chaotic interactions that are fruitful and, like,
senseless, fully thriving in terms of making sense. And anyone from the outside would be looking at
and being like, y'all are not making sense in any sort of way. So this third entity aspect is
really interesting because it really does exist as, like, an envelope in a certain sort of way of,
like, the whirls of interaction that's happening that's enveloping both participators or more
or whatever. And when you have people, I tend to think people who have different styles
probably make sense together more successfully because there's so much intentional effort that
has to go into the communication. And it has to be based on a desire to sustain the interaction,
right? And so if you're just with somebody who's your own vibe, a lot of things are just
flying loose, right? Just escaping these sort of, like, loose and chill,
vibing. Like, I can talk about Penny and my interactions more specifically in ways that,
like, my friend Carlton will come over. And we both just, like, chill. And he, like, scrolls
through Instagram and eye color or something, and, like, we just vaguely chat at each other,
and it's kind of a super chill. But I couldn't tell you anything about any of our interactions,
like, what's going on. And so I do think, and this is the interesting thing about trauma, is I think
that people are so shaped by trauma because there is so much sense-making going on. Because there's
such a desperate need to make sense of what's happening. And that the person or environment
that would be enacting the traumatic context has such a need to ignore the sense-making
interactions, right? So it's this weird thing where there's so much investment in the dynamic
that you would think that between people who can't make sense, they're the ones who are making sense
the most, even if it's bad sense. And then a sense of good sense. Like, so you use the example,
so I've only seen you and Penny Jean interact virtually, but I have seen you and Anne-Marie,
who is an engineer, a friend of, a friend and collaborator of Shay's, who's an engineer,
very rational, very organized, interact. They both calm me down. They are both my,
like Penny Jean and Anne-Marie are my anchors. They're the ones who keep me,
they step in when I start to spiral and they just like yank me down.
So I observed, but I've observed your interactions with Anne-Marie and you argue all the time. It's
nonstop, right? But there is like, you also feel that third entity like, and the third entity is so
shaped by love. And that's what I noticed. You've been talking about the situations where
the capacity for sense-making is shaped by trauma, but this seems to be almost a counter
example in interaction where there is more effortful sense-making going on, but it's totally
shaped by love. Because that's what I get from your interactions that I've observed with both
Penny Jean and with Anne-Marie. Thanks for bringing that up. Everything you just said reminded me also
of the writing from both articles where you're asking kind of how do people be in the same place
and experience it differently? And also I think it's Bryce maybe who has this, he can't visualize
when Shay was saying, well, but we persist and that actually makes more sense, but that does kind
of, is a kind of love, right? That you have to be participating into or to go through that because
these aren't easy things, are they? Right. I mean, what both Penny and Shay have talked about in my
discussions with them is like the different levels at which we live in different worlds from people.
So Penny Jean has also talked quite a bit about how our sensory systems at a very sort of basic
level are organized differently. We have individual differences in that. And then there's all the
individual differences in experience that cause different things to matter to us. And so we perceive
them, you know, we've pursued different aspects of the environment. And so you have these sort
of layers upon layers of these sort of gulfs between us where we live in different worlds
and, you know, so one thing that Penny Jean has talked about is like one of her goals, her idea
that part of our inability to understand each other, and I think the world right now is an amazingly
horrible example of that just playing itself out in every way, has to do with a lack of bandwidth.
And then I think there's a few things. So Penny Jean, you've talked about using
neuromodulation to see if you can kick people's brains into a state where they actually are more
flexible, can hold more things in mind at once. And then also, you know, but there's also
the idea of like at the level of interacting with people, I think the idea that there does have to
be a strong will to make sense together. And if there isn't, you know,
one person is, you know, easily left out of the sense making, for example, and Shay,
you've talked about that a lot, people who are not allowed to participate or not listen to because
they sense make differently. You've talked about different, you know, in response to trauma,
having just different rhythms, different ways of pre reflectively as well as reflectively
engaging with others in the world. And that by way of that, rather than others trying to
somehow sense make with you to meet you halfway, you wind up having to do
all of the meeting or you're not listened to. So I guess those are all sort of things that
come up for me that have come out of those conversations that I've had with the two of you.
Yeah, there's something you, one of you say in one of those conversations about complexity fatigue,
which stuck with me and also I think is quite a good thing to think about right now in the world.
And also with Penny Jean was saying, it sounds like what you were talking about with your with
your memory and sort of everything coming almost like the whole line of all associations coming at
once reminds me of how I felt as a kid in a different way with just being sensory overload,
just, you know, a lot of people have had this where you just, you can't believe how much you're
feeling. And then you think everyone else feels that way too. And then sort of like Bryson in
Beck's article, at some point, someone shares something with you and you realize, oh, actually,
everybody's not feeling that way. We all kind of have these where you just realize maybe you're
not seeing the world the way everyone else is. And I feel like a lot of your work, I think you
might have even said this, Penny Jean, is trying to increase that bandwidth. That's a word that's
come up a lot or find ways to help people do that. Yeah. But do you feel like you've been able to
change that sensory interface of the body in a way for yourself? Because when you were describing
all that, I was thinking, wow, you've come a long way. If as a kid, you felt like you couldn't
express yourself and you were too overwhelmed by everything, you are now such a wonderful
communicator. Has it been because of these tools that we're talking about?
I think actually the answer is both of the themes that we've been discussing this whole time,
which is, first of all, you have to care enough to want to keep trying to figure out what is going
on with yourself or somebody else or the third entity mutual experience you're having and
co-creating. So the reason I kind of harken back to Shay and use the visualization differentiation
as an example was because this just happened in the last month or two. And what it illuminated
for me was my sort of ongoing over-reliance on visualization and visual data, like my PowerPoint
addiction. If I'm going to communicate things to people, I'm going to show them pictures.
And pictures are worth a thousand words, right? Everybody likes a good picture. And so I had been
really kind of relying on this as a way to communicate complex data. I thought I will
simplify complex data so it will be easier for people to absorb it. Because if I just put a
bunch of words on a slide or I just say a bunch of words, that's going to be harder. And then here
comes Shay with a completely different hierarchy of processing needs and capabilities where the
thing I was assuming was going to make it easier and reduce complexity fatigue absolutely stressed
her out. And so the reason I say that, first of all, the caring and the curiosity has to be there
first before anything else works is because if we don't care enough to want to connect with each
other, we do not persist in the conversation. But even if we care, we still have to have some
capability, right? And so Shay and I did actually have like what was like a three and a half hour
conversation. I'm trying to tell her stuff. She's trying to tell me stuff. I'm like, why isn't it
working? She's like, why are you doing this to me? And so like at some point during the conversation,
I went to myself, this isn't working. She's telling you it's not working. You need to listen
to her and understand what you need to do differently. And I had to really confront,
because I think of myself as a pretty flexible, adaptable, updating as an ongoing mechanism,
you know, think about everybody else, like hold all the possible futures, reference all the possible
paths, and at some point come up with a thing that's going to achieve communication and connection.
Like this is the whole vibe, right? And she's like, you are not doing this on a fundamental
level with me. And I had to stop and go, okay, this thing that I think I just do, like as easy
as breathing, actually, I can't seem to do. And what I think is a really simple way with her,
what is happening? And that just even my willingness, her willingness to keep reiterating
and my willingness to finally, ninth time she says it, go, okay, what's happening?
That sent me on almost like a three and a half week little, I wouldn't like, I was an existential
update because I thought retroactively, how many people have come to my educational sessions or
interacted with me or have I tried to explain a brain map to in the last 20 years,
who didn't have like an ease of visual processing capability or bandwidth. And all I did was
overwhelm them with the exact thing I thought would make it easier. So I had to have a little
retroactive crisis. And then I had to update and think about, and that required me to expand even
more possibilities to hold for how people do or don't receive the information. What does make
something easier, harder, what creates complexity, fatigue in more complex ways. And so like, I say
bandwidth, obviously bandwidth can be a function of how many data bits you're trying to hold
simultaneously, or can be a function of how much time you have over an arc of processing, some
weeks, some months, some years. We can expand out bandwidth in different ways. And I had really
been focused in some ways on this idea of doing a lot of things at the same time, which is what a
visualization heavy brain thinks about, like put it all up on the vision board and then pull off
the stuff you want. And I really hadn't been considering as much the power of sequential
processing, because to me, sequential processing seems slower, right? But there is a real,
I think a real structural strength in sequencing as processing as opposed to just simultaneously.
So even the way I'm considering building bandwidth, right, I was thinking of bandwidth as widen the
highway, right? And now I'm trying to think about like, okay, let's say we've got to,
can we just get all the cars to move faster on like one lane? Is that an option? Like,
could we turn them on to motorcycles? Or could we pack everybody into a bus? Like, you know,
we've got all these transportation options, like, could we just, and so even just that attempt,
Shay's willingness to be persistent, my willingness to try to update and expand,
like this is a microcosm of what I mean when I say the desire to modulate your brain.
I am trying to use technology to help introduce possibility, or maybe people can't do this
volitionally. But I think that the desire to do something differently is in and of itself
what actually drives ultimately your persistence so that the bandwidth,
however that means, can be expanded. I don't think I can do that with my tech,
like against someone's will necessarily, right?
That's just beautiful. That's what we need right now. It also reminds me, you said something about
the weirdness, right? Realizing that the weirdness is fascinating, or even what you just expressed,
which is kind of taking that, like realizing that these differences, we do share so much in common,
but the differences point us to transformations, openings in the way, in those habits. You just
came up with a different way of understanding your work, which is actually so beneficial, I think.
So yeah, there's something about embracing the weirdness and the difference and those points
that are difficulty that can be, yeah, I mean, in a way that leads to where we're trying to get
to in our work, in a sense. But Shay, I wonder what all that brings up for you that she was saying.
Well, I'm interested in the idea of complexity fatigue, because this...
I think this goes, again, to the way that I was describing,
pinning in my interactions, it's that, and I'm curious to see what Beck thinks about
the differences in what I'm saying, is I am complexity fatigue. I am the source of
complexity fatigue for many of my interactors, because my brain works in such a way that I need
a whole lot... The more information about the thing, the more you can just take around it into
the layers and the layers, the more simplified it gets for me. The more you can... If you just
give me a concept, or Penny is very good about putting things in a bus, and if you give me the
bus, I'm like, I don't know what's in the fucking bus. What are you telling me about this bus? Open
the doors, let the people out. Can I see the people? What kind of people are on the bus? What
are they wearing? Where are they going? So for me to make any sense of the world, I need the
complexity. And Penny has seen me complex myself right into complexity death. So I don't hit
complexity fatigue, I just complex and complex and complex about the one thing until I have just
destroyed myself. She's seen me do this researching something personal, but again, it goes with...
I'm throwing... When people tell me stories, but they include like ancillary information,
I get really mad. Because I'm like, what is this fluff on the outside, the periphery of this
conversation? I need to know what is happening in very detail. What kind of facial expressions
are they making? How strong was their cologne at the time? Was that bothering you? And did that
make it more... And I'm just like, build it up, make it complex, give it to me so that I
understand it so I know it. That's how you simplify it is you make it deep. And Penny's like,
shut up. You're throwing all of these things at me. I'm plucking out as few things as necessary.
I'm weeding out and I'm putting the bus on the highway. I'm going to put the highway somewhere.
And I can see both mine and Penny's ways of interacting the way that our brains work
are nonsensical to probably other people's even conception of bandwidth. Because I'm told that I
give too much detail when I think that that detail is necessary to understand that thing.
And then Penny does a thing where she doesn't give enough detail because she thinks that she's
giving you the most simplified form and then that is its most comprehensive state. And then other
people talk to both of us and they're like, I don't understand you. And we're both like,
why doesn't anybody understand me? I don't understand it. I'm so clear about what I'm feeling
and what I want. So you don't have a bandwidth problem then Shay. You always have enough
bandwidth, do you think? I will bandwidth myself into the ground. There's no stopping
the bandwidth. There's not. And right now I'm going through a situation where my bandwidth is
being involuntarily taken from me and it's making it very hard for me to be an existential being in
the world. But I'm interested in Beck, what are your thoughts about the difference between
complex and simplified sense making for bandwidth and brains?
Yeah, so tough question. I'm going to tell you something, though I want to add to something you
said, your description about how you need all of the detail. And that is that I heard you give the
talk a couple of weeks ago at Emory University. And what you did with a lot, a lot of information
is you told a really clear and coherent narrative so that at some level you're taking all of that
complexity and your way of simplifying it into something that is digestible to others who
haven't been immersed in all of the things you've been immersed in is to tell a story with it.
And you told a story that was very clear. Whereas Penny Jean, when she shows me her slides,
when she shows me her slide deck of all of her brain data that she collected on you and explains,
like for her, I actually, so I see it as actually not more simple because in order to really
understand what she's presenting, I need to look at all of her slides and all of the detail. And
to me, they're very detailed and every finding is very nuanced, you know, and requires all of that.
And she has lots of qualifications and framing for what you're looking at, what frequency band,
you know, so for me, what she does is also very detailed, but it's detailed in a very sort of
neuroscience-y analytic way, you know, within what I think of as the conventions of neuroscience that
we were trained in. Whereas you, this incredibly synthetic thinker, Shay, who is able to, you know,
weave great complexity into these very compelling narratives that just make sense, that bring things
together that like most of us would just see and think, oh my God, it's too complicated. I can't do
anything with it, but it does. You brought, like, you brought information from so many different
fields together to explain a phenomenon that you were experiencing in a way that made total sense.
So to me, when I look at both of you, you both have a lot of bandwidth and tolerance for complexity.
It's just different, like you handle it differently and you have different styles and you have
different ways of distilling and simplifying it, but you both have immense amounts of bandwidth.
And in talking about the brain, this is something that, again, Penny Jean has described. I think a
lot of that comes down to the flexibility of your sort of brains, say they're large-scale networks,
right? These sort of networks of groups of brain regions that tend to sort of just dance together,
in particular configurations, but like any dance, they hook and unhook, right? Like different
systems will like do-si-do and dance with one system and then dance with another system.
I think that the more flexibility these systems have in sort of reconfiguring themselves, then
probably the more bandwidth you can handle. So if I were to like do a deep case study of the two of
your brain networks in different situations, you would probably both show a lot of flexibility and
capacity to reconfigure. And when I understand some of the stuff that Penny Jean says she would like
to do with neuromodulation, that it would be to enhance that capacity in people in general.
Shay, when you say you're having that capacity involuntarily taken away from you, that's probably
reflected in a lack of your usual flexibility in brain networks to sort of
to dance with each other. I don't know if that answered the question or not, but that kind of
struck me. There's one thing, I don't know if we're going to get a chance to talk about it,
but when I visited Shay in Atlanta, we played Penny Jean with one of your neuromodulation devices.
It was a little thing we put on our earlobes and zapped to each other, and Shay was feeling a lot
of physical pain at the time, and she was putting it on and loving it, and I put it on and felt
really, really nauseous. But I wonder if you can describe what was that neuromodulation device,
what was it doing, and why did we respond so differently?
So the one you guys were experimenting with was a prototype. A colleague of mine is developing
essentially an electrical stimulation device that is designed to simulate the physical sensation
of rocking, and the theory is that there's a lot of different ways we're talking through how to
basically describe this to people to do some research, to do some investigation,
like what people are experiencing as a result of some electrical stimulation somewhat lower in the
brain. You put something on the earlobes and the electrical circuit kind of connects through that
lower brain, right? And so the purpose that he's trying to achieve is the idea that there's all
this research about how a sense of rocking, like that physical movement, proprioceptive sense of
kind of rocking back and forth, a lot of people do that to self-soothe. They will do it to relax,
they will do it to try to reset. When they're under distress, you'll watch people rock almost,
sometimes when they hit certain thresholds of stress or distress, it's a very reflexive thing.
And so this idea of I'm out in a boat, or I'm in a hammock, or what are things we do that simulate
the movement in the womb? Like what are the natural physical movements we can generate
that help us to reset perceptual and emotional states? So his little device is meant to kind
of stimulate the same proprioceptive sense of almost like rocking back and forth without you
having to necessarily physically do it with your body. However, what's interesting about that
is some people put it on and try it, and they're like, I immediately feel more relaxed,
or they go, I feel seasick, like I almost feel like nauseated, like I'm not like I'm on a boat,
like I don't love it. Like, I mean, people have a variety of responses somewhat based on
how do they physiologically, you know, perceive that stimulation like in their body and their
sense of proprioceptive movement. So it's still kind of in testing and development. She got the
prototype to be sort of an early alpha tester. And I also was actually really a little impressed and
surprised by how rapidly she reacted in a positive way to that stimulation, because
I like the majority of people I've tried it on have had maybe within like the first 10 to 15
minutes, like some noticeable relaxation response, but she was almost instantaneous.
And, and that again, sort of changed the way I thought about how her brain processes information
because her presentation to the world, while being very sort of, you know, inquisitive,
and interactive, also is a little bit resistant, like, because of which I can relate to,
because of like past experiences where the world has come in a little too much too often,
we didn't love it, we've developed some appropriate differentiation and defensive,
you know, ways of trying to prevent things from being from encroaching too much. And so I perceive
Shay is being a little more reflexively resistant to things. And so for her to, you know, accept
this electrical stimulation and relax so quickly, I was like, Oh, actually, you're just a sensitive
little buddy, aren't you? Shay was like, stop selling me out and telling people I'm a marshmallow.
It's bad for my brand. But like, watching people interact with these different types of like
sensory experiences in technology, it literally gives us these insights into like, because we're
all trying to present certain ways to the world. And, and we can't always verbalize or don't even
always realize that what that information says about us other people and how they interpret.
So watching how we receive or don't receive types of neurostimulation, or interactions with
with neural behavior, that we can always verbalize or explain, is I think it's an untapped wealth
of information and insight into each other that I am kind of firehousing myself with right now,
on every front.
Yeah, it's like, what are those routines and how?
Bec, I like what you said about there not being one kind of bandwidth or, or I'm not sure how you
said it, but there's different bandwidths that we all have. And we can sort of open each other to do
a whole other kind of bandwidth, in a way. And it reminds me of, I think it's something in your
writing or in one of all of your dialogues, where you say there's no right way to perceive
the world, you know, and also that speaks to what Penny Jean has been bringing out about,
that, you know, we can help each other find different ways of noticing how we are different
and opening, like those differences becoming sort of portals or something. But Bec, I mean,
we've talked about Penny Jean and Shay a bit, but I feel like you hold the space very well for all
of this, at least in your writing. And I wonder if that was a journey for you to be so open to so
many different kinds of perception. It doesn't ever seem to, you don't, you seem to be okay to
open the space further and further. Maybe I'm projecting, but-
So that's a really interesting question about being sort of holding space for other ways of being. I
think it's been a long and gradual journey for me, but I do think it probably has its roots in my
hippie childhood. You know, as Andrea knows, my dad is an ecologist and is very, very interested
in listening to the more than human world, I think. And that's something that actually,
the next substack piece I want to write is participatory sense-making with the more than
human world. And I'm talking to people who interact with landscapes, with plants and
non-human animals as a form of participatory sense-making, extending that idea. So I think a
lot of that goes back to that. And then just, you know, through my own life experience of being in
a family where there's a lot of neurodivergence in, you know, but growing up in a time where that
wasn't a thing, right? You were just weird. And so just the way the whole dialogue culturally has
grown along that has been, you know, for me and my family members were like, oh, oh.
And over the years, you know, talking to people, the more, and the more you start talking about
these experiences, the more people start talking to them. So, you know, talking to Bryce Huebner,
who has no visual imagery, or I had this research assistant when I was a postdoc at University of
Toronto, and she was an undergraduate at the time. And she had a form of synesthesia that's very rare
called object personality synesthesia. So she lives in a completely animate world. And it's,
it is what she directly perceives. Like she, after she graduated, she went to the UK,
and she was working in London for a while. And, you know, we had spent a lot of time working
together. So, you know, I was pretty familiar with, with her way of experience in the world,
just because we had gone, you know, out of town to do research together, stayed, you know,
stayed in the same hotel, spend a lot of time just talking. So she, she called me, she's like,
I don't know a lot of people I can tell about this, but I feel so bad. I just,
I came in after work, and my feet were sore, and I yelled at my shoes, and I feel so bad,
I hurt their feelings. And I didn't mean to, and she was in tears, she felt so bad, because
her shoes are, are, are big. And she's not crazy, and she's not making it up, you know, she's been
studied by psychologists, she's very consistent, and that's the, that's the friend you write about,
I think, in one of the things. I think I read that study of everything is alive. I mean,
it's really true. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I've been blessed in my life with, and I've always been
attracted to people, you know, probably, probably because, you know, because that's who I feel most
comfortable with. But I've always been attracted to people who, who perceive the world in a
different way. And I think, I think what both, you know, in cognitive science and in our culture
at large, or at least there was a window in our culture at large, maybe closing at the moment,
where we were talking more and more about this, that that was sort of, was permission to really
become much more aware of it. Yeah, let's, I mean, if anyone has anything to say, feel free,
but also before we go, I want to come to that, that, that idea of where we are right now,
because again, someone in, in all of your conversations that I've looked at and read
talks about this binary mindset and how, if you don't, if you're not thinking in more than three
points at once, I think you say, it's usually just because you're, you're overwhelmed. That's where
that complexity fatigue comes in and this, and I think you kind of talk about, you're just trying
to help people be able to deal with whatever's coming in enough to open up to these perspectives.
Like you said, Bec, I think that's where the real life is and that's where we all,
all of us have felt weird in some way at some time and trying to open that up in that space of love
that we were talking about with Shay and Penigene, finding that, I just wonder what your thoughts are
right now in terms of where we are in the world, how, how you've been able to do that to yourself,
give yourself that kind of love to let yourself see yourself in some of the ways that we're
talking about here, but also just if you have any thoughts about how we can do this in our,
our daily lives, wherever we are on all these sides right now, I would love to hear that from
all of you. The number one thing, forget like fancy neuro tech and all of the cool stuff we
can do with all of the things we developed and innovated as an intelligent species.
The number one thing I think that's helpful for anybody is learning how to recognize when
you're hitting, when you're, when you're hitting the end of the ramp, because the responses to
being overwhelmed or overstimulated or, you know, complexity, fatigue, the responses to things being
too complex is either to shut down or to go full suplex, right? For people who aren't familiar with
wrestling as the world of entertainment, suplex is a move where you basically pick somebody up
and slam them into the ground, right? And so the majority of the time that when people feel
overstimulated or overwhelmed, we either shut down and withdraw to avoid being harmed or we
expressively act out or lash out and we potentially harm. Now, obviously people have very different
thresholds and ideas about what it means to harm and be harmed, right? So the idea would be,
even though I know we've got different concepts of what harm is, some people feel quite harmed
if you yell at them. Some people feel quite harmed if you ignore them and give them, you know,
the cold shoulder treatment. Some people are like, yeah, what's yelling that we just did that in my
family as normal dinnertime conversation. Like, I'm not going to be mad at you till you stab me.
And some people are like, you know, like the occasional stabbing, a little light stabbing
among friends. What's the big deal? That we've got different thresholds for what it means
to harm each other. And so the idea of being able to go, I am starting to tap out. I'm starting to
get too overstimulated and too stressed out. Why can I, like, what, is there any way to expand
my own capacity to manage myself? Almost for everyone, it's going to be, you know, checking
to see how you've managed your resourcing. Did I sleep? Did I drink water? Have I had food?
Was it real food? Or was it like stuff shaped as food that just made me more stressed out and worse?
Right? Just being able to manage, like, I have a limited amount of energy and an effort to give.
And this is something we all knew, or theoretically we know about children. If you don't feed them,
if you don't water them, if you don't nap them, we expect them to behave poorly to get overwhelmed
and to have meltdowns. And then we think because we got older, that doesn't apply anymore, except
we're still the exact same organisms, just bigger. And now our meltdown sent us to jail or end us up
in divorce court, right? Or get us fired. And so it's still that same principle of we're little
biological organisms and we've got to be fed and watered and rested and repaired. Or we really can't
interact with people on even sort of a bare minimum level. So our own purposeful either
teaching the kids or teaching ourselves to recognize when we're starting to reach capacity
and to then pause and be like, what can I do to either withdraw before I harm,
right? Or withdraw before I am harmed or we reach a level of damage. And then what can I do to
resource or repair and then maybe return to attempt again. And I think just being able to
recognize where we are on the ramp and make appropriate decisions is like a basic life skill.
We all sort of maybe talk about in reference, but we don't always consider any practical
physiological ways. And I don't think we're teaching kids that, you know, how to do this. Like,
are you upset because your brother's being too loud, which is a real thing for a lot of us,
let's be honest. Are you upset because your brother is being too loud? Are you upset
because you need to pee and you've been holding it and now it's physically uncomfortable. That
is taking up 97% of your self soothing bandwidth and your brother clinking his toys together
isn't going to make you homicidal if you just go pee and come back. Like these are sort of basic
things, right? But we don't really consider that as like a practical strategy every day
for interacting with the world. And I think anybody can learn that as a bandwidth expander
behavior without all the fancy stuff that I do to try to also neuromodulate to expand capacity.
Yeah, that's a good point. It's also that awareness of thinking in these ways that you're
presenting up, just knowing we can think like this and that we all are experiencing the world
differently. Bec or Shay, do you have any comments to add to that or advice for how to deal with
complexity fatigue, how to love yourself and others? I don't know. I'm in a very pessimistic
place right now on successful interaction between people. So I'm sort of in a place where I feel
people's social media needs to be taken away from them and then they need to be forced into a room
with other people and made to sit there and hash it out or whatever. Because I think the
inability or the move away from inter-corporeal sense-making has led to the devolution of our
ability to make sense. So I feel like in the world right now, it is equal parts acting out
and equal parts shutting down. And I don't think that people are engaging in any sort of in between.
And I feel like nobody thinks that they should be expected to do anything in between. And that
I feel like that perspective that there has been a fully endorsed abandonment
of participatory sense-making as a society. I feel like things are not going to get better
because we continue to get further and further apart from an embodied
situation. And we are bodied organisms. And we are living through the world virtually.
And it is separating us from the things that make us our own organism. Like we lose a sense of
ourselves because we are always reacting to something that is not there. So I am in a weird
place. People are very, it will get better if we just engage in this sort of resistant behavior.
And I am like your resistant behavior is to completely avoid the things that need to be
resisted. This just a fully full-throttle segregation of bodies from each other
that only interact through a virtual space and then is on the extremes of shutdown or act out.
So that's, I'm thinking about that a lot. So that's where I am.
Yeah. So I actually really agree with you about all of that, Shay. I think I have a couple of
thoughts. I think in terms of the ongoing attempt to sense-make with people, given all of their huge
diversity of experience and worlds we live in, I actually, I think on the one hand, that's our only
hope. Like all of the voices that are outside the sort of endorsed mainstream normative voices are
absolutely the voices we have to listen to now. But will we? Probably not. But that's the goal.
That's where our salvation, all of the creativity for dealing with a sort of world situation,
a societal situation that seems unmanageable has got to come from all these different ways of
thinking. But, and I think that there are ways of, I think inter-corporeal sense-making is crucial.
And within that context, there are ways of training yourself to listen. People do it differently.
They may have meditation practices. There are like dance improvisation practices where they really
teach you to tune to each other's into dynamics. There are people who do it, you know, working,
you know, in the natural world, listening to nature. There's many, many ways of tuning yourself to
listen. And they're out there. They're, you know, artistic training of any kind, you know, trains
you to listen. But I think, as Shay says, the inter-corporeal component is really crucial because
when you're virtual, the stakes don't seem high. It's so easy to disengage or to go full weight.
What's the wrestling term? It's slam people on the floor. Whereas the stakes are higher when
your body's in a room together, sort of exchanging pheromones and electrical fields and gestural
rhythms and all of that stuff. But then when I think this is what we need to do, I also agree,
I also like Shay I'm quite pessimistic right now because the allure of the sort of technological
isolation is so strong and so dominant right now. But honestly, there's only a certain amount of
time. Like there was a headline the other day that the power requirements of just all of
the servers serving all the tech, AI needs was going to quadruple by 2030. And we can't sustain
that. So ultimately, our virtual worlds are going to collapse. And I think that we are crashing into
authoritarianism. I think that there's going to be a lot of damage and a lot of death and that
probably we won't rediscover inter-corporeal sense-making, most of us, until a lot of trauma
has been leashed upon the world. That's kind of where I'm at now is it's also quite,
and I'm not feeling great about the state of things.
Both of you sort of did what Penny Jean said, when you realize when you've come up to the
the wall, or I'm not sure how you put it, but in just an admitted and stated. And so thanks
for doing that. And I have to disagree a little bit because that's, I feel all of that too. But
I also feel like what you all have demonstrated in your conversations to me and in the work I've
read that all of you do, which is extraordinary in very different ways. Everyone can just go look
at it. But I think that if we look at this big, we started with these big nested things. I think
Becky, you were saying there's all these different levels of what these systems are. And Shay said
it's a big sponge and all that. But on these big levels, this all feels overwhelming. But we can
also look on the really daily levels like that conversation that Shay and Penny Jean had. That
inspires me. I think I can go out in everyday life or even just who I'm dealing with in my family and
find some things like that. Ways to refocus what I want to have my bandwidth be and beyond. And even
if all the technology does collapse, those things are still there, aren't they? Or am I being too
optimistic? It's not the technology collapse that I'm worried about. I think those things are very
much there. It's the other stuff. Yeah. And that is this participatory sense making. I mean,
there's a responsibility to it too, isn't there? That I don't see a lot of that actually happening
in the world right now. Because we don't have time to go into it now. But there's a kind of
autonomy that needs to be there. And there's a kind of respect and so on to really have participatory
sense making. Even just doing the work that you're doing in participatory sense making and
bringing that into awareness. We need a trend towards real participatory sense making, not
this mediated optics only strange world we're in right now. Well, amen to that.
That same conversation that I had with Shay and I sort of joked a little bit about having an
existential crisis and update for the month or two afterward. The idea of trying to balance futility
and hope as just like existential states we exist in. I definitely went through the whole cycle just
on that microcosm. But the reason I'm bringing this up is because I arrived at the profound
relief of the realization and acceptance of the futility of communication. And by that I mean
that I had thought it was my responsibility for almost my entire life. It was my responsibility
to manage my communication with other people in such a way that they would understand what I was
saying and see my perspective and replicate my perspective. And if they didn't understand
it how I understood it and applied it in the way I said then communication had not been achieved,
education had not been achieved, and I had therefore failed as a communicator and a co-connector.
And I realized just recently, it seems so crazy, I'm almost 45 and I just figured this out.
I realized that in reality all I can do was say stuff, show stuff, put it out there.
And then if I'm like I'm not responsible for your experience with me you're going to take whatever
you want out of this exchange, you're going to make meaning out of it, apply it to your life
in ways that make sense and work for you. And if I am trying to control how you do that I will
inevitably constantly fail at the interaction. But if I just show up and do the best I can to say
stuff that I think is interesting and then you take any bits you want, reformulate them in any
way that makes sense to you and go out and do something useful with it, then success has been
achieved. Because the interaction is not about me replicating my experience onto you, it's about you
getting to have your own experience of whatever you think my experience was and then just you know
concentrically circling out into the world and into other people. And so if I think that I'm
responsible for communicating and fixing and making other people experience things differently in a
way I think is better, then I am always overwhelmed and always feeling a sense of futility and
impossibility and fatigue. And if I go the only thing I'm responsible to do in this interaction
is show up and do whatever makes sense to me in a way that I think is helpful and minimally harmful
and then you can do whatever you want with that. That has I think really actually shifted what I
feel has been the breaking like the spirit breaking burden of having to kind of achieve a particular
response. Like I think I've moved more from persuasive to just exploratory or experimental
which seems so irresponsible based on years and years of being like you're supposed to do it the
right way and if you don't you're not helping anyone. So moving from persuasive to just
exploratory right, from persuasive to permissive however you want to frame it, that has been a huge
shift just in the last month or two that has made me feel less responsible to fix the world
which has opened up a little bit of relief which has I think made me feel less futile and hopeless
because I'm like now the new mantra is did I break it? Well if I didn't break it it's not my
responsibility to fix it. However I can show up and do what I can in the situation. Look maybe
we're all going to go up in a ball of fire like the plan might explode next week I don't know.
The uncertainty itself is its own fatigue component trying to hold all the possible
futures and all the ways we might can do the thing. I mean should I buy gold because the
economy is collapsing? Should I buy you know dried eggs because we're never going to have them again?
Like the constant uncertainty and all the futures and our inability to tear it card ourselves into
the right you know self-preservation answers we're all feeling that weight and I think that is what is
sucking up the bandwidth the physical exhaustion and in illness and fatigue and the we can't we
nobody can handle all of this so the idea of what can I immediately do physically myself my body my
voice my offering and staying there well it's not a big like I mean I overthink everything too
it's not a magical solution but just the idea that that's a possible thing we could try to do
was new for me and it created a little bit of breathing space.
So to me what I'm hearing you saying and maybe maybe I'm getting it wrong but but you're actually
now trusting in the third entity part of the participatory sense making you're engaging with
it and you're listening to it but you're trusting that the third entity will carry the sense making
or that's that's how what you said sounded to me. I have gone from I've got an agenda and a script
and a checklist for the third entity to the third entity is its own entity and it's just
gonna do what it wants anyways no matter what I show up wanting it to do maybe I should just
stop trying to make it do what I want because that's exhausting and stressing me out just like
oh you can't make a fruit fly do what you want like why do I think I can make other people
do what I want right and so like that it's it's not a solution to the world's problems
but it is a shift of perspective or paradigm for me on a small scale for how I'm what I'm sinking
my energy and time into and how quickly I burn through it hit the end of the ramp and then
feel hopeless and futile so I think it's just better resource management maybe because I'm
stopped I'm not flushing it down the toilet anymore for no return yeah you know what I mean.
Yeah it feels like relaxing into what is and but also it makes me think of having your team too
or having people that you know you can be yourself with and communicate with and because it's not
you don't have to do it alone either I guess is what I'm saying is you know you can practice
this with others too do you practice the love with yourself and with others at the same time
instead of trying to control we definitely can't control all of this but I do think these little
things change what's possible and the more other people you know people will hear you say this and
it opens up ways that they can do that and it's weird and how quick quickly those kind of things
can spread so does anyone have any final comments or ideas or anything they want to say I know it's
been two hours now so good Shay I hope you've it sounds like you've given people a lot on this
conversation so just remember that with all you're dealing with right now and whatever it may be.
Thank you I'm on the friends I'll be in touch I hope you have a good day there. Bye y'all.
