How much is your agency?
And how much is the will of other entities entirely?
Or is that even how you see this scene?
Doom scrolling like the sky, you're trolling
Everybody wants to be seen by the big machine
That's the love and philosophy
Today is a conversation with Michael Garfield
It's a little bit like a song exploder episode
Except it's also a fractal Rubik's Cube
Which is something Michael brings up here
And I think it describes this episode and also Michael
In a really interesting way
If you know Michael, you might know him from Santa Fe Institute
And the Complexity podcast that he hosted there
If you've never heard of that, don't worry
Maybe you've heard of Future Fossils podcast
Which is a very different podcast
Talk about holding the paradox, Michael really does it
He can talk about fine art, he can talk about music
He can talk about mysticism at the very furthest edges
And he can also talk about really hard science
That's why Michael is here
Because I find him a wonderful example of holding contradictions
And exploring space beyond what people think of as oppositional
But he's also here because I really love his song called Big Machine
Which you're hearing play throughout this episode a bit
And I hope you'll link and listen to it
Because this whole conversation is really unpacking this song and the lyrics
But also through Michael's own journey
Which is a very special journey
There really is no one like Michael Garfield
And don't worry if you don't understand half the things in this episode
Because Michael's read just about every book on the planet
He's one of the people I think who loves books most in the world
We ultimately get to this place where the Big Machine is not about the machine at all
It's about all these connections and fractal relations
That so entrance Michael and that are part of the world
And that are actually about love
So we do get to that word
I really think Michael brought complexity to a lot of people
He definitely turned a lot of people onto the Santa Fe Institute
And they're doing amazing work there
And I hope you'll have a look at what they're up to
You've probably heard me talk about complexity
But just a really short definition is just that it's studying the way systems interact
Or looking at all these things that we look at in science through the lens of systems
Instead of what we might have been looking at it through before
More atomized for example or something like that
And of course a million people will say that's a crazy definition
Because there's all different ways of thinking about it
So I'll just link to some notes and videos and things where you can discover complexity if you want to
But just for now just think of it as the study of systems
It's enough to think of before we go into this fractal Rubik's Cube that we're about to enter
But if you don't care about any of that at all you will also like this episode
For example if you like Robert Anton Wilson
If you like Ken Wilber
If you like that side of the world which tends to be thought of as the opposite of
Something like Santa Fe Institute or more hard science
You'll also like this because those names come up within the first five minutes
Because Michael's like that
He used to be also working with Ken Wilber
So he really has worked with lots of people who might consider themselves on very different sides of whatever
Academic, mystic, scientific spectrum you might have encountered
So for that reason it can be hard at times to take it all in with Michael
And it can also be wonderfully exhilarating
He's also a musician obviously
And he's also a very big fan of William Irwin Thompson
Who is someone you may have heard me discuss because he started Lindisfarne
And I'm interested in Lindisfarne
But we don't really talk about that here
We mention Bill Thompson a few times
Mostly this is just a conversation about the big machine
And I'll just let you listen to understand what that means and how it ends up being about love
Thanks for being here
And thanks Michael for everything
You're living in New Mexico where it's like
It's like you live in New Mexico
You have all the beautiful colors that I associate with my time in New Mexico
Yeah, I painted my closet
It's a good color
Two beautiful like two of my favorite colors that green and that blue
Anyway, hi Michael
Thanks for being on Love and Philosophy
Hi Andrea
I want to talk about Big Machine
I love this song
I'm so glad to listen to it
You know, because you can just kind of skip through these things
And the sub-stack actually listen to it
It's really good
And maybe you can tell me what that song is
How it came to be
Because you also mentioned this quote about wealth
Wealth of information
Poverty of attention
And I want to tie all that in
But first like this song
What is it for people who haven't heard it yet?
Yeah, okay, so there's that scene in Saving Private Ryan
Where they're all
They've stormed the beach of Normandy
And they're all talking about what they were before the war
You know, and Tom Hanks is like
I was a school teacher
Before it became the job into which history swept me to talk about big ideas
And help people wrap their heads around the emergence of what comes after modern civilization
I was a musician
Or at least that's
I was really committed
I told my grandmother when I was like 21
I thought that I had even odds on becoming a paleontologist or a rock star
And it kind of was that way for a while
It was like I was doing dinosaur work
And I was playing at one point
I think I just checked
And I don't have that many shows under my belt
But it's like over 500 concerts
You were playing in the big shows
The reason I laughed is because one of the questions I wanted to ask you is
Did you only dream of dinosaurs when you were a kid?
Or did you also dream of being a famous?
I didn't start playing guitar until I was 14
My stepfather is an extremely capable blues guitarist
Who played in these local legend black blues bands in Kansas City
And I just thought he was hot, hot, hot stuff
And got a guitar and asked him to teach me to play it
But then very quickly I realized the songs I was writing
To what we were talking about before we started rolling
Which is connected to the ideas I'm having now
In an age where bosses are asking you to train the AI
Maybe the most valuable thing you can be to the economy is something that can't be scaled
Something that's singular
Stephen Johnson talks about the revenge of the humanities
Lots and lots of people are thinking about what it's going to look like
When, as they say, you'll have a country full of geniuses in a server farm
You and I have already lived through something like this
We've lived through the superstar Hollywood effect
Of being able to access anybody's art or music or ideas online
And so no one can be a big fish in a small pond anymore
Everyone who is competing for attention or opportunity on the internet
Is competing against the best people in the world
And so that kind of thinking of be totally distinct
If somebody else is doing it, just don't, like, pivot
That came to me very early as a guitarist
Because I was really interested in a particular kind of jazz-inflected songwriting
And fingerstyle stuff
And then I was a freshman in college and John Mayer's first major album came out
And I was like, onward, not doing that anymore
And then it kept happening, it kept being that way
As soon as I was compared to someone by someone else
They're like, oh, you remind me of such and such
I was like, I'm out
That has become a piece of my backstory now
What's the next thing? What's the thing I don't see people doing?
That means, as my buddy from the dorms, Stephen Phipps, used to say
No man is an island, but some are very long peninsulas
And so I got this, you know, kind of carved out my own thing
And just incidentally, born on the same day as David Bowie and Elvis Presley
And Stephen Hawking and Kim Jong Un
Oh my gosh, they were all born on the same day? And that's your birthday?
Yeah, R. Kelly and Jenny Lewis
And so you think about all of those people, what do they all have in common?
It's like, well, they're all one of a kind
Don't be the best, be the only
I said it before we got on the Kevin Kelly thing
Sounds like you already had that in mind early on, my goodness
That actually explains a lot somehow
So the song, anyway, this kind of tension of reconciling each person as a singular event
And then the fact that all of us are enmeshed in this planet-spanning thing
You know, I gotta say, the first time I ever saw your show was the conversation that you had with Ian McGilchrist
And I was really touched by that conversation
And I love him generally and his thinking
And so for people listening, this thing about the big machine is about
Well, you can see all of this activity
Like the common way to see it now
Of supply chains and fifth generation information warfare
And the attention economy
And it's enmeshed with all
It's like I've written about this as living in the belly of the beast
As the surveillance capitalism
Which I don't think is even an adequate name to describe
The Tim Morton hyperobject of what this is
It's very easy for us to see it as a machine
Because it's made out of things that we are used to seeing as machines, at least in part
And it is a time in which all of us
Generally speaking, society is very deeply conditioned to regard the world as object
Rather than subject
To see things as an it
I was talking with you about how I used to work with Ken Wilbur
And that whole notion of
You can take a first person, second person, or third person position on anything
You can regard anything from an individual or a collective frame
And so I put the paranoid, Lovecraftian part up front
In that song
How long can you go without looking at your phone?
But at the same time, asking this question of
Maybe the only reason that we feel miserable right now is because
We know intellectually that we are all connected
Inside of this planet-spanning post-biological
In the sense that it's forcing us to redefine what life even is
So that it can include the inorganic
What William Irwin Thompson called planetization or planetary culture
Is when the modern distinction between industry and ecology breaks down
And so there's that
I just like telling a story in a particular way where
You meet people in the anxiety and the paranoia
Of where they are most likely to be
And then the synthetic, reconciliatory gesture is
But look at this!
And so I'll just say that related to that
Back in 2010, I had a trip
Where I felt this extraordinary shame
Because the last, which was like two years before
I felt like I had received a message to take on a regular meditative practice
It was like, the storm is coming
The world is only getting crazier
Start learning to center yourself in all of that
And my life had been nuts and I hadn't done it
Coming up and the challenges of encountering a moment of ego death
And then feeling like you're at the scales of judgment
And you failed
You don't feel worthy of this sort of excess of cosmic love
Because I hadn't listened
I take this stuff seriously
If you receive a message, you should do that
But I hadn't
I received an image in that experience
That I think speaks to the kind of approach I've taken to philosophy
And the aesthetic that's evident in that particular song
And much of my work in general
I saw this image of this fractal Rubik's Cube kind of thing
It was all black, you know, like Mecca
It blows my mind to try to imagine a fractal Rubik's Cube
It's like each face
I mean, there's a specific fractal that's like this
Where it's like, you know, I forget the name of it
Like each square is a different fractal? Is that how it works?
Each square is nine squares
And then each of those is nine squares and each of those
And it was all black and it was ominous
And then the whole thing rotated in the fourth dimension
Which rotated it in the three visible dimensions
But each face flipped and there was a backside that was white
And it was basically just showing me like a geometrical proof
For the always all readiness of our redemption
That like no matter how bad things get
There is always another dimension from which that sin or whatever
Is recontextualized and understood as like a perfect part of a deeper understanding
And so, you know, that's the
I love that moment of metanoia
You know, I'm in the middle of teaching this course right now
And at some point in the course I'm going to whip out Ontario Ali's book
Yes, Angel Tech, which is about the eight circuit model
You know, Robert Anton Wilson has this
Yeah, and at any rate, this is about personal and transpersonal development
And how they've got this, you know, at the level between the personal and the transpersonal
Is what they call chapel perilous
Which is where you realize that everything is connected
But it terrifies you because you are still the small you
And so that's the kind of fairy man I'm trying to be with this song
And with other stuff is like getting people from the bad trip
Of chapel perilous to the everything is okay
The redemption is always there
How did you just you just said it in a really beautiful way
Everything's already
Yeah, it's always already
It's like that, you know, kind of like the Buddhist language for
You know, you don't become enlightened
You know, you are always already
And there's a I've got a big row of books here
That's like all the books I'm doing for my course
That's a lot
But yeah, the other one just started last night, right?
Yeah, how was it?
It was good. Yeah, it's like too late for me
I signed up, but it was like two thirty in the morning or something
Oh, my God. Yeah. No, we I was worried because like something like a hundred something people signed up
Because we had opened the session to the public
But then it ended up just being mostly the people who had paid for the course
So I was like, okay
But yeah, so like one of the things another one of the things that we're talking about
And that we just held a book club for on humans on the loop is Federico Campagna's prophetic culture
And this is a book about this about, you know, the the intersection of time of time and the world
And with infinity or not infinity eternity, right with the ineffable transcendent real
And, you know, the the efforts of prophets to reconcile those or to bring some kind of meaningful understanding about the
You know that which exceeds our capacity for linguistic description into history
And, you know, he says I've been writing about this a lot
He he talks about apocalypse versus apocrystasis, which I had not heard before
But it's this sort of theological distinction about the like apocalypse is what Bill Thompson taught me to think of as misplaced concreteness
It's like putting the moment of judgment, which is actually in a kind of vertical dimension of time into history
You know that creation and destruction and all these things are there in as the universe recreates itself in in every moment
But like apocrystasis is about everything being saved already that like that, you know, that we keep postponing Judgment Day because the world requires tension in order to exist
But yeah, this the sense of like even the devil is saved
It kind of, you know, liberates us from having to worry about like theodicy and like concerns of like, well, why does you know why why God why
There's a difference. Yeah, there's a difference between everything already being there and redemption being there and it actually being experienced, I guess, too
So that's kind of, you know, I mean, yeah, in different forms could be all possible could be multiple worlds could be there
But you don't notice it the same way you go for a walk and there's things there you just don't notice
But I think everything you just said actually connects to what I was trying wanted to think about a little bit with you
This idea of that quote, it's a Simone Herbert Simone. I don't I'm terrible with accents quote about Herbert Simon Simon. There you go
See, yeah, I always try too hard with the with the language. It's true. So the Herbert Simon quote, it's wealth of information
I can't remember the quote. Maybe you do, but it's like a dirt of something and very popular quote. Yeah, it is
I didn't know about it. So it's it's from a longer passage. He says in an information rich world
The wealth of information means a Darth of something else a scarcity of whatever it is that information consumes
What information consumes is rather obvious. It consumes the attention of its recipients
Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of an attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently
Among the overabundance of information sources that might consume it. 1971. Amazing. You know, I really wonder about this quote and about you
Because you take in so much information and you have been doing for a long time and yet you also have quite a lot of attention
And I mean this gets into a lot of things I'd like to actually ask you about but
Have you I mean, how do you think about that in your own life?
I know I want to get to the song because it's different when we start really thinking about the technology and the internet
And I think you wrote that like you were checking your phone in some grocery store, even though you knew you couldn't get signal
I think we all know that but just before we get to the technology part just in general
Have you always I mean even when you were a kid been so such as so able to take in so much information
And do you know constantly sort of shuffle it through yourself and your life and still be attentive or did you learn?
You know, I'm probably on the spectrum like I don't I you know, it's not
Something that I think too much about like trying to diagnose this but I do care
Very much about what in the A.I. world they call the long context window right
Like I really appreciate being able to pick up a conversation precisely where we left off after weeks or you know
There's a you know, like Herman has a glass bead game, you know, this this idea that in the distant future
Monks are engaged in meaning making through this
You know, the formation of semantic networks between, you know, different cultural objects
You know, so I think that yeah, I've always I've always had a fairly acute memory
Memory, you know, like I I remember in it's not like idetic
But I remember in middle school like scaring a girl I had a crush on because like I had accidentally seen her phone number
And like knew knew her phone number. I was like, well, I guess that that you know, I guess I better just nip that one in the bud
That's exactly what I mean. You seem to really get the details in a way that would seem like you would get a bandwidth problem in terms of how much you take in
But there's very few people that I've encountered who've taken in so much information. I guess there's a difference between information and encoding
You know, you said you're like encoding mechanisms. However, we want to put it, you know
You know, just for all the work that you've done with all the different podcasts and how different they are and how hard these ideas are
It just seems like so much information, such a wealth of information that you should have a poverty of attention, but you don't seem to
Well, thank you. I mean, I definitely do feel the bandwidth issue
You know, I think, you know, the reason that I am so interested in this idea of like what is it that we are living through?
Like what characterizes something that seems very obvious to be a major evolutionary transition?
You know, you and I were talking about my old boss, David Krakauer, before we got on the call
And, you know, the paper that originally got me interested in complexity science
I did not know that he had actually collaborated on this work until 13 years later when I'd like, you know, wandered through the wilderness of art and music and futurism and all this stuff for a while
And then finally found myself back or like at the Santa Fe Institute, you know, working in communications for them
And at one point I remember asking David like, hey, have you heard of this this paper on the evolution of syntactic language?
And he's like, I coauthored that paper. I was like, oh, of course, like I'm a babe in the woods, you know
And you get that feeling being around, you know, that's actually what I love about interacting with older people
It's like, hey, have you heard about Woodstock? I was there, you know
But so he and Martin Nowak and Josh Plotkin and Vincent Jansen wrote a series of papers
Right around the turn of the millennium on this on like a bottleneck that they were formalizing mathematically and they were looking specifically at
You know, what how might we describe going from humans speak in single word utterances to human speak in complete sentences?
But I just remembered reading this this paper and how they were saying that that transition must have been
Like pressured into being by you, you can't at some point you can't remember more words
You know, and like as yours community becomes richer and richer in its interiority, you know, as like
The things that can be thought and that must be thought in order to keep everyone cohesive enough to survive together as a group
Gets big enough that you you just can't keep coming up with these enormous words
And so, you know, you would have like sort of proto sentences where it's like you would create a new word just by sticking stuff together
But then you end up with these in enormous German. Yeah, German. Exactly. It's like German is one of you can see this kind of dynamic going on
But then at some point it's like, well, you know, you could you could remember a whole lot more words if they were shorter
And you could remember a whole lot more words or you could communicate a lot more things if you found simple rules for putting words together
So that you could open up this huge recombinant possibility space
And I remember reading this paper in the senior year of my biology program at the University of Kansas in animal communication seminar
And just deciding like on the spot that this is the thing that I need to study because they what they were saying about language
Seemed like it was also saying something really important about all of these other moments in the history of the cosmos where suddenly something is there's a qualitative shift like something is there that was not there
You know, the origin of life, the, you know, the evolution of bacteria to complex cells to multicellular organisms, et cetera
And, you know, the closure of metabolic loops where it's like it used to be fungi and plants just living together on the ground
Like the fungi were not eating the plants or feeding them, but then like they developed a syntax that that, you know, created this created forests like they're there were like groups of trees, but there weren't forests until we had mycorrhizal affiliations, you know
And so like all of this stuff started clicking together and was like, well, you can't study that as a paleontologist
So I was very conflicted for a while because I was going through my own information scaling crisis where it's like the identity that I had that I had had for my entire life was I was going to grow up and work with it
Robert Bacher, my childhood mentor in Wyoming, I would become a professor. I would, you know, I would lecture during the year. I would do fieldwork, you know, I would illustrate my own books the way that he did with his
Like I knew exactly what I was doing with my life and I've never any question otherwise. And then suddenly it's like there's something so rich and so big and so interesting that I couldn't not think about it.
But to embrace it meant relativizing the entire person I believed myself to be, you know, it's like, well, now if I were to just become a paleontologist, I would always feel like I was leaving the majority of myself on the table like that.
I couldn't live with this huge remainder.
Was that music? Sorry, but is that
Oh, no, just like the, well, no, I was like, I was still doing the just like dinosaur science.
Yeah, I know. But what was it that you couldn't hold everything together? Like, well, what was the shift?
Well, I mean, yeah, you know, getting more and more into music at the same time, but that that particular thing was I need to understand evolution, not just like study dinosaurs.
It wasn't just this structure of like the Jurassic Park sort of storyline. You suddenly realize there's so much more you're going to have to take in. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, that like, well, that, you know, you can't answer questions about the deep patterns of the evolution of new levels of order and how, you know, the inner worlds of living things are part of that.
Because I was also starting to read Ken Wilber's work at the same time and thinking about, well, there's got to be a way to articulate this mutual irreducibility and complementarity of interiors and exteriors.
That has to mean something for answering questions about the evolution of language and society.
And, you know, like I was like, there is a theory of intelligence, you know, because it's like now you will find more scientists that are comfortable talking about teleology in evolution.
But it's an emergent telos. It's like the direction of evolution is not the same thing that it was when people were talking about that in the 19th century.
It's not that humans are at the top of this thing and then we're going to create something that's, you know, like smarter than us. Like all of this like sort of, you know, the rhetoric of like God making in AI is very antiquated in the sense that they are still maintaining that, you know, there's a direction toward more.
In the cosmos to smarter. And it's like, well, there is, but it is an emergent pattern. Anyway, so like the, you know, these questions about like, there's like a few, there's a few questions, the origins of life.
Because if as at the time, one of the prestigious evolutionary biologists at my school was Ed Wiley, who had written this book on evolution and entropy.
And I was like, well, you know, he's thinking about this relationship between, you know, the like the reduction of local disorder and the production of global disorder.
And, you know, he's closer than anyone I know to being able to answer some questions for me about where the order comes from. And like, you know, what evolution must have looked like before we had what we think of as like cellular life.
And I asked him about this and he's like, well, there couldn't be any evolution before DNA. And I was like, wait a minute. No, that can't be true because there's like, I was just at the beginning of my sort of early, early efforts to get into like a transdisciplinary review of the literature.
And there were people that were doing these, you know, self organization in inorganic chemical systems and, you know, questions about like even in quantum physics, there's a, you know, there, there are hints of like natural selection.
You know, this is a question of like, well, what collapses the wave function? It's like, well, it interacts. And just as an aside, Julian Goh, who is a buddy I met through the O'Shaughnessy Ventures Program.
He has been working on it this big idea, another musician and writer who's working on this huge cosmic idea, building on Lee Smolin's work and about how the universe itself is a unit of selection.
And that our universe has evolved like the conditions that are suitable for life in the universe as we know it are the product of a selection process of universes that create black holes, create more universes and universes that don't don't.
And so you have even there, you have a gradient, you know, you have a direction, but it's emergent from, you know, the the interactions of all of these properties.
I just wasn't satisfied with that. Anyway, you weren't satisfied because because here's how it sounds to me.
This sounds like a really great example of what I was trying to get in your your mind, the way that you can open boxes and threads in all directions from everything, you know.
So I'm when you were a kid, did you suddenly have a moment or not a kid, I guess, a teenager?
I don't know. Did you have this moment where you you kind of had that you were talking about you had this path, you're going to do this, this, this.
And then, like, did suddenly all these boxes start opening and you're like, OK, now I have to know about evolution and I have to know about the language and I have to know about all this.
And someone told you, well, that doesn't fit in this narrative.
So you had to give up the narrative or what was the dissonance for you?
I asked four different respected professors of mine, how am I going to take this on as a graduate student?
Because I had never any doubt that I was going to just go through the, you know, that I would, you know, like the Ph.D.
That's the path. And all of them said,
like, basically, like in as many words said, academia is a medieval guild system.
And if you can't get your the thing you want to research to fit in one of those boxes, then you're not going to hack it.
And it was it was a very disappointed statement.
I mean, the people that were telling me this were brilliant and expansive thinkers, but they were talking about their own frustrations with, you know, the disciplinary silos of the institution.
And, you know, a lot of them made it even more kind of blunt, you know, in telling me that it's not just that you'll have a hard time asking these questions, but that, you know, no graduate advisor will take you on because they want you working on a piece of their thing.
You know, and if if if you're working on something more ambitious than they are, then they will consider you, you know, taking you on is actually actively inhibiting their plan to secure power in this incredibly competitive environment.
And then and then they were I mean, and I got to say, like, things have changed somewhat.
This was 20 years ago. You wanted to study complexity at a time when that wasn't possible. I hit up SFI and I said, how do I do this?
And they said, we don't have a grad program. Sorry, kid. You're on your own. And they were probably pretty small back then, too, right?
I mean, now everybody knows who they are. But I mean, yeah, I guess what I'm saying is that wasn't exactly a time when people were coming to professors wanting to study complexity so often.
Or that even that word was something people knew about a lot. But you're coming at it naturally in a way.
They were, you know, it's funny because, like, I didn't I wasn't at SFI when this was the case.
But, you know, for the first 30 years or so that they existed, people thought it was bullshit.
You know, like they are one of the professors I spoke to in, you know, and said, I want to study how life becomes more complex and how that's related to the, you know, the apparent increasing complexity of the structures of cognition and like the inner life world of things.
And I mean, and again, it's not that simple. Like, I'm not saying like, you know, everything gets smarter.
It's it's not like that. It's that new regulatory layers arise through these processes of like the reconciliation of these attentional problems in some sense.
And the within those new systems, like Jeff West, as if I talks about the city and how like the bigger a city is, the more kinds of economic activity it can support, you know, which means, you know, kind of it's not really a paradox.
But it's like, it's easy to be it's easier to find your way and like, find your scene in a city if you're, you know, if you're like really smart, but also easier to find your scene if you know, I mean, it's like, and we shouldn't even talk about smart and dumb because it's like, you know, there's the the
I'm starting to sound like David crack our but like the there's a like so many different kinds of intelligence, but for any given distribution.
But it's almost like you're saying you don't want to be aware of so many options. Sometimes that's to your benefit in certain cases or something like that.
It's like if you happen to be like there's there's fewer kinds, there's there are fewer like social and economic functions in a smaller group of people, which means that like if you are.
Well, it's like there there isn't there isn't there's less noise to hide in like you know cities are famous for like being able to just like become anonymous, you know, and and you know the privacy of these spaces where it's like in a small town.
If you do something really stupid everyone knows immediately.
And it matters more and this is this is like an island biogeography thing.
Beneficial or deleterious mutations in smaller populations have a much larger effect because they're happening in organisms that constitute a relatively larger fraction of those populations.
So, but like on the mainland, you're in a, like the British invasion, right, I always thought that this was interesting as like, you know, in music you see this that the islands are these like reservoirs of innovation that like so many of my favorite bands have come out of the UK or Iceland or Australia.
But it's like these are it's because like there's anyway so I'm on a tangent, but I asked one of the professors about, you know, wanting to study complexity.
And he just said, he looked at me with this like exhaustion, and he just like, will you just tell me what complexity even is like do you know, does anyone know, you know, and I was like, well, I mean, and that was it was like, after that I was working as a scientific
illustrator at the Natural History Museum and my, my boss, the former curator of herpetology Linda Trube said to me, you know, I do think there's an option for you, which is that you could take an interdisciplinary fellowship, but it wouldn't mean putting a panel of people together
that all work in different domains and don't understand each other and kind of actively dislike each other. And you're going to have to be the one to communicate for them.
And I was like, I'm 21 like I'm a student. Like I'm trying to I'm trying to find people I can learn from about this not have to like sit there, dealing with the snark and backbiting of, you know, like, I'm a child of divorce.
I don't want to be in the middle of all of that, but of course, but that's where it is, you know, it's in the middle.
But that does relate to this bandwidth thing and the attention and even what you're kind of bringing up about the music and the islands because there's something about having a parameterized space where you can get more complex and kind of create something new and cool out of what seems kind of limited.
But so and then also, but it sounds like the bandwidth wasn't necessarily a problem for you at that time, but it was for everyone else. Like you seem to have a lot of things you wanted to ask about, deal with, figure out, but nobody else could really hold all those things at once.
Is that was that the feeling you had? Was it just kind of you were like too overwhelming or something?
It was overwhelming for me. I mean, yeah, OK, it was for you.
I mean, it was because I didn't, you know, I'm speaking now from the position of having picked up 20 years of reading and insight and conversation about this stuff.
You know, I had a very rough idea of what I thought was going on, but I didn't know where to look for it.
And so that that's actually, you know, when we talk about like one of the differences now compared to then is if you don't have the language for something, how do you even look for it on the Internet?
Or back then, like just literal, just like libraries. Right.
But it's like this question of like, well, OK, so like years later, working at SFI, I realized how much of the research I was looking for had already been done by them.
But it was it was buried in very inscrutable papers that I would not have even thought to look for in trying to answer these questions.
Like, you know, papers about economics or statistical physics or, you know, and it's like, how do you like the information scaling problem there is something that actually AI is like starting to solve right now, which is being able to recognize structural
similarities between different domains and identify like, you know, AI assisted science now is so interesting because it's basically doing at scale what my pattern seeking, you know, follow your intuition, kind of right brain mode ended up having to do is just like.
Notice, you know, the coastlines of South America and Africa and ask if they ever fit together.
Yeah, but I guess for me, it's kind of fascinating that you were already doing complexity and then you ended up sort of teaching complexity is how I think about it in a way, because you sort of synthesize all the stuff and give it to everyone.
In my opinion, I think you've taught a lot of people what complexity is in a weird way.
So you were trying to answer that question.
And then in a strange way, you've now taught a lot of people.
I mean, now it's a trending kind of thing.
I wonder how that feels for you.
I mean, I'm not.
I showed up very late to that game.
And I think I appreciate you telling me that I've played some sort of role in helping popularize intuitions about the behavior of complex systems.
At the same time, you know, it was, I was constantly reminded at SFI that I am not actually doing the research like I'm not formalizing quantitative models, you know, I'm not running simulations, I'm not choosing which hypotheses to pursue.
But I eventually did get to a point where I was like, but I can help the scientists identify hypotheses that are worth pursuing.
Because the thing that I was doing as the host of their show and all of that, I think had more value in some sense to an organization that had grown over the years and was, you know, now scattered across the world and, you know, people that rarely saw each other in person and rarely spoke.
And so like SFI, I think was, you know, going through one of these, these moments of fragmented attention and, you know, trying to clamber up the slope of the exponential production of new information.
And, you know, I think this is why like Brian Eno, when in 1995, I think this was talking with Kevin said that the 21st century would be defined by curation as an art form, you know, because like everybody, everybody's in a network like everyone's in the position to translate.
No one's in the middle. Like there is this idea about, you know, between this centrality in social networks, which is like, you know, the more connections you have, the more central you are.
But that's not true in a simple way. You know, everyone is on the edge of an indefinite number of things.
And so all of us have this to get all the way back to, you know, the early comments on, you know, each of us being a singular entity with, you know, totally distinct histories and so on.
Like the deeper you go into your unique context, the more you realize that you are the only person in the world who can broker certain kinds of relationships where you are.
And that there's this tension between the way that society has taught most of us to think about, again, like jobs, you know, like jobs are at a layer of abstraction.
You know, the even like identity, like I was saying earlier, like even thinking I know who I am is an abstraction.
And the more that I attend to the living context, the more like if I really want to pursue the inquiry of who I am, that, you know, it follows the same sort of structure.
Like one of the big, huge people in my life that I found while I was wandering the desert between academic and academic phase was Richard Doyle of Penn State.
And Doyle's book, he's in the stack, is in the stack.
I mean, he's got several, but this is the one I found first, Darwin's Pharmacy.
Oh, yeah.
Plants and the Evolution of the Noosphere.
I highly recommend him for your show.
He's such a sweet, wonderful, brilliant, humorous, heartful person.
And he had written this book that was basically, you know, putting together the pattern that I saw as a student about how information theory and evolutionary biology and consciousness and all of this stuff fit together.
Must have felt really good to find that.
Yeah, I mean, it was, and it, you know, it had not occurred to me at the time that it that that would also include psychedelics, because like that's the missing piece of the evolution of syntactic language paper was like, well, what exactly drove this sort of
This sort of super production of salience in early human societies that demanded an evolution of language like, okay, part of it must have just been simply scaling like more people.
Like, at the same time, scale, like the scaling of societies depends on greater coordination.
So like you can't actually, you know, like these things are in a complex relationship.
And, and so Doyle makes the case that language comes out of us trying to explain the
these experiences that people were having, you know, whatever it was, like the, you know, psychedelic mushrooms or, or very plants.
And, you know, he's like, the thing that characterizes what he calls the ecodelic experience is that it makes you write about it, it makes you talk about it.
Doesn't mean psychedelics, but also that kind of an experience that kind of life transformation feeling you want to talk about it, share it.
Exactly that that you know you have a profound, meaningful experience of some kind.
And it's in our nature to be, you know, to try and be like, oh my god, how do I even put this into words, you know, and so, you know, he, he, and that's, I mean, in a way like finding complex system science was that kind of psychedelic experience for me, it was that like, I don't have the language for this, like I see it.
I understand it but then like how do I communicate it and and you know Doyle's work and other people, you know, have convinced me that there is the unspeakable, you know, like that there are there.
There is knowledge that cannot be spoken but at the same time.
There is this perfect correlation that, you know, I work as if you know that mind and matter are two perspectives on something else for which there are not great words in English.
And so you would expect a perfect like reciprocal relationship where
If you can, if you can experience something, then there is a way to describe it, even if it's not, you know, or like you would see, or maybe it's not that you can talk about it in language, but that there is a material correlate to those experiences.
Or you can recreate the pattern in some way, even with music or something, you can sort of, it's a pattern that you can show through a different medium, or not even show.
I mean, I hate all these, we always talk about vision, but that another person can sense through a different medium. It's the pattern, right? You can give that to someone in a song, a book, you know, these things make us want to create, I think, and relate.
As you're talking about all this, I'm thinking about how, because you said, yeah, you weren't doing the research, and that's important. Researchers are important, yes. But at the same time, as you said, you were looking for all this and hungry for it for a reason I think matters in the way that what you were just talking about matters, because we're having these experiences and we want to share them and that's like part of some bigger thing for life in general.
And you couldn't find it. So what you did with the podcast, and I wonder, was it your idea to do podcasts, or did they ask you to do the podcast? I know you had to go through all kind of vetting and stuff, but using your kind of talent or your, I don't think anyone else would have done it that way, right?
So maybe you weren't the only doing podcasting at that time, but you were definitely, you know, doing it in a way others wouldn't. So you could do what I was talking about at the beginning, like take in that wealth of information, and still put the attention on it in a way that could communicate it and sort of, you know, create those third spaces that you were just describing for others so they could find them. I'm not trying to put you on a pedestal. I just like I really think that's kind of what was happening in a way that feels like important to note here. And I wonder if it relates to what you're saying at all.
Yeah, I mean, I told them in the job interview that I thought the obvious next thing for them to do was to start a show. And when was that? Sorry, because not everyone does a podcast, but that was not the case. Well, I had been running future fossils at that point already for several years.
And that made me something of a reputational risk, I think, because it meant I already had an audience and a brand and that I was willing to talk about things that the institution was not willing to take seriously.
Yeah, almost the way you were talking about your professors didn't take them seriously. I see that as a kind of a beautiful thing that they sort of embraced that and in so doing it flipped. I don't know.
I don't know. Yeah, I mean, so yeah, you know, 2018, I came to them and I was like, if you're going to hire me for social media, like one of the things about this media environment is that it's inherently conversational.
You know, like to the point that I was saying earlier about like, everyone's in the middle, you know, everyone, it's not, it's, you know, like, that organization is literally on top of a hill, you know, sort of, you know, trickling stuff down to the city, but they, I was like, but that's, but that has changed.
And, you know, social media is not a propaganda machine when it's being used in the way that really honors its affordances as distinct from that which has come before.
And also, like podcasts are not, I mean, lots of people are going to disagree with me about this because, you know, something has, you know, been appropriated, you know, the heat of the, you know, the new and possible with podcasting.
You know, very quickly people like decided that it was, you know, very highly produced, that, you know, it was going to be, you know, the narrative format, you know, like the things that people are calling a podcast now that category is huge.
And a lot of the excellent audio programming that exists in, quote unquote, podcast form now is actually more like audio book or documentary or radio, radio plays, radio plays, you know, and these are different things.
You know, so like, what I saw as really vital in podcasting as a medium was the way that it takes the, like, for instance, you know, SFI is sort of internally known for having tea every day at 3 p.m.
And everyone on site gathers in the kitchen and just chats each other up.
And that's when I say that, like, this is, you know, that they were facing a sort of attention problem that, you know, that that's not happening.
You know, it's like remote work is sort of like this. People don't meet around the water cooler.
So how do you how do you create this internal culture?
And but then, like the thing that why that kind of internal culture matters, because, you know, after SFI, I went on to work at an AI startup at the Mozilla Internet ecosystem for a while and was doing some innovation research for them.
You know, looking at the structures and processes of legendary organizations like Bell Labs or Xerox PARC, you know, the sort of Silicon Valley canon of badasses ARPA.
And we threw SFI and Pixar in there also, because I was like, I want, you know, we're not just doing.
But at any rate, like, you know, Pixar actually was an interesting outlier in that.
But the point of that is just that, like, you know, the water cooler, but you're making it virtual.
Is that your idea? Yeah, sort of.
But like, why does the water cooler matter is because it's not just about connecting people.
It's about their being.
So, like, if I talk about, like, the podcast as a book versus the podcast as generative discussion.
One of them is like the crystallization of knowledge forms, and the other is the alchemization of knowledge forms of like the the high high temperature search is what they, you know, or isn't that what David calls you?
Yeah, simulated annealing high temperature search like noise, like deliberate injection of noise into a, you know, an intelligent systems in order to enhance the creativity, which incidentally is also what psychedelics are for the brain.
What digital technologies are for human society.
What I thought, you know, I, you know, as if I was for science.
And, you know, so like there are these moments where it's like, okay, we shouldn't be brainstorming.
We're like about to ship like we're like there, we've made the thing, you know, and there's like that.
Now is the time for that left brain sort of instrumental optimization kind of function.
But we live in a world where the, you know, as McGill Chris talks about right the, the successes of that efficiency, like the the successes of the economics of scale have given us a regime with Zygmunt Bauman called liquid modernity.
You know, where it's like, we live in a world of just like constant self transformation, where like disruption has become like how much your people believe your company is going to disrupt things determines how much your company is worth.
You know, and so in that space,
it's very hard, like the balance has shifted from like, this is a stable regime, where we know the rules and just play the game, you know, because I think, like, I don't know if this has been your experience, but like, it has certainly been my experience and that of many people I know that, you know, when they talk to their parents or grandparents, it seems like they were living in a different universe strategically.
You know, that it was like, figure out the game and play the game. And now we're living in a world where it's like the new it's the game changes all the time, you know, like the something comes in, incidentally, like one of my favorite games of all time is this game flux.
I talked about it when I was on Kevin Kelly's cool tools show. The reason I love flux is because I feel like as a card game, it's like a lesson in this.
You know, when Brian Arthur talks about Taoist philosophy and economics and crossing the river stone by stone, you know, the improv of complex systems thinking that like fluxes this game where every new card you play changes the rules of the game for everyone else.
You know how many cards you can play or draw or what the winning conditions are.
And it's not to say that. So it's like, so you to in order to play that game.
You learn that it's not like that strategy stops mattering. It's that strategy becomes a smart like part of a larger consideration. That's like the meta strategy of flux, which is that if you want to win the game, you're playing what is effectively like an evolutionary algorithm of
like what increasing the likelihood that I will randomly be able to draw and play the cards that would guarantee my winning.
And so that's it's about it's a it's like it's like a way of holding yourself or something. Yeah. Yeah. But but but this winning doesn't really work anymore either. I don't think because like luck production and then there's no winning though either.
There's no that's just it. I mean, being seen by the machine to go back to your song seems to be winning, but that's not winning because you need to be seen by the machine over and over and over and over.
Right. Right. Right. So there's this weird tension in what you're saying where I agree with you, like everything's become more uncertain.
Being able to handle the uncertainty, which might be why we all want to be schooled in complexity is better. I'll show that again.
So, yeah, so that's the the finite and infinite games. And then, you know, also in Campania's prophetic culture. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I want to let you finish your thing, but I do have a response.
Well, I'm just I was just saying like, yeah, there's more uncertainty. So complexity helps us handle that. And that within itself has kind of become a way of doing business and strategizing, especially in particular communities.
But on the other side of that, as you were talking, I was thinking about AI and the machine, the big machine, and that's so linear and so coding based where you have to be everything.
There's no uncertainty. You can't have uncertainty. And we're starting to give ourselves over to that kind of LLM way of thinking.
So there's a tension there that feels very strange. You've probably seen podcasts change, but how podcasting has become almost like the medium of education for a lot of people these days.
So you type something in and then you get educated by the podcasts that come up. And that's due to the uncertainty of the conversational, the conversation, like what's going to happen if it's not in that book form that you were describing.
I think that's maybe the kind of podcasting you were talking about. But then you so you have that uncertainty and then you kind of linearize it into the code so that people can have it.
And that's an interesting tension that's being held, too.
But yeah, well, OK, so like, first of all, yeah, there is this weird parasocial dimension to podcasting that and that was that was like very explicit in, you know, back when I called my show Future Fossils and I probably will eventually change it back.
But like, you know, the whole point was like, you know, this is a trace fossil of a living dialogue.
Like, and by the time you hear it, it's already in a museum, you know, and at the same time, I've never really gotten that.
I always thought it was like future, you know, dinosaurs of tomorrow or something.
Well, there was also the, you know, very, very preoccupied with this idea of sensitivity to future events like the conversations I had with Eric Wargo and, you know, his work on precognition and what changes even if you don't believe that such a thing is possible.
Like what changes if you live in a way where you are reflecting on your present from an imagined future, like if you, you know, like the seven generations thinking or, you know, like the psychology is full of this support that people do better in life when they are in some sort of dialogue with their future selves.
You know, and so that was part of it too, which was like, you know, the presence of the future in the room now is a kind of time reversed fossil.
Yeah, I got that part of what will be. Yeah, that's what's great about it.
But, but this thing about games. Okay, so like flux.
Yeah, you can win and lose the game, but the fact that the arbitrariness of it, like you can think you have a winning strategy and then suddenly everything changes and somebody wins on accident, which happens all the time in that game and uncertainty thing too.
Yeah, so it's like that, like I, the reason I play that game is because it is so full of surprise that it's intrinsically fun. It's like, it's not, it's not like, I mean, like I said, like there is some spread of like being able to do better.
But nobody would hold flux tournaments, unless it was like a, like an ironic joke, like, you know, and so this is where, you know, like James P. Carson, finite and infinite games, you know, and he talks about on the back of the book, the rules of a finite game may not change the rules of an infinite game must change.
Because the point of an infinite point is to keep the game going for as long as you can, you know, that, and he says, you know, society with its limited prestige resource, you know, like status is inherently limited, possibly, probably even more fundamentally limited than attention, because you can cultivate attention, but like you're not taking someone else's attention when you do.
I don't know about that. I mean, I'm thinking of CT Noyan and this idea of gamification. Have you ever talked to him?
Twice. I love him.
Okay, I'm sure you have. Yeah. So, you know, there's that too, isn't there this cultivating the game so as to take your attention or taking the attention is just like the point of the game.
Well, there's like Twitter or something.
Yeah, the attention economy piece of it is a whole different thing. I mean, like meditation, you know, like my own, the cultivation of my own interiority.
I'd have to really think about it to try and come up with a way in which that takes someone else's consciousness.
Because that attention attention I'm talking about is already kind of like abstracted, right?
But it is that machine thing that's in the song and which I feel like is becoming very blurred with with consciousness.
And I don't mean that machines are becoming conscious. I just mean we're kind of giving ourselves over to that linear thing.
Even like you in the store when you said, I think it was kind of prompted you to write the song that you kept looking at your phone for who knows what reason, even though there was no signal or whatever.
What is that to attention wise?
I mean, that, yeah, I mean, that's, you know, I take that as an invitation to notice the ways in which I'm not actually paying attention.
You know that like that and this is one of the major like threads of inquiry for humans on the loop, which is like, you know, when are you being a robot?
You know, it's like there isn't this clean line, you know, because again, like you're talking about no uncertainty and like fundamental uncertainty.
And it's like, well, I see, you know, these things are like on a like a kind of a Mobius strip where if you pursue your own agency as a thesis to its utmost extreme, eventually you're going to bump into something over which you have no control.
And if you try to define the deterministic behavior of the cosmos, which seems for whatever reason to constantly be associated with trying to control that behavior, then eventually you get to the point that they, you know, they got with quantum mechanics where you're like, we're bumping up against fundamental randomness or our own epistemic limits.
Hard limits or or like maybe they're like quantum particles are actually choosing these things, which we can't like, you know, we can't accept that they're, you know, like Einstein.
God doesn't roll dice like, but but but these things do turn into one another at the extremes.
And so like that was, you know, when Zygmunt Bauman was writing about liquid modernity, it was like, yeah, the modern world holds this fundamental tension between striving for total control and striving for total transformation.
And you can't have both, you know, like that.
And so what what you you get is neither isn't like neither total control nor total transformation, because these are just ideas.
And you end up with something that like Danny Hillis and Neri Oxman at MIT, both, you know, in 2016 described as the age of entanglement, you know, where, like I was saying earlier about Bill Thompson and, you know, the the remix of ecology and industry.
You know, Kevin Kelly talked about it in out of control back in the 90s.
David Krakauer has written about it as emergent engineering, you know, where you you operationalize evolution in design, you know, to and like that's how, you know, people make vaccines and all kinds of things now.
Yeah, it's like, but the but the game, the game, right, is that in order to do that, like in order to like tango with the age of entanglement as the age of entanglement.
And and, you know, Doyle said that in Darwin's pharmacy that, you know, that seeing oneself as emergent from contained within and all mixed up with what, you know, Darwin's tangled bank of evolution means that like who you thought you are is itself in flux and subject to change and
fundamentally groundless and emerging within this larger, you know, emerging in something that exceeds the world that the world is like an epistemic artifact.
And so like Campania, I want to read you this really quickly because I love this passage from prophetic culture where he's talking about the I ended a recent essay I posted to sub stack with this because it's just so
Was it the multitudes one multitudes and holding paradox one?
Yeah, let's see. It's not stuttering.
It's
Yeah, rather than promoting apathy and fatalism or prophetic gaze offers that reassurance against the anguish of loss and of becoming, which is by necessity the foundation of any meaningful action.
He says, seen as one island surrounded by other spaces the world itself turns from a serious game into a game that can be played seriously.
It has its own unbreakable inner rules and its lure and threats can often feel overwhelming, yet it is just a process taking place within a specific board.
If one, even if one wished to end their act before its natural closure, they wouldn't have to do so with acrimony rather like players gracefully abandoning the table.
Prophetic culture offers another room in the house beyond the games room and a place from which it is possible to intervene on the world as if always returning to it.
He says, it's no longer a win all lose all ordeal in a boundless desert.
Worldly existence manifests itself as one layer in a larger event exceeding for the most part our ability to catalog it linguistically, which he says, finally, allows one, one gains the ability to act within the world.
Action will no longer put at stake one's whole existence since nothing is ever lost entirely. No failure is absolute no life is ever wasted.
Perhaps it is possible to direct and to produce historical events only when one's own will is sustained by an awareness of the ineffable excess overflowing the maps of language.
And then he quotes Hugo Ball. He says, it is impossible at the same time to be artists and to believe in history.
So like, well, there's so much in there. I don't even know. It reminds me of the slay slaying technology with art to from.
Yeah, technology slays the victim and resurrects it with art. And that's that's what Thompson's saying.
And imaginary landscape about the mind in the era of planetary culture, you know, that like all of this, you know, that the information scaling crisis and its ego death for like the individual trying to make sense of, you know, the 21st century.
That, you know, as with Campania, Campania saying, well, the prophet is not a mystic. The prophet is not rejecting the world.
The prophet is not claiming that the world is an illusion. The world is there.
It's just also.
Part of the eternal. And so like the mind in planetary culture is slain by technology in as much as like you see, you know, you begin to see yourself through the lens of like algorithmic thinking.
Or like you began to see the ecological relationships out of which humankind and, you know, your own like, you know, big data, like real simple, like the quantified self, you know, like you start to see all of these patterns in your sleeping behavior and your blood sugar and all this stuff.
And, you know, you start to see these relationships and then you realize like, oh, that mood I was in the other day was like you have an explanation for a much richer description of what's going on that in this in a way similar to like, you know, meditators describe this.
You know, like the, the, the more rich and detailed your observation of the mind, the more the mind looks like just like a karmic machine, like the more it's just like the stuff is just happening.
It's doing itself and is a very, you know, there's an infinitely complex machine that at that point you can't separate from being alive, but it's like there, it does have its sort of self existing rules that, you know, and so it's like, well, okay, like it's doing itself on its own.
I think you can separate it from the machine though. I, I mean, I see what you're saying, but I think there's a danger in thinking it's just that we, okay, so like, yeah, we start picking up on our own patterns in a way that feels a bit like mechanical in the sense that you just described.
But there's also kind of a threshold or for some reason I'm thinking of how you describe the web as a psychedelic experience, you know, like there's a point where you kind of lose coherence with all the information that's coming in and that can be a psychedelic experience or that can be a poverty of attention to go back to the thing.
And what's the difference there, you know, in your life or, I mean, do you, do you want to be seen by the machine? Do you get stuck in this crazy, crazy kind of algorithmic wanting to be wanting to be seen by the machine or do you have the psychedelic experience of it?
You know, or are there's the same for you or, you know, there's something really nuanced there that feels important.
Well, first I want to say like, you know, saying that's like attending to the operations of one's own mind reveals it as machinic. There are still important distinctions between the way in which that might be described as machinic and the way in which a car operates or whatever.
Biological, ecological actually.
Yeah. At the same time, I think like the essays I've been writing lately are about how impoverished and inadequate these categories of life and machine really are and how we really do need better language at this point, which is I linked to Michael Levin's piece in Noma magazine where he makes a very similar case.
He's like, these are models. These are just these are just ideas about the world and the world is changing very fast.
And I've talked about that a lot. Like, yeah, it's it's an important distinction. It's one reason I brought it up. But I wonder for you, because we don't have that much more time, but I'm really interested in like your how you do it.
You know, I know you write songs. That's your encoding mechanism and so on. But you also you sort of showed me just a minute ago when you said you noticing that you're noticing your phone is almost like a that seems like a positive thing.
Oh, it's kind of a look what I'm doing. And you're you seem to have even pushed out to a different scale in terms of even the big machine.
Are you are you trying to do that? Or what kind of experience are you having with all this? Because it also brings up what you said at the beginning about wanting to be the only.
I mean, you showed me that you pushed hard against anyone telling you that you're like someone else.
And that theme I could explore with you for a long time, but I have thought of it through this conversation about how that's pushed you to be strange or weird.
That's a word we could have talked about. You know, if people think you're weird, if you want to be weird, if you're trying to be weird, you know, and how that fits to this machine wanting to be the machine.
Yeah, well, that's just it. Right. Is it like the more the more we allow ourselves to be governed by the idea, whether it's our own categorical abstractions or it is.
The constraints on our behavior by a system that is operating on us in like, you know, cybernetic co evolution between what we classically think of as human and machine like that.
There is there is this question of like, how much do you want your life to be determined by abstractions?
Again, like whether you think of them as yours or whether you think of them as someone else's abstractions of you.
And, you know, classic like, you know, I'm a loner, Dottie, a rebel, you know, I'm a thinker like everyone else.
I'm an outsider. It's like, OK, like relative to what like relative to the subset of all people that think that way, you're certainly not.
And one of the conversations I had from my show that really trans that I just adored was with K.
A lot of McDowell, who had written Pharmaco, which was the first book co authored GPT to back like back in the day now, LLM prehistory almost at this point.
But and had written a really interesting piece called Neural Interpolation for Gropius Bao about how each new media environment creates different selves, you know, like the self of broadcast media.
This is based on Fred Turner's thinking about this, that the self of broadcast media is different from the self of immersive.
Is different from the self of network media.
And then K was saying, well, like we now we live in an age of neural media where you're not just thinking like the the affordances for the conceptualization of selfhood in this environment are not just like I'm a I'm in a network.
I'm a point on a graph.
But that you're made out of networks, interacting with technologies that are made out of networks, both of those things are evolving, they're evolving together, they're both inside of larger networks.
And so, you know, it's like we're again we're in a very conversational media environment that's fundamentally of evolutionary evolutionary and so like when I years ago I wrote this piece called improvising out of algorithmic isolation that I'll send you.
That's a great title.
It's like this is the, my friend asked me to write a piece about, you know, surveillance capitalism and art and like improv and how to think about, you know, like stealing some piece of our humanity back out of the jaws of this thing.
And what I kind of get to in that piece is that how, you know, if you are co evolving with these things. There's always some bit of like, you become the enemy.
You know, it's like the machines are becoming more lifelike, and we, but it's not that we're becoming purely it's like we are starting to see the ways in which, you know, I am already on autopilot.
Most of the time I'm already operating on abstractions, much of the time, I'm, you know what is conscious in me is not like you'll never be totally conscious in, in the sense of like, you know, perfect information integration across every layer
of your being. I mean, if that is possible, it's certainly not possible for you to think we would blow up. I mean, human anymore, you know, so like, yeah, I think it's just, you know, like, for me, it's just become like my practice with this is, you know, try, you know, try and see where
categorical thinking and the use of models and abstractions is like fit to task. And on the other side of it, where am I doing that? Like, where am I assuming that something is real? When it's just an idea? And when am I assuming that ideas are just ideas? When it's better to understand them as, you know,
when it's better to understand them as real, like that there's this like flat ontology where like ideas are, you know, like I was saying earlier, like they exist in some way, there's a material descriptive behavioral correlate for all of these things.
Whether you measure it by the influence on people's behavior, whether you were to say like, Look, I've got a map of all of the people that are, you know, that people talk about the internet weighing as much as a strawberry, you know, like all the electrons in it.
And it's like the psychedelic part of that that was missing from the syntax paper in a way that whole. Yeah, yeah, the practice for me is just to get is to get better at noticing full stop just to get noticed that you know, and that's this point, right? Right?
That's what these authors are saying is like, when you are able to, like the only way that you can actually have fun playing a game is to do this, you know, otherwise, it just becomes horrible.
Does it help you be weird? Because I don't know if you actually feel strange or weird or, you know, for example, like when you go to a party and someone's like, What do you do? And this kind of thing.
You know, you can't just give I don't know if ever in your life, after you were a shoe salesman, that you had a like whatever, you know, standard answer to that. I don't know if anyone does to be honest, I think it's a little bit of that could be a whole other discussion.
But you know what I mean? It's this not fitting, which sounds like you wanted from the beginning, in a sense, not to fit. And I'm not trying to say you were trying to be an outsider, but there's something in you that was resisting going along with something.
And I wonder if that practice of noticing as part of like what that does or if that's changed now that, you know, you're going through all these transformations yourself, that podcasting is going through transformations that, you know, you're you're in a flux state.
And is that your natural state? I don't know. I'm asking a lot of questions at once because I'm not sure what the question is, but it has something to do with is it helping you right now? Do you even need help right now?
Yeah, yeah. Well, yeah, this, we can try and land it here that like, I think the, you know, this idea of being distinctive is a red herring in as much as it is an idea of like what it means to be distinctive on the basis of, you know, what you see everyone
else doing, right? Or what you think, you know, where you think the attention is concentrated in the economy. But what really makes people singular in that kind of way is, you know, found through a process of, you know, individuation and a discovery of the core.
I mean, I won't even call it like a core, but like the discovery of deeper values. And if at risk of sounding care instead of core, is it possible? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So like, at risk of sounding like I'm talking, I'm telling people to find themselves, which is a very sort of late modern consumer, like lifestyle
consumer capitalist thing. It's not that it's it's the like, okay, it may be that for you at some point along the path, but it becomes this thing of like, if you just practice attending to what is interesting, and you know, I'm sure you know, you've heard this
from so many people, like, so many interesting people talk about their careers, and they're just like, I just, I just follow what I am deeply passionately interested in. And sometimes it changes. And, you know, it's not always blissful, or it is blissful in the sort of like, you know, the scary way that like, you know, bliss, the way that it was like, Teresa Avila talks about like, it's not always fun.
It's not like the strange and marvelous bird that shrieks at you. I don't know if you know that Yates point, but when one of your posts, you talk about, we have to turn around and look at AI. And it reminded me of that point where they, at the end of it, it's called her triumph.
At the end of it, they turn around and look at this crazy bird that's like shrieking at them. And it's sort of love right and care and self and the way you're describing right now.
Yeah.
This, whatever this is.
Turn and face the strange, right, David Bowie?
Yeah, let it shriek at you. And it is you and all of that.
I mean, I guess, you know, in some way, I think that the, like, I am convinced, and this is a subject for another whole like discussion, but like, I'm convinced that the future of the of like society is one in which, you know, the
in which
jobs
don't exist,
but that people actually get paid for doing what they love.
And there's like, there's a dark side to that too. Like, I'm not just sort of not being Pollyanna ish about this, there is a sense in which, you know, you could argue that like, this like technology slays the victim and resurrects it as our
comment Thompson is making about the mind includes, you know, the sculpture of the human mind by these vast distributed systems, the big machine.
And that we end up with like, you know, brave new world.
But like, I don't think nature or whatever.
Yeah, I don't think brave new world is the whole story. And I don't think,
you know, the Kevin Kelly angle on the automation of the economy is the full story. But I do think that like we're
like, if you really care about being like, in a way, it's like a position of faith, it's like,
why are you interested in what you're interested in?
You didn't really choose that.
Maybe it's worth experimentally trusting
that this sort of
kind of dystopia of, you know, human AI civilization, you know, evolving the attention economy into something where, you know, you want what we tell you to want.
Maybe it is already that way in the same way that like, that the biosphere is already doing this in the same way that like some people are doing it.
Oh, God, like becoming pregnant is like having some alien grow inside of you.
And then it changes your brain. It makes you love it.
You know, gross. But then like, becoming a parent doesn't feel like that for most people.
You know, you're like, this is that's kind of right.
This is right. This is good.
And so, you know, people like Mike Levin, my buddy, Tom Morgan, you know, I talk with a lot of people about this sort of like, just for lack of a better term, like trusting in synchronicity and trusting that, like,
learning to hear the call, like learning, learning to be sensitive to these, like, what, whether they are or not, like nudges or winks, or, you know, these kinds of things feel like because I mean, I have no idea what it's like to be sensitive to.
That I don't stop at my body, like my, you know, I don't stop at my skin, or my eyes.
And we're all connected in mysterious ways.
And as my buddy Jeff said, we're all connected in mysterious ways.
And as my buddy Jeff said, we're all connected in mysterious ways.
I have no reason to doubt that I don't stop at my body, like my, you know, I don't stop at my skin, or my idea of myself.
And we're all connected in mysterious ways.
And as my buddy Josh DiCaglio says, ontologically inseparable.
It makes me think of, for some reason when you were talking, I was thinking of this kind of light, you know, like shining from the chest, which sounds completely nuts.
But there are these things that you kind of gravitate towards, right?
It does feel like that at times, like you just can't, and the way you were with dinosaurs, or the way you were with complexity even, the way I am with this whole dichotomy paradox theme.
So you can't let it go. You said that earlier. You just can't, I just couldn't let it go.
And there's really something to that that's important and not just woo kind of stuff.
And what you said also about there are these moments of rhyme, rhyming, or synchronicity, or even just where the world's like a little lighter and brighter and you feel it and you remember it.
And it's like, we don't have to get mystical about what all that is, but it's there and everyone feels it.
And it seems like part of that practice of noticing you were talking about, you start to notice that and there's something to that, you know?
There's something to that that's, if we start doing that more than what you said about not having jobs and doing what we love becomes really interesting.
Because, well, I mean, to end, let's talk about love, because is love a feeling or is it something we're making?
And I would say it's something we're making, we feel it, but it's something we're making.
And if we practice in the way you just said, that is interesting to think of that glowing light that sounds silly what I'm saying.
But there's moments where you're, you know, you're pointing towards something and you recognize it and you didn't choose to point towards it in a sense, or the world is brighter.
That's kind of interesting to think about doing what we love if that's what's leading that, if that's what we're making the love out of.
Just to end, I'd like to hear what you think about all that, or even just this word love and care.
And I know you got married recently, too, but.
Yeah, but I mean, to my partner of 20 years.
Yeah.
And the kids were both there.
That's even bigger, actually.
At the wedding.
20 years and then you got married, I mean.
Our daughter was the flower girl and our son was the rain bearer.
That's so sweet.
Yeah.
But you know what I mean with this love, doing what we love, love isn't passive either, is it?
No.
I, you know, it's funny because like, this whole story that I'm telling you over the course of this call has been at the same time, like, while I was going through this, you know, shock of like discovering deeper questions and wondering who I am and, you know,
traveling all over the place and trying to figure stuff out.
That's the same period of my life where I met my wife.
And we were going through our own sort of relational version of that.
And those two things can't really be separated from me.
And, you know, because our lives were so crazy for so long and made so little sense.
And it was very hard to, you know, like, for many, for years, she and I wondered like, God, it seems like the world is just conspiring against us, like we can't, like, we can't land this for some reason.
And it made me want to, you know, like, cut her loose and be like, I cannot possibly be good for you.
You know, like this is this is an insane relationship.
This is nuts.
And yet, I think, you know, there was something about the fact that like, no matter how hard we tried to make sense of it, we couldn't.
And no matter how hard we tried to like, act on this idea that the other person would be better off without us, that never worked either.
And that the love in our relationship is
not just an active thing that we are doing, but like, it felt like
an active field in which we were
arising. Like, it was it was making us as much as we were making it.
And like, it was like a tulpa or something, you know, it was like an like an agregore is like an entity.
Our our love was holding us together, no matter what our conscious minds were doing, because we were creating it.
And therefore, it needed us to survive or something.
And like, yeah, I just had to talk about the third entity.
And that reminds me, it's like a third entity that's there.
Yeah. Yeah. So like the thing that another thing, the last thing I'll say about that is I think that the missing piece
on the language, like on the discourse around evolution and emergence of order and all of this stuff tends to be
the involution, you know, that the order doesn't just come from nowhere.
It's brought into focus. It comes from something.
It's like stepped down from the ineffable into the world in some way.
And, you know, so like that, you know, like people who think that
you know, we are making machine gods.
It's like, not exactly like I'm more on this like Rudolph Steiner, like it's the incarnation of Aramon.
You know, like it is it's not that it's not
it's not that it's not happening.
It's just that you have to be kind of oblivious to the fact that like these beings already exist and are in this sort of
relational co-arising with the forms that they take in the sliver of reality we actually can observe.
And that's that's love.
Like love, love is like being swept up into something that challenges your ego boundaries.
The third entity that you described with your wife, but it's a different scale of it happening in terms of time and space.
It's hard to think about that.
That's the big machine.
I hope so.
You know, like the big machine is actually like, no, that's you.
That's you and everybody you care about and everybody.
No wonder we want to be seen by the machine.
Yeah, no, no wonder.
It's like, yeah, it's like the dog, the video of the dog fighting, growling, snarling at its own leg.
The dog, the video of the dog fighting, growling, snarling at its own leg.
Speaking of dogs, I need to walk my dog, but I really love talking to you and I really appreciate it.
I appreciate what you gave and all of this has a lot to seep in.
Well, thank you for being so present, kind and curious.
Thank you, Michael.
I hope you have a nice day there.
Good day.
I'll try to figure out the name of the trees.
See.
Everybody wants to be.
Everybody wants to be pleased by the big machine.
Everybody wants to be pleased by the big machine.
And now I'm going to read one of my favorite poems.
Actually, I haven't memorized.
It's one of the first ones I ever memorized.
It's called Her Triumph by William Butler Yeats.
I did the dragon's will until you came because I had fancied love, a casual improvisation,
or a settled game that followed if I let the kerchief fall.
Those deeds were best that gave the minute wings and heavenly music if they gave it wit.
And then you stood among the dragon rings.
I mocked being crazy, but you mastered it and broke the chain and set my ankles free.
St. George or else a pagan Perseus.
And now we stare astonished at the sea and a miraculous strange bird shrieks at us.
You
