Software is nice and rigid and stiff, does what you tell it,
and business environments are insane and impossible to predict
and impossible to control.
We're not just producing clones who sit and write code
that can be replaced by LLMs,
but we're producing human beings
who have to interact with human systems,
and we're sending them out there with knowledge
of nothing more than the code
to interact with these human systems,
and we're doing them a disservice.
We're making their jobs harder,
and to be able to build software requires
that you can interface with both sides of this,
and programmers are very definitely taught
and selected for their ability to think linearly,
and that means solving problems, thinking logically,
taking one step at a time, always being correct,
being very critical in how you view things.
You can start with the fathers of computer science,
so Turing and Von Neumann,
and you work backwards and you realize
that Turing and Von Neumann both worked
with Wittgenstein and Russell,
who was influenced by Freygin.
You take another few steps back,
so it doesn't take long to get back to Plato,
and Parmenides, and you realize that,
God, this is not something that's just turned up
in the last 50 years.
This is a way of looking at the world
that's been around for a very, very long time,
and the paradox is that that particular way of thinking,
which in the book I relate back to Freygin
and Russell and Wittgenstein,
that particular way of thinking is incredibly necessary
to invent the computer.
We would never have got to Alan Turing.
We would never have got to the computer
without that way of thinking,
but that way of thinking turns out
to be absolutely horrendously horrible
for dealing with or describing
or managing any kind of human problem,
and as soon as you apply it to a human problem,
the only thing you can do is create constructs
that are rigid and brittle,
and the problem, as I've seen it,
is that those static models describe a snapshot
of the business environment at one point in time
from one person's perspective,
and that reality keeps moving and keeps changing,
and as that reality moves and change,
anything that we've put into software, into code,
cracks and breaks,
and then we experience poor quality software.
We have to change it.
It takes time.
It gets more brittle every time we touch it,
and what I've said is that we can't live in this world
where we believe in this static snapshot
of the business environment.
It doesn't exist.
It just never is like that,
and the residue is a kind of clever little trick
that says, look, there is a snapshot of the system
at this one particular time,
and we'll put that,
we'll wrap that in a wrapper called the residue,
and a residue is just whatever's left over
when the system breaks,
and then you tweak your original architecture
so that when we go down that trouser leg,
the thing that breaks still keeps working,
and software has to be based on a model of what's going on
because it's based on a model we have of a human system,
and the software becomes even more rigid
than the model itself because it's encased in code,
difficult and expensive to change,
and what happens is that we use this linear way of thinking
to model the human system,
then we take that model, turn it into code,
and the human system moves and the code breaks,
and so the architect's paradox is that this linear way
of thinking that gets us to the computer causes a crisis
when we try to apply it to the human systems,
which we're trying to use the software to help,
and here's a set of tools that allows you to live comfortably
with this uncertainty and not only that
but to leverage the uncertainty to get to a result,
which while it's not certain,
is scientifically as good as we can get.
That shifts everything, and it shifts the way we talk,
it shifts the way we look at problems.
The feedback I get from developers and people in the field
is that it's a relief.
It's like, we don't have to pretend anymore.
I would say that given my education,
which was pure mathematics followed by software engineering,
that the education and this default philosophy
that all people who follow that track
that I talk about in the book pick up,
shuts you out from a huge chunk of the world,
a huge chunk of life,
and what the philosophy has done for me
while staying very close to the code
is brought me and pulled me into contact
with all kinds of things.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
I'm so glad you're here.
Today I have Barry O'Reilly with me as my guest,
and I'm very excited about this one,
although it's about a subject
you might think isn't philosophical,
which is software development,
but anyone who's studied philosophy knows
that there's so many metaphors
or even ideas that are taken literally
in terms of computation,
in terms of the way we build our computers,
the way we think about them,
and this is sort of flipping that script in a way
because here's a guy, Barry,
who's worked for a lot of top companies.
He's really good at his job,
developing architecture, software architecture.
He's an architect in this world of coding
and software development enterprise architecture.
Started out in math, pure mathematics,
became a coder, a software architect,
and he's bringing complexity theory
into software development,
which is the first time that's ever been done.
I find it extremely exciting.
I really think he's got something urgent
to teach us as philosophers,
even though philosophers might quibble a bit
with his interpretations of philosophy.
If you read his book, he actually does a very good job of it.
He's really studied and condensed
so many different sorts of philosophies
in a way that actually makes it very understandable
and brings something really important
to software architecture.
He's actually come up with a whole new theory
in software architecture,
which actually has to do with the way that it's done,
and it's called residuality theory,
and it's a theory of software design
that tries to make it easier to design software systems
based on these complex systems notions for the real world,
for complex business environments,
for complex everyday life,
for the kind of problems we actually face as humans,
as life, even though we have to use this linear code
to solve them.
So he's holding this paradox.
He actually talks about it as a paradox, as you'll hear.
It's a theory that model software systems
is interconnected,
and he has this wonderful idea of residues,
and he's working with the residue as a kind of unit.
This is a really good introduction into it,
and just to understand how it's important for philosophy
and also why philosophy can actually be helpful
in the real world of business
and computer design and computer software.
He's basically coming up with an idea of process modeling.
He's using process philosophy and complexity theory
to come up with a way to do the software architecture
that actually works.
It's actually been proven to work.
A word he talks about a lot is uncertainty.
So he's finding a way to manage uncertainty,
which is a part of all design practice.
Even though we code in a very linear way,
the problems that those codings are solving
in the real world are messy and uncertain,
full of chance and change.
And for those of you who are coders and software designers,
this is an introduction to philosophy
that can be really helpful to you, his work,
because he really spent years and years
reading through everything from Plato to Deleuze
and noticing a lot of the residues, dare I say,
that have come out of philosophy,
but that people didn't necessarily think of as philosophy.
He talks about how everyone has a philosophy,
we just don't know it,
which is something I've said myself actually,
or that a lot of us have been talking about lately,
which is maybe one reason we ended up finding each other.
In any case, I hope you will listen to this conversation
through to the end, because it really gets good
towards the end.
I think it's good all the way through,
but these aren't necessarily easy ideas,
and we're combining a lot of worlds here as usual
with love and philosophy,
but they're all connected by this idea of paradox,
holding the paradox,
looking at the world a bit differently,
thinking differently from the either or mindsets
that characterize so much of what we do every day
and not saying that those are bad.
This isn't about coding being bad or linearity being bad
or any of that.
It's just a different way of approaching it,
which actually allows some more randomness,
some more entropy, while at the same time,
giving us a different kind of order.
So that reminded me a lot of the conversation
I had with Karl Friston, for example.
There's a lot of ideas
from all the other conversations in this one.
So a lot of these episodes have a lot to do with complexity
and complexity science.
We mentioned it in the last one with Kevin Kelly,
the tech maverick of co-founder of Wired Magazine,
and then there's a few other talks coming up
which have quite a bit to do with complexity
and philosophy and physics.
But this one is really fascinating
because it's in a very practical everyday application,
software design, software architecture.
However, I find it very fascinating too
because of the way we talk about computation
and the way we talk about computers within philosophy,
I actually see this as very helpful
for breaking out of that mindset a bit
and also being able to hold it
and understand the worth in it at the same time.
I hope you enjoy this conversation.
I hope you'll go and find Barry's talks on YouTube,
which I'm linking to, of course, in the show notes.
They're really worth watching, listening to.
His books are great too.
I read them, loving them.
There's a lot in there you'll recognize,
but there's a lot of connections that he makes
because he's coming at it from a different way
that even if you're a philosopher
and you're very trained in all the philosophy
he mentions or talks about,
you still get something out of it.
And if you're a software designer, a coder,
you get an introduction into philosophy
that will make a lot of sense to you.
We also come back to the idea of care and love,
what it really means in the world
to be embracing uncertainty
and not to be just holding onto this linear way of thinking
and imagining that LLMs and the whole AI revolution
is somehow safer or smarter or anything like that.
It's just a product of powerful technology
that's been formed with a linear mindset.
There's a whole other world.
There's a whole other side to the paradox
and it's time to explore it
and even embrace that uncertainty
and let it open us up to the world again.
And I also wanna say, I think residuality theory
probably could have some interesting applications
in other fields.
No one's really tried it yet.
I've just learned about it,
but I've already had quite a few ideas
relative to neuroscience,
which of course I won't have time to test out myself.
Just for those of you listening,
maybe it sparks something.
Maybe it's worth actually listening to the end
and looking at his videos
because there's a new approach here,
especially for those of us coming at it
from the traditional routes of cognitive science.
I'm always happy to hear from you,
hear your ideas and I hope you'll support the show
in whatever way you can.
Hope you're having a beautiful May.
It's the month of my birthday.
So it's one of my favorite months
and things are coming up from the ground.
As I said last time, it's been very sunny.
I'm off to Japan.
So I'm sending you a lot of love today.
Hope you're doing well wherever you are
and that something good happens in your life this week.
All right, cheers.
Shall we start?
Yeah.
Hi, Barry.
Thank you so much for being on Love and Philosophy.
It's wonderful to see you today.
Thanks, Andrea.
Cool to be here.
I just thought at the beginning,
maybe you could just tell everyone
a little bit about yourself.
You have such an interesting history.
We're gonna talk about your two books a bit today,
but first, who are you, Barry?
Yeah, so my name is Barry O'Reilly.
I live in the archipelago outside Stockholm in Sweden.
Originally, I grew up in Ireland,
in the north of the country.
I worked with software engineering for a very long time.
Originally, my first degree was in pure mathematics
and got into the software industry
and worked for a very long time there
as a software engineer, software architect.
Worked for Microsoft for quite a few years,
led the solutions architecture community there,
became a chief architect.
And in that time, got very interested in the idea
of what is a software architect,
because no one really knows.
And got really into trying to define what that is.
How do we teach architects?
How do we become architects?
Because it's all very accidental.
It's all very random.
The industry is very immature.
It doesn't really understand what we're about yet.
And from there, I decided to,
I had a bunch of ideas about how we should do this,
how we should carry this,
how we should be as architects.
And I started to speak on the IT conference circuits,
but I was a little bit disillusioned with it
because at IT conferences, you can get up on a stage,
you can say anything, and people would just nod
and say, that's really interesting.
And you don't have to verify anything.
You don't have to validate what you're saying.
And I felt that I wanted to go deeper.
So I started a PhD.
I got interested in the links
between what we do as software architects
and the complexity sciences.
Started to investigate those things
and sort of pulled on that thread
until eventually I ended up looking into philosophy.
Encouraged by my wife, me dying.
Philosophy?
She's just finishing her PhD in education.
So she was the first philosopher in the house
and she kept leaving books on my desk
and saying, you need to read this.
The things you're talking about
have already been talked about.
You need to read this guy and this thing and that.
And so I started to get deeper and deeper into that.
And then maybe went a bit too far.
And so last year I was writing,
asked to write a little booklet for a conference
and they would give it away
as the domain-driven design conference in Amsterdam.
And they were gonna give this little booklet away
to everyone who came to the conference.
And so there was some kind of mix up in communication.
And so my booklet, they meant 16 pages.
So I sent them a message when I got to 200.
I was like, this is going well.
This is going well.
And they're like, no, stop.
That's not what we meant.
So eventually we compromised on like 72 or 74 pages.
Then people started to hear about the book.
So they started to write to me and say,
how do we get this book?
I was like, well, it's not for sale.
So I published it online through Lean Pub
and it turned out to be a big success.
And one of the things that happened
to get it down from 200 pages,
I had to take all the philosophy stuff out.
And that was just sort of lying there on a shelf
in my hard drive.
And then I did a talk at a conference,
the NDC conference in Oslo,
about the philosophy behind architecture
and discovered that it wasn't just a niche interest
that I thought was interesting,
but lots of people were very interested in it.
So I took those extra pages
and turned them into the second book,
which was released in February this year.
Well, that's a more philosophical one.
Yeah, and that's the architect's paradox.
It's very interesting,
because as far as I know,
you're bringing complexity theory
into software architecture and coding.
And I'm not sure that's ever been done before.
And it's this whole new world relative
to what it could mean to be an architect
in terms of software.
Did you already start having these ideas
relative to the residuality theory
before you went back to school?
When did complex systems come in?
How did you discover this?
So I was given a job while I was at Microsoft.
I went over to the head office and they said to me,
look, we need someone to teach
the next generation of architects,
because we're having some struggles.
And sort of people who can cover the technology,
because technology at the time was changing
and we're moving to cloud-based systems,
which was challenging for a lot of people.
So a lot of our old knowledge was crumbling away
and we were expected to learn new things.
And we were also expected to be able to translate
those new things into business environments.
And so business environments
are very different things than software.
Software is nice and rigid and does what you tell it.
And business environments are insane
and impossible to predict and impossible to control.
And so I started thinking about how do I teach this?
And I had to ask some hard questions of myself.
How do I do this?
Because I'm not entirely sure.
And at that point, I'm fairly confident
that I can do this job well,
because it keeps working out for me.
But I can't articulate, what do I do?
How do I know what to do?
Where are these ideas come from?
How do I know what to say next?
And I started to dig into that
and realized that myself and other senior architects
had a grasp of complexity,
that I'm sorry, a grasp of uncertainty,
that a comfort in uncertainty
that sort of junior architects and developers
just didn't have.
And so when things started to become uncertain,
where you couldn't really grasp
what's happening in this business system
and no one could tell you what was happening.
And there was a lot of uncertainty around
how does this work?
And what are we even trying to do?
You would see junior architects,
junior software developers melt away
and just not really know how to handle it.
And senior architects and people like me would think,
oh, well, now this is interesting
because no one knows what's going on.
And we don't know what we're going to do.
And it's really difficult to map this
to software constructs.
It's not textbook, it's not easy.
And so I started to just read a little bit
on what is uncertainty?
What are the, how do we deal with that?
And so as a mathematician, you end up, of course,
always coming back to Bayes theorem and things like that.
There's a lot of ideas around that,
but they all sound real good,
but you can't apply them to real life.
You can't do anything really concrete with them.
And so I just pulled on that thread.
I ended up in the complexity sciences,
reading people like Ralph Stacey and Nassim Taleb.
And then I started to formulate my own ideas around that.
And then sort of the early incantations of this
were based around Taleb's idea of anti-fragile.
I realized that it's a good metaphor for what I'm doing,
but it doesn't capture
what I'm trying to do at the component level.
And so the concept of residues was born out of melting
all of these ideas from the complexity sciences
together with the ideas from computer science
and practical experience and sort of trying to capture
what it is that senior architects do
in a way that as I've presented these ideas back
to the community,
in a way that senior architects themselves
didn't, were doing, but couldn't articulate.
And that's been nice to hear from people in the industry,
say, look, I already do this.
What you're describing sounds really familiar,
but we've never had words for this before.
We've never been able to say what it is that we do until now.
And so it was more or less going to Google,
typing in the word uncertainty,
clicking on the first few links and going,
ah, okay, it's this.
And then I wrote a few articles.
They got published in some computer science journals.
And then I decided to do a bit more with it.
So I found a university and started working on a PhD,
which I'm writing up as we speak.
Well, not literally right now,
but this week I'm supposed to be writing it up.
Good luck.
Well, you have written two books
in the time you were writing your PhD.
So you're doing a lot of writing, that's for sure.
Yeah.
You said you studied math first.
Were you already interested in Bayes and all of this?
Cause that's not exactly, I mean,
there's a lot of different kinds of math
and that's not necessarily typical,
or it's becoming more typical, but.
Yeah, so the math that I studied was pure mathematics.
So algebraic topology, linear algebra, things like that.
And math for the sake of math,
absolutely no application whatsoever.
No statistics.
Statistics was a dirty word in our department.
So we didn't do any of that.
Statistics came much later,
maybe 10 or so years ago
when in the last wave of machine learning,
interested in it, I had to get into statistics.
And then obviously as part of your PhD training,
there's a lot of statistics in there, but yeah.
It sounds like you were doing something
that was working really well, as you kind of said,
and you're succeeding a lot in Microsoft
and all these big worlds.
And then you started trying to figure out exactly why
and you hit upon uncertainty.
Was it your capacity to handle uncertainty?
Was it, what was it about that word?
That word is important.
I think it's in the title of both your books even.
It is, yes.
So it's the ability to work in uncertainty.
In uncertainty.
And so if you study computer science or software engineering,
there's always someone who tells you,
look, this is what we're doing.
This is the duty, this is the task.
You need to build a bit of code that does this.
You need to build a bit of code that does this
when you're doing your assignments
and all of those things.
And when you're a developer,
then there's these people who appear around you,
business analysts, requirement engineers,
people who tell you, we need to build this
and you need to build that.
It needs to look like this.
You talk to a user and the user says,
I needed to do this when I click on this button.
This needs to happen.
And it's always done from the perspective
and it's taught from the perspective
that we can be certain about what users want
or what's actually happening in this business environment.
And if you're not certain about that,
then you can become certain by asking questions
and making sure and double checking
that this is what we want.
And in the real world, it doesn't work like that at all.
So businesses don't know what they want.
Users don't really know what they want.
They have opinions,
but they don't know what they want.
They're not entirely sure what they need.
And it doesn't matter even if they did actually know
what they wanted today, everything's moving.
Everything's changing anyway.
And you get to a certain point where you realize
that the coding bit, that's easy.
That's trivial almost.
The real challenge is that when everything's moving,
everything's swirling, how do you decide what to do?
How do you build a piece of code
that can react to an environment that could jump off,
jump in any direction at any one point in time?
And that uncertainty I find across my career,
that's what I look for in a project.
Because there's no uncertainty, there's no fun,
there's no challenge.
And it's also the thing that kind of makes or breaks a career.
If you can handle that uncertainty in a software project,
then you're gonna be able to cope
with these kinds of environments.
For many people, it's a ceiling.
When they can't get that kind of certainty,
then they just push it back on to business people
and say, we're not doing this.
And there's nowhere in our educations as software people,
do they teach us how to deal with this kind of uncertainty
apart from be more certain or ask them to explain it again,
drill down into their language,
force them to express themselves in a way that's clear.
And we learn about these things too,
like how you harden a requirement,
how you get someone to be absolutely explicit
about what it is that they're saying
and things like this.
And so the answer is always that the answer to uncertainty
as we're taught is to get rid of it.
And whereas a senior architect,
someone who can handle these things
can learn to live with that,
to learn to live with the fact
that there's always uncertainty in a business environment.
And senior managers know this.
They know that you can't be completely certain
about everything all the time.
And so what I've seen that the step from being a programmer,
somebody who just writes instructions
to help some machine what to do,
to being an architect is being able to cope
with this natural uncertainty
that exists in any human environment.
Any collection of people
will produce a great deal of uncertainty
just when they speak to each other
about a particular problem.
And for me, that became fascinating.
And that's the bit that I drilled down into
because when you see projects feel
an enormous amount of my work has been rescuing projects
that have crashed for some reason.
And over and over and over again,
we see that this uncertainty causes flux.
It causes problems.
It causes people to either check out
and not make any decisions or go too hard in
and make too many decisions.
And then how do we handle uncertainty
in our software projects is a central theme
to everything that we do.
And it's kind of the dividing line for me
between the architect and the programmer.
Can you handle uncertainty
then you're ready for architecture.
And we have a very ambivalent relationship
with it in our industry.
Most of the time we like to sweep it under the rug.
Sometimes we'd like to talk about it,
but we talk about it in terms of how we kill it,
how we get rid of it,
not how we can actually use it to drive a result.
Yes, that's one thing I love about both books
is that you're, I talk about holding paradox a lot.
And I feel like together,
both those books are holding the paradox,
which means you're not trying to smush one side
into the other or resolve it.
You're recognizing that it's not resolvable in a sense.
And you're not trying to get rid
of the uncertainty necessarily.
It's almost a plus, isn't it?
Something to play with is you talk about the gap
between programming and the architecture
or software architecture.
Maybe is that something that people recognize
before you started writing about it like this?
Because I hear it a lot of different ways,
like everyone's just a programmer.
And that means that is that kind of linear thinking
that where uncertainty isn't good
because you're writing code and you don't want it to crash.
So can you talk about that tension a little bit?
Yeah, so the tension that I describe in the book
is that as a programmer,
you're taught to, first of all,
taught how to think in a very linear way,
which is good.
And most mathematicians can do this,
think quite linearly, at least in the early stages.
And programmers are very definitely taught
and selected for their ability to think linearly.
And that means solving problems, thinking logically,
taking one step at a time, always being correct,
being very critical in how you view things.
And the paradox is that that particular way of thinking,
which in the book I relate back to Frigge
and Russell and Wittgenstein,
that particular way of thinking is incredibly necessary
to invent the computer.
We could never have got to Alan Turing,
we would never have got to the computer
without that way of thinking.
But that way of thinking turns out
to be absolutely horrendously horrible
for dealing with or describing
or managing any kind of human problem.
And as soon as you apply it to a human problem,
the only thing you can do is create constructs
that are rigid and brittle.
And the human system will move
and those rigid, brittle constructs will smash and crack.
And software has to be based on a model of what's going on
because it's based on a model we have of a human system.
And the software becomes even more rigid
than the model itself because it's encased in code,
difficult and expensive to change.
And what happens is that we use this linear way of thinking
to model the human system,
then we take that model, turn it into code,
the human system moves and the code breaks.
And so the architect's paradox is
that this linear way of thinking
that gets us to the computer causes a crisis
when we try to apply it to the human systems,
which we're trying to use the software to help.
And so we're caught in this never-ending loop of crisis.
And this was realized by our industry already in 1968
when they had this big meeting in Garmisch in Germany
called the NATO conferences
and all of the big names
of the software engineering industry of the day
met and said, why do we have this constant sense of crisis?
They haven't still really figured it out.
So in 1968, the conclusion was,
we are not good enough engineers.
We need to be better at engineering.
We need to go back to the drawing board
and come up with better ways.
We need to be more precise.
We need to be, it was kind of doubling down
on that linear way of looking at the world.
And it's only really with the advent of the agile movement
which happened around the turn of the century,
when people started to say,
maybe we need to just chill out a bit
and stop trying to be precise
and stop trying to map all of these things.
So meticulously to logical structures.
Maybe that's getting us into trouble.
And the problem with the agile movement
is that they were absolutely right in this diagnosis
but they threw half of the stuff out,
all the stuff that the managers were using
and said that all that rigid linear stuff
doesn't work for us.
But they kept the rigid linear stuff within the code.
Ideas like object orientation,
where you model the world as a series of
interacting objects inside your code.
They kept a lot of those things
which are just as guilty as the stuff
they were throwing out for bringing rigidity
to something that needed to be fluid,
that needed to be able to move.
And that was, and it's that paradox
that's constantly there.
And I describe it in the book,
it's not really an intellectual problem,
it's a full-blown identity crisis.
Because our industry is only 70 years old
and we're still asking, who are we?
What way do we look at the world?
And we were born, as the book says, in mathematics,
which is where we come from.
That's our first tool, our first weapon of choice is logic
when we try to solve a problem.
And there's a stubbornness to how we approach
these human systems with logic.
We won't give it up, we won't let it go.
Long, long after the death of logical positivism,
we're still trying to model these systems
as structures of statements related to each other.
And so the book is very much about
not breaking this paradox, not solving it,
but just get comfortable with the idea
that these two things are always moving around each other.
One is trying to destroy the other constantly.
Logic is trying to impose rigidity
on the fluidity of our human systems
and the fluidity of our human systems
breaks our software constantly.
Once we're aware of that,
it changes how we think and design and build software.
You talk about it almost as if it's an awakening
to a new kind of life too, which I think is very important.
I mean, this nests and scales into a lot of things
that's going on today.
When you're talking, I'm thinking about
computational theories of mind
and the ways that we think about what a body is and stuff
and how that's related to all these ideas that you present.
And maybe we should talk about residuality a little bit first.
What actually is this kind of alternative
that you're presenting for how to hold this paradox,
so to speak, or where are you focusing,
turning the attention from?
I mean, even maybe for someone
who doesn't really understand what Agile and all of this is,
maybe you could set up a little bit
of how you've kind of shifted the playing field just a bit.
Yeah, so it's been fairly standard.
If we go back to the 1950s,
so look at computer science in the 1950s,
computer science was computing,
which is basically a list of instructions
that you told the computer to do this and do this
and do this and move this bit of data over here.
And when you're finished doing this,
jump back to line 20 and then start this bit all over again.
And this started to cause a whole lot of problems
because it got very complicated.
And if you tried to make a change in that code,
then you had to know which lines does it jump to,
where does it affect?
How do I change this?
And people got frustrated with this.
And the solution to this was considered to be
by the late 1960s to break your software
up into many small pieces
and just have small pieces of code, not one big file.
And these were modules.
And then what starts to happen is that we say,
well, what's the best way to break our modules up?
How do we break them up?
Where are the boundaries?
And we started to look at the real world
and we started to look at,
well, here we have a business system
and in that business system,
we have something called a customer
and we have something called a product.
So we have to store data about these things.
So wouldn't it be smart to break up these pieces of code
so that we have one piece of code
that's just about customers
and one piece of code that's just about products.
And so we started mapping these pieces of code
to concepts in the real world.
And it became this idea of objects
and it became very much about things.
And so what are the things in the world?
And that's where the programmer would start.
And this is driven by various trends,
including how we model things in databases
and things like that.
And so the software engineer,
before they decide what are the modules
that's going to make up my application,
they would look at the world and they would look for nouns
and say, well, all the things
are going to be little blocks of code,
which we call objects.
And then inside those little blocks of code,
we're going to have functions that execute and do stuff
and some data perhaps.
And this is the way I was taught to do software.
This is the way most people are taught to do software.
And what we end up with are these static pictures
of the reality around us.
So say, here's a customer,
a customer has multiple products
and has an address and has a credit card
and all of these things,
all these links and structures that we start to build up
to describe business environment.
And the problem as I've seen it
is that those static models describe a snapshot
of the business environment at one point in time
from one person's perspective.
And that reality keeps moving and keeps changing.
And as that reality moves and change,
anything that we've put into software, into code,
cracks and breaks.
And then we experience poor quality software,
we have to change it, it takes time,
it gets more brittle every time we touch it.
And what I've said is that we can't live in this world
where we believe in this static snapshot
of the business environment.
It doesn't exist, it just never is like that.
And the residue is a kind of clever little trick
that says, look, there is a snapshot of the system
at this one particular time.
And we'll put that, we'll wrap that
in a wrapper called the residue.
This is what it looks like in these particular conditions.
But if something twitches,
if something changes in the environment,
then we go down another trouser leg,
different timeline with a different impact
and the architecture will break.
So we need to change this a little bit
so that it will live in this trouser leg,
it will continue to work.
We call that a residue.
And a residue is just whatever's left over
when the system breaks.
And then you tweak your original architecture
so that when you go down that trouser leg,
the thing that breaks still keeps working.
And what we end up with is rather than
just one static picture, we end up with potentially
hundreds of little pictures of the changes
with our architecture needs in order to be able
to move through all of these trouser legs
in different orders at different times.
And it has, in philosophical terms,
we're moving from a structure or a platonic ideal
to Bergson's multiplicity,
this thing that can go off in any number of directions.
And that's a pretty huge shift philosophically.
Very, very difficult to get engineers on board with that,
especially because we're using our imaginations
to talk about what these trouser legs might be.
We're not saying that this is definitely going to happen.
A lot of programmers find it very difficult
to build a software system whenever what we're talking
about might not happen.
We have to be certain.
We have to be sure this is gonna happen
before we spend any money.
And that's very difficult topic for them to even talk about.
And so this leads to a completely different way
of thinking about systems,
completely different way of modeling them.
But the results that we get out of this,
and this is what I've been able to show empirically,
is that when you think this way about a system,
you produce a software structure that is more likely
to survive when something unexpected happens.
And something unexpected happens all the time
when you build software.
There's always something that isn't in the spec.
And so what we get out of this way of thinking
is a software system that survives off spec.
And that's a huge benefit as a software architect.
It's the only reason we exist,
because if it was just requirements
and we just had to build in a world of certainty,
then we wouldn't need an architect.
A programmer could do everything.
And so what we get is a system that's gonna survive
things that aren't in its spec,
things that haven't been described,
stuff that's in its future.
And it isn't just particular things,
but it has a tendency to survive off spec.
And that's the thing that makes this interesting,
that this way of thinking offers to the teams who use it.
It almost sounds like classical mechanics,
Newtonian sort of worldview or like the clock or something.
And in the books a lot,
you do sort of give this impression that a lot of coders
and software architects were sort of living
almost like in a matrix kind of world
where we pretend like everything works like clockwork
and we pretend like the Newtonian model always works,
even though it's always breaking.
So there's this kind of constant tension.
And as you even say,
it's even a little bit lucrative at times,
because of course it's gonna break
and then they need you again.
Yeah.
And I feel like you're now kind of trying to bring open up
to process philosophy and complexity theory and all of this.
Had anyone tried to do that before as far as you know?
I mean, cause when you bring in Kauffman networks
and all of this stuff,
yeah, is this a first for coding or is there a person?
It is.
In the world that I live in,
which is enterprise software, it is a first.
People have not brought this kind of thinking
into software engineering before.
There have been attempts to bring complexity
into computing in the last couple of years,
but they've been very much focused on the concept of teams
and they've led to very sort of fluffy advice,
you know, where we'll talk about systems thinking
and we'll say, hey, you have to think about the whole system,
not just the one little part.
And it's all this kind of,
and programmers immediately become skeptical
and say, you know, what am I supposed to do with that?
You know, tell me what to do is what they want to hear.
To bring in the Kauffman stuff,
to talk about process philosophy is a huge jump
for programmers and for many a jump too far
because they don't even know what problem is it solving?
And they say, well, we're solving
the problem with substance philosophy.
What's substance philosophy?
It's the fact that you think everything is an object.
And for some people that's, you know, swearing in church,
you're not allowed to say that the object approach
to modeling the world is deeply philosophically flawed.
So this is a huge jump for most people within technology.
And for that reason, I assumed that, you know,
no one's going to be interested in this.
No one's going to want to hear me talk about this.
So when I went to this conference in Oslo,
I thought, you know, they asked me to give a talk.
I had this on the shelf.
I said, I have this talk about philosophy.
I'll do that.
And I thought they're going to stick me in a tiny room.
There'll be four people there and we'll have a nice chat.
And I got to the conference and they put me in the big room
and I thought, well, this is going to be really embarrassing
because it's going to be this big, massive stage
with four people, you know,
but they put them 20 feet away from me.
So you lose that personal touch.
And then 400 people turn up in the room.
There's people standing in the aisles
and sitting on the floor in front of the stage.
I'm like, oh, this is going to be really bad
because I'm about to tell 400 plus developers
that they need to turn to process philosophy.
And they're going to throw chairs at me.
This is going to be really boring.
And they absolutely loved it.
And I was blown away that there was real interest.
If you set these things up in the real, in the right way,
if you just come in and talk about process philosophy
and how everything would be better
if we looked at things this way, they won't listen to you.
But if you talk to them and say, here's a bit of code
and here's why it's going to go wrong
because you're thinking about the world in a particular way.
And if you think about the world this way,
the code is going to shift and change and go this way.
And this solves a real problem for you.
And people have really appreciated that.
And I've been absolutely blown away
by the response from the technology community
and from the tech community on these kinds of things.
That there is a real hunger right there
because people know, people realize
that the old ways of thinking about these things,
which have been around for a very long time.
And so the way I describe things,
the last real paradigm shift in software engineering
was 1968.
And we call lots of, in software engineering,
there's a lot of marketing hype.
Every six months we call things a paradigm shift.
But the real shift in paradigm
was the engineering paradigm,
which was born at that conference in 68.
We haven't had a shift and people are hungry
for something new.
And when they hear something new,
it catches their attention.
And I think that the industry is ripe
for a new philosophical way of looking at things.
There's also this word crisis,
which I think is in 1968,
it was called the software crisis, right?
This wasn't that kind of the revolution
that someone said it's a crisis.
And I feel that word is really potent
and present today too, isn't it?
Yeah, so the software crisis basically says,
why do we never deliver anything on time?
When we do deliver, it doesn't work.
And why do we feel to deliver anything so often?
And that was a big problem in 1968.
There's a lot of people today,
we have a lot of software running in the world.
And so people assume that,
well, we must have solved all those problems,
but there's an awful lot of software
that has to go through convulsions
before it's released into the world.
An awful lot of enterprise software dies
and an awful lot of it costs way, way more than it should.
And so there's this Silicon Valley narrative
where we've mastered this, we can do this.
Now, in fact, we can actually teach other machines
to do it for us and we don't have to do it anymore.
The truth is that software engineering is expensive,
painful and risky for almost all organizations out there.
And we still haven't really matured.
We still don't really know what we're doing.
I saw a post today saying that,
you wouldn't fly in a plane
if the pilot didn't have a pilot's license.
So why would you let someone build software
when they don't have a license for building software?
And my thinking around that is,
really we have to get a few more planes in the air
and stop crashing them before we start thinking
we have to sort that problem out first
before we start thinking about pilot's licenses.
And so we haven't really matured as an industry yet.
There's still quite a way to go.
So there's still a permanent kind of sense of crisis
that most companies will have a number of projects
who are in a state of crisis right now
and they will be failing and they won't know why.
And they'll be bringing in industry best practices
and throwing all kinds of tools at it.
They'll be losing money and it eats up morale.
It's not a solved problem.
It feels like the crisis is even deeper though to me
because there's so many kind of layers to this
and I'll just throw this out here.
It's a little messy and you can just,
I would just like to know what you think.
Because there's this,
why is everyone responding so dramatically to you?
It feels like it's personal in a way too
in the sense of that people have been living
in a bit of an imaginary world
knowing it's not actually real
because you are designing this in the real world.
I think about when you talk about one of the examples,
you talk about the car,
the materials of the car aren't changing.
But in this world, what are actually the materials?
What are you working with?
It feels so ephemeral and matrix-like.
And it seems like some way to solve that crisis
is just hold to this linear mindset,
do the coding, be told what to do.
And that seems to go towards what you call stillness
or maybe stasis even.
And I feel like that's bigger
than just in this software world.
It's kind of everywhere now.
I don't know if that even makes any sense to you.
But even in your own life,
why did you go study philosophy?
You must have studied philosophy for years
to be able to write and understand all this complexity,
theory, process, philosophy.
I mean, was the crisis bigger for you too
or how do you think about that?
Yeah, so for me personally,
it came from a sense of frustration.
It came from a sense of frustration
with the state of the industry,
frustration with people constantly telling other people,
this is how you do it.
When it very obviously wasn't how we did it.
And a frustration with my own inability to understand
what is it that I do?
I'm doing something and I'm good at it.
I have no clue what it is.
It's an instinct that I built up just by luck,
by being in the right projects for a couple of years
and seeing the right problems.
And I have an instinct.
And so Donald Shan talks about this in a book
called The Reflective Practitioner,
which is written in like 81 or 83.
And he said that there are people
who build up a professional aptitude for problems.
They don't know where it comes from.
They don't know how it got there.
They get there by reflecting over things
that have happened every day for a long period of time.
And then suddenly they can do something.
They don't know why.
And I wanted to dig deeper into that.
I wanted to understand why do I think like this?
Why do other people in my industry
struggle to think like this?
How can I get them to understand me?
And a lot of frustration,
because I would come into a project that was failing
and I would see these linear thinking developers
trying to dig their way out of the hole
with more linear thinking.
So the hole was just getting deeper.
And so you need to do this.
And it would be almost impossible to convince them
that they were doing something wrong,
even though everything was going very badly for them.
And I thought there has to be a better way to do this.
We need a new language.
We need a new way to think about this.
And as I started to discover the ideas behind residuality,
I discovered that by blending Kaufman
with standard software engineering ideas.
And then I would show it.
Some people would get it.
Some people got it, started using it and said,
yes, this works.
This is good.
Some people just refused it and said,
this doesn't make any sense.
I started to dig around,
why does this not make any sense to you?
And I started trying to understand
what way do these people think?
Why do I think differently than a large number
of the developers in the community?
And I noticed that they were thinking
in very rigid terms and I started to read a little bit.
Why do I think like this?
Why do they think like this?
Why do some people have a problem
when I say that everything is moving,
everything is changing?
And that makes them nervous.
And they immediately revert to using tools and ideas
and modeling stuff that is trying to keep the world still.
And I realized that a lot of these linear thinkers,
they need to keep the world still so that they can focus
and they can start to process it.
And as soon as you try to keep the world still
and stop the world from moving,
then you enter into this matrix-like reality
where you're dealing with something
that isn't really there,
like Baudrillard and like Baudrillard's story.
And so what happens then is that you end up
seeking this stillness in everything.
You're trying to hold things still.
And we do that in our modeling
and we do that even with certain agile techniques.
We're trying to keep things still.
And what I started to do then was to say,
well, what happens if we just let things move?
How would our software look
if we weren't trying to keep it still,
if we were building software
for a world that's constantly in motion?
Residuality was the sort of codified way to talk about that.
And that's how I ended up getting deeper
and deeper into philosophy.
Why do they do this?
Why do we look for an abstract form of customer
instead of building a system
for something that's constantly moving
and constantly changing
and is never going to be the same over time?
Where did that idea come from?
And so I dig backwards
and I find these ideas in Plato, Aristotle.
Why do we expect that there's always going to be
a simplistic cause and effect model in every system?
And I find that, well, that came from Descartes and Newton.
Why do we think there's a structure
in the language that people use in a business?
Why do we think that that language
represents some secretive hidden structure
that if we just scrape that and analyze it enough,
we'll find it.
You find that in Dassault-Serre and Levi-Strauss
and these ideas around structuralism.
And so eventually I realized that we are a blend
of a bunch of ideas from a bunch of philosophers
no one's ever taught us about
that we accidentally absorb from our industry.
And you can start with the fathers of computer science.
So Turing and von Neumann,
you work backwards and you realize that
Turing and von Neumann both worked with Wittgenstein
and Russell, who was influenced by Frieden.
You take another few steps back.
So it doesn't take long to get back to Plato
and permanent it is.
And you realize that, God, this is not something
that's just turned up in the last 50 years.
This is a way of looking at the world
that's been around for a very, very long time,
starting with a permanent as a Plato
and this needs to hold things still.
And that idea was triggered to that idea
by reading Popper and Popper's criticism of Plato
and Plato's need to hold things still,
which is apparently a very controversial opinion,
which upsets a lot of philosophers.
So that's how I ended up digging into these things.
And it has been quite a few years of reading
and getting deeper and deeper into these things.
Several times told by my professor to stop.
It's like, you don't need to go this far.
This wasn't the assignment, leave it alone.
But I got very, very into it.
I had a lot of fun with it as well.
What was it giving you?
I mean, from my perspective, reading it,
and by the way, it's wonderful how you go
from logical positives and understanding
how that affected Turing and how that became sort of coding
and this linear mindset.
And then you also even can talk about Hegel
and the pragmatists and process philosophy.
It's kind of amazing actually that you can hold all of that.
But I'm wondering what that process did for you.
From my perspective,
it seems like it let you hold the paradox.
It let you hold both things.
Because I don't hear you saying,
okay, we're gonna get rid of the linear mindset.
We're not gonna have that coding anymore.
But I do hear you saying we're gonna embrace uncertainty.
And that I think is almost like a dissonant state to be in
that we all are trying to come to terms with right now
in different ways.
Yeah, if we got rid of the linear thinking,
the crisis would be indescribable.
We need to be able to think linearly to make code work
because code is linear.
It will only follow linear rules.
And if we give that up, we'd be in real trouble.
The thing is that we need to be able to do both.
If you're a software architect
and your task is to design software systems
that have to help people do things
in a complex process-oriented world,
then you have to be able to make the linear thing work.
You have to be able to do both at once.
You can't use one to cancel the other out.
You can't use one to get rid of the other.
And that's the paradox.
So we have to be able to hold both of these.
One of the things that's really hard for an architect
when they're learning is,
when do I use which mind,
when do I use which set of thoughts?
When do I use which set of processes?
What am I dealing with right now in front of me?
Do I need to think linearly and be rigid here?
Or do I need to relax now and let this flow?
And we get this wrong a lot.
And it annoys people.
If you're real business people who do have real jobs,
they get annoyed at software engineers
who turn up in a meeting and start being rigid
and saying, yes, but what exactly does this mean?
And when we get that wrong, everyone gets annoyed at us
because we force people to a rigidity
that they're not used to in their everyday working lives.
And it scares people and irritates them.
And it's very, very difficult for us to learn.
It takes a lot of time to master this.
And in our educations, in computer science,
we're only taught the linear thing.
So to learn the other side of the paradox,
you have to pick it up.
You have to pick it up in real life projects.
And it's sink or swim for most architects.
You either pick it up, in which case you're good,
but you don't actually understand
how you achieve your own work.
Or you don't pick it up and you draw
and you go back to programming and say,
I can't do that, it's horrible.
Because there's no one to teach us.
Until now, no one's really articulated these things
and even said that this paradox exists.
And so we try to survive by rules of thumb
and silver bullets and products and tools
that are going to conquer this complexity,
get rid of complexity, can actually achieve this goal,
which is never gonna go away
of actually holding things still
so that we can bring them to software and control them.
And there's a big need for control in there as well,
which you'll find is everywhere in the community.
Well, that's where that complexity
and process philosophy comes in,
because you start, as you show,
and as those philosophers show,
you can't get outside of all these systems,
which is why when you write some code,
inevitably in a year or five years or whatever,
it's gonna have changed
because we're all part of this.
That's that complex system mentality
that I feel like probably takes some time,
but I can imagine this is gonna be really, really helpful
for a lot of people in coding,
in software architecture in the world too.
But I wanna ask you about this.
Like I brought up that it was kind of the Newtonian mindset
and you're doing the complex systems or systems thinking
and it's a very different worldview.
And I guess we don't have time to go into
what the Kauffman network is and NKP and all of that,
but is it fair to say that you've sort of unstuck
the model from the object or the, it's not stuck anymore.
You're sort of making a model itself
that can be a little more fluid.
It's more based on maybe, I mean, you mentioned Bayes.
That's when I was thinking of statistics,
but there's some room now, there's some wiggle room
and you can notice patterns in a different way.
How would you explain that to someone
who's not really like getting that?
Because I think it's a very big shift that you're making.
Yeah, I would say that software engineering
up until I started writing about this
had order uncertainty at its center.
And the goal was no matter where you were in the project,
no matter where you are in a problem,
you might be dealing with some uncertain stakeholders.
You might be dealing with a problem
that's not properly defined,
but your goal was always to get rid of that uncertainty
and get to the certainty.
And what I've done, or I think I've done
is I've taken uncertainty and I put it right in the middle
and said that uncertainty is the defining feature
of software design.
And once we embrace that, once we accept that,
once we accept that we're not getting rid of it,
it's always going to be there.
And here's a set of tools that allows you
to live comfortably with this uncertainty
and not only that, but to leverage the uncertainty
to get to a result, which while it's not certain
is scientifically as good as we can get.
That shifts everything and it shifts the way we talk,
it shifts the way we look at problems.
The feedback I get from developers and people in the field
is that it's a relief.
It's like, we don't have to pretend anymore.
We don't have to pretend
that there's this linear logical way of solving this problem.
I mean, you say that actually nobody knows,
but here's the best way to get to an acceptable result.
And that's the shift.
And the other shift is that those senior architects,
and spoken to a lot of them,
who have learned how to do this by instinct,
suddenly have a vocabulary,
suddenly have a way of saying, this is what I do.
This is how I get to a result.
And that is also what brings a sense of relief
to a lot of the community.
That's actually huge.
And you just don't feel like an imposter anymore.
And also, I guess what I was trying to get at too
the philosophy seems to have brought you back
into the real world in a way that you can,
so you can feel connected again.
There's this sense of enthusiasm, play, life,
which I think a lot of us are losing now
by totally embracing the linear coding.
LLM tells us everything mindset.
Is that fair?
Did you wake up to life in a different way again
by being able to almost like put the roots into all this
and understand it better?
I would say that given my education,
which was pure mathematics followed by software engineering,
that the education and this default philosophy
that all people who follow that track
that I talk about in the book pick up,
shuts you out from a huge chunk of the world,
huge chunk of life.
And you have to find other ways to get back to that.
Most of us have hobbies and things that do that.
And what the philosophy has done for me
while staying very close to the code
is brought me and pulled me into contact
with all kinds of things.
And so I used to be an avid reader of literature
before I got into software,
and then I didn't have time for that anymore.
The philosophy thing has pulled me back into that world
and maybe sent me down
in a whole bunch of different tries or legs.
I don't remember this thing,
and let's go back and read this.
And absolutely, I would say that following this path,
at this age, I would say now that I finally feel educated.
I've learned something.
And it's so, so much broader
than the narrow kind of mathematical computer science,
software engineering way of looking at the world.
This is one of the things
that I think that software engineering education
needs to really think about,
that we're not just producing clones
who sit and write code that can be replaced by LLMs,
but we're producing human beings
who have to interact with human systems.
And we're sending them out there
with knowledge of nothing more than the code
to interact with these human systems.
And we're doing them a disservice.
We're making their jobs harder.
And to be able to build software requires
that you can interface with both sides of this.
And certainly for me, the study of philosophy
has made that much easier to articulate and to understand.
But at the same time,
I can't expect the whole industry to do what I've done,
which has taken an enormous amount of time
to do that kind of reading and thinking about these things.
And so-
Yeah, but you condensed it very well into your book.
So it's quite a service, I think.
Yeah.
And it reminds me too of, I mean, you also,
it's a way we can embrace entropy.
There's a way in which you're opening people
to be more random and let in more entropy.
At the same time, you're also showing a way to,
I don't know if control is the right word,
but get that in order.
This idea of residuality actually gives you a way
to kind of get that in order.
I don't know if that makes sense.
I thought maybe we could give one example before we go.
I don't know.
I'm thinking of the one with the cars and the meat
or something, some kind of real-world example
where you can see that you've unstuck things
where you're not looking at specifics.
And yet because of that, so much more seemingly random stuff
gets covered by the model.
I don't know if you have a good example
or idea to share with people.
Yeah.
So there is the example in the book,
which is the classic example.
I get sent examples of this by students all the time.
And so what we do is we randomly simulate an environment
sometimes with nonsense.
So we make stuff up and we say, what
would happen in this system if the entire city burned down?
Or the classic one that initially
got me a lot of attention was, what
would happen if giant fire-breathing lizards come
up out of the Baltic Sea and destroy the city?
What do we do then?
What does our software do?
And people find this ridiculous.
And this is the bit where the linear thinker says,
but there are no giant fire-breathing lizards
in the Baltic Sea.
And then sometimes I tease them and say,
are you sure about that?
Have you been in a submarine down there?
But the point is that the giant fire-breathing lizards
don't have to exist because what we're doing
is we're discovering something in the attractor
space of our business.
And maybe it's not a giant fire-breathing lizard,
but maybe the city is suffering a blackout.
Maybe there's a terror attack or a war or a social unrest
or a flood or something.
And it causes ripples through our software system.
And the only reason we're doing this
is not to solve the problem with these lizards,
but we're doing it to see where does it ripple in our system?
What does it touch?
And which bits of our system fall over
when that ripple comes?
And by generating lots and lots of noise,
by generating lots of sort of simulated stress on a system,
we force a system to a configuration,
to a set of modules and links between those modules.
And this is the classic question,
what are the boundaries for my modules that we can't answer?
And that gets answered by stressing a system
until it takes on a form.
And once it takes on that form, then we start to test it.
And we start to see in every single case,
we start to see that the system, when
it's pushed to a configuration in this way,
will start to survive things that it hasn't been designed
for.
And that's what we want to get to.
And there's the example in the book of the car charging
network, which is able to stand up
after using lots and lots of different kinds of stress
from different angles.
It's able to stand up against stress that we didn't see.
And one of those stresses was the politically motivated
blocking of fast car chargers.
But it turned out that by allowing other forms of stress
to push the system to a certain point,
that the system could survive those things.
And these things turn up a lot when you're doing this work.
Turns up very, very quickly as well,
which is a shock to people who are practicing
this for the first time.
I mean, the car charging one is the classic example.
Most of the times when we discover these things,
we're not really allowed to talk about it
because they're genuinely live customer cases
and they don't want their vulnerabilities to be revealed.
Of course not.
The idea is this hyperliminality, I think.
This word hyperliminality is quite beautiful.
So there's a different approach than, I don't know,
maybe you would describe it like a Delusian walk.
What about the hyperliminality?
Now that I brought it up, I guess you're going to have to.
Hyperliminality is the state where we, as software
architects, have to live in the rigid linear world of software.
We can never escape that.
Our job is to design something that's rigid and linear
and follows the rules, does the same thing every single time.
But then we've got to jump out into this complex human world
and we've got to ask the question,
is this rigid thing that I just built
going to stand up in this world that keeps moving?
And then you've got to jump back into the rigid thing
and tweak it a little bit so that it will still keep running.
And that's the difficult thing.
So sometimes we've got to be rigid and linear
and sometimes we've got to accept the fluidity
and the flow of a business as it moves around its software.
And so I've called this idea hyperliminality
because we're constantly in between.
We don't really know where we are
and we're constantly moving between these two points.
And that means, so hyperliminal is a word
I use to describe a certain type of system, which
has an ordered structured core and a complex bubble around it.
And that's what we have to work with,
which is very different than a lot of complexity theory, which
focuses on the complex bit or standard engineering, which
focuses on the rigid piece.
But we have to do both at once.
And that's where that term, I needed a way to describe that.
Yeah, that's great.
I think it's good.
It feels like what happens when you, people will just
have to go watch your talk about residuality
to really get the details.
But you put all these stressors on, like for example,
the giant lizard, these kind of things that seem crazy
and they're kind of playful and random.
But then from the residues that come out of that,
you end up via these dynamical systems
and this complex systems way approach that you've built.
Then you do end up with this thing where, for example,
someone can do something like drive their giant pickup truck
and block the charging station or even someone put meat
in the charging station.
And actually, the way that this is designed
actually will take care of that so the company's
not losing money.
I'll have to let people just go look at that.
But that's kind of hyperliminal, isn't it?
Yeah, it's very difficult to describe quickly
because with that talk, you need to build it up for 45 minutes
so that everyone has all the concepts to understand
what actually unfolds.
But the idea is that the way that a standard, the way
that traditional architecture succeeds is not
the way that it's described.
And so traditional architecture has a bunch of tools.
Like you gather requirements, you model risks,
you do all of these things.
And the truth is that none of them actually work.
None of them actually give a result that's verifiable
or there's no way of verifying that these things are real.
And one of the architect learns is
that each one of these things triggers
a walk around the problem.
And the particular tool in itself
triggers you to walk around the problem
from a different perspective.
And as you walk around the problem,
and so it's very much like Deleuze's difference
in repetition.
You're repeatedly contemplating the problem
from a slightly different perspective.
This is Nietzsche's eternal return.
You're constantly experiencing the system over and over
and over again from slightly different perspectives
as the system changes and as you change as you move around it
as well.
And what this does is it leads to a real knowledge
of the system, which is much, much deeper
than the shallow linear modeling, static modeling
of the system, which we think we're doing.
And so the outputs of these walks are static models.
But what's actually happening in the mind of the architect
is real knowledge is being built in a very process philosophy
Deleuze Bergson kind of way.
And so what we've done is we've tricked ourselves
into thinking that we're delivering
these static, rigid, linear things.
But what the architect's actually doing
is walking around the problem.
And every time they walk, they discover these attractors.
And what residuality does is it says, look,
here's our super fast way.
We're going to stop walking.
We're going to run now.
We're going to discover these attractors really, really
quickly by being random rather than using tools
and all this baggage and static modeling that comes with it.
And we're going to do that in a way that produces code
structures in a way that that code can cope with time
and change and the uncertainty of those changes over time.
And what residuality does is it takes the learned practice
of architects and boils that down
to something that's much easier to understand
and gets rid of the baggage.
And that, of course, creates a reaction
from the people who are responsible for the baggage
and who make money on the baggage.
So that creates some ripples in the industry.
But what it does is it gives us a very lightweight way
to cope with these problems that just a few years ago seemed
insurmountable.
And it gives us a way to validate and verify.
And we can come up with numbers that show that this is actually
working.
We've actually done something here.
We've built a system that is more likely to survive
off spec than the system that we started off with.
And it can be measured and shown that we've made progress.
And that's a huge jump forward for architecture,
which mostly runs on vibes.
So that feels like a big step.
It feels like a way to think differently
or to be able to change your perspective
as a way of thinking.
I think there's a lot of people trying to figure that out.
And this is very exciting that you're
doing it in coding and development and so on.
And as you were talking, I was thinking in the book,
you say you talk about knowing our limitations,
but you're also expanding the horizons.
So I think this paradox and holding it
is really quite powerful if one can sit with it
and start to practice it.
Have you found that?
Have you found that over time it becomes a bit of a practice
almost in the way you think?
It does, yes, absolutely.
And one of the cool things is when
I'm teaching students how to do this
is that they'll suddenly start analyzing
completely different problems with the same set of tools.
And I get that I got this question today.
I get this question every time I teach these ideas.
It's like, can we use this to do this?
And people will ask, have you spoken
to any government agencies, these government
agencies who take care of disasters and things?
Because this stuff could be really interesting.
And there's a million, as I said,
there's a million things I could chase here, a million ideas.
But there's too many.
And what I've said so far is that scientifically,
I've been able to verify that this works for software.
And it seems like it might work for a whole bunch
of other stuff.
But I can't be sure that it's going to work.
I don't have the time to actually verify it
and validate it.
But people start to spin off, look at different problems
from this perspective.
And they ask, can we design an organization in this way?
And I'm like, it feels like we could,
but let's not get carried away.
Let's have some validation of that.
And I think there's some people in Antwerp actually
doing some research on that to see if it's possible.
But it definitely, it shifts how you look at things.
And I think for some people in software,
it's been a huge revelation for them to say,
oh, there's this totally different way
of looking at the world.
And it opens things up.
It makes things freer.
And for most software people, it makes
it easier for us to admit to what's actually
happening around us instead of having
to hide behind this shield of technical rationality
where we have to pretend that we're logical and rigid
and structured and everything's going the way we planned it
and we are in control all the time.
And this makes it a lot easier while still not giving up
and just saying, whatever happens, it happens.
We'll just code our way out of it when it goes wrong.
We're saying there is a structured way to put
uncertainty at the center and leverage
that to produce better software and better architectures.
Yeah, and I think you're also bringing back play in a way
that I think is important right now.
And it would be too much to go into,
but I do feel like we're getting kind of routed
into thinking that the technology we've built
is the way to think, which is very strange.
It's very much a kind of closed loop
that ends up, I think, in stillness.
So it's wonderful that you put some uncertainty in there
and inject this real life back into this world.
I really appreciate that, that holding the being
and the becoming, the criticality instead
of just the correctness.
I mean, these things, however one gets into it,
it really is a way of thinking that brings you back
to life, and I think we really need it right now.
Yeah, and that's one of the coolest things to see
is when I'm teaching people and they start doing this
for the first time, and they're used to discovery
in a problem domain when you're working with tech
has been so, it's drudgery, everyone hates it.
You've got to torture business people
and ask them explicitly, what do you mean by this?
And you write it up in a contract so you can say,
gotcha later on, that's not what you said.
And suddenly there's this sense of play to it.
And we're talking about lizards,
and we're talking about stupid things.
And someone then gets a bit silly and says,
but what would happen if aliens came
and they destroyed the city?
And then we say, but what would happen if aliens came
and they became our customers?
How would that change things?
And that gets to be a lot of fun.
And then people realize that, you know,
even though we've been messing around for the last hour,
we're starting to see where the ripples hit this system.
And we're starting to see real design changes
that have to be made out of this.
And we're going to be able to validate and verify
in a few hours from now that this architecture
is actually more reliable, more solid than it was before.
And that's shocking.
And people love the playfulness of it.
And it's great to see that
because there's a lot of nerves around these things.
You know, let's say people are tense
when they're working with requirements and risks
and trying to get these linear tools
to work in a world that just isn't built,
just isn't going to suffer them.
And to be set free from that, I think is fantastic.
Me too.
And before we go, I have to bring up the word love
because it's love and philosophy.
And I know it's kind of an uncomfortable word,
but I do feel like this is kind of,
I don't know from your position
if it feels like an act of love
or if that connects at all,
but it does feel deeper than just what it could be,
which is you've created this great new cool thing
for the world, but how does that word strike you?
Is it involved in this at all?
I think a little bit.
I think that one of the things
I'm encouraging architects to do
when I'm teaching these ideas,
I spend a good bit of time talking to them about this
is to look inward and to say,
you know, when you've made these decisions before
in your career, why did you make those decisions?
And this makes everyone tense, right?
Because they don't know.
And I say, look, the first thing you've got to do
is forgive yourself because it's totally okay
to not know why you made these decisions.
Everyone's in the same boat.
Look around, look in the room.
Everyone is thinking the same thing.
I've learned how to make decisions,
but I don't exactly know how I'm getting there.
And appreciate the ability that you've built up.
And now we're gonna look inward
and understand why do I make decisions?
How do I make decisions?
Can I understand using these tools,
using these philosophers, using these ideas?
Can I understand how I arrived at these things?
Can I understand how I work and think
and look at the world internally?
And we spent a lot of time talking about
the kind of things that architects,
software architects sit around and moan about.
And we sit around and moan about the fact
that our stakeholders are mean.
They don't invite us to the right meetings.
They lie to us all the time.
They don't know what's going on.
They might be kind of stupid.
They're not as good as us at this linear thing
and they don't express themselves properly.
They don't understand logic.
And there's a lot of bitterness
that builds up in these things.
And organizations are designed to make sure
that architects can't do their job properly.
And there's a lot of bitterness
and frustration that builds up.
And so by looking inside
and by understanding why these things happen,
it's much easier to forgive the people around you,
the stakeholders around you for their behavior,
because it's not intentional.
All of these things are brought about
by the very same uncertainty
that we are now leveraging to do something good with.
And what I'm actually doing is encouraging people
to forgive the people around them
and to stop seeking conflict,
which is something that software people
really need to get better at.
And to get rid of all this bitterness
and frustration that can build up.
And then you're much more open.
You're much easier to do these things.
And there's gonna be a lot less stress in your life.
And that's one of the things that software people need
to get rid of in large organizations
so that we can approach these things.
And I guess that has its relation
to the concept of love and ever getting rid
of a lot of the negative emotion
that makes it impossible to build relationships
with people that makes people not like us, software people.
So absolutely, I think that this opens things up.
Which is a big part of the world right now.
We met, I think, because of this, that's not philosophy,
this thing where I was...
Yes.
Where people, you know, I guess the point is,
there's a lot of people, a lot of young people
who are doing this now, who are in this world.
I mean, it's a huge world.
And it's wonderful to be able to hold these things
in the same way that we've been talking about
all this other stuff that you can look inside.
You can, you know, I think people are hungry for this.
And we tend to pretend like it's too sentimental
or it doesn't matter.
But as you just explained, it's part of it.
And it doesn't mean you give away all the linear stuff
and all the, you know, kind of hard edge stuff, criticality.
But, you know, you can also have that in there.
And it's really uplifting for me to see someone like you
who has so much success and who is, you know,
could be just one of those people who block it all out,
actually looking at it in a way that's balanced and real.
Yeah, cool.
Is there anything that we didn't talk about
that you wanna say or anything you wanna be sure
everyone knows or any websites or, I mean, of course,
I'm gonna link to all your stuff, but if there's anything.
No, I don't think you probably have the, I mean,
the books are the easiest way into this.
I think most people come into this
through the YouTube videos of the conference talks
that are out there.
I don't think there's anything to try it and see.
If it works for you, then great.
There's a whole new world of how to think
about your software and how you think
about your decisions in there for you.
And, you know, the book,
the book, The Architect's Paradox has two,
actually, it has two personalities.
One personality is to shine a light on this paradox
that we all suffer from.
But the other thing you'll get out of that
is as an architect, it's an introduction to philosophy
in a way that's gonna be relatable
because we're talking about software
and we're not talking about Plato, blah, blah, blah.
We're saying, Plato had this effect on software
and you'll see yourself in it
and you'll remember these things way more than
if you read Russell's History of Western Philosophy
or something, which I think most developers got to like
page 30 and it's on a shelf in their house.
Sorry, most software engineers have got to page 30
and it's in a shelf in their house somewhere.
This is accessible and it opens up a whole world,
a whole world that we're excluded from
because of our educations and we don't have time
because of our careers and it's absolutely fantastic.
And there's just so much to be gained,
not just in your software, but in your life in general
from reading this stuff and understanding the world
around you and like you said a few times, it's a way back.
It's a way back from the code, you know,
because at some point in your career,
you're gonna look up from the screen
and you're gonna realize there's a bit more going on
than what we've been focused on.
So.
Yeah, I think we all feel that too.
Anyone who's ever coded, you can get so lost
and it gets hard to touch reality again.
So it's a good to have some paths back.
I hope you're also taking care of yourself.
It must be overwhelming for you right now too
with all this.
There's a lot happening and to be fair,
I've brought it all on myself
and but it's exciting at the same time.
And my saving grace is that I live in Sweden
and we don't take work that seriously.
And I'm about to take several months off for the summer
and go north and fish with my family.
So we have that, but yeah, but it's good.
There's a buzz happening right now.
It's exciting.
That's good.
Well, thanks also to your wife, by the way,
for giving you those books.
Cause you talk about her a few times
as kind of the portal into all this.
So that's cool too.
That's connected to love too.
Yeah, it's almost her fault.
All right, Barry, well, thank you for all you're doing
and good luck.
And I look forward to the next book
which I know is coming soon.
Yeah, great.
Thank you.
All right.
Cheers.
Bye.
