our own consciousness, most of us, people like you and me who take part in and watch podcasts,
you know, we have a very complex form of consciousness. And so we take that for
granted. That's what we mean by consciousness, this stuff that you and I are busy engaging in now.
But that's an extremely highly developed, complex, compound form of consciousness.
It even goes beyond what I've just said to you. So I think first we have feeling.
Secondly, we have feeling extending onto objects. Thirdly, we are able to abstract ourselves from
that situation and recognize, oh, it is me, I too am an object. It is me who is feeling that about
about her. So that's third person, third person perspective. And that's where most of us live.
We live up there in abstract thoughts about our thoughts and feelings. Freud spoke of the
libidinal drive being it taking itself taking the self as its object. And then you have to
move to taking an object outside object as as your love object. But once you start recognizing
that the object to has needs, the object to is a subject, then then you start being able to love.
And it involves a state of vulnerability. I keep on coming back to that.
To have a successful loving relationship is not easy. The pain of separation is the risk we have
to take in order to properly attach to somebody. I remember the moment when I recognized my first
born child was separate from me. It was an actual realization was, oh my God, he has his own mind.
The most interesting thing about the brain is the fact that it feels like something to be a
brain. What most people think of as objective reality is also their subjective representation
of it. And then we need a language which can unify both of those. And this is why I consider
myself a dual aspect monist. Our feelings have causal consequences. It alters what the rest of
the body and brain does. The fact that it feels like something to be one. So I think that it is
an absolute necessity and a wonder. I'm thrilled to be studying it just because it's so fascinating.
But it is also an absolute obligation on neuroscience and the whole of biology and
the whole of natural science to integrate subjectivity into its Weltanschauung, as they
say in German. Bringing all of this together in romantic love is an enormous achievement.
Hello, everyone. Welcome back to Love and Philosophy. This is part two with Mark Sohms,
who's a neuroscientist, neuropsychologist. I had a conversation with him about feeling as the hidden
spring last year, and we talked about love, but we didn't actually mention the word love, I don't
think. So this is part two where we start with love and the word love and discuss that through
his work, through the idea of subjectivity and objectivity. I won't try and give you a summary
of this because Mark himself explains everything very well. We do mention Jonathan Lear and a book
which I will put in the show notes about Freud and love as a basic force of human nature,
which is interesting and which you might remember from the conversation I had with Alvin Noe.
The only little thing I wish I had asked is if he really meant that we are brains who know we are
brains because, of course, the embodied people out there would understand that we're bodies who know
that we have brains. So maybe next time I talk to Mark, I'll try and clarify that a bit. I'm going
to post two or three conversations in the next week or so, just as bonus and some ideas I'm
trying to work through in my research relative to this idea of empowerment in AI. I'm going to post
that coming soon and then another one, a philosophical one. So there's a few different
kinds of options coming. For those of you, I know some of you are more interested in these sorts of
conversations like the one with Mark and others more in the artificial intelligence, others more
in the philosophy. So this week, everyone gets something, and I hope that it brings something
good to you. It's a lot of good people doing good work that I want to share with you, and it's been
quite a start to the year already. I hope you're all doing well, sending you love and philosophy.
Anything you want to ask me before we jump in or shall we just-
No, and I read the emails you sent. I don't know why you sent me a question mark. The last thing
you sent me was a question mark, but I thought maybe that was-
Really? A question mark? I don't know. Oh, you know what? It's probably on my phone. I think I
just hit a heart and maybe it doesn't show up as the emoji didn't show up. So it was actually a
heart that you got. Maybe it shows up on the email. I prefer a heart to a question mark.
Yeah, it was definitely a heart. I didn't send you a question mark, but I have seen sometimes
the emojis just come through like that. Okay. Hi, Mark. Nice to see you again. We already said
hi, but for everyone out there, hello. Hello, Andrea. Good to see you too.
So last time we didn't talk about the big four-letter word L-O-V-E, so we're having
another little session here to add on to that one. And I guess just to get started,
here's a question. Is love a feeling in the way that you use the word?
Yes, of course, love is a feeling and it's a lot more than a feeling, which I think points to the
fact that it's not a, in my view, love is not a elemental emotion. It's a composite of a number
of more basic things. I suppose I should also add there's not only one kind of love. I'm aware that
this is a major feature of your podcast, so I'm probably bringing calls to Newcastle by saying
things like this, but I'll give you my view on this subject as if you know nothing about it.
So I suppose the major kind of love that people, that the word conjures up is romantic love.
And so I've already said I think of love as a composite state of mind, so let me illustrate
it with romantic love. The first thing that in terms of, let me just remind us all as well,
of what I've, what the basic emotional dispositions are according to the taxonomy
that is most authoritative in affective neuroscience, namely that of Jaak Panksepp.
There's lust, and there's seeking, and there's rage, and there's fear, and there's care,
and there's play, and forgive me if I left anything out, there are meant to be seven of them.
So romantic love involves love, of course, otherwise it's not romantic. In other words,
it involves sexuality, and it doesn't involve only sexuality. In fact, sexuality left to its
own devices doesn't even need a partner. You can just satisfy the sexual tensions that come with
lust in and of itself. So that leads to the second obviously major component of a loving
relationship, a romantic relationship, namely that it's not only romantic, it's also a relationship.
So there's attachment involved, and there are two attachment drives. In fact, I think the one I
didn't mention a moment ago is panic slash grief. So there are two attachment drives. One of them is
the one odd name as it is, what it boils down to is the need to be cared for, the need to be
cared about, the need to be wanted, and needed, and attended to, and so on.
And so that in a romantic relationship, you want sexually somebody's relationship with you,
but you want also lovingly that person's relationship with you. You want the sexual
relationship to be embedded within a deeper, richer, fuller connection with each other.
And that leads me immediately to the third component, which is the other attachment drive
called care. We don't only need to be cared for, we need, and thank God it is a need,
we need to care for others. It's a sort of a nurturing drive, the so-called maternal instinct,
but that's obviously a misnomer because it doesn't only arise in mothers. And incidentally,
let me just add now already that if you don't integrate all of these, and I haven't yet finished
my listing, but if you don't integrate all of these more elementary emotional needs into
a romantic relationship, then that relationship's in trouble because it has to involve romance
in the sense of sexuality, but it also has to involve caring relationship in both directions.
You have to care about each other, which leads to another not frequently recognised aspect of
relating, which is affective neuroscience called play, which despite the word, well,
the word conjures up fun, which is of course a nice part of it. A romantic relationship
should involve fun, doing things together that are enjoyable in a kind of playful way,
including banter and jokes and all of that sort of thing, but also wider friendships,
you're part of a bigger network, it's not just the two of you in some sort of silo.
But then in addition, and this is the slightly less pleasant aspect that's part and parcel of
the play drive, which is that it also involves power dynamics. Who's calling the shots? Who's
setting the agenda? Successful play involves reasonable balance in that regard, reciprocity,
mutuality, turn taking, taking account of what's in it for him or her. Is this enjoyable for both
of us? I'm enjoying myself, but what about my partner? So there needs to be a fair, and the
word fair is very important. There needs to be a fairness in terms of this power dynamic.
So that's already four things, lust, panic, grief, care and play. Then there's two more
out of the seven. I'm not going to list all seven because I don't think fear should be a part of
romantic relating. So to the extent that fear is in the mix, there's a problem.
But you do need to integrate the other two, namely rage, whose partner never frustrated them.
It's inevitable that your romantic partner is going to, on occasions, irritate and annoy you.
So you need to somehow integrate that into how you relate to each other. What the loving
relationship involves has to also involve some management of these kinds of tensions.
Rage is obviously too strong a word. If it reaches the level of rage, that's problematic. But you
have to deal with irritations and frustrations and the other person getting in the way of what you
want and so on, on occasions. And then lastly is seeking. Seeking, not many people are familiar
with this drive, but it certainly exists. And it's a need to engage with what is not known.
It's felt as curiosity and exploratory interest and so on. And so to put it crudely,
in our loving relationships, on the one hand, in terms of the attachment drives that I mentioned,
you want your partner to be with you forever and always. That's attachment. But seeking is always
looking to see what else is available, because it's interested in the new, in the novel, in the
unknown. And so ideally, integrating seeking into a loving relationship involves always finding
something new together, rather than having to look for postures greener with other people
other than your partner. So I think romantic love involves an integration of all of these different
emotional needs with each other. And what I haven't made sufficiently clear
in my little summation so far, is that when I say integration, I mean to include the fact that they
conflict with each other. So obviously, as I've just said, attachment can conflict with seeking.
In other words, wanting to keep the same person can conflict with wanting to look for interesting
new experiences. The two attachment drives conflict with rage, because as much as you
love your partner, they inevitably also annoy you. And so there's conflict, which gives riot.
Attachment feelings in conflict with rage feelings give riot in the best of circumstances to guilty
feelings. Guilt is what prevents you from acting on your rage. It inhibits it and contains it.
But in some people, even the integration of lust with attachment feelings can present conflict.
Attachment feelings, if I go back, sorry if I sound like a psychoanalyst, which I am,
but if I go back to the origins of those attachment feelings, they fundamentally are mommy
feelings, feelings toward mommy. And it's quite hard to bring, and this is incidentally not a sex
thing, boys and girls are attached first and foremost to their mothers, for the most part,
usually. Of course, it varies, but that's the norm. And those warm, fuzzy feelings of being
loved in the nursery and the nest and so on, it can be quite a task to reconcile those sorts
of feelings with crude, lustful, erotic desire. So you get things like, forgive the slang,
but the so-called Madonna-Hall syndrome, where you get people who are able to have satisfying,
in inverted commas, sexual relationships with people that they have no attachment to.
And then with people who they're attached to, they can't bring sex into it. It's too difficult.
So bringing all of this together in romantic love is an enormous achievement. To have a successful
loving relationship is not easy. But that's a very long-winded answer to your question. And
let me tell you, there's more, but those are the headlines. I love that. And there's this
little phrase I'm often talking about, or part of this research is about thinking beyond dichotomy
and holding the paradox. And I think what you just expressed, and also our romantic relationships can
be exercises or practice in trying to hold those things that might seem irreconcilable or as if
they're paradoxical in a way that they don't fit together. So I really appreciate that comment.
But there's a couple things. One thing I want to get to is you were talking about mostly romantic
love, but are we able to talk about love in a different way? For example, Jonathan Lear talks
about love as a basic force of human nature. In a way, it's almost just saying that love is all
feeling. I want to go there a little bit with you. But before, you said you just sort of dismissed
fear. And I know a lot of people think that fear is a very big part of romantic love, the fear of
losing the other and all of this. So you just think that shouldn't be part of it, so you don't
want to talk about it? Or have you seen a way in which it's really not actually part of it?
No, sorry. Let me explain. In affective neuroscience, we divide anxiety into two types.
The one is fear, which is anxiety about coming to harm, anxiety about danger to life and limb.
And the other type of anxiety is panic, which is anxiety about losing a loved object. So certainly
that panic, grief, panic is part of that attachment thing. Panic is the negative expression of anxiety
about separation and loss. That is very much a part. I mean, I've put it in negative terms,
the anxiety about loss, but it is a positive thing. I mean, attachment comes with the price
of anxiety about loss. The pain of separation is the risk we have to take in order to
properly attach to somebody. So yes, indeed, that's part and parcel, a big part of romantic love.
Fear in the sense of I am scared that this person is going to harm me, hopefully plays an absolutely
minuscule part. Okay, I'm glad I asked you. Yeah, that's true. Tempting divorce.
So we're looking at a really focused part of this of between two people and it seems subjective,
it's going to be different for each of us and so on. But I wonder if you've seen regularities,
patterns in terms of what love is, or even feeling. If you've seen patterns of this that
relate to overall the way a person is in the world, the way we come into being who we are.
In your intro, you introduced this developmental aspect of how we come to love and why it's so
important. I'm trying to think of the continuity of it and how it might apply in ways that aren't
just between two people in a very specific relationship. Yeah, so that's a compound
question. So let me try and address it and it will involve a number of steps, I think,
in order to address it properly. So let me begin with the statement that you made in passing,
attributing it to Jonathan Lear, who I admire and like, incidentally. I spent a year on sabbatical
at the University of Chicago and he kindly had me as a visiting fellow at his, what's it called,
the Collegium, something or other. It's a wonderful interdisciplinary center.
Neubauer Collegium, I think it's called. Anyway, I'm getting distracted.
No, that's great. I mean, the reason I brought up him is Alva Noe, the philosopher, recommended
that book. And yeah, it has to do with trying to understand what we talked about in the first
conversation in a way of, yeah, what is this kind of thing that we share that is feeling?
So let me begin there at a rather basic level. I think what I heard you saying and attributing
to Jonathan Lear was that feeling and love might be synonymous. And I think that that is
self-evidently not the case. We've just spoken about fear. Likewise, rage in and of itself
is not a loving feeling. Rage in and of itself is the antithesis of a loving feeling. So just those
two feelings, they clearly are feelings. The fact that they exist, and in my view, that they are
natural kinds, they are basic emotions that not only all humans are subject to, but in fact,
many animals too. So fear and rage are not loving. I'm not saying that he's saying that
all feeling is love, but he is saying that love is a basic force of human nature and that it's a
sort of archaic mental process, he calls it, which sounds a lot like if we think about the brain,
sounds very similar to something like hidden spring, and also that this was the beginning
of a science of subjectivity in a sense. So you can see how there's these themes that are
relative. So I guess the bigger question is, can feeling be understood as a basic force of nature,
in your opinion? Well, I'm sorry that I misunderstood what you said about Jonathan's
view. I see it's the other way around, that love is a feeling, and then secondarily, love is a
basic feeling. So yes, I think that feeling is absolutely fundamental to our natures. Feeling
is how we come to know whether or not we're meeting our needs, and that doesn't apply only
to emotional needs. It goes even down to the level of, I mean, try holding your breath for a minute
and see what you feel. You feel, you know, air hunger. Try not drinking for a day. Try not eating
for dinner and so on. So try not urinating when your blood is full. All of those are needs,
bodily needs, that we become aware of by feeling them. And the feeling of a distended bladder is
unpleasant, and the feeling of avoiding that bladder is a pleasurable relief. Likewise with
hunger, thirst, sleep, pain. He does bring up, you know, bowel movement and vomiting and things
like this as almost expressions of mind. I think he might even say expressions of mind. And he is
relating that kind of archaic connection to something like the feeling of love, which doesn't
mean we've called it love, and it doesn't mean it's romantic love in the way that we were talking
about. Yeah, so I'm trying to take it step by step. And remember, it's a compound question. And so
to do it justice, I need to take it, I need to divide it into bits. So the first bit, I said,
not all feelings are loving, and that was because I misunderstood you. Now, because I have understood
you, I'm saying, yes, feeling is a fundamental part of our natures. And I would go so far,
building on what you've just said, I would go so far as to say, feeling is what brings me to being.
The most rudimentary state of mindedness is to feel something. So bodily processes of the kind
that we've just been talking about, for the most part, go on autonomically. You're not normally
aware of your need for oxygen. It's an autonomic reflex, peristalsis, which has to do with the
extraction of nutrition from the outside world. The processing of all of that goes on
automatically, as does blood pressure regulation and a great many other such things, the burning
up of the sugars in your fatty tissues, which is absolutely fundamental to your being able to keep
going. It happens automatically. So those things, we call them autonomic for good reason, because
they're automatic. There's no mind there. But I gave you some examples earlier. I said, try
holding your breath or try not avoiding your bladder or try not eating, try not sleeping.
Then it comes to mind. So this is the body now, to use Freud's definition of drive. It is a measure
of the demand made upon the mind for work by virtue of the connection between the mind and the body.
So the mind literally comes to being by virtue of the body making a demand, which is felt.
Why do we feel it? We feel it so that we know through voluntary action, not reflex, not autonomic
responses, but through acting in a state of uncertainty in the world. Is this working? Is
this not working? Feeling tells you this need is being met, this need is not being met.
When we spoke last time, I think I gave the example of being in a burning building,
in a carbon dioxide filled room. And you don't know which way to go. You've never been in a
burning building before, let alone this one. And the feeling of increasing or decreasing
suffocation, distress, or air hunger tells you whether you've made the right or the wrong
choice. So the mind comes into being with feeling, which underwrites choice. You choose to do what
feels better, and you choose to avoid what feels worse. And of course, you have to tolerate
sometimes bad feelings for longer term good feelings. And that's the reality principle.
But let's not get stuck in long theoretical grass. So feelings are fundamental. Now,
we come to love in relation to feeling. I've already said that romantic love is a composite.
Now, I would say that there are other things that deserve to be called love,
that are not romantic love. And I think the easiest way to convey that or illustrate that
is to take some of those components of romantic love and look at them by themselves. It's clear
that what I call or what we in affect neuroscience call panic grief, and I'm sorry for the cumbersome
term, but that attachment drive, it's clearly loving. It's wanting the love of a caregiver,
wanting the love of an attachment figure, wanting their presence, their physical proximity,
the soft, warm, fuzzy, that feeling. It's loving. It's not integrated with anything else.
By itself, it's a loving feeling. The same with care, that nurturance feeling that I spoke of
earlier, wanting to make things better for somebody who's in distress. A baby's crying,
and you pick it up, and you hold it, and you rock it, and you say soothing things to it. It's a
loving thing to do, to nurture. So that inclination, which I say again, thank God,
is built into our nature. All mammals have this nurturance instinct, and it's a loving feeling,
just all by itself. I think that play also is loving. Play is a pro-social, I want to be
part of the group. I want to get along with them. I want them to want me to be in the group.
I want them to like me. I want them to be my friend, and I want to have friends. I want to
be chosen into that team, and so on. These are all loving feelings, pro-social. It's a constructive,
joyous, and connected sort of thing. A certain kind of a connection with others, which is very
positive, and certainly deserves to be called loving. I love my friends. I mean, it rolls
off the tongue. So I love being with my pals, as we say here. So those are three different kinds
of love. There are others where other basic states of mind, emotional states of mind,
which might also be called loving, but it's a slightly more tenuous
kind of love. One of them is seeking. I mean, you could say of a philosopher like Jonathan Lear,
he loves knowledge. He loves to understand. He loves to solve a problem. It's a very different
sort of thing from the other three types of love that I just mentioned, but you can see why it
might be called loving. I mean, I'm a scientist. I know that kind of love, the love of knowledge,
the love of engaging with a puzzle and a mystery, and solving it, or at least making progress with
it. But you can see why the word love starts to be maybe not everyone would call that love.
I'm happy to, but it's a very different thing. And then lastly, lust. I don't know if lust is
loving, but I like to think that for most of us it is. It doesn't have to be, and this leads me to
the next level of what I wanted to say to you. So I've spoken about feeling, and now I've spoken
about these loving feelings, the variety of loving feelings. And I ended with lust, and I said,
it doesn't have to be loving. And that takes me back to something that I said earlier. So
now I'm coming to the third thing I want to say about this idea of the relationship between
feeling and love, and the question as to whether or not love is a basic state of mind.
Before I get there, sorry, it's a very complicated story. It's clear that I do think there are
kinds of love which are basic states of mind, but they're not the same as each other. And there are
basic states of emotional mind which are not loving, like fear and rage. They're not by
themselves loving. So now I'm coming to this last bit, and starting with lust.
Freud, in his infinite wisdom, discovered a thing called narcissism. I don't know how we understood
anything about the human mind before the concept of narcissism was introduced.
It seems like it's always been here, but you're right. That's a Freudian idea. I almost forgot.
Only a hundred and a bit years ago, Freud introduced this. In fact, his paper was called,
well, in English translation, it's called Narcissism and Introduction. The German title,
more literally translated, is Introducing Narcissism. Introducing the concept of
narcissism is the German title. It's a fundamental concept, but Freud initially thought of narcissism
only in terms of what he called libido, in other words, the sexual drive, what in affective
neuroscience we call lust. And I said to you, well, let me just remind you what Freud said,
that the libidinal drive can be directed toward an object, or it can be directed toward the subject,
toward the self. That is narcissism. So narcissism is, simply put, self-love.
That's what narcissists suffered, love of himself, seeing his reflection in the water and thinking,
gosh, that's the most gorgeous thing ever. So that's loving yourself, self-love.
And this is linked in Freudian theory. And remember, this is the introduction of the
concept of narcissism. It's linked with what Freud called autoeroticism, autoerotic behavior.
So I mentioned masturbation, which is the most obvious form of autoerotic behavior.
And that's why lust does not have to be loving in the sense that I suspect Jonathan Leah is
getting at. Self-love, is that loving? Well, highly problematical form of love. So for Freud,
development, mental development, progress, means transcending narcissism and moving toward object
love. Now, in my terms, that involved, when I say mine, I mean affective neuroscience,
neuropsychoanalytic terms, that involves the thing I was talking about at the very beginning
in relation to romantic love, when I said lust has to be integrated with attachment
before it becomes object love, now using Freud's term. So it's not just discharging sexual tension,
it's integrating sexual feelings with affectionate feelings. And there you have a sexual
relationship. So Freud spoke of the libidinal drive taking itself, taking the self as its object,
and then you have to move to taking an object, outside object, as your love object.
And the way we conceptualize that today in neuropsychoanalysis is it involves an
integration of two drives. Freud didn't realize there's a separate drive for attachment. He never
accepted that. He thought this was just a disposition of the libidinal drive that can either be
self-directed or object-directed. We think the libidinal drive by itself is a not particularly
loving thing. You might almost call it just a bodily need. But to integrate that with these
affectionate currents, and remember what we said about separation and loss, is also to make yourself
vulnerable. Now you're in the hands of your object. Forgive the pun, I didn't mean that.
Now you're in the hands of your object. He or she might meet your sexual needs and they might not.
They might find somebody more appealing than you. They might, you know, have a headache tonight
and so on. And so, you know, you're vulnerable. That's the moving, that's the, I'm starting to
illustrate a point here, which is that love, in the sense that I think Jonathan Liu is talking about,
as a basic state of mind, in fact is not so basic. It is basic in relation to each of these drives,
the ones that I mentioned as loving. But the integration of them makes for a state of mind
that is more deserving of the word love. Now let me go back to Freud. Freud, having discovered
narcissism in the context of his first drive theory, then discovered, I say in inverted commas
because I don't believe it's existing, I don't believe in its existence, so I'm not sure he
discovered anything. But Freud discovered the death drive and then came a whole new understanding
of narcissism, what we call destructive narcissism, the thing that the Kleinians
made so much of. And Freud sums it up pithily in this alarming phrase when he says hatred
is older than love, as a mode of relationship to objects. So as far as others are concerned,
as opposed to my beloved self, others, my first attitude to the other is hate. This is Freud's
view. And you have to, and that's because the object is not there for your satisfaction. The
object is separate. It's an insult. The object has his or her own needs and they're not yours.
And so the object frustrates you. Now think about the narcissists you know,
maybe even some of your senior politicians, think about the narcissists you know,
they are horrid people. Their love of themselves is very evenly matched with their
contempt toward others, you know. And so this is a fleshing art of Freud's concept of narcissism,
that it involves self-love and object hate. Now in terms of, in neuropsychoanalytic terms,
the way that we understand that, I remember I told you that moving from narcissism to object
love sexually involves integration of lust with attachment. Now I'm saying dealing with this aspect
of narcissism involves integrating, as I said earlier, integrating your frustrated feelings
with your dependency upon the object. So you know, you can't just give free vent to your selfish
demands and expectations and anybody who irritates you gets booted out of your way,
you know. That is narcissistic. A more loving attitude is to recognize as much as my friend
or partner or playmate or whatever, you know, might be frustrating me, I need them. So I have
to keep a lid on things. I have to take account of what about their needs, you know. And so that is
loving. So now I could carry on, Andrew, from what I've said now. I don't want to take up all of our
time making just this one point. So let me just say you can generalize from what I've said. Each
one of our seven drives has a narcissistic disposition and that's not loving. I mean,
just take, for example, if I can just add one more to illustrate when I say each of them,
the care drive, which you might think is quintessentially loving, as I said earlier,
many people see their children as an extension of themselves. They're not loving the child.
They're loving themselves in the child. But that's not loving towards the object. Is it still kind of
self-referential love? Yes. Okay. That's what I'm saying. It's love, but it's not a bigger
kind of love. It's somehow stuck in its own loop. I must confess, I actually remember the day. I
remember the moment when I recognized my first born child was separate from me. It was an actual
realization was, oh my God, he has his own mind. And so I think sadly, many parents, it takes quite
long to realize that. Well, yeah, because this is interesting because we've been talking about subject
object a lot. And that is what I was hoping to learn from you about a bit in this conversation
relative to the subject is how you see that development. And I think what you've talked
about with narcissism shows how it can become turned in on itself in a way. But maybe to get
at this, I wonder, Mark, how you think about the difference between all of this we're talking about
in mind, or if you already hold those together, not as separate, but as maybe different ways we're
talking about it, because, you know, we're talking about Freud, we're talking about subjectivity,
and there's this idea of the science of subjectivity, phenomenology. I believe
your work, his work, a lot of work is trying to look at what was once considered not scientific
subjectivity, our own feeling, and yet it's not in opposition to objectivity and so on. So there's
a kind of different space opening. So just to come back to that subject object and how do you see
this as a kind of as a process of development that involves all these words that we often use
dichotomously, like body and mind, or do you see those as dualistic? How do you see mind in this
process that you've been describing, and the way you talked about romantic love?
Well, let's start again with the most elementary part of the answer, which is that I think any
feeling state is a mind comes into being just by dint of feeling. So to use Tom Nagel's definition
of consciousness, an organism is conscious if and only if there is something it is like to be that
organism, something it's like for that organism. So an organism that there is something it is like
to be is a feeling organism, that's a minded organism, it's a conscious organism. I think
that's the most basic state of mind that there can be. The body itself, do you think of it as
conscious? Is life already conscious, or are you talking about something like meta-consciousness
when you use the term conscious? I do not mean meta-consciousness, I mean basal consciousness,
basal consciousness, raw feeling, raw feeling. What you've just asked leads immediately to my
second point, which is that, so firstly, you have feeling. Secondly, in other words,
developmentally and phylogenetically, secondly, you have states of mind which involve, I feel like
this, about that. It doesn't have to be in words, it's that there's a feeling, and the feeling
extends onto a perception. So now the feeling renders conscious what it's about.
There are even human beings, children born with no cortex, it's called hydranencephaly,
who are clearly feeling beings, they are emotionally responsive beings, they're something
it is like to be them, but it is impossible for them to know what their feelings are about,
because they have no cortex, they can't make images of the objects that are evoking these
feelings in them. So I think that's a second order of consciousness. For me, the first person
is just a feeling state, the second person is a feeling about an object. That's a very important
point, because those children, which you described very well in your writing, are conscious,
but a lot of people use the term consciousness to mean that they're aware of themselves as a subject
in a certain sense, or they can report on it in a certain sense, but it's really that immediate
level to begin with. Understandably, our own consciousness, most of us, people like you and
me who take part in and watch podcasts, we have a very complex form of consciousness,
and so we take that for granted. That's what we mean by consciousness, this stuff that you and I
are busy engaging in now, but that's an extremely highly developed, complex, compound form of
consciousness. So it even goes beyond what I've just said to you. So I think first we have feeling,
secondly we have feeling extending onto objects. Thirdly, we are able to abstract ourselves from
that situation and recognise, oh, it is me, I too am an object, it is me who is feeling that about
her. So that's third person perspective, and that's where most of us live. We live up there
in abstract thoughts about our thoughts and feelings. We don't understand that continuity,
which begins and is still grounded in feeling, raw feeling. Yeah, it's largely the best way to
illustrate it, I think, is to remind people of what it's like to be dreaming. For the most part,
you lose that third person perspective upon what's going on. It's just, I feel like this about that.
Unless you have lucid dreams, there's no reflection upon, oh, this is me having a dream about
such and such. You're just stuck in the concrete moment.
There's two things we're talking about, just not to conflate them. The one is what we've just been
saying, I say we because it seems we agree, that there's feeling, then there's feeling about
objects, and then there's the ability to reflect upon oneself as an object, having feelings about
other objects. That's not unrelated to, but not identical with the transition from narcissism to
object love. The transition from narcissism to object love is taking account, ultimately,
just to put it very generally, it's taking account of the perspective of the object,
recognizing that I depend upon objects, and objects depend upon me. Love, in the sense that
I think Jonathan Lear is talking about, emerges with successful mindedness. In other words,
to have just feelings and to ventilate them, every baby is born like that, I'm sorry to say.
Then it has to realize this person who I'm howling at, I'm entirely dependent upon them,
and he or she has needs of their own too, and I can't just demand. I think that once you start
getting to this interrelatedness, this recognition of the existence of other minds,
at this point, love, in the sense that I gather Jonathan is talking about,
becomes, comes into being, and in line with what I think he's saying, let me add, it is
essential. If you can't do that, you're in trouble. If you can't do that, you've got a very,
this is what Melanie Klein called the paranoid schizoid position, or part object relationships,
or part object as opposed to whole object relationships, where the object is just seen
as a means to an end in terms of satisfying my needs. But once you start recognizing that
the object too has needs, the object too is a subject, then you start being able to love,
and that involves a state of vulnerability. I'll keep coming back to that.
Yes, and that vulnerability might be one reason people push away from going through that subject
object development, but we keep coming back to Jonathan Lear, but he does talk about Freud as
developing a sort of science of subjectivity, and if we had time, I wanted to talk to you about
your friend Oliver Saxon. I wonder how you see this. Do you see science as somehow separate from
all of this that we've been talking about, or are you seeing a way in which all of this is trying to
find its place in a larger space together, that we can look at our own consciousness
and our own feeling in the way you described, and we can help one another do that as something like
science? Or is that different from, for example, the neuroscience where you're doing very specific
experiments with dreaming, and how do you hold those things? Yeah, so in case some of our viewers
don't know this, I have translated Freud's works and revised translations of Freud's works. So
I've spent a great deal of time getting acquainted with what exactly Freud's project was,
what was he up to, and I think it's not that it's lost in translation, I think Freud doesn't
articulate it adequately, that his project fundamentally, I mean his whole life's work,
was trying to bring into science, into natural science, the empirical fact of experience,
that there is part of nature, it exists, here it is, you and I are observing it right now,
part of nature is the fact that we experience, there is something it is like to be an object
that is minded, and this has to somehow be integrated with everything else we know about
science. So with everything that, and Freud's first efforts are explicitly self-consciously,
like his project for a scientific psychology of 1895, he's explicitly and self-consciously trying
to provide a mechanistic, by which he means a Newtonian, mechanics of mental forces,
and mental energies, and mental objects, and trying to use the same language as we use
for everything else in nature. Now that was a very primitive attempt, which was unsuccessful,
but it illustrates what Freud's whole
mental, I mean scientific effort was about, it was to try to bring subjectivity into science,
and integrate it with the rest of science, which it must be possible to do unless you take a dualist
view and think that we are disembodied souls. If consciousness and therefore experience is
just part of nature, it has to be possible to weave our understanding of how it comes about,
what it does, why it's there, etc., into the fabric of the whole of natural science.
Freud called it psychical reality. He's saying part of reality is psychical reality,
and we need to understand this part of reality in the same way, and in a way commensurate with
the ways in which we understand the rest of reality. So that was Freud's project. That is
my own project. I've taken on that very same project. I think it's unbelievably important.
I don't know why anybody does anything else. What's more interesting and important than that?
Now you mentioned Oliver Sacks, the reason why I first of all contacted him, which was in 1984
that I began my relationship with him, was precisely because I saw, well, here's a neurologist
who takes seriously the experience of his patients and thinks that this is valuable information.
He didn't do it systematically. He wasn't systematically trying to research
subjectivity and its place in neurology and therefore in physical science, but he kind of
intuitively knew that unless you take account of the subjective aspect of brain function,
you're never going to understand how this part of nature works, because, let me just say that
clearly. The most interesting thing about the brain is the fact that it feels like something
to be a brain. In other words, the brain has subjectivity. We're not aware of anything else.
You actually asked earlier, do I think everything feels? I don't think everything feels,
but everything with the brain feels. The most interesting thing about the brain is that it
has this incredible capacity. Unless we understand why it feels like something to be a brain
and how this comes about and what the feelings do, because any one of us knows from our own
immediate experience that our feelings have causal consequences. It alters what the rest of the body
and brain does, the fact that it feels like something to be one. I think that it is an
absolute necessity and a wonder. I'm thrilled to be studying it, just because it's so fascinating,
but it is also an absolute obligation on neuroscience and the whole of biology and
the whole of natural science to integrate subjectivity into its Weltanschauung,
as they say in German, which is loosely translated as worldview.
It's already in there, too. I think that's part of it, too, that you show and
Zach shows and other people show in different ways. We need to recognize it and account for it.
In the same kind of movement that you were describing before, that's how we come to know
ourselves objectively, is through some sort of subjective experience. I wonder how you hold it
in your own life, because you are balancing worlds in the traditional sense of objective
and subjective, which I'm trying to open the space around, but you have to hold both. I know
both can be criticized. People can say that's too subjective or that's too objective, depending on
which stance they're coming from in your worlds. How have you found a way to hold all of that
together? Or is it just ongoing, you figure it out day by day?
Well, I've certainly figured things out day by day in the sense that I'm more satisfied with
my understanding of these things now than I was 10 years ago or 20 years ago or 30 years ago.
So yeah, I'm figuring it out as I go along. For me, that book of mine that you mentioned,
The Hidden Spring, was a kind of culmination. It was a coming together.
This, I think, is how it works. Not to say that, you know, please God, I'll live a few more years,
that I won't have better thoughts, but that's as good an understanding as I can come up with.
So what I wanted to say about this is, let us not forget that what most people think of as
objective reality is also their subjective representation of it. So, you know, a thing
like this screen in front of me, it only takes the form that it does because this is how I perceive
it. You know, I have these special senses which register these aspects of the world and so on.
So for me, the interesting thing, it's not object-subject. It's a subjective awareness
of the part of the universe that I myself occupy and subjective awareness of the part of the
universe that I do not occupy. And then we need a language which can unify both of those. And this
is why I consider myself a dual aspect monist. I think that these dual, the so-called physical,
which is just, you know, tactile, visual, you know, and so on, auditory, the way that we register
the outside world as opposed to the affective way that we register our own being, the common
underlying reality is inferred. It has to be inferred from perception. You can't ever,
and that's a Kantian sort of view. I think that we never will see the face of God,
to put it poetically. You know, you only can ever come up with better guesses about
the fundamental nature of things. And if you look at what's going on in physics today,
you know, it illustrates this very well. We're groping in the dark. We end up with models of
reality. It's no accident that what we have in physics today is the standard model. It's a model.
So I'll have to end sadly on that. I say sadly because I enjoyed talking to you very much. I
enjoyed this conversation very much. But duty calls. Well, thank you, Mark. That was wonderful.
You showed us how to hold the paradox. So thanks and have a great day. You too. Thanks very much
for your interest and for giving me sufficient time to be able to spell out my own thoughts.
