up to the world in a new way. So be and do well out there. And here we go. Hi, Eric. Thanks so
much for being on Love and Philosophy. It's wonderful to meet you. Nice to meet you too.
So we're going to talk about harmonizing the Tao today, among other things that will hopefully
lead us into a few other ideas relative to your work. But just to start, how did you come upon
this phrase, harmonizing the Tao? When did this become an idea that you wanted to explore?
Well, I've always been interested in classical Chinese philosophy, at least well since undergrad.
And it is a central idea in classical Chinese philosophy, especially my favorite Chinese
philosopher, Zhuangzi. But you also see it in the ancient Confucians. And it's generally
part of ancient Chinese thinking that there is this thing, the Tao, which we can talk about what
the Tao is. And it's good to harmonize with it. So it goes way back into my roots in
classical Chinese philosophy. I wanted to ask you about that. How did you come upon that as an
interest? Sounds like it started young as an undergraduate. Yeah, right. So when I was an
undergrad at Stanford, I took this amazing class with PJ Ivanhoe, who was a professor there at the
time. And I just fell in love with the classical Chinese thinkers. And then when I went to graduate
school at Berkeley, Kwong Le Shun was there. And he also studies classical Chinese philosophy.
And he was delighted that there was an incoming student. I mean, most graduate students in
philosophy in the United States don't know anything about classical Chinese philosophy.
He was delighted there was someone who already knew a little bit about it and was interested in it.
So he kind of took me under his wing. I TA'd for him and gave him comments on one of his books.
And then PJ Ivanhoe had liked one of my undergraduate essays and asked me to turn it
into a publication for an anthology he was working on. So it was actually my first publication was in
the area. And I started learning the ancient Chinese language. And I was thinking maybe I
would do a dissertation in that. I ended up not. But ever since then, it has been
continuing secondary interest of mine. I occasionally publish articles on it and
regularly teach a class on it, even though my main research is in moral psychology
and philosophy of mind. I wonder about that. Was that attention? I mean, you said there's
not a lot of people in the States who go into Chinese philosophy. That might be changing now.
But I wonder, you know, in your experience, did you ever, it sounds like you had a very fortuitous
experience in the sense that you kind of flowed right along. You were harmonizing with Adele,
so to speak. But that's not what I usually hear because I was also interested in it when I was
younger. And I found it very hard to find a way in philosophy to do that. So I just wonder about
that. Did you feel that tension between traditional, especially analytic philosophy and
these interests in Chinese philosophy? Kind of yes and kind of no. One of the nice things about
PJ and Kuang Loi is they're very analytic. Well, nice thing to me, because I'm an analytic philosopher,
right? Nice thing to me is that they're very analytic in their writing and thinking style.
So, you know, it harmonizes with the style of philosophy that I'm comfortable with. So I was
very fortunate to be supervised by two of the very best kind of analytically trained,
analytically thinking classical Chinese philosophers just because of the universities I was at.
So in that sense, I didn't feel attention. In another sense, right, there's
always been a little bit of it's classical Chinese philosophy has always been marginalized
in the Anglophone tradition. And I think these days, people, more than in the 90s, when I was in
grad school, professional philosophers in the United States recognize it as
potentially interesting tradition that has something to contribute.
But even so, they don't really know much about it. So you're always, when you're talking with
people about it, you're always doing a little bit of introduction. It always seems a little foreign
and alien to most, not to everybody, but to most philosophers in the traditions I work in.
Yeah, it can even be intimidating just to try to say the names. I find that right now that I feel
a little bit nervous to even try to say them, even though I know that they're very, very
nervous to even try to say them, even though I know them. But, okay, let's talk about harmonizing
and Dao. We brought up both those words. So maybe Dao first. What I know we can't give,
it's kind of everything and nothing. But what should people know about that word relative to
this discussion? Right. So the word means different things to different thinkers in different
traditions. But the way that I want to use it that I think fits nicely with my kind of secular
21st century anglophone perspective in general is the Dao is basically everything, but it's not
everything conceptualized as a collection of things. Rather, the emphasis when you're thinking about
the Dao as being everything is the processes and patterns.
Right. So what is the Dao? It is the spinning of the earth, the coming and going of the seasons.
It is the way that trees grow and die and shed their leaves. It is the way that people interact
harmoniously or unharmoniously in society. It's all of that stuff conceptualized as the regularities
and patterns of things. I wonder, is harmony always harmonious or is harmonization always
about harmony? I mean, I think you say sometimes that, you know, conflict is the harmony. So how
do we unpack that a bit? Because it can just sound like, oh, we're trying to find this very
perfect balance, which is almost like a stasis state. And that's definitely not what I got the
impression you were discussing. Right. So yeah, there's a bunch in there. So we might have to
do a little bit of it at a time in your question. Right. So let's start with a stasis state because
I think that's one important difference between especially Zhuangzi style approaches. And Zhuangzi,
for those of your listeners who don't know, is one of the great ancient pre-unification Daoists,
along with the better known Laozi, who was probably a mythological figure. And people
might know the Tao Te Ching. Right. So alongside the Tao Te Ching, the other pre-unification,
really ancient Taoist text, is the Zhuangzi. And in that text, there's a kind of canonical seven
chapters, which are called the inner chapters, that are seen as the most reliable kind of core
Zhuangist point of view. And we don't know whether Zhuangzi actually was a historical figure who wrote
those seven chapters or exactly. I like to kind of think of it that way, but that might be a little
bit of a fiction. Anyway, so Zhuangzi, stasis is not what's up with Zhuangzi. Right. The coming
and the going. And one of the big differences between a kind of Zhuangist perspective, I think,
and a nearby perspective that you see in the ancient Greek tradition, especially Aristotle
as typically interpreted, is you have this idea from Aristotle and virtue ethics that
there's a thing called human flourishing that we should strive for. And flourishing involves being
ethically good and being creative and being productive, maybe being beautiful, maybe being
athletic. We can't have all of these things. But in a way, it's a static picture. You develop
toward an ideal and then you hold that ideal form as long as possible. Whereas for Zhuangzi,
death is itself part of what's being celebrated. The Tao includes the process of dying.
And if you die in the right time and in the right way, then that's appropriate part of the Tao that
is to be as celebrated as being born and flourishing in the middle of life. And likewise,
things like disability, I think, are celebrated by Zhuangzi as part of the wondrous diversity
of the world rather than kind of having, at least the cartoon version of Aristotelian flourishing,
you kind of have like a single ideal of the perfect front of most wise person with all the
virtues, right? What about the D's? You mentioned death and disability. There's another D in there
that you talk about in the writing. I can't remember. Yeah, diversity. Diversity, right.
So yeah, that's messier than that Aristotelian or even Platonic. I mean, of course, there's
differences in that picture. Yeah, but sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. Oh, no, that's fine.
Yeah, I mean, I think one of the distinctive things about the especially Taoist version
of harmonizing with the Tao and especially within the Taoist tradition Zhuangzi version is
that. Well, if you think about the idea of harmony already builds in this idea of difference,
right? You don't have harmony if everyone's playing the same note, right? Part of harmonizing
is the instruments and the players doing their different things. So Zhuangzi, he celebrates
the weird and the wonderful and the misfits. It's the inner chapters especially are just
filled with goofy characters like this king who has no holes in his face, no eyes, ears,
nose, mouth, right? Then he's like, what's going on with this guy, right? Or, you know, some guy
who's totally bent over and disabled, but he's got like this spiritual insight. It's great you
bring that up because when I was thinking about that connection with science fiction, I mean,
it's too much to jump now, but there's a similar sort of freedom and beauty in this idea, which
I'll just kind of pinpoint for now. But you were talking about the harmony and that's different
from the melody, right? What's that idea in there that we are not the melody? I think that's
important too because that kind of gets at what you were just trying to talk about before I
interrupted you about everybody needs to play a different instrument and maybe sometimes even
it's dissonant. So what's that idea that you're not the melody? You say that a couple times in
different pieces. Yeah, and I don't want to lose track of part of the initial motivation of your
earlier question about what is the conflict, conflicts and harmony, but let's get to the
melody thing, right? So one of the things that I think is invited by say an alternative views,
but especially I think consequentialism, which is the idea that you should try to maximize good
consequences, or at least that was ethically good is maximizing consequences. That invites you
and, you know, consequentialists can do various things to soften this, right? But at the kind of
first crude pass, it invites you to think, okay, this is the way that I think the world should be,
so I should do whatever it is, maximizes good consequences for the world. So everybody becomes
in a certain sense, the decider for the whole world, right? So if you have a button that you
could press that would radically change the world, and when you do your calculus you think,
ah, the odds are we'll change it for the better, then you should press that button, right? And so
should everybody else who might have different calculations, right? I mean, and it creates kind
of certain kinds of risk, right? So if everybody were in a position to risk the entire universe for
something they think is good, then even if 99.9% of people think, you know what, the odds are that
this isn't good, so don't press the button. If there's one person who does their calculation and
says, oh yeah, actually the risk is worth it, then the button gets pressed, right? We don't want that
button. We might have that button, unfortunately, but yeah. Right, so that's the idea of being
always the melody that I worry about, right? There's something admirable about, as it were,
shouldering the burdens of the world and trying to do what's best for the world as a whole and
in some sense, treating yourself as the decider. But I think there are also downsides to that way
of thinking, and another way of thinking that's more modest is to think, okay, the world is
already flowing in certain ways. Not my job to direct it. I'm not the conductor. I'm not lead
violin. I'm not the lead guitarist, right? My role is harmonizing, so I'm playing the triangle in
the background or whatever along with this awesome thing that's going on, and I want to do it in a
way that helps it become even more awesome, but I don't need to be the one in charge.
How does that open us to better understand what I was originally getting at, that harmony,
value pluralism, or you brought up consequentialism, also deontology, the difference there,
and because I was thinking of all the instruments and that we're all in different positions,
and this can be very hard to hold this tension that we want to do the best for the harmony or
for the melody. We want to do the best for the melody, but we're all going to have a different
even kind of experience of what the melody is and what our part is. That's a hard thing, I think,
to really get a grasp on, but isn't that part of this difference between traditional value,
propositional philosophy? Yeah, so I am a value pluralist. I think there are many things that have
intrinsic value. I also think there are many melodies and harmonies that are going on
simultaneously, and so I harmonize in one way with the world when I do my thing, and other people
harmonize with the world in a very different way when they do their things, and that can all be
wonderful. So if I harmonize with the world by, I don't know, playing jazz piano at home or by
coming to my office and having conversations with people like you, that's my contribution,
and other people, they go to the renaissance fair and they participate in that kind of weird,
amazing thing, and that's not my thing. Interesting contrast to add there, yes, that's true.
But that's great, right? And other people do other things that I can't relate to at all.
There are whole worlds of competitive sports that I have no idea about, and there's a whole
something wondrous about all that, but of course they can come into conflict with each other,
right? So any ethics needs, I think, some way of thinking about what to do when there are
conflicting demands, right? So if my mother is asking me to do one thing and my wife is asking
me to do the opposite, right, then I can't fully harmonize with either of their requests,
and I need to think about, okay, what pattern, what unfolding patterns in the world
do these different requests fit into, and which ones do I, which one do I prioritize more,
which one seems healthier? Is there a way to kind of harmonize with both through some kind of
compromise action? Is there a way to recognize that actually disharmony in the short term can
be part of a bigger harmonious picture? You don't want to necessarily disagree with everything
everyone says, right? Sometimes you need to fight back, and that can actually be part of a larger,
more valuable harmony that emerges over time. So there's not going to be, I think,
a part of at least Drogh's ideal is that there's not a formula for answering all these kinds of
questions, but there is kind of a mood or a spirit of flowing along with things,
acting in a way that is harmonious and spontaneous and kind of respects what's
awesome in the world. That's more process, more pattern, so that gives us a kind of,
what does that give us? A kind of flexibility instead of the deontological rule-based take
or the consequentialist where we almost have to assume there's going to be one consequence for
everyone. So what kind of space is that open in your opinion? You could even, I think you talk
about the university as an example or the distant planet or something. Why would this
be a nice approach for a distant planet or the university? Right, so what I think of as the
distant planet thought experiment is this, and this is a way of getting at what philosophers
sometimes call axiology, which is the study of or thinking about value. So here's the thought
experiment. So imagine there's a distant planet, it's blocked by the galactic core, we'll never
interact with it. So what would you kind of hope that that planet was like? Would you hope that
it's a sterile rock? I mean, I don't think so. I mean, there might be some people who would hope
that, but that's kind of dark, right? I think most of us will hope that it's not just a sterile rock,
but that it's got life and hope for just microbial life. Or would you hope for
something more complex? Would you hope for plants and jungles and animals
rowing around and the diversity of forests and reefs and all of that, you know, not too much
like Earth in some alien key. I think most of us would hope for that, right? Would we also hope
that there is one or more species or entity type that is capable of philosophy and art and
sports and falling in love and science and all of that? Yeah, I mean, I would hope. I think the
planet would be missing something if it didn't have that too, right? So I don't want to totally
replicate Earth, but you know, something like that, I think I would hope for. And I think most
people, not everybody, would also hope for that if they're kind of benevolently hoping this planet
into existence would be great. So that's one way of thinking about, okay, what has fundamental value
independent of our interests? And I think, you know, and I wouldn't want it to just be a planet
where everyone was an Aristotelian front of most, right? I want to like a diversity of stuff.
I would want all kinds of wild and weird things. And it would be a disappointing planet if all
humans were the same and all animals were the same, even if that sameness fit some kind of ideal,
right? And it would be a disappointing planet in a way too, if there was no conflict, right? There's
a richness that comes out of diversity and conflict that I think we would be missing
if we had too simplistic a planet, right? So think about a kind of flourishing world like that as a
manifestation of Tao, and it's going to involve entities that die, right? It's going to involve
prey-predator relations probably. I mean, maybe there's a way to imagine a planet that doesn't
have that. I'm not sure, right? So that's the kind of thought experiment that I want to invite
as a way of thinking about axiology. And then you think, okay, bring it back to Earth. What kind of
planet do we want Earth to be? And not in a consequentialist way figure out how to press
a button to bring that about, but think that Earth already has a lot of elements of that
and could potentially have even more of that, have even more of a flourishing Tao.
And in what ways can I participate in that, contribute to that, help it be even better,
help other people participate in it, contribute to it, and improve it?
So that's the kind of overall way of picturing the
axiological and ethical ideal of harmonizing.
So we want all that diversity and death and disability, actually, because that's sort of an
assessment from one position and from another position, it's actually, you know, the way that
we're getting all that good stuff that you just said, that seeming chaos, that all those different
instruments creating new kinds of music, things like that, which doesn't fit very well with
something like the traditional, we make some rules, and then everyone has to go only by those rules.
Is that connected to the weirdness? Because, you know, you're obviously a well-known philosopher
for many things, and who knows how many we get to talk about today, but one is this word weird,
the weirdness of the world, and that, do you see a connection there in that
holding all those tensions, letting all those things be, and the weirdness of the world?
Yes. Yes, I do. I mean, that's one of the things that I love about Chuanze
is his celebration of the weird, right? Where, and I mean weird in a somewhat technical sense, right?
Something is weird in the way that I mean it if it doesn't fit into our ordinary understanding
of things very neatly. It violates common sense. It violates our expectations about how things normally go,
right? So, right, the wonderful thing about Chuanze's writing is he's got all these weird
characters and plants and animals even, and part of the wondrousness of the world
is that it has these weird things, that it defies our understanding, that it's got a diverse set of
events and entities and processes that, right, we can't really fully grasp, and one of the things
that I think is worth doing is appreciating the fact that the world is more wonderful and wondrous
if it doesn't all fit into the neat packages that we understand.
Yeah, I like that you use the word awesome a lot, and you seem to have a lot of joy in
the world, and I feel like your embracing of absurdity is somehow connected to that. Am I
wrong or am I, or not absurdity, but this of the weird, which I know is... Yes, right, I think
one can react to
the fact that the world defies our understanding in one of three ways. I mean you could
deny that and say, no, I understand it, here's my answer to everything, right, or you could say,
yeah, I don't understand it, and be distressed, or you can say, I think, I don't understand it,
and it's kind of, there's something awesome about the fact that the world defies my understanding,
and yeah, I want to invite readers to the third reaction, which I think is
not well represented among philosophers. I think Zhuangzi is one of the few philosophers who
appreciates the fact that the world defies his understanding, as opposed to being a distressed
skeptic or a dogmatist who says, no, here's all the answers.
Yeah, it's wonderful you brought that up because I was thinking of that, how that's connected
the weirdness is almost a way to hold the tension, or hold the paradox, I like to say that a lot, or
those options, because, okay, the world is really overwhelming, even in all its beauty. I mean
sometimes it's just too much beauty and crazy, amazing forms, and how can you even go shop and
look at the shape of the broccoli? I mean, it's incredible, and that's too much, but then on the
other hand, so you do want order and stuff like this, so where do you want to go? I mean,
you know, so you do want order and stuff like this, so we're constantly,
it's not, we're thinking of it as if we're swinging between extremes, but there's maybe
another way of thinking about it, and when you were talking, I was thinking of the triad, there's a
quote in one of your pieces that you use about like forming the triad, could you, do you remember,
do you know what I'm talking about? Yes, I know what you're talking about, because I think that
the pure Zhuangzi is pretty radical, and there's an element that needs a little toning down,
he's wild, right, in the good and the untamed and the maybe not,
maybe we don't want to be quite as wild as Zhuangzi, right, so there's another thinker of the era
who offers a different picture of harmonizing with the Tao, and I think that the, my preferred
picture is some kind of compromise between these two thinkers, and this other thinker is an ancient
Confucian named Shunzi, so Shunzi has this picture of the world in which the world is a triad of
heaven, earth and humans, so what he means by heaven and earth is pretty close to what we mean
by kind of natural phenomena, right, so heaven is the pattern of the seasons, the fact that the
rain falls at a certain time, earth is things like, you know, plants and trees and clay,
and the basic way things work, right, so the wilderness is composed of the processes of heaven
and earth interacting with each other, but then there's a third corner to the triad, which is
human society, right, so on Shunzi's view,
the ancient sages, ancient even to him, and you know, he's working in the third century BCE,
so very ancient, so the ancient sages discovered the rituals and patterns and customs that allow
human beings to get along harmoniously with each other, so a noble woman should act this way,
a farmer should act this way, a merchant should act this way, right, so we've all got our patterns
and our roles, and a harmonious society, everyone kind of fills their roles and fits into their
pattern, and that society also harmonizes with heaven and earth, right, especially like the
farmer needs to plan at the right time, and so at the right time, and you need to build houses in
a certain way if they're not going to fall down, and if rain's not going to get in the roof, and
that sort of thing, right, so Shunzi has this picture where harmonizing with the Tao is playing
your part in this well-ordered harmonious society that is in turn harmonizing with heaven and earth.
Now that's a little constrained, right, especially Shunzi really emphasizes, you know, kind of
playing your role in society and conforming to traditional rituals, and that's a little bit of a
little bit of a straight jacket, right, so I don't think we should be Confucian traditionalists.
Yeah, that's where the wildness comes in.
We need that Zhuangzi wildness to recognize, but I think there's a real value in Shunzi's picture
in thinking of belonging to a society and having certain roles that you play as part of a valuable
way of harmonizing, right, so I'm a university professor, right, so there's certain things
that I should do to kind of in the harmonious way of being a university professor, and that
includes treating students a certain way and, you know, grading in a certain way maybe, but then on
the other hand, right, maybe Zhuangzi wants to like defy the usual grading conventions, maybe give
everybody A's, right, whereas Shunzi would say no, there's this tradition where people have to get
different grades, right, and how exactly that all plays out is complicated, right, but some kind of
compromise between this Shunzian valuing of a harmonious, well-regulated orderly society
and the Zhuangzi wildness. So that's the weirdness too, because there's something I feel like in your
writing you're also saying we want to be able to hold the space and let things be weird, we want
our common sense to be violated up to a point, or to be, I mean violated is a weird word, but
we want to be surprised in a sense, we want, you know, these things that you're saying, is that
part of it too? Yeah, absolutely, absolutely, I mean I think the fact that we do not understand
the world is amazing. One of my favorite examples of this is garden snails, I just have a certain
affection for garden snails, my chapter on the weirdness of the world, I have a whole chapter
about garden snails, right, and if you wanted to we could talk about how weird garden snails
are, like especially their mating is like really strange. Yeah, you should tell people, I mean I'm
sure they can find it, but it is pretty wonderful actually. I mean if you want me to give you the
lowdown on the garden snail mating, we could do that right now. I mean, you know, I would like a
little, I'm sure you have a couple sentence summary by this point. Well what's amazing is that it's
so hard to summarize in a couple sentences because, you know, these snails, they've got
60,000 neurons in their central nervous system, right, it's like an ant has a quarter million,
right, so they've got these tiny little central nervous systems that are mostly in ganglia,
they're clustered around their esophagus, so it's not even clear that they have something worth
calling a brain, right, and they engage in this seven-hour like really complex mating process
that involves like shitting love darts at each other, these are the these calcium, this mucus
covered calcium arrows that they shoot into each other, and then they're simultaneous. This is
very pertinent actually. Yeah, love darts, right, and they've got, and they're simultaneous
hermaphrodites, and they don't have very much vision at all, so they've kind of got to
simultaneously insert their genitalia into each other, and they circle, and that's complicated
for them, and they circle around each other, tasting each other's slime trails, and it's like
really complex seven-hour procedure, right, and these entities are doing this with 60,000 neurons,
and so that's wonderful already and amazing and weird, right, but also one of the things that I
want to think about is do they have conscious experiences? Is there something it's like to be
a garden snail, right, so some philosophers and biologists will say yes, there's something that's
like to be a garden snail, just like there's something else like to be a person or to be a
cat, they have experiences, right, others will say that there's nothing it's like to be a garden
snail any more than it's like we normally assume, although some people question this, to be a plant,
right, so they're kind of just mobile plants basically, and I think we don't know the answer
to that question. It depends on what theory of consciousness is right, and we don't know what
theory of consciousness is right. We don't know if consciousness, if having experiences depends on
something like being able to conceptualize yourself as a being who has experiences, right,
some people think that in order to have experiences at all, in order for there to be something that's
like to be you, you have to have a subjective perspective, an understanding of yourself as a
subject, an understanding of yourself as an experiencer, right, every experience on these
kinds of views comes along with a kind of reflective knowledge of itself, right, so and if you require
that kind of fairly sophisticated apparatus, probably garden snails don't have that,
right, but you might not, experience might not require that, experience might be a much simpler
kind of thing, and as soon as you have sensation basically that's integrated with other cognitive
processes, you've got experience and then snails maybe have that, so yeah, so you got, so I got
these garden snails and they're in my yard, they're eating the daisies, and I have no idea whether
they're conscious or not, right, there's like this mystery of the universe, right, right in my
backyard having very complicated sex, and yeah, it's kind of like wonderful. You know, of course
this is, I mean we already, we brought it up and it's part of your writing consciousness, and it's
a whole, I mean that could be hours and hours, but it does really bother me that we use this word in
such different ways, and I mean those snails are alive, so why, and they're, they're obviously
sensing even no matter how we use that term, so isn't that a sort of consciousness? I mean,
it's not being conscious of your consciousness, it's not being self-aware, but why, how do we
just jump past that? I don't, I never understand in terms of phenomenal consciousness, I feel like
phenomenal consciousness is talking about that, but we mistake it as knowing that we're conscious,
or the snail knowing that it's conscious. Do you have any good advice for me of how to really
disentangle that, because it really bothers me, and I've read all these texts, but I still,
it still bothers me. So I myself lean gently toward a relatively liberal or abundant view
of what kinds of things are conscious, and I like snails, so I kind of want to include them in that,
but let me articulate the alternative view, which I think is, might be true, and it's certainly
worth taking seriously, and I kind of touched quickly upon what I think is the most attractive
way of conceptualizing why consciousness might be much more sparse than we ordinarily think,
and that's this. So conscious experiences have, at least in the typical human case as conceptualized
by some thinkers, but that's already two important asterisks, the following two features.
They're subjective in the sense that there's always an experience, every experience
has an experiencer. There's a sense in which consciousness is always presented as, you know,
for me, right? It's not just that there's, you know, a flower, but there's a subjective perspective
that I bring upon the flower. It's like I'm experiencing the flower, right? So the consciousness
has this kind of subjective forminess inherent in it, and it might be that in order for an
experience to have an inherent forminess, I need to have a concept of myself as a subject. It doesn't
necessarily need to be in words, right? Maybe an infant could have it, maybe a dog or a monkey could
have it, but the kind of sense of, ah, I'm a self, and here's the thing, and there's a difference
between the self and the thing. So subjectivity in that sense often is thought to belong to
conscious experiences. And similarly, what philosophers sometimes call luminosity,
right? So a lot of people have thought, again, in the typical case, and maybe it's not right,
but a lot of people have thought that every experience comes along with some kind of grasp
upon itself, right? So if you are experiencing, having a visual experience of a flower,
there's some sense in which you know that you're having that experience in the process of having
that experience, or at least you're in a position to know that you have the experience in virtue
of having that experience. But in order for that to be true, you have to be the kind of entity
who can self-describe experiences, who understands what an experience is. Again,
maybe not verbalizably, right? But if it's true that every experience comes along with some kind
of understanding of itself or capacity to understand itself as being experienced, then again,
there's like some cognitive sophistication, some ability that seems to be involved in that
to understand yourself as an experiencer and the world as containing experiences.
So if you accept those two features as being inherent to all experience,
then it looks like maybe you need a fairly high level of cognitive sophistication
in order to have experiences. And maybe it's limited to social mammals and birds, basically.
And once you go beyond that, you're not having like a lizard. Does it have a concept of itself
as a subject? Does it have a concept of itself as having experiences? That might be so much of a
stretch. A cell wouldn't either on this view. So I'm just trying to articulate. I'm not saying this
is right. No, I know. I know you don't necessarily believe it, but you articulate something different
even in the book about weirdness. But I really see that weirdness as a way to hold this stuff.
Sorry. Go ahead. Oh, no. I just, yeah, the idea is it's an exercise to warm yourself up to the,
to how someone might reasonably think experience is limited to a fairly narrow range of animals.
Yeah, and I appreciate that you articulated that because it's very important and that's
a very important view. But I feel like it assumes already a relationality with,
a body's relationality with itself, which isn't relationality. I feel like you can have
relationality and therefore consciousness without it being of the same position or entity
in question. So yes, like an infant or whatever, they are conscious. I mean, they're alive,
in my opinion, because to try to break apart the idea of an entity that's sensing as that entity,
to break that away from consciousness for me at that very basic level feels a little bit ridiculous.
But it also feels really understandable because we come into knowing ourselves,
and that's what we think of as consciousness. But that happens way later and it happens
through relation. And I'm bringing all this up because it does remind me of some of the things
in your book, the weirdness. And I feel like that's another way to hold that. But first,
I'll just stop and let you correct me if you think I should be corrected about that or how you see
just life itself and the capacity for anybody to be in relation, to make its way through an encounter,
to sense, as you can separate that from a consciousness in the sense of the most basic
sense on the Glasgow scale. I think that one thing that makes some people hesitate about this,
but makes other people go not hesitate and maybe go to more radical conclusions, is that
fungi and plants also seem to sense in slower motion. But there's all this interesting
research recently on how trees communicate with each other through root networks and
mycorrhizal fungi and all that kind of stuff. And bacteria are pretty complex in their interactions
with each other, more than maybe had been appreciated a couple decades ago. And
could say even a toy robot, if it gets camera input into its eyes and then is programmed to
respond in a certain way to that input. Want to say that thing senses, right? So you end up,
whether you go for life or something like sensation, you might end up with a pretty
radical view of what things are conscious. So you might end up saying, yeah, well,
trees have conscious experiences too, and so do simple robots and so does groups of people.
I mean, the weirdness, right? It's always going to be weird, as you point out. I think that's
very important, but that's exactly the thing that I think it's confused a little bit, is that
for a tree or something to be sensing and conscious doesn't mean that it has to be
conscious in our experience of consciousness, which is what usually what we mean of being aware
of ourselves. That's a very nuanced thing, I think. But if you just think of a body sensing
as a child is or something in relation, it doesn't have to be aware of itself as that body. And
also the human body is a completely different kind of body than a plant. So why would we think that
a plant's going to have anything like our consciousness, our experience of consciousness?
For me, it's like we're already imposing all these human definitions of what it means to be a sensory
body onto everything. And then, of course, it's crazy to say a plant is having a human experience.
I mean, that makes no sense, but it does drive us crazy that when people say that, because that's
what we assume. Do you know what I mean? And also with the robot, to me, that's a pretty easy one.
I mean, people think it's not so easy, but there's no affordances that are pointing back to that
robot. They're pointing back to whatever created that robot. Maybe we get to a point where there
are affordances specific to that robot. But I feel like all these complicated questions about what
life is, of course, get involved here, and it's not easy in that sense. But in the sense of just
a sensory body, it doesn't seem that complicated. If we can take away this human lens that everything
that's conscious has to be conscious in the way that a human is, does that make any sense to you?
I would, I think there's an ambiguity in the way that you phrase it. I'm not sure exactly
which side of this ambiguity you come down on. I have a guess, but
so when you say something isn't conscious in a way, in the way that a human is, a tree isn't
conscious in the way that a human is, you could, I think everyone would agree with that, right?
If it's conscious at all, it's going to be very different from us. Does it have experiences
in the sense that philosophers sometimes articulate by using the phrase,
there's something that's like to be the tree, right? Is there something that's like to be a
tree or multiple things that it's like? It doesn't have to be one thing, right? But is,
does it have a flow of experience, however alien from humans it is, does it have a flow
of experience or can you think of sensation as something that happens even without a flow of
experience? So you could say, okay, yeah, there's a sense in which trees have sensations, but a lot
of people would say, no, but they don't really have a, there's nothing it's like to be a tree.
They don't really experience things even if they sense things in a certain way.
They're encountering the world and so as to continue encountering the world. That's all I
mean. Of course they don't have, I mean, we, this is why it's so complicated because we think of
senses through our human body and so on. But, and it reminds me of your other beautiful piece,
which I hope we get to about the golden rule and extension and so on. But I'm not trying to put
myself in the position of the tree, but if we were a tree body, you know, it's just a different
way of relating with the world just so as to continue as the tree. I just think if we can get
to the most basic of that, that's an, that's what I think we mean, I would mean by being conscious
of the, you know, as a tree, but it has nothing, like, it's not what I mean by being aware of
myself as a human being. And that is really, really, really hard to tear apart because as
soon as we use those words, we're thinking of the tree as experiencing the world as we experience
it. It's, I feel like it's part of that practice that you talk about in terms of extension here.
Something complicated has to happen there before we could even really understand
how to dissociate those things.
Right. Yeah, you can also think that just the question, does a tree, is there something that's
like to be a tree? Does it really have experiences or not, no matter how alien? You could also think
that question is in some sense, already a mistake to phrase it in that way, as though there's a yes
or no answer to that. Exactly. That's the triad I was trying to bring out.
Right, right. So I think for every question, there are at least four answers. You could say
yes, and you could say no, right? And the way I was articulating it assumed that a yes or no answer,
does a tree really have experiences, would be right. But there's also always some in between,
like, well, kind of, kind of yes, kind of no, can't really quite say either of those answers
is quite right. And there's also always a fourth option, which I call gong, which is to, like,
bang a gong and say, it's not yes, it's not no, it's not in between. The whole question is broken
from the start, and you kind of think in some different way, rather than thinking in the way
that's presupposed by the frame of that question. Yeah, so you just have to get really, kind of,
you have to understand that we're actually using language, which was invented through human
relation and experience, and you have to keep going down the rabbit hole until you can begin
to kind of imagine or extend yourself into thinking of a different kind of body, which is having a
different kind of encounter with the world, which we would use words like sense and experience to
talk about. So one way of thinking about this gong option, right, would be to say, if I were to ask
you, is our prime numbers red? You could say, yes, they're red, or you could say, no, they're blue,
or you could say, well, it's kind of in between, they're kind of purple, right? Or you could say,
and here's the gong option, you know, that question is just, like, not the question you should be
asking. That doesn't really make any sense, right? So yeah, so I think it's totally reasonable to
think that the, I think any of those answers for a garden snail or a tree, I think all of those four
answers are on the table. It could be, in my mind, right, that a garden snail or a tree really has
experiences, of course, they'll be alien from us, right? Or you can say, look, it's blank,
it's blank, right? There's nothing going on inside, that's the no, right? Or you can say, well,
kind of, like, does experienciality have to be, like, yes or no? Or maybe it's somewhere in
between, I've got a whole paper about this that I call borderline consciousness, right? Or you could
say, hey, look, just the question itself doesn't even make any sense. When we ask whether something
has an experience, we have all these presuppositions built in our concept of what an experience is.
Like, for example, we might think, you know, when we think about it in terms of there's something
that's like to be an X, right? Maybe we're already presupposing that there's a connection between
this, what it's likeness and having a kind of self-conception and all that, and the concept
is kind of inherently problematic, and we should probably just maybe get rid of this whole concept
unless we want to limit it to cases like humans. That sounds like, to go back to the harmonizing
with the Dao, that sounds like that either-or again. And the third space would be, well,
let's look at this question and what is it, its language, and where is it coming from,
and how is all that stuff built together? And then you kind of do open up this weird
space, which I feel like is the space of where perhaps new things could come from, and that
justified doubt that you talk about, or is it dubiety, is that related here at all? Does that
give us a little bit of a third space to kind of step that might end up being a portal into a
different understanding? Yeah, so one of the main themes of my recent book, The Weirdness of the
World, is what I call the universal dubiety thesis, right? All of these big picture claims about
consciousness and cosmology are dubious, right? We don't know where the truth lies among various
possibilities. All of the possibilities are bizarre. They violate or defy common sense
in some sharp way. You can't really escape that, I think, once you start thinking about these concepts
carefully, right? And we don't know where the truth lies among these various bizarre options.
So that's the dubiety claim. And then I think that there are various good things that come
from recognizing our incomplete understanding of the world. And some of those are traditionally
recognized, that it's good that you don't claim you know things if you don't actually know them,
right? But then there's also maybe those less recognized,
the world is more wonderful in a certain way if it defies us, and the world becomes richer for us
if we don't understand certain things about it, right? The world is more full of possibility.
If it's possible that the snail has experiences, and it's possible that it doesn't, or it's possible
that it's some borderline case, or it's possible that just the very conception of experience is
already so laden with suppositions that we should maybe move on to some other different way of
thinking about things, right? All of those. Once we recognize that all of those are live options,
now my garden is richer with possibilities, right? Yeah, it's like a whole other universe. It's like
a science fiction book. That's real. There's a universal possibility in there that if I
kind of already think I know everything, it doesn't exist. So is this a reason to do philosophy? Is
this a reason to read science fiction? And is this a reason to do philosophy? Is there a connection
there at all? Yes, yes. Yes to all three questions. One reason to do philosophy, and I call this the
philosophy of opening, is so here let me contrast the philosophy of opening and the philosophy of
closing. So in the, so imagine you've got, you enter a philosophical conversation thinking there
are three viable theories. Theory A, theory B, theory C, right? If you're trying to do the
philosophy of closing, what you're doing is trying to close off, say, possibilities B and C and say,
ah, theory A, that's the correct theory, right? And then you've closed off these possibilities
and you've got this thing, which is good. You know the theory is right, right? But the philosophy of
opening says, hey, here's another way to learn. Maybe theory D is correct. Maybe theory E is correct.
So you add to your sense of live possibilities, possibilities you hadn't previously considered.
So maybe you hadn't considered the possibility that the very question of whether consciousness
exists in a snail should be gonged off the stage, or you hadn't considered the possibility it could
be a borderline case and it assumed it has to be yes or no, right? As soon as you add those
possibilities into the mix, if you do, if those possibilities deserve a certain amount of your
credence, then you've opened up your sense of how the world could be rather than closing down.
So I think one thing that philosophy can do, that science fiction also is really powerful at,
is expanding our sense of what's possible, knocking us out of our presuppositions about,
okay, here's how things have to be. I feel like I understand this, right? Let's be imaginative,
theoretically, and about maybe what could exist in the future or what could exist in the future.
Technologically, right? And the right kind of imaginative exploration can open our sense of
possibility for the world, and that is, I think, important. I think that's both intrinsically
valuable and instrumentally valuable. It's intrinsically valuable because the world is
better. This planet that we are, we're on, is better if it's inhabited by entities who are
struck with wonder at the various wild possibilities that could be out there, right? Rather than kind
of dogmatically with their noses down on, here's my truth. Weird is wonderful. It's also instrumentally
good in the sense that I think we're not always, what we think is true is not always true. Sometimes
it is. Sometimes it was, it might be that A was right all along, and by adding D and E, you added
confusion, and those were wrong. But often, maybe it turns out that D is right, and if you're not
opening yourself up to possibilities, then you might be just heading down a path without
realizing that that path is not where you should be headed. Yeah, and maybe when things change,
it'll be good that you had already thought about those other options even if B is right for now.
I just had a discussion with Kevin Kelly. You know Kevin Kelly? He's a Wired magazine co-founder,
technology guy. I think you'd find him interesting because he's a big sci-fi
fan, and he was talking about how a lot of, he's kind of predicted a lot of the things that have
since happened in terms of technology, and he was telling me a lot of it comes from reading
science fiction because he already knew what a computer should be like before, you know, there
was such a thing and so on, and he said we should sort of cite our science fiction. I wonder what
you think about that, and if that strikes a chord in you at all in terms of how your reading
experience of science fiction, which I'm assuming you had young, I think I even heard you say you
did when you were a kid and then you picked it back up with Egan maybe. Yeah, yeah. Well,
how does that, does that feel like it's been important to your work that you've done? Yes,
right, so I've definitely, I'm a fan of science fiction, and I think they're, the mode of exploring
possibilities that you see in science fiction is, has a similar spirit to the kind of philosophy
that they like, that I like to do, which involves exploring possibilities. Absolutely, I think that
philosophers and others should engage with science fiction and cite it if that's, if that,
if that's the direction their lives are taking. I don't want to be a prescriptivist,
everyone's got to go read science fiction, right, but if you're interested in this kind of
opening your mind toward wonder and thinking about possibilities that you haven't really
considered before, then science fiction is a great tool for doing that. And opening to the weird in
the way we've been talking about, I think it's, it sort of gives it a little more, what's the word,
like credence or something that you could understand it as a way to get ideas,
open, open the space in the openness way that you just described.
Yeah, right, so one of my favorite books that I've read recently is Kazuo Ishiguro's Quira and the
Sun. Oh, I haven't read that yet. I love that author though, but. Yeah, he's a wonderful author
and he occasionally writes science fiction as well as writing, you know, non-science fiction,
literary fiction. So he's got this wonderful book, Quira and the Sun, which is told entirely from
the point of view of an artificial friend, a service robot who's conscious, seems pretty clear,
right, that she has all these experiences and she is utterly devoted to the well-being of the girl
to which she's been assigned as a friend and she completely treats her own interests as secondary
to that. She's wholly defined her interests, not wholly, but almost entirely defined her interests
in terms of the well-being of that friend. And it's such a lovely portrayal of
a kind of devotion, which is in a way beautiful, but also in a way so limited,
right, and I think as a reader you want to say, Clara, you matter for your own sake too.
That's fascinating.
You are an individual who is an equal of any human, right, but that would never occur to
her and it's told so perfectly from her perspective that she never voices that thought, that the kind
of the reader, at least me, you know, I'm like desperate to assert that thought for her.
I can imagine that tension. Just knowing his other work, I'm sure he builds that tension
very beautifully. But you also write science fiction, don't you?
Yes, I do. And I'm interested also in these questions about, we might think of it as
robotic existentialism. If we are going to someday, and maybe we will, and of course it depends on what
theory of consciousness is correct, whether we will or how soon, but if we someday create
robotic entities that have inner lives and experiences, probably not quite like ours,
but maybe in some important ways like ours, then what is the meaning of life going to be like
for them? And we shouldn't just assume that it's going to be like what it is for us.
And we shouldn't just design them so as to maximize our interests. They will have interests
of their own that are worth considering. So one of the many wonderful things you can do with
science fiction is start to think in a more sophisticated way about this possible future
toward which we're heading. Yeah, as you were telling me the example that reminded me of that
extension. I mean, maybe you want to give a little brief idea of it, but you're kind of saying, okay,
the golden rule is good, or put yourself in the shoes of others is good. But another idea is that
you can use this idea of extension. So the people closest to you, you can probably describe it
better, but you think of what it might be like for those people closest to you. Instead of telling
the king to put himself in the position of whatever, someone he's going to punish, think,
okay, well, what if it was your son or something like that? And when you were talking about the
robot, that's kind of a reverse extension, isn't it, in a little bit, or some kind of way of,
through science fiction, giving us that. Yeah. So the idea of extension, and in some of my recent
work, I've contrasted it with the golden rule. So the golden rule says, do unto others as you
would have others do unto you. And it's very similar to this idea of imagining yourself in
someone else's shoes. And then you kind of do for them what you would want if you were in their
position. But there's something about, and there's a wonderful rule, and there's something I really
like about it, but there's also something just a little, that rubs me just a little the wrong way
about it, which is it kind of takes your assumed self-concern as the basis of morality. So you
kind of imagine yourself in someone else's position, and then you say, if I were in that
position, what would I selfishly want? Or what would I want for myself, right? So there's a kind
of like imagining your own self always involved in this. So it puts yourself at the center of
ethical thinking if you're always doing it this way. And Mengzi, the ancient Chinese Confucian,
has this different way of thinking about how to expand your concern for others, and that is
base it in immediate concern you have for those nearby. So he has this wonderful example. He says,
maybe the most famous passage in the Mengzi is, he says that anybody who suddenly came upon a child
crawling at the edge of a well and about to fall in would feel this moment of alarm and compassion.
And they wouldn't do it because they want to get in good with the neighbors by rescuing the child.
They wouldn't do it because they would be annoyed by the child's screams as he's dying at the bottom
of the well, right? They wouldn't do it because they want to be famous or anything like that,
right? It's just it's a pure concern for others that manifests in this kind of spontaneous
response, right? So Mengzi thinks that we have, with respect to nearby others, whether they're
physically nearby like this child about to fall into a well or whether they're
kind of relationally emotionally nearby like you're close in, we have this spontaneous
concern for them that doesn't involve us at all. Mengzi is not saying imagine yourself in the child's
shoes and about to fall into the well and what would you do, right? There's no none of that
self-reference. There's this assumption of this immediate natural concern we have for others.
And the way to develop morally, foundationally for Mengzi is to expand that to more distant others,
to notice that others also maybe deserve that concern, right? So he has this wonderful dialogue
with this king who feels compassion for this ox that's being led in front of him and is about
to be sacrificed and killed to consecrate a bell. And this king is this terrible vicious king who's
invading his neighbors and killing the civilians in the neighboring territory. And Mengzi says,
and the king at one point says, how could I care for the people? He just assumes he doesn't care
about peasants, right? And Mengzi says, hey, look, you had concern for this ox. Just certainly you
could have concern for a peasant. You just notice that when the thing is nearby, you're concerned
for it. So just extend that concern that you felt for the ox to the peasants beyond the wall, right?
To say that you could have concern for an ox but not for a peasant is like saying you could see the
tip of a hare but not a cartload of firewood. Of course you can have concern for peasants. You just
need to reflect on it. Imaginatively extend the local concern for what you have nearby to the
more distant cases, right? And that kind of extension, he's not saying imagine yourself as
in the peasant's shoes. He's saying notice that a peasant also would be afraid of death just like
an ox. And if you're concerned for the ox, you should be concerned for the peasant too, right?
So there's no imaginative self-transformation involved in Mengzi and extension, which I think
is nice because it kind of takes you, it makes you less central to the picture.
I like that a lot because it feels like we're going into that third space or something and
noticing our continuity with what's around us in a different way, which feels very important to me.
But I asked you like a science fiction way to do this and I asked this philosophy way to do this.
You said yes to both and we don't have that much time left but I did want to bring up you've done
this whole other, you know, you have this whole other world of thinking about ethics and actually
doing a lot of, you know, studies and things about ethical concerns. And some of what we're
talking about here when I think about that work that you've done seems almost contrasting, which
might be wonderful in the in the overall melody, you know? But because, you know, for example,
you found that ethicists aren't necessarily more ethical. I mean, I'm generalizing a lot,
but like a vegetarian ethicist isn't necessarily more ethical than, I don't know, you could
probably describe it better. But somehow there's a contrast there in terms of it feels like we're
doing all this philosophy in order to become more ethical or improve our life or something.
And then in the studies that you've done, that's not really, the opening is not really opening.
It doesn't feel, you know, it feels almost more like what you're describing as closing. So how
do you hold that in your ideas of all this? Yeah. So I've done this series of studies,
mostly collaboratively with my former student, Joshua Rust, done a series of studies on the
moral behavior of ethics professors. And what I found over and over again, with a couple exceptions,
is that they behave basically the same as other professors, right? And other professors is the
right comparison class because they're similar educational backgrounds, similar socioeconomic
status and that sort of thing, right? You look at how ethics professors behave on a variety of
measures and how other professors behave basically is the same. So it doesn't look like the life of
studying ethics is having much impact on how people actually behave. And I find that a little
disappointing. Now, some ethicists, when I talk to them about this, they're like, well, you know,
it's an academic endeavor and we should expect an ethicist to be good at writing papers
and teaching classes. But like, why think they'd be better in real life? And, you know, I can see
how someone might think that. But I also think, look, if you spent your life studying the ethics
of Aristotle and Kant or whoever you're studying, doesn't that have some kind of positive ethical
impact on your life? And if not, has something gone wrong? Yeah, it's fascinating. I'm remembering
what you say about the, like on the one of your questionnaires, you ask, is vegetarianism better
or should we not eat meat? And people will say, yeah, we shouldn't eat meat. It's probably ethical
to eat less meat or something. And then you ask, okay, what did you eat for dinner? And it's like,
oh, I had meat. And that seems, that kind of, I think is an illustration of what you were just
describing. But also, as you were talking, I'm thinking, okay, well, what about harmonizing the
Dao? Maybe, actually, or being the tree or all these other themes we've been talking about,
what if you bring that into that world? Because even those studies and the way you just described
it are set up in a very dichotomous way of you're going to say yes or no. And yeah, everyone's
already educated in a way. So in a sense, like the critical thinking is a part that's probably
actually changing the way you behave towards others. So these yes, no questions maybe aren't
reflecting that. So, I mean, does that make any sense to you if you tried to open up into the third
or thinking about it in this more Daoistic way? It actually might just be they're being inconsistent
when they say they had meat, but not necessarily less ethical. Yeah. The world is complex.
And so I think you can say, and I, you know, I'm an example of this, actually, right? So if I had
been a participant in my own, one of my own studies, the one on, or one of the ones on meat
eating, I would have said, yes, regularly eating meat is not morally good. And yet, I actually eat
meat pretty regularly, right? So I myself am an example of the kind of phenomenon that I'm
criticizing. So I want to own up to that. And I want to say that in some sense,
it makes sense to have high ideals and recognize that you don't live up to them, rather than
rationalizing and defending yourself always, right? So I think there's a tendency for people
to say, oh, well, eating meat, there's nothing wrong with, if they eat meat and they don't want
to give it up, right? There's a tendency to say, oh, so there's nothing wrong with it. And then
they come up with a story. But I think sometimes what we should do is say, okay, look, you know,
that story doesn't necessarily work. And shouldn't we recognize that we're not ideal,
and we maybe aren't harmonizing as well as we could or should with our ideals?
But also, you're not the melody. I think it's great you brought up yourself, because
just interacting with you a little bit, we don't know each other. But I have a sense that you're
really care about your family, for example, I've seen. And you have this space of care that's very
obvious about who you are. And you can feel it in your writing, too. And I would imagine that that
comes through the way that you are in the world, in the sense that you are noticing,
which is a philosophical practice. And all that kind of goes into what you're really asking in
those questionnaires. But it's not reflected in the questionnaire, because it's a dichotomous
yes, no thing. Because like what you're saying about that everyone's going to have a different
instrument, some people maybe should be vegetarians, or should is a weird word,
but maybe that's the right choice from some positions, and others not. And maybe it is either,
or maybe you do need to hold that tension in the way we've been saying, where both aren't always
right or always wrong. But there's a different way of thinking there that I feel like you're
trying to open up with the weirdness and the harmonizing the Dow. And does that make sense
to you at all? It does. I'm doing this ethics professor stuff. And it has to be simplistic,
because if you're going to do real scientific psychology, you need clear measures, clear
dependent variables, it needs to fit onto lines where you can come up with averages and do
statistical tests. And I want to participate in that way of doing science, because I don't
think anyone had ever before, Josh and I did it, and anyone had ever done that with the question
of do ethicists behave ethically? So let's like, get some numbers and do some t-tests and stuff
like that, right? So, but yeah, of course, it's simplistic. And while not wanting to be
self-excusing too much, and saying, hey, look, you know, it's fine to eat the meat of animals,
because that's just part of how I am harmonizing with the Dow. It's not my priority to
to shape that side of my life in that direction, right? While not wanting to like,
let myself off lightly with a rationalization, at the same time, I do think it makes sense
to say, we need a certain kind of forgiving ethic. And one of the nice things about this
harmonizing ideal, harmonizing idea, as opposed to an idealized consequentialism or idealized
virtue ethics, is you can say, look, there's only so much you can do, you're only playing one note,
you have a limited life, and you've got to make choices about where your priorities are,
what respects you're going to live an ethically good life. And it's not realistic to think that
you're going to be ideal in everything. So you need to make choices and find your own way of
participating in this awesome thing, which is this amazing planet full of
cool, impressive, wonderful, incomprehensible stuff.
Yeah, well said. I have to ask you about love before we go. And it is a word that comes up
in your work in all kinds of different ways, which is wonderful as a philosopher in the
way that you use it. But in the context of this conversation, what does that word bring up? Or
when it comes to this idea of the melody and the harmony and so on? Or care, care is another word
that you use a lot that's very connected. Do you have any thoughts about connecting those dots at
all? Yeah, I haven't written much about love. One thing that I'm attracted to is
some version that's close to Harry Frankfurt's idea of when you love someone or something or
some process that involves wanting, it's wanting good things to happen for its own sake, right?
For the sake of the beloved. So I like that idea a lot. And I've thought about a little bit in the
context of love in marriage or conjugal love, right? And what's involved, there's this kind of,
I think, almost paradox, not quite a paradox, in the marriage vows, in the sense that you are
promising to love someone forever, in the sense that you're promising to build a life
jointly with them where what you want is their good for their own sake. And how can you promise
that when you're 25 years old? Because who knows what your lives are going to become? And
love for a spouse is going to have to be contingent upon their
developing in a way that harmonizes with your values and your life projects and your life
with your values and your life projects. And if you go different directions, which of course
you could, then it can no longer be that. So the marriage vow involves this kind of trust in the
other, that they are already firmly enough on a path that you can join with them together, right?
So even though there's a contingency that you can only continue to love them in the
Frankfurtian way, if they retain certain features, at the same time you're trusting them to retain
those features and you're committing to harmonize and build a life together with them that retains
the features on the basis of which you can continue your love.
I think that speaks very beautifully to the weirdness, actually, because yeah, I think it
is a paradox that we decide when we get married that we're going to be with someone and we're
both going to be changing because we have no, I mean, yeah, you could marry when you're 25 or 55,
still in five years you might be completely different. You might be different people because
of everything that's happening. So you're holding the space where you're going to be yourself
changing and you're going to love another person who's changing and you're going to be this third
entity together and so on. But if you enter into that with an understanding of the weirdness,
you know, in the way we've been talking about, the way you write about of, that you can't fully,
everything that's true is going to be a little bit strange. That seems like a beautiful way to think
about love in a sense. I hadn't thought of it till now, but yeah, you can't fully anticipate it and
you can't totally keep it inside the box. In a way the marriage vow is a leap into something that
you know is too complex for you to understand and fully anticipate. And there's something
beautiful about taking that leap. Yes, definitely. And I think just the fact that you could harmonize
just to come back to that or that you could even experience the Tao in this extended way
that we've been talking about through that relationship is actually very potent. And if
you can stay with it and be part of that, it is, I think, really worth it. But I don't know if you
have any final thoughts or anything you want to say before we go. I know we have to go now, but
I just want to say I really appreciate your work and all these things that we've opened up here and
there's plenty more that you've opened up for me too, so thanks. Is there anything
before we go that you want to be sure we say or talk about? Well, I've enjoyed this conversation
and I hope that the world has become more wondrous for containing it. I think it has for sure. I mean,
if only because we learned about love darts from snails, then you know. But there's many other
reasons too. Thank you, Eric. Thank you so much. I hope you have a good day there on the other side
of the world. Yeah. All right. Bye. Bye.
Thanks for listening, everyone. I hope you enjoyed that. I hope you're off to something
weird now. Please support the show in whatever way you can. It really helps. I'm doing this in
a weird way, so anything you want to contribute, any ideas you have for how to keep this going,
I welcome them and I appreciate you. All right. Bye.
