Hey everybody, it's Andrea. I'm on a train right now so this will be short but I promised I would
do it. I promised to the people who asked me to do it but also to myself I guess. It's probably
like five people in the world who really listen to this but one has to follow through on one's
promises or does one. Maybe that's the question right now. I think life reacts, dances with us
in ways that are very mysterious and that have a lot to do with how honestly we're living in our own
emotions and life and thoughts and I think it's a very challenging experience and even more
challenging when you're in physical situation that's dangerous or difficult or where people
are just having more difficulty being kind to one another but also when you can be kind in those
situations it's amazing what it does. All right here's the train. Something matters about the way
we live and the way we see others as ourselves that is bigger than we can understand. I don't
know what it is but there's something to all of this that matters more than we even can imagine
and when we can be kind in situations where it's impossible the situation changes for everyone who
witnesses that. I've seen it happen in spaces like this like this train and in airports or just hearing
people tell me something they witnessed or saw in some kind of space but I want to read this
quote because I think it has to do with the small things and how what we think is small is actually
really big and all this big stuff is actually only mattering because of the small things
like how we treat one another and if we can follow through on what we say which doesn't
mean we can always do it but at least trying not just taking advantage of the situation anyway
small is beautiful that's what came to mind so I want to read this quote
it's from a book by E.F. Schumacher called small is beautiful economics as if people mattered
the typical problems of life are insoluble on the level of being on which we normally find ourselves
how can one reconcile the demands of freedom and discipline in education countless mothers
and teachers in fact do it but no one can write down a solution they do it by bringing into the
situation a force that belongs to a higher level where opposites are transcended the power of love
the typical problems of life are insoluble on the level of being on which we normally find ourselves
how can one reconcile the demands of freedom and discipline in education countless mothers and
teachers in fact do it but no one can write down a solution they do it by bringing into the situation
a force that belongs to a higher level where opposites are transcended the power of love
