There's no world out there, right?
I mean, it's all constructed in our head, basically.
You ask, if you ask a five or a six year old, which I've done this with my grand
kid and, you know, you ask them, you know, where their thoughts come from, the way,
they, you know, it's in, they point in here.
How can this physical body or this brain give rise to that sense that even your
five year old grandchild has of self, right?
It's, it feels very mysterious.
It is very wonderful, right?
Words are really good.
They're better than grunts and, but, you know, they still don't quite capture
the nature of what it is of thought.
So thought goes beyond language, I guess, is the, is, seems clear.
Just like the little movie playing in our heads, obviously, right?
You know, we have a picture on the retina and we have this, right.
And it's this movie playing basically.
And, and that's how we represent the world.
And of course that's complete nonsense because who's watching the movie?
I mean, who's, who or what is doing the decoding?
I mean, there are some people would argue that, you know, there isn't a decoder.
It's all just a continuous loop between the environment and the, and
the brain, basically again, it comes to the issue of where's the decoder for
that, for that, for that population.
And what, how do we connect up the population story, which is what everyone
talks about now to, to this issue of this higher level issue of representation.
Yet, but the pre-wiring in the system at this porous kind of, you know, reflects
the manifold of, of the cells that are available and it's already there by date.
So what that tells me, and I think what it tells the Moses as well, is that some
aspects of the way we represent the world are the whole brain is a relational device.
Everything the brain does is relational.
Hi, everyone, this is Andrea Hyatt.
You're listening to Love and Philosophy Beyond Dichotomy.
This is a special hippocampus love episode with Lynn Nadelle.
If you've been following the research channel on YouTube or elsewhere, you've
probably heard a few talks between Lynn and I, there've been, I guess,
three public ones now, fourth one, I'm going to publish soon.
This was the, gosh, I don't know if this was the second or the third talk, but
gosh, I don't know if this was the second or the third talk.
This one is about representations.
I haven't posted it as an audio podcast, so I wanted to go
ahead and do that as a bonus.
I also wanted to do it because I had a paper come out recently,
which is about radical relation.
It's about representations and the hippocampus and a lot of these ideas.
And Lynn and I just did another talk together about a paper that's related to that.
And I'm also going to be posting a piece where I try to explain that paper and
also this idea of cognition being a form of navigation, navigation being a form
of cognition, and by the way, I'm not saying either of those things, although
it does get confused as if I'm saying one or the other of those.
I'm not, however, I am saying that they are the same process and I'm saying
something actually much more radical than you imagine if you try to dismiss
it as, oh yeah, mind is like moving through a landscape, but you'll just have to
watch the other video to really understand that because it's hard to explain.
It's all about holding paradox, exploring beyond dichotomy and everything else
that you've ever heard on any podcast here, because this is one huge document
that I'm putting together that goes along with the book that's coming out next year,
but also my thesis and quite a few other things that are in the works.
So it will all become clear at some point.
If you actually care about all of this, you can put the puzzle together.
It's actually a big jigsaw puzzle, which you can put together if you really want to.
If you want to look at every video and listen to every podcast and look at it
through this document, you'll see that it kind of unfurls in a fractal way.
But in any case, a big part of this is Lynn Nadel, John O'Keefe, the Hippocampus
as a Cognitive Map, and Edvard Tolman, all these people that have to do with
hippocampus research, which is just so important to me, and I'm just so
grateful for them, and I love being able to talk to Lynn whose story I tell in
part in the book that's coming out next year, but also just all his research
and his thinking and his collaborations.
And he was in Trondheim, I think it's a year ago we had this conversation.
He was giving some lectures in the Moser lab.
They were also having the big neuroscience awards there at the time,
which I think he talks about.
So this is about representations in the brain.
There's this problem if you don't follow neuroscience, but this idea of what a
representation is, just to put it in really general terms, when you have a thought,
where is that thought?
Is it a little form in your head?
How do you find it?
So we talk about that and it's of course, much more complicated than that.
But in a way, it's also just that we just want to know what a thought is and how to
find it and what a memory is and where it is, and if that is even a question that
makes sense, frankly, when we think about this whole process that we're studying.
Lynn and I talk about that.
We kind of break apart this idea of representation in the brain.
We look back at this really old class he taught on representation.
And if you want to see the slides for that, there is a link in the show notes and
you can download them, but just remember they're like 10 years old, but still
they, they're about a lot of topics that people still talk about.
We talk about cognitive maps and different brain parts and their functions
and how all this kind of can work and this coding and decoding and these
words all mean special things, but it'll just make sense on a general level too.
If you listen to it, we do talk about population coding and topographic maps
and other sorts of brain activities.
But if you don't know what all that means, you can ask Claude or someone, or
you can just skip over it because it's really just a conversation trying to
figure out some basic ideas about what's going on.
How can we remember?
How can we think?
Why is it that even a five-year-old understands this process and somehow
has come to imagine that it's happening in the brain?
I think it's happening in the whole body and that half the reason kids think
that is because we tell them it's happening in their head.
But anyway, that's a whole other conversation.
You'll hear Len and I talk about that a bit.
Mostly we're just talking about the mysteries of what it is to have memory
and be alive and wow, isn't that exciting?
I think it's just endlessly fascinating and wonderful that we're here.
Although of course it's also hard and challenging, but let's leave
it on a positive note today.
And here's Len Nadel.
I highly suggest you check out his papers if you're interested in
learning more about the hippocampus.
I'm sorry, my voice is almost gone, but I leave you with a
big hug today and a hippocampus.
You know, I'm going to give a talk next week, probably on, you know, sort of
the early history of work on the hippocampus, kind of the background to
the emergence of the cognitive math theory, kind of what the field was
like in the fifties and sixties and seventies and, you know, how it all
came about, you know, how, from my perspective, you know, all the pieces
came together, so to speak, historically.
You know, Edvard said, you know, the students here, they don't know
anything that happened before, more than like 10 years ago, you said.
A long time ago when you were 20.
Yeah, so last year, I gave three research talks here of one sort or another.
But this year I don't have it.
Three in one year.
You were there that much last year?
I were not in it one month.
I gave three over the course.
No, no, I think I gave two.
It doesn't matter.
I gave a couple of, I gave my research talks this year.
I don't have anything here to say about research specifically
that I wanted to talk about.
So this is, this is going to be my, my presentation while I'm here.
It's a, a history talk, which I'm working on a fun, putting the piece together
and trying to, trying to reconstruct the causal, the causal chain, you know.
Gosh, I'd like to at least read that if you don't publish it somewhere.
Cause that's, that's probably very interesting to see how you put that together.
Yeah.
Well, so much of it floats through Montreal and, you know, we talked about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Exactly.
This is the history that I've been talking to you about anyway.
So speaking of history today, we're going to try to talk about this
really difficult word representation.
Dare I even say it in terms of cognitive neuroscience though.
So for all the people who might be thinking we mean it in other ways,
cause you can talk about representation in so many different ways, whether
you're in art or philosophy or whatever, but we're going to talk about a little
bit philosophically, I think, but mostly through sort of cognitive science, right?
So I guess I was, I was thinking today, I just kind of play like the student
instead of trying to pretend like I really understand all this, because I
was looking at your, your class, which I was just trying to find, but yeah, in
any case, there's a class you taught like a long time ago, right?
Yeah, it's like 10 years ago.
I gave that most of the stuff that's in there, you know, hasn't changed.
Before we get into all that, let's start with just cognitive neuroscience
like you do, because it's really interesting, right?
And I think for people who are trying to follow this, like, why do we
focus so much on the brain?
And I think in those notes, you kind of start with it's, it's
been that way forever, right?
What are we, why are we trying to provide a brain based account of, of cognition?
Is it really just like simple?
We just feel like we're in our heads because all our sensory organs
are so located there, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, if you, I mean, if you took, you were to take a kind of a, a
Barkley stance and John actually did this at the dinner, he was being somewhat
obstreperous and he said, you know, there's no world out there, right?
I mean, it's all constructed in our head, basically.
And so, I mean, if you take that kind of a position, I mean, it's all inside our
head where we're creating this whole external world, you know, which may or may
not match up to what's actually out there.
He never knows, uh, it better match reasonably well.
Otherwise evolution would have, you know, squashed us, but yeah.
So, I mean, I, it's inevitable that, you know, you think about, you know, how, how
is it that we understand and comprehend the world so that we can behave so that,
you know, our, so that our behavior, which whenever one thinks about the notion of
representation, it's hard to, it's hard to say that the brain has nothing to do
with behavior, right?
I mean, it's got, it's what makes us move.
You go back to move, right?
So, I mean, when we move because our brain, you know, tells us to
move and we move the ways.
But we also have a body and we, I mean, it's not disconnected from the body.
So I guess it's just like you move into the mind body problem.
It's just this feeling we have, right?
Of our experience of the world feels like in our head, doesn't it?
We can't get away from that.
It seems to me, no matter how, no matter what philosophical position we take.
So, so with that, you know, as a, as a starting point, you have, you have to
think about, well, how, how does it come to be that the brain models, let's use
that term, you know, represents, you know, the outside world in a useful way, you
know, so that it can guide, you know, guide our behavior going forward.
There's really no, it doesn't seem like there's any alternative to that position.
So it's not, you know, people think about, well, so what, what is, how does
the brain represent the world?
How does it, how does it do that?
You know, there's no other way to, there's no other way to think about, you
know, strikingly as a scientist, there's no other way to think about behavior.
So if we just think of people coming to a kind of awareness of themselves, then
you have this feeling like you're sort of in your head and the representation there
in that really early sense is just that we can sort of have these images of
ourselves or we can sort of hear our thoughts, right?
And so that feels like it's some kind of, we're representing the world in
our heads, right, in a very simplistic way.
You ask, if you ask a five or a six year old, which I've done this with my grand
kid and, you know, you ask them, you know, where their thoughts come from,
the way they, you know, they point in here, I mean, they, they understand,
you know, it feels that way exactly as you say.
So we, I mean, but there's, okay, I mean, I can leave it at that except to say
that there's, you know, there's a couple of different facets of this representation
problem. I mean, one of them is how does it do it, you know, and how does it, you
know, how, how do we represent the world and how are those representations used?
All the kind of mechanistic questions about it.
But then there's the more complex question, which I don't think I certainly
haven't made any progress on, which is, you know, why does that particular kind
of brain activity represent a particular thing?
Why is it that, you know, activity in visual, in neurons in the visual system
actually represent visual phenomena?
I mean, it's that, it's the kind of the heart, it's the consciousness heart
problem, but it isn't just about consciousness.
It's simply, how come certain forms of activity represents certain things?
Kind of, that's the deep question, you know, for me.
Yeah.
Well, I just, I think it's, it's like, we all have this, with becoming
aware that, of our own thoughts in a way, they don't feel physical.
Absolutely.
They don't feel physical.
That's a very, we're physical and we're experiencing them physically, but from
that vantage point, it feels like something not as physical as, for example,
just to touch the table, you know, so your little five-year-old grandchild,
you know, it's kind of.
Just feeling about it.
But so there's just mind-body problem of how can this happen, right?
How can this physical body or this brain give rise to that sense that even
your five-year-old grandchild has of self, right?
It's, it feels very mysterious.
Mind, is it consciousness?
All these words we use in so many weird ways, but when it comes to trying to
study the brain, actually thinking about what is reality, so to speak, if, if we
just, I think, I don't know how you feel about this, but I think it's a very
bodily experience of cognition and representing the world.
Of course, the brain is paramount, but let's just say we're going to focus
on the brain and how this mental experience arises, what the brain's role
is in it, and then we bring in this world represents.
So what we're trying to understand is different kinds of reality.
Isn't that how you say it in your talk?
Like there's a kind of current reality right now where I'm having thoughts.
And then there's this thing with memory, which is the fact that I know
there was a reality yesterday or that the States recently, now you're in
Norway and all of this, and then there's the future, which you talk about.
The brain can do all of that, you know, and, and, but, but of course, mostly we
get to describe what we're thinking about in words, but we know for, from a
variety of perspectives that the words we end up using separate from words or a
form of behavior, of course, but very specific form of behavior, they never
quite capture what it is we're thinking about.
I mean, you know, we get as close as we can, but you know, anyone who's kind
of thought introspectively or tried to think deeply introspectively knows that
they have some thoughts and they're never quite successful, they're never a
hundred percent successful in getting exactly what it was they were thinking
into words, words are really good.
They're better than grunts and, and, but, you know, they still don't quite capture
the nature of what it is of thought.
So thought goes beyond language, I guess, is the, is, seems clear.
There's good evidence for this.
I've actually Nancy Kanwisher and Dara Sauer talked about this in their, in
their Kavli talks, it is pretty clear evidence that, you know, that you can,
this, you can separate out language from thought.
I mean, many thought, a lot of thought is language, but not all of it.
So, so, you know, that means there's some deeper, so the representations that
we have in the brain are not just words.
It is no kind of lingua franca.
There's no fedorian.
What's the language of thought then?
It's not words.
So the language of thought has something to do with this issue of representations.
Anyway, I mean, I think the data certainly from suggests that the two
are not totally full reliant and that again, just points to the, you know,
there's some, somehow the brain is representing information in a way that
is useful that you can use to generate language that you can, that you use to
generate behavior and it must match the world, you know, close enough so that,
you know, you survive in the world and the species survives.
So, and, and, uh, so how does it do that?
That's, that's kind of the core question.
You know, what's, you know, and the, so the earliest default was, well, let's
look at vision, you know, and you say, okay, we know that an image of what's
out there in the world, you know, is kind of reflected upside down in the retina.
Well, okay.
That's it.
Problem solved.
Just like the little movie playing in our heads.
You know, we have a picture on the retina and we have this, right.
And it's this movie playing basically, and, and that's how we represent the
world and of course that's complete nonsense because, you know, who's
watching the movie, right.
You have this infinite regress of a little person in your head watching
multiple screens.
Yeah.
Of course, people thought that for a long time.
They actually thought, you know, that that was a plausible story.
And, and that's one of the reasons why for decades, maybe a century, people
were all twisted up about the, about the fact that the image is inverted on the
retina.
It was like, wow, this is a serious problem.
How does it, you know, how do we deal with the fact that-
How are we watching everything upside down all the time?
Like, you know, and you know, you can find hundreds of papers probably, you
know, written trying to, you know, address this, you know, the really hard problem
of the, of the inverted retinal image and how the hell does the, you know, does
the brain solve it?
It's completely meaningless, of course, because there's nobody inside looking at
the, at the image on the retina.
It's got nothing to do-
Yeah, but we just take that for granted in a weird way for so long.
So that picture in the head kind of story that, you know, that I think it was called
an idola or simulacrum, I mean, there were words that people put, you know, that
you just, the brain just creates a replica of what's out in the world inside your
head, but, but it completely in the end becomes pointless because this default,
you know, to the homunculus, you can't get away from it.
That problem doesn't go away by the way, no matter what theory you have, there's
always a problem of a decoder.
I mean, who is, who or what is doing the decoding?
If any, if any, I mean, there are some people would argue that, you know, there
isn't a decoder, it's all just a continuous loop between the environment
and the, and the brain basically, you know, and, and there isn't a single decoder.
It's all just connected to, it's this kind of, that's the embodied culture
essentially, everything you do is immediate sort of coupling to the band
is immediate coupling and you don't have to think about a decoder because it's
all part of a, and you know, by the way, that may not, that may turn out to be
a pretty good story in the end.
I think it's part of trying to figure it out, but it's also, that's kind of the
question of representation in a weird way too is because as you say, I think in
those slides or you've said in other work, you know, we often do that same,
make that same mistake that people were making for so long of thinking there's
someone in that, but we forget that we're the scientists looking at the data that
we've just gotten from the brain.
We forget that we're decoding it.
That step gets like taken out.
It must be in the brain in the same way.
It's in this little image of a, of a screenshot or something that we've taken
the MRI or the, or whatever we're looking at, isn't actually in the head like that.
Exactly right.
I mean, so we, as experimenters looking at, you know, unit recordings or FMRI or,
you know, multi-unit recordings or these calcium or whatever we're looking at, you
know, and we, and we connect up certain patterns of activity in the brain to
certain behaviors, right?
We just assume that those patterns, we see those patterns and we see the
fact that they're connected to these things inside the head.
How is that happening?
Basically, I mean, the inside part of the head is not looking at the
data the same way we are, we're seeing all the data, right?
Any given part of the brain is seeing only a fraction of the data, so to
speak, that we can look at as experimenters.
And we jump to conclusions as experimenters.
Oh, well, you see this pattern of clay cells firing.
It means, you know, such and such.
Well, you know, is there any part of the brain that actually conceived that
pattern of clay cell firing in the same way we can see it and use it in the way
that we think is being used or not?
Uh, probably.
I mean, even using language to talk about it is weird because of course they can't
like observe it in the way that we do with our senses or something.
Um, maybe there's some kind of pattern sensitivity or something.
I don't know.
That could be said.
What's happening.
I mean, what's happening now, it seems.
I mean, all the, that lecture kind of brought ended at the point where people
were saying, well, the brain obviously represents information in some sort of a
distributed code, a population code.
That's that is generally accepted.
There may be rather unique exceptions where a particular cluster of cells, you
know, has a very unique function.
And you can say a small number of cells, you know, do the whole job, but mostly
it's vast arrays of neurons in some population.
What do we do with that at this point?
I mean, again, it comes to the issue of where's the decoder for that, for that,
for that population and what, how do we connect up the population story, which
is what everyone talks about now to this issue of this higher level issue of
representation and that's what's happened in the last 10 years.
So all the stuff that I didn't, you know, that I now think I'm just not expert
enough about, but which I hear a lot about here.
And which I heard about in the Kavli talks, especially Dara Sal, you know,
it's about this, it's about the kind of structure of those, of that population
of the end, you know, people talking about the geometry of the, of the
structure of that population and the possible, yeah, et cetera, et cetera.
And say, and that's kind of where the field is headed now.
And that's outside my zone or come.
That's why I said, I don't know that I have more to add now because I'm, I'm
efficiently, I'm not, I was ever saying not sufficiently sophisticated, but I
could say I'm not at all sophisticated mathematically to understand, you know,
the kind of stuff that is being done now that points out the kind of consistent
geometric, and these are not, this is not clustering or topography in the way
that one sees in the visual system.
This is simply the kind of possible states that this multi-vectorial kind
of collection of cells can take, you know, that, that somehow serve as the
way it represents, say an object or something.
And Kenneth Harris was here just the other day.
He gave a talk on rep, what you, what I would say was like representations
in the visual cortex, and it was all about, you know, the, the population
code and the bottom line of what you were saying was that, that the, the
excitatory neurons, the population code in the excitatory neurons is very high
dimensional and captures the specific features of the sensory input or the
visual input, the population code of the inhibitory cells is low dimensional and
reflects kind of the context, you know, or the modulation of, of, and those two
things kind of playing off each other.
Basically, you know, you might want to check out Kenneth Harris's work on this
stuff, he's a UCL, so, you know, the folks here in Trondheim are on, all are
kind of very much on the issue of this, the Taurus that, you know, the, the
manifolds, right?
So the, as I understand it, a manifold is a kind of, is all of the possible
states that a representation can take.
Let's say in the grid cell population, you know, there's a, there's, there are
constraints on the, on where in the state space that population can be, right?
It can't be everywhere.
It can only be on this Taurus because of the nature of the, of the, and the
Taurus, you know, which kind of constrains the possible states for population
code can take, i.e., you know, how it can represent whatever is representing.
That shows up, what they're showing here now is that, that shows up by day
nine or 10 in the rat pod, before they're moving around in the world, before
they see anything, their eyes are still-
You mean they haven't explored?
There's been no-
There's been no, they've had no experience yet, but the pre-wiring in the system
at this Taurus kind of reflects the manifold of the cells that are available
and it's already there by day 10.
So, so what that tells me, and I think what it tells the Moses as well, is that
some aspects of the way we represent the world are, are given, so to speak, prior
to specific experience.
Although specific experiences can subsequently influence the way this thing
works, the kind of really pure Kant, you might say, the Kantian, the built-in
structure, you know, constrains the representation and, you know, where the
grid, that's where the grid cell kind of property comes from.
It comes from whatever that constraint is that, you know, kind of determines
the possible state that the population can take, you know, as a collection.
I don't understand any of that stuff.
I mean, I hear it, intuitions about what that tells us about how the brain
represents, I mean, that's going to be a part of the answer to the story
of how the brain represents.
So it goes one step beyond this notion of a distributed code.
I mean, so, you know, to step back into that lecture, I mean, I went from
talking about, you know, the retina to talking about these, the topographic
maps, they're what finds in the visual cortex.
Again, it doesn't matter that, you know, the, the input to the, to be one is
arrayed topographically from a, from a representational perspective, from a
cognitive representational perspective.
Again, nobody's looking at it, right?
But the fact that it's done topographically has obvious, uh, computational
advantages.
I mean, you know, things that are near each other may be part of the same
object, for example, you know, pixels, voxels in space, I mean, so to speak.
I mean, there's, there's some real advantages to having a topographic code
represent, especially the spatial aspect of things.
You don't get this in, you know, in the auditory cortex.
You only get this in the visual cortex.
You get this in somatosensory cortex and so on.
You don't get it with olfaction.
You don't get a rotation.
You don't get it with audition.
Because they are the, they, they're, it wouldn't serve the same purpose there.
You're not talking about things that are nearby in space.
Let's, let's define this a little bit because this is a really interesting
part of the history of trying to understand cognitive neuroscience in the
way we just brought up and getting to what you were just describing of this
population coding now and thinking more in terms of even maybe that embodied
idea of something ongoing that we're representing.
And so the brain is not necessarily representing, but before we get there,
the topographic map, I think is a great place to kind of like sit in this for a
minute because, so we started with, we have this feeling of mental, physical,
internal, out, out, turn on the external.
And I think you talk about Plato and Aristotle and this kind of debate.
Is it internal?
Is it external?
And then we get to dualism and Descartes.
And, but really what we're trying to figure out is what's happening here.
Is it where something was just all in our head from the beginning?
And that in terms of the way you described the rats that are born, right?
Is everything like that given to by God?
This, this is the, this is the argument that Busaki is basically has joined.
I mean, this is the inside out versus outside in approach.
I'm against the either or.
That is right.
That that's clearly right.
So I think I may have already told you that I'm that Mary Peterson and myself
and Drew Maurer and Sarah Burke in University of Florida, they were former
students of, of Bruce McNaughton and Carol Barnes.
We've been working for several years now, just slowly working, working our
way into trying to spell out a hybrid, a hybrid between the inside out and outside
in approach to thinking about how the brain represents meaning, you know, this
is actually that the question we're talking about today, we have made very
little progress so far.
I actually don't think we've talked about that yet.
And that is really interesting.
That that's going to have to, I need to like read up on that.
Cause I really feel like holding the paradox.
That's how I say it philosophically is I think the hippocampus is like trying
to help us do that, right?
Because you can't go in either direction all the way you need both.
So how do we do it?
And it's, it's hard to think about, you know, that can't be one or the other.
It can't be an either or somehow or it's both.
It's a, it's a new way to have to process this.
I think that's it's that I think all this research that you're involved in, at
least from my perspective is showing us a way to do that, but it's very hard
because you have everyone in their own camps, trying to kind of prove.
And that's part of the process itself.
I don't want to get too distracted away from the topographic maps yet, because
this word map is really important.
I think it can kind of like lead us because, and there's this very cool thing
in case people don't know the, um, is it Penfield who came up with a sensory or
the sensory homunculus was it Penfield?
We kind of mapped it.
Yeah.
That's the matter sense.
But basically what that's showing is that in the brain, um, most people's brains,
there are certain areas that are associated with certain parts of the body.
Right.
You can sort of, it's not like map is a tricky word.
We could get into that, but more or less within the brain, as it's developed with
the body, there's a certain part that's got a lot of attention towards, for
example, the hands or the lips or, or so.
Well, I mean, what we're, what we're finding out, and that was what the
Colby prize was about was the face systems.
It's, it's usually more than one.
I mean, the sensory homunculus that Penfield pointed out, you know, would
make you think that, you know, there's this one place in the brain where the
face is represented well, no act is about seven or eight face patches.
It turns out, you know, of, of increasing degrees of complexity, you
might say of energy and increasing degrees of invariance when you get to
the sort of top of that hierarchy, you, you have a system that is representing
a face, no matter which angle you're seeing it in and so on.
I mean, so, but basically, yes, the brain has these three and motor.
I mean, the motor system is the same.
And that's so important.
What you just said, because I think even in a lot of ongoing neuroscientific
study is still taught in the old way, not in the way you just said that there can
be many different places where this is happening, but it doesn't change.
That's the either or too.
It doesn't change that actually there is an associated regularity, right?
That's the localization kind of argument.
Basically, you know, what is the face system localized to one part of the brain?
The answer is no, we now know it's distributed and, you know, it does
several, but within, but each of the patches may have quite a very specific function.
There may be specialization with any of the face patches.
It's not as if all these patches are equivalent, you know, and they're
all doing the same and collect.
Yeah.
It's not like they're changing all the time.
So I think to try to connect it to what we were talking about before, you know,
we come into, we're trying to understand how the things that we are aware of our
experience are related to life and how the brain is doing it.
So for example, with this map, you can kind of understand that certain sensory
input with certain parts of the body course, like if you hurt the brain, for
example, in that individual, then it's going to affect that part of their bodily
experience of the world and movement and whatever.
Exactly right.
And all this.
That's the connection, right?
Yeah, yeah, that's the connection.
The things I want are all, you know, relevant to this and Ramachandran has done
some really lovely work along the, about this kind of stuff, right?
So what do we make of that though?
I mean, again, that's a, you know, that, that sensory monoculus that Penfield,
by the way, he's part of the history lecture that I'm putting together.
Because Penfield even goes back to McGill too.
Exactly right.
He was a critical link between the neurosurgeon who did the surgery on HM and
Brenda Milner, who ended up studying HM and Sue Corpin.
Penfield was the critical link.
He brought in Milner, right?
He brought, well, he, he brought in Hebb, who brought in Hebb, who
brought in Milner, right?
The Milner, who brought in Corp, who sent Corpin to work with Milner.
I mean, tangled.
Penfield is part of the story, which is kind of cool.
Yeah, right.
So that, I mean, that, you know, that was a little bit like the, you know,
image on the Repna.
I mean, we don't, you know, yes, the brain is organized in that way that
there are these topographic maps, so to speak, they are distorted visual system.
There's even distortion within the visual system is, you know, asymmetries
and kinds of eccentricities and so on.
It's not a kind of a flat map, you know, that accurately represents the 3D
structure of what we seem to perceive as Euclidean world.
That's not the way exactly, but it's roughly topographical because that
there's real computational advantages to that.
And the same must be true in the somatosensory maps.
There must be, there has got to be computational advantages to having,
you know, those things represented in neurons near each other.
I mean, for start, then you're, then this becomes a wiring issue.
And I think I mentioned it, and I don't know that I mentioned it in the lectures,
but I probably in the chapter that I could never, that I didn't manage to get
the 1980 chapter, you know, the, the, the computational advantages are of,
of having things close to each other involves this sort of minimum,
minimum wiring constraint, you know, which evolution presumably prefers.
You want to have things that need to talk to each other as
close to each other as possible.
You also need to have long range communications because, you know,
et cetera, to the extent to which you can have nearby things that, you know,
that are functionally near each other, that, you know, that's, that saves
extra wires, which saves metabolism, which.
And by wire, you're, you're talking kind of like Hebbian.
Well, what do you mean by wiring?
That's like a separate issue.
You know, this, this is just an issue of, of development.
I mean, when you do, when the brain is developing, I mean, it, it takes, it
takes a lot of energy to, to, to make connections between neurons and the,
and the greater the distance between two neurons that are meant to talk to each
other, you know, because they have some similar, some similar function, the
more energy it takes, I'm really talking about the nearness in space.
Yeah.
The near the nearness in space, you know, is a, is a big advantage from our,
you know, all other things being equal.
It's a big advantage to have things near each other.
If they're doing, if they're doing something similar, that's why the
absence of any topography in the hippocampus initially struck people as
this is so crazy, basically have the neurons that represent two places in
the world that are really close to each other in the world, they may not be
anywhere near each other in the hippocampus.
They could be, you know, it's random.
You know, it seems like, you know, there's been some argument about that,
but so the hippocampus was this non-topographical map.
That's what made it so kind of cool initially in the context of what
we knew about visual maps.
It was something that, you know, it's not only visual.
We, it was known early on that it was more than just visual, but, you know,
most of the experiments, you know, default to vision, you know, I mean,
the rats moving around the world that sees what's out there, blah, blah, blah.
And yet the way this, the way the brain mapped it wasn't topographical.
So, and that...
I think that's part of that either or holding the paradox coolness of the
hippocampus too, that we, that everyone's having to deal with that.
But this is very interesting because let's like, okay, so this, this idea of
top topography is quite amazing, right?
Like this was an amazing thing to figure out that within this organ and our
body, probably different for everyone, but as you develop, probably you come
with certain regularities that everyone shares, but as you develop certain parts
of your brain are going to correspond to certain parts of your movement
and your sensation and the body parts, right?
And that's fascinating and so cool.
We thought of that as a map, right?
That you can map this onto the brain.
And this is where the representation gets confusing because topography doesn't
solve the problem of representation.
It doesn't solve any of that stuff we were talking about, but it starts to seem
like now we have a representation, but actually we've drawn a diagram, which
is the representation of kind of being able to create another third thing, which
is a kind of map of this part of the brain corresponds to this part of the
body, but then like we were saying, people start thinking there's a map in
the brain and this gets kind of confusing.
Yeah.
I mean, it solves no problem at all.
I mean, it solves the mechanistic computational problem, clearly.
But not the meaning problem.
That's how you put it in here.
But not the meaning and representational problem.
So, I mean, a lot of the work that is being done is really
focused on the mechanistic problem.
I mean, how is the system doing, you know, creating these maps and how
are these things being, and how are these things used and so on?
And how do we know it?
Like, how is this experience that we found that wonderful correspondence
and that tells us something, but to then think, oh, well, that's what's happening.
That's how we have this little movie in our brain.
No, it's too, it's too confusing, but we don't have this little.
We don't have that.
And I don't think quite honestly, I mean, I certainly don't have any
really clever ideas about it yet.
You know, I don't know.
This week, there's going to be a visitor here who's a, who is a, from Israel,
a guy, Yoram Burah, who collaborates with, with Edvard Moser and probably
Margaret as well, and, and he's a former student of, of Sampolinsky.
I can't remember Sampolinsky's first name.
He was really one of the grandfathers of computational neuroscience.
Trying to sort of figure out how attract your networks and how all
these things end up representing.
I mean, that's really what they're trying to get at, but when they're
really working on the mechanistic issues, I mean, how does it do the job that it
does and they don't really, unless until maybe until you liquor them up a bit,
they don't, they don't want it.
They don't necessarily want to talk about the meaning question.
I mean, how does this set of activities come to represent something in
the way of meaning that thing?
It's interesting that you bring that up because right, you know, we're kind of
jumping around, but we, we got to this idea of it not being a map in the brain,
but for a while we sort of thought, okay, there's like a little picture in the
brain and then there's a topographic map and there's an image and so on through
the, now we still confuse all of these words, even thinking about computational
representation in the brain is a similar, I think a similar mistake to thinking of
maps in the brain, but it doesn't mean the word map or the word computation is like
wrong.
It's just that we get confused about the problem at all.
So you get, so you get somebody like Tim Barron, you know, is arguing that some
kind of a geometric sixfold representation is the common code for the way the brain
represents information is going beyond the, you know, building off the grid cell
notion, you know, that you hear and how well the grid cell population tiles the
whole environment.
He's jumped, he's taken that idea and sort of said, well, you can find this
kind of six fold representational structure to the, to the population code
again, all over the brain he's arguing.
And I think I, and I talked to John about this as well.
And John, we also think that he's probably not too far here, but even if that were
the case, and you think about the grid cells, I mean, what is it about that
particular computational structure that causes it to mean what it means, you know,
or that we think it means?
So to speak that, that it, what it means is something about the structure of the
space that the, that the or animal is moving around it.
This is great because I think too that he's gone too far, so to speak, and trying
to be so specific about the sixfold, so on and so forth.
Um, but what I like about his work in that Tolman Eichenbaum machine is exactly
that he puts Tolman and Eichenbaum together because, I mean, we kind of skipped
over like, so thinking about maps.
And then I think in your lecture, you go into sort of feature detection and, um,
contrast and Hubbard and Wiesel and all this, and it's kind of moving more towards
where we are now, population coding, right?
Where you're, you're looking at regularities and so on and so forth.
And I bring that up, but then also the Tolman Eichenbaum, like, I would like to
hear your perspective about, like, do those not fit together, you know,
Eichenbaum's idea and.
Well, what's the idea?
What do you see as the core idea in the, in the, in the Tolman Eichenbaum machine?
What, what is it doing?
Well, I mean, I think I would need to think about that a little bit more, but
I'll tell you what I'm trying to get at here in terms of this conversation.
So Tolman is associated with the cognitive map, for example, or the idea
that Winnarat is moving through its spatial location, that's also a kind of
knowledge, so to speak, and that we could map it, I'm now giving him words
he doesn't necessarily use, but in the same way we draw these little homunculi
kind of things, we could probably do that with certain individuals or certain
rats in terms of how they're moving through space and how certain parts of
whatever is happening in the hippocampus is happening, right?
And it gets way too confusing.
I'm not saying it's a six-fold this and that and that.
Tolman didn't care about that.
No, he doesn't care.
He went not into the brand, Tolman was just talking about the cognitive structure.
But that moving through a space is a kind of knowledge, right?
I just think that's an obvious kind of thing that we can say is...
The knowledge that Tolman claimed was the knowledge, the kind of,
what leads to what knowledge?
I mean, what Tolman claimed was that the animals form a kind of a mental map,
a map of the world, something like a map of the world in their head.
Something like parts of the brain being associated with regularities in the
way we described with the topographic map, but not so hard and fixed as that,
but something like that going on.
Of course Deme might have said that, but he really didn't ever talk about the brain.
Yeah.
But that same kind of idea, right?
That as you develop, of course, you kind of associate certain regularities
with certain whatever functions.
Yeah.
That would be the modern way of talking about it.
So that's the Tolman part.
Tolman talked about the representations that our brains must be forming and the
fact that they can be used in predictive mode.
Good way to say it, yeah.
Basically they tell the animal, if I do this, then the following is going to
happen, you know, he connected all of those dots cognitively.
Which is great because that's kind of like a map, right?
Because you use it in order to sort of infer where you're going to go.
That's why O.P. and I built on that.
Exactly.
And that goes into the beautiful book, which we've discussed, Hippocampus
as a cognitive map.
So now tell me about the...
The Eichenbaum.
The Eichenbaum part of it.
Okay.
Well, this is what I don't think.
I think I'm missing something because I feel like there's a lot of controversy
or fighting about something.
I don't know that I really understand Eichenbaum totally with this idea of association.
I guess what I think is kind of clear and what I like about the Tolman
Eichenbaum is that we can understand, we could probably find some way.
I don't think anyone's found it, but to understand that the same way that we
study how, for example, we move through physical spaces and that all of this
that we've been talking about, there are regularities and we could probably
find maps, and I mean that external maps that we draw or computational models
that we make is what I mean by representation, that we could also do that
with other spaces because we're studying what a space is, you set the little
room for the rat, but you could also set a little knowledge space, so to speak.
And for me, it's still all regularities that we've learned and you're still
moving through a space in a similar way.
I don't mean that the way we move through a room and the way we move
through a book are going to look the same, but there's probably some kind
of pattern or regularity towards how we could understand those processes that
is the same, that's how I see that connection being made in a nice way.
But I could be wrong.
I mean, I don't understand what Eichenbaum is so controversial about.
Well, I think the controversy comes from the fact that this idea is built on
the Eichenbaum and Cohen really notion of relational memory, and the brain
is coding these relations, and the hippocampus in particular is a
relational memory device.
So that would be this either or thing, right?
So that then precludes all the other stuff we're talking about?
Well, not really, because they may think it does that.
I don't think it does, but it seems like people take it that way.
And then I can understand the controversy, I guess.
I don't think the idea is so much controversial as vacuous.
Okay.
Well, what is the idea?
Because I think I'm missing what that is.
The vacuous part is that Eichenbaum talked about this as one piece of the
kind of brain's function, this relational device, right?
You know, the hippocampus is specialized to kind of create these relations, you
know, and it does it for space and for all these other things as well, right?
That's the point you're making.
The problem is everything the brain does, not just the hippocampus, everything
the brain does is relation.
There is no non-relational part of the brain.
It does not exist.
It's a nonsense idea.
Every neuron gets inputs and is relating inputs from multiple sources.
There is nothing that is non-relational.
It simply is not a, it's not a useful explanatory idea.
So to the, in my view, and also John and I are very strongly in agreement on this.
There's just no, it doesn't help you.
Everything is related.
So that he's saying that, so is he saying the hippocampus' main purpose is to relate?
Yeah, his, yes, uniquely so.
And there are other, other parts of the brain don't have this kind of special, you
know, ability to relate things to each other is the, is the, is the core of the
Eichenbaum cone relational idea.
And that it built into this Tolman Eichenbaum approach, you know, that, that
you have this unique relational device, but that's crazy.
The whole brain is a relational device.
Everything the brain does is relation.
Okay.
That I didn't get at all, that it had to be a device that's relational.
To me, it was much more of a theoretical, very much grounded in kind of the things
you start with in your book with space and how we, how we understand space.
And as you said yourself, they're talking about it as an association machine.
The Tolman Eichenbaum machine is a machine that makes associations, but, but that's
an association is just another word for a relation.
It's the, and the brain is in the business of, of everything is associative.
There used to be in psychology, this kind of big distinction between
associative and non-associative learning.
As if there could be such a thing as non-associative learning.
Right.
I think they're still talked about as if, as if associative, I mean, people
don't talk the way I agree with what you're saying, but this is confusing
because when in all brain research, we don't talk about the brain as being like that.
Yeah, no, that's the reason why there's this controversy that some people are
kind of taken up by this idea.
Oh, that's a really cool idea.
You know, you've got this special relational associated device, the
Tolman Eichenbaum machine, blah, blah, blah.
Without actually kind of digging deeper and, you know, trying to say, well,
okay, what's the rest of the brain doing?
Is it doing non-associative things?
What does that mean?
Every part of the brain is doing associative things.
There's no, there was no distinction.
Otherwise, you know, otherwise the brain would just be a bunch of isolated
wires, you know, going from input to output, there'd be nothing else going on.
I agree.
But we don't, we talk about associative memory as if it's one kind of memory.
We don't talk about all memory as a whole.
What I'm trying to tell you is that so-called non-associative memory, which
were things like habituation, sensitization, they're not non-associative.
I agree 100%, but it's not the way you're taught that, you know?
So I can just imagine a lot of people aren't even understanding that that's
what he's saying, you know, because...
You're absolutely right.
That the objection I'm making is not one that is widely kind of mooted in the,
you know, in the, in the literature at this point, but sooner or later, people
are going to realize that it's a vacuous, that this idea, I think they're going
to realize that this is a vacuous idea.
It doesn't get you anywhere.
I don't think it's a vacuous, but I think it's not like an answer.
It's a, for me, it's like a tool to rethink some of these things.
Even, you know, Tolving, I love Tolving and these different kinds of memories,
but we do need to do some rethinking about how we categorize all
of these memories and things.
And I guess like being a little bit kind of, you know, not really under, I
haven't studied, I have studied Eichenbaum and all this from an angle
that I, from which I want to see things, right?
Not, and everyone's doing that.
So I can see how this gets incredibly confusing.
But to just not try to stick it to, to like a theory, I think what's
interesting is like, for me, and you might really disagree with this, is
like, that doesn't seem so far from a cognitive map in the Tolman sense of
like, I wouldn't say, for example, that, okay, we're just, just because we can
understand that cognition is, that when we are moving through a space, that is
also a kind of knowledge, then we just say, oh, okay, everything is movement
and everything is knowledge.
I mean, we could also kind of do that too, right?
And that would be vacuous.
Um, but instead, if you really look at, at what's being said there and you
start to understand, um, there's actually very big, huge differences in
terms of these parts of the brain.
Or even if not, right, even if some other part of the brain could become
something like the hippocampus, it would still be interesting that the brain
itself, some, in some way is developing some kind of regularity that can then
be used in many different situations.
Yeah, I believe however, that every part of the brain is doing what you're just
saying, that that is not unique to any particular system, that's just the way
the brain works in every part of the brain is extracting, is engaged in
extracting the regularities from the input patterns that it receives.
Basically, and, and those input patterns necessarily include relational
information, they have, they always do.
They're not about like one point in space.
They're always about things that, that involve relations.
So my problem with that approach is that it doesn't seem to me to add any useful
explanatory power to the, to any other story that one, you know, that one it's,
you know, it's basically gets back to everything is associated, you know,
everything is associative and you know, that again, the philosophers were okay
with that idea, you know, that the brain works on the basis of associations.
That's, that's what it does.
And it is not this part of the brain that works on the basis of associations and
extraction of statistical regularities and so on, it's every part of the brain
is doing exactly that.
That's kind of incredible.
I mean, I think if you take, we don't have time to go into all of your work,
but the things we've talked about in other discussions together and the reason
that I believe this whole kind of Tohan through you, through the Mosers, all the
stuff that you're now celebrating there, I think at the, in Trondheim, I think
this is incredibly important because it does show us something that does tell us
something about what we were trying to talk about, about how we can be in the
world and experiencing the world.
And that's like a continuous thing.
Does absolutely it does, but we're back to the Gunny inside out versus
outside in and why does it have to be either or, I mean,
and, and what is the, what is the magic sauce that is going to help us understand,
you know, how both of them, both the internal structure, like the, that shows
up at day 10, you know, independent of experience and the actual experience
that the organism has, which actually then refines the shape of the Taurus
and refines, and then the grid cells emerge after the Taurus.
Maybe it is something like the association though.
And I don't mean that in a vacuous way, but I mean, connected to all the
research you guys are doing, if you start to think of the brain in that way,
and you think of it in that immediate sense, you brought up at the beginning,
actually we get somewhere really new and beautiful.
I hope you're right.
But the problem is to go back to representations is we can't get rid of
that, trying to find it in the brain or find it in the world, right?
Instead of understanding association as a process that can't be, isn't
represented in the brain or the world, but we can represent with the books we
write and the computational models we make and the, it was just a draw.
And I mean, the notion of a representation in the brain may just be a slice through
a, through a moment in time and that the representation is really something
is really some combination of the structure of the brain and the structure
of the, of the world and the inputs from the world to the brain and the, and the
tight coupling between those two and the kind of compromise between those either
or positions is figuring out how that coupling works basically.
And then when you say, you know, the, this activity, the brain represents X
and X about the world, then something about the world is, you know, part of
that story that has helped create that, you know, that's that set of brain
activities, either phylogenetically or ontogenetically.
And, you know, the answer is going to be found somehow in the interactive kind
of reentrant, you know, recursive sort of language that the brain uses, you
know, to sort of interact with the world.
And that's kind of what we're working on and trying to figure this out is the,
the middle, the middle ground has to be, you know, somewhere between those two.
And, and how does it, and how does, how does a particular network come to have
the meaning that it has, we're no longer talking about patches or maps, but, you
know, an entire network or population of cells, how did they come to mean what
they mean and how, and how did they come to have the power they have to, to
generate behavior, so to speak.
And it's got to be some interaction between what's out there in the world and
the experience the organism has and the, and the kind of the pre-wired structure
of the system, which was pre-wired because of millions of years of, of
evolution, you know, that built it that way because it actually worked in the
world.
And so it's got to be connected to the world in that way.
Another free device, basically.
The point I was trying to make about told the night come out was that no matter
how you think about this, it's going to be an associative device of some kind.
Right.
And so, yeah, so that might be the contribution that I'm thinking he's
bringing because I don't think we talk about it like that.
And I don't think it's actually vacuous to talk about it like that.
If you, if you bracket it in the way we're talking about, if you just say,
okay, the hippocampus is little device in the brain that does this.
Okay.
That's, and it does it through this and this and this.
Okay.
Then we're getting like, that's not going to help us.
I'm open to that possibility.
Yeah.
But I see, I do see a way that those things aren't, there could be help
helping each other, this tradition that it's, you know, so important to me that
you guys are all there are doing.
And what he was trying to say sometimes in probably almost a cartoonish sense
about, about there being a way in which, um, this is happening in all these
different contexts, you know,
that's the, how does that, and how does that work?
What, you know, what, you're going to know that we've, we've run out of time.
I know, I know.
We have to go, I have to quit now.
So we can, yeah.
So we can pick this up again, you know, next month, you know, we can
set up another call to song.
Yeah.
Will you, um, can I read your, your talk that you're going to give there?
Maybe, uh, I will, or some part of it is history thing.
Yeah.
Or, or, or send me some of the stuff you were just talking about.
Hybrid stuff too.
Uh, that, that's not ready.
That's not ready.
Well, then maybe your talk with you or something, which is really a different
thing is just interesting history.
Uh, I can check that there, once I have the PowerPoint finished, then I can send
you this, then I can, you know, and I think a lot of it on the slides, I mean,
some of it, some of it won't be, but most of the, most of the story will be on the
slides.
Okay.
That would be great.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's do that.
Done with it.
I won't be done with it for another week or so, but I'll, when I'm done with it,
I can send it to you.
And we just, I'm in, I'm in research mode, so I'm going to be, I'm finally
staying still.
So when you get back and settle, just let me know we can.
I'm back second of October so we can set something up for the middle of October.
Yeah.
And we're out in October.
Okay.
That would be perfect.
Yep.
Sounds good.
Have fun there.
Yeah.
Always fun.
Send me the paper.
