I was like, I'm not interested in this at all.
I know what computers are.
I read science fiction.
I think if there was more transparency
in scientific literature,
if people were required to cite
the science fiction influence on there
when they were doing research,
we would discover the incredible role
that science fiction has played
in directing people's own research.
And travel actually helped part of that.
I understood that time was more valuable than money.
And so there was this sort of shift
in understanding that time wealth
was much more valuable than money wealth.
It's, there's a lot of nuance.
I would say out of control was fairly nuanced
because it was not binary.
I think there's very, very few things in the world
that are binary.
Most are continuums.
And that's part of the whole message
that there's a continuum between
the most biological thing and the most mechanical thing
that they're actually just one long,
tenuous thing that have different faces.
And it doesn't make any sense,
but that's what it is.
It's kind of like super positions.
God's a super position, right?
God, not God at the same time.
I write in order to find out what I think.
A lot of people's creativity and tremendous work
and innovation and discovery and good stuff
comes from the fact that they noticed something
and decided that rather than it being unimportant,
that it was very, very important.
I mean, that is one of Stuart's great, great strengths.
He hit a good nose for a frontier that was potent.
He was always there at the front.
But we both did.
Like we were very early Burning Man attendees.
I was among the first.
My kids were the first kids at Burning Man.
When the internet came along,
I decided that I wanted to report on it
as if it was a new country,
as if I was a travel writer and this was a new country.
So I talked my way into the editors at Horth
to give me access to the new experimental online systems
that they were meeting on.
And that also just elevated
because it wasn't just a bulletin board.
It was the bulletin board with threads
and you could be on this all at the same time.
And I was like, oh, wow.
And so this was a new country.
So I was writing the stuff about this as a new continent.
And again, the informational aspect of it
was finding, and this was the whole Horth catalog agenda
that I was on of like trying to provide information
that was hard to find,
that you couldn't find anywhere else being available
in that kind of a way of having access to it.
That's also very human because you have someone
who's looking how to do something and you help them do it.
That's a very human emotion,
a human quality of helping people accomplish things.
There's a conceptual idea of landscapes
that is really popular in computer science and biology,
which is this landscape is a way of mapping the path,
the process of an organization or organism
or an individual and the idea that the higher it goes,
the more perfected, more optimized it is.
And if you're designing something,
you want to kind of optimize it and there are algorithms
and methods to kind of make sure
you're always climbing the hill
where you are actually going up the gradients all the time,
trying to optimize something.
And the issue is that when you get to the peak,
the peak may not be, the peak may be a local optima.
There may be higher peaks,
more optimization on a different peak,
but to get there, you have to kind of go back down.
And that's really hard if you have an organization
built for excellence and optimization
to go back down to where it's less optimal.
But the important thing is that
to have the greatest effect in the world,
you don't want to be hill climbing,
you want to be hill making.
You want to make a new, new territory.
You want to create the new continent.
You want to make the new mountain that can be hill climbed.
And so this idea of hill making versus hill climbing
is where I think the greatest rewards are.
Rather than trying to optimize what we already have,
you want to be on the frontier and making a new territory.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
I'm so glad you're here.
Today, I'm talking with Kevin Kelly.
You probably know him as the founding executive editor
of Wired Magazine.
Or if you're a fan of the Whole Earth Review and Stewart Brand,
you know him from that because he was
one early editor and publisher.
Tim Ferriss also called him the most interesting man
in the world.
And he just might be.
He's been doing a blog since before there were really
even blogs, at least 20 years.
He's the author of this sort of cult favorite essay,
1,000 True Fans.
He co-founded the Hacker Conference,
which is still going on.
He's ridden his bike across America at least twice.
He helped with the movie Minority Report.
I could go on and on.
Oh, he was among the first to find Lonely Planet.
And I think he was even the first to import it.
And he was part of the co-Evolution Quarterly
with people like Gwendolyn Berry and Gregory Bateson, John Todd,
Danello Meadows.
I think he wrote the second, if not the first,
book about complexity, which is from 1992.
It's called Out of Control.
He is already talking about cryptocurrency,
if you can believe it, because he attended one of the first
ever complexity conferences at Los Alamos,
put on by guess who, the Santa Fe Institute.
I mean, really, this man, he seems
to have been at the beginnings of just about everything,
along with Stuart Bram.
Both of them are just fascinating people to me.
And just before I had this conversation,
two things happened.
I was with a friend at a museum in Amsterdam,
and I happened to see the whole Earth catalog there,
which is just beautiful.
It's a huge book with the Earth on the cover.
It's very loving of the Earth.
It's kind of like Wikipedia in print form,
way back in the day of catalogs.
But the point is, there's a love of life
that you feel immediately.
The second thing that happened was,
I started putting seeds in the ground,
and they actually came up.
And I realized, this is incredible.
And no, I am not on drugs, and I do not do drugs,
but honestly, being alive is just such a trip
that you can actually put something,
a little seed in the ground,
and within a few days, you have this green,
beautiful creature growing in your garden
that will then feed you.
I say this just because Kevin Kelly, Stuart Bram,
they have a lot to do with technology,
with the trajectory of technology,
with words like futurism and all of this,
but at the heart of their work,
and there's so much rich work involved with them,
there's such a love of life, and of community,
and of helping people.
And I feel like a lot of the people currently leading us,
so to speak, in the technological world,
once had that same spirit,
and I wonder if they still do.
I wonder if Gen Alpha, Gen Beta can fill that spirit,
and if the young Kevin Kelly's and Stuart Brans
of the world right now are out there in love with life
in the way these guys were and still are.
I'll just leave that as a question,
because it feels like it's very related
to ideas of other conversations,
like do we love the world enough
to take responsibility for it?
Are we blind to the beauty and incredible,
I don't know, existence that we're part of?
I hope not, I know we're not.
I know we can find this again.
It's in us, it is us.
And yeah, I'm just gonna put that out there today,
off the top of my head.
Kevin Kelly is amazing, his work is amazing.
It's always been about the humanity, the life,
the connection, the growth, the opportunity,
the positive, the optimism.
I really appreciate that a lot,
and I hope you'll go listen to some of his talks
about optimism, and think about Kevin,
and think about Stuart, and think about these days
when all of this was just beginning.
The internet was a new country,
and think about where we are now,
and what new country is before us,
and where we wanna orient, what we wanna explore,
and of course, where the love is and all that,
because it does matter.
Oh, okay, well let's get started.
Okay, hi Kevin, it's so wonderful to have you here,
it's a real honor that you're on Love and Philosophy,
thank you.
You're really, really welcome,
and I am really looking forward to this conversation.
Well, we're gonna talk about your book,
was excellent advice for living,
but before we get into that,
I wonder if we could talk about your living a little bit,
your life itself,
to what I think might have been the first time
you saw a computer,
I think it was with your dad when you were a teenager,
and yeah, so where were you,
and what was that experience like?
Yeah, yeah, it was in the 60s,
I was estimating that might have been around 65.
My dad was involved with computers
at the very, very beginning of the beginning of computers,
because he was using them,
originally his degree was in meteorology,
weather forecasting,
and the weather forecastors
were some of the first civilian use of computers,
and that's where he had the experience in the army,
and he was not a programmer,
but he was what we would call today more like an IT person,
and he was very enthusiastic about them,
and he showed me all kinds of books about it,
and it never registered,
I had no real interest in them,
but he did want to take me to a computer show
in Atlantic City,
he thought it would be kind of cool,
and so I went along,
and I was totally, totally bored,
it was just,
there were just big, big cabinets,
it was like furniture,
there was no screens,
there was no keyboards,
you couldn't talk to them,
you had to have the punch carts,
you had trays of punch carts that you gave in,
and then they would have tape machines,
and then they would have a typewriter,
and that was the output,
it was just a typewriter,
you couldn't even make pictures,
not really,
and so it was like,
I'm not interested in this,
at all,
I know what computers are,
I read science fiction,
I know what computers are.
So you were reading science fiction,
I was gonna ask you. Oh I was totally into science fiction,
it's like I know what computers are,
these are not computers.
That's wonderful,
that's great,
I loved it that you said you were bored,
but that's even a better statement,
that you had something else in your imagination.
Not because,
it was just like,
they're not computers you interact with,
they're AIs,
they're,
you can do stuff,
I can't do anything here.
So you were already thinking about all that,
at a young age.
It was a total science fiction buff,
at that time,
because this was before there was any science fiction
on movies,
so there was no science fiction movies,
until 2001,
and this was the future.
The movie 2001,
not the year.
I meant the movie.
Yeah I know,
just in case someone didn't know.
And so,
like a lot of kids,
we didn't really have TV,
in the beginning,
and so,
reading science fiction,
was my entertainment,
and I was really into it,
and so I had a sense of the future,
from the science fiction.
I had a sense of where we were gonna go,
and what was really the cool stuff,
and it was not,
it was not these cabinets.
It was not a room full of weird cabinets,
with no visuals.
That's so interesting,
because a lot of people I've talked to,
who end up sort of having,
a good vision of the future,
or a vision of the future that ends up playing out,
as you definitely have,
did read science fiction,
when they were young.
Do you think it influenced your imagination,
in the way?
Absolutely, 100%.
And I think if there was more,
what's the word I want,
more transparency in scientific literature,
if people were required to cite
the science fiction influence on there,
when they were doing research,
we would discover the incredible role,
that science fiction has played,
in directing people's own research.
I mean, the route from the Star Trek communicator,
to the iPhone, is pretty direct.
Everybody had that vision,
of what it was,
that they were trying to make,
because of Star Trek,
and that bit of optimism.
It was very, very influential.
And even things like,
I was involved in the Minority Report,
stuff of gesture computing,
and all these things,
they form an image in our mind,
that becomes a guy star.
It's fascinating.
It also makes me think that,
you've said that maybe the real computers,
or the real internet,
started when you,
it might've been when you were at University of Georgia,
I'm not sure,
because we were just talking about that.
But when telephones and computers met,
and was that when you started to get that sense,
of what you'd imagined as a kid could be possible?
Yeah.
So even personal computers,
when they came along,
still were not that interesting to me.
I mean, they kind of made typing easier.
I wasn't into spreadsheets in the beginning.
So there's a little bit of typing, maybe,
but it really wasn't until computers married the telephone,
and you were connecting them together.
That for me, that was the aha.
That was like, oh, I see what this is.
This is a technology that I can use.
This is technology that seems very human.
This is a technology that seems more Amish,
than big steam shovels,
or even big skyscrapers,
and the kind of thing we had in mind about technology,
what that meant before computers came along.
So I had very little interest in technology until then,
but once this communication version came along,
the internet, it was like, this is powerful.
This is humanizing.
This is our destiny, our direction.
And so I switched into thinking more about
what that might do for us.
What was it that was humanizing?
It's hard for me to imagine
how that suddenly felt humanizing.
Was it the complexity of it, the connection?
Well, because you're connecting other humans.
It's like, because instead of being isolated,
it was bringing humans together.
It was communities.
I mean, that was the thing, all these bulletin boards
set up in kids' basements and bedrooms,
and you would go in and you would be leaving messages
and someone else would come in,
and it was like you were connecting to people.
It was weirdly exhilarating
because these are people that,
they were conceptual neighbors.
They weren't your actual neighbors,
but they were neighbors in what you were interested in.
And that was, you were in a town
where nobody was interested in what you're interested in,
and suddenly you're connected to someone
who's interested in what you're interested in.
That's human.
That's amazing. That's most of it exciting, too.
And then you're producing information
that you were looking for that didn't exist
or you couldn't find, and they're helping you find it.
It's like, yeah, so, and there was,
again, the informational aspect of it was finding,
and this was the whole Holworth catalog agenda
that I was on, of trying to provide information
that was hard to find, that you couldn't find anywhere else,
and being available in that kind of a way,
that having access to it, that's also very human
because you have someone who's looking how to do something
and you help them do it.
That's a very human emotion, a human quality
of helping people accomplish things.
So that's why I said it felt sort of Amish.
And that speaks to the, enthusiasm comes up a lot
in the advice for living and curiosity and connection,
and so that speaks to that a lot.
But you mentioned the whole earth catalog, Stuart Brand.
When did you meet Stuart Brandon?
When did you, was that your first job?
Or how does that relate to those two moments,
the 13-year-old and then the person who became obsessed
with computers?
So I countered the Holworth catalog
at the end of high school.
Oh, so early, wow.
And it blew my mind.
It was, it kind of, it was again,
the perfect convergence for me
because the things that Stuart was interested in,
I was interested in the same kinds of things.
But I was doing it like completely a life study alone.
I had this, I was imagining like trying to build a house
where you never threw anything away
that was completely like recyclable.
This is like, you know, again, in the 60s, way before,
nobody else was talking about that.
I was trying to make these designs and stuff.
You were thinking of that when you were in high school?
Before high school, yeah.
Well, okay.
Yeah, in middle school.
And I was sending away for catalogs.
I had, I discovered that you could,
you could send away to get these catalogs.
It was the only way to kind of find out stuff.
And so I had this thing of trying to discover
as many catalogs as I could.
So here suddenly comes along the Holworth catalog,
which is like doing that magnified by a million times.
They were interested in art and systems
and stuff that I was.
And it was like, this is my, this was written for me.
And I wanted to contribute to it
because the model of the Holworth catalog
was a reader written, reader supported ad free mechanism.
It was like sub stack.
It was, it was user generated content
and a user supported subscription base.
And the idea was like, people would discover something.
They would send it in.
They would send their blog in, the review.
The editors would evaluate it and then publish it.
And it was like the internet before the internet opened.
And so that would immediately appeal to me.
And I decided that the only place I ever wanted to work
was at Holworth, but I had no, nothing to offer them.
But I started to try and submit things,
reviews of stuff that I kind of discovered
and Stuart kept rejecting them.
He would send a nice thing, whatever.
So I never made much headway,
but eventually after my travels,
for years and years of traveling,
I would still read what they were writing.
I was subscribed to the catalog and I read cover to cover.
After traveling for years,
I discovered that I knew something about budget travel
that nobody else knew.
And so I started reviewing these little known
self published books that Americans didn't know about
or nobody knew about.
There was this book called Southeast Asia on a Shoe String
by Tony and Maureen Wheeler.
And they were called Lonely Planet.
Okay, so they had a little self published thing
and I started reviewing their stuff.
And then there was another guy named Europe
through the back door and his name was Rick Steves.
And I was reviewing his stuff and saying,
this is really cool stuff.
And later on, I started a business
where I was importing those books into America
and distributing them.
There was another guy named Bill Doughton
who had the Moon publications.
And so I started to have something to offer
and I started to do the travel part for Whole Earth
as a freelance writer.
And so when the internet came along,
I decided that I wanted to report on it
as if it was a new country,
as if I was a travel writer and this was a new country.
So I talked my way into the editors at Whole Earth
to give me access to the new experimental online systems
that they were meeting on.
And that also just elevated
because it wasn't just a bulletin board,
it was the bulletin board with threads
and you could be on this all at the same time.
And that was like, oh wow.
And so this was a new country.
So I was writing the stuff about this was a new continent
and I was learning how to type.
I just didn't know how to type.
And my writing style is very telegraphic
and it turned out to be perfect for the online text systems
because I'm very short telegraphic.
And so they offered me a job
based on what I was writing online.
And I claimed to be the first person hired online
in 83, 84.
So I went out to meet Stuart.
So I met him kind of online primarily
and he met me online primarily.
Fascinating that you two came together
because you both feel like people
who've been at the sort of growing tip of everything,
both of you, even in what you just described
with finding a lonely planet and these sorts of things.
Is that ever frustrating or is that?
Or is that always being so kind of ahead?
No, it's sort of a job.
And it's, I mean, that is one of Stuart's
great, great strengths.
We hit a good nose for a frontier that was potent,
for a frontier that he was always there at the front.
But we both did.
Like we were very early Burning Man attendees.
I was among the first.
My kids were the first kids at Burning Man.
Yeah, my two girls, I took them, it was totally crazy.
Oh my gosh.
Do they remember it?
Were they old enough that they?
Oh yeah, yeah.
Oh wow.
And they were there for a while.
They were the only kids there.
But, so yes, so I think it's a practice.
I think it's a noticing of emerging, something emerging.
And I think the qualities that I would look for
are like, are new words being invented?
Is this a area where there's new language being invented?
You know, the early crypto was like,
I actually had a book chapter on crypto
in my first book, 94.
I know, out of control, I was gonna ask you.
Is that the one?
The e-money chapter was about crypto,
but it wasn't blockchain.
And so, and that became, I assigned Stephen Levy
to the very second issue of Wired,
and he went on to write a whole book.
But, because when I went to visit these guys
who were doing it, there was like, there was new language,
there were new concepts,
there was people using their free time to do it.
Like Mark Andresa and other people say,
they often like to invest in what founders do for fun.
How do they spend your time when you're not working?
That's another kind of thing you're looking at.
It's like, where's your passion time being invested into?
That's often where a frontier might be happening.
And so Stuart had a really good nose,
and I learned to have a pretty good nose as well,
in kind of, and then giving yourself permission
to hang out there and see, you know,
maybe even report on what's happening.
And that continues today, and to me, I see it as my job.
It also connects to a lot of the advice, I think,
because there's a sense of cultivating awareness in a way.
I don't know, you never say it like that,
but, and I was wondering, as you were just saying that,
if, did you have to learn how to be patient a bit too,
and persist or?
No, I think I'm naturally patient.
Okay.
Doing photography, the kind of photography I was doing
was incredibly patient.
It's funny, because I don't have patience for other things,
like fishing never appealed to me.
It's like, that just seems like an incredible waste
of patience, but I have patience in photography
where I will spend hours waiting for something to happen.
I would say this situation is pregnant
with an interesting picture,
and I'm going to spend my time here waiting for it to align.
And so I have patience, I have a natural patience
for the right things, or the things that I'm interested in.
That's actually very beautiful.
That sounds, to me, if one were to look at your career,
probably not from your perspective,
but from my perspective,
it seems like you were doing that a bit.
For example, all of the stuff you were doing online
was at a time when people didn't really think
the internet was going to be anything.
And to me, that seems like almost patience
that you stayed with it, and then, you know,
and a lot of things that I've heard you say,
when you say them, when I look back,
I think people probably thought, no way.
And then over time, it does align.
You could see that there was something
there worth waiting for.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and there is an act of imagination
where you kind of, you can imagine it getting better
or better than it is.
Other times, you're wrong about it.
I mean, I've been plenty wrong.
Like when eBay came along, I was like, I don't think so.
I don't think this is like,
I don't think this is going to work.
But you know, I was totally wrong about it.
And so there, I just didn't have the imagination to,
to see what it could, what it could do.
And so I think having an active imagination
is also very helpful.
Yeah, you also have some good advice for how to be wrong
and why being wrong is important,
which is something I think we all need to hear right now
in this world, admitting your mistakes
and that that's actually a healthy thing
and a way to grow.
That's part of your book.
But you mentioned travel and I wonder what,
that seems like a very important thread in your life.
And what was that initial travel about?
And has that helped you to see landscapes differently
and these other themes we've been talking about already?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, I grew up with a father
who was a little bit of a workaholic,
but he never, he didn't believe in vacations.
So we took very few family vacations,
very, very few.
And I'd never, I didn't have any money.
I'd never really been out of New Jersey very much.
I didn't have a car.
And so when I did start to travel, it was mind blowing
and it was a very severe jump from suburban parochial
New Jersey to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan.
And I'd never eaten Chinese food in my life.
I'd never hold chopsticks in my life.
There weren't any Chinese orientals in my life.
It was, it was, it was so parochial
and then just being kind of thrust into this other world.
And at a time when it was still
a lot of the old world happening,
was the best university, the best wake up call ever.
And it became, it became my college
where every day I'm learning new things
and changing my mind and having these aha moments
as well as trying to capture stuff with my camera.
And so I came, I kept traveling seriously
after that forever, even, I took a slight break for a while
when I started to have my family.
And I was trying to start a kind of a real career
when I was 35 and so there was a small break
but then I tried to take my family
on interesting family vacations.
Yeah, we went to Bali when it was still pretty early
with my family and went into the hinterlands of Bali.
Went into the hinterlands of Bali.
But I came to view the benefits of travel
as so, so important, particularly for young people
that I am totally in favor of subsidizing
young people to travel.
I think as a nation we should do that.
I mean, I would go so far as I think we should have
mandatory, I'm told that it's American,
mandatory service, national service for two years
no matter who you are, you're handicapped
or whatever it is, you have national service
and you can do things like go to Peace Corps
or whatever, you wanna go to the military,
you can do public service at home
but there's, but travel would be one of the options.
Travel meaning like you're going abroad
and you're being funded.
And I think that would transform America
of having more and more people go outside
of their culture and come back
and look at themselves from outside.
And among the many, many other values
that you get from traveling,
I think that would be transformative.
And so the Mormons do a great job
with their two year abroad.
And that I think is this hugely benefit
their communities and Mormons and what they do.
There was only men for a while.
I think they've changed it recently
to have women go two years out as well.
But that is so important when you're young
to get that orientation of stepping outside
of what everybody assumes.
All these assumptions, you can kind of see the assumptions
that your own culture is sitting on.
They become a little bit more visible
and you get to think about it in question
and see alternatives and change your mind about things
because of travel.
Yeah, absolutely.
And another word that comes up a lot in your book is habits.
And some of the book feels like you've been cultivating
ways to catch yourself or ways to do what travel does
to turn your perspective a little.
I think that relates to your complexity book a bit too.
And I did the Peace Corps and I traveled early.
Yeah, and so I know very well what you're saying there.
It really does.
The world becomes a kaleidoscope in a way
or the way that you're, you talk about thinking a lot
in terms of all of these themes
and you learn how to switch your thinking a bit, don't you?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
I'm just curious where you were stationed for the Peace Corps.
I went to Mongolia.
Oh!
Yeah, my dog is from there.
She's here, you can't see her, but she just barked.
Sorry about that.
Mongolia, where in Mongolia were you stationed?
I was in different places because I did sort of,
I had to do a travel through,
but I was mostly in Chobolstan, so,
and Ulaanbaatar for a bit, but yeah.
And then over near Kazakhstan, but mostly Chobolstan.
Yeah, no, I had a fabulous time in Mongolia.
It was just, it was, well, anyway,
we won't talk about Mongolia right now, but yeah.
Yeah, we could talk about that for hours, so.
But yeah, the point was, I guess, that it changes,
it helps you understand, I think,
similar to the way reading does when you're a kid.
Reading science fiction, you can switch
into different mindsets, and for me,
and I kind of heard you saying it a bit,
when you're traveling, you start to realize you can,
yeah, there's different ways of perceiving, so.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, that's just a fundamental one,
but there's, I mean, I think we can make a long list
of all the other habits, all the insights that you get
from traveling, from learning a language if you need to,
and how that changes your mind,
to just learning social skills.
Yeah, there's just so many things.
So anyway, I would be totally in favor of having programs
where youth are subsidized to travel in some capacity.
Yeah, me too, I totally support that.
It is one of those hard things that you can't explain.
I mean, you only know it once you do it, too,
and that's why it can be hard to just, yeah.
But you said something about when you were in your 30s,
you were gonna start a real job, or something like this,
and that reminded me of one of your pieces of advice,
I'm probably not gonna get it exactly right,
but don't try to be the best, be the only,
and did you live into that advice?
Well, you know, the subtitle of my book
is Advice I Wish I Had Known Earlier,
so no, I didn't know that at the time.
I wish I had.
That came much later, even in writing the book,
when I kind of, part of writing the book,
I write in order to find out what I think.
And so what the book did was help me clarify
some of my own ideas that I had,
but I didn't be able to say.
But I wasn't on the program to try and find my only,
I only understood that fairly late in life,
that of that power.
But I was absolutely on the road to the only,
I just didn't know it.
You know, I mean, I was like,
I've always had a lot of confidence
about kind of doing things my own way
and not really caring about other people,
because I also was expecting to be poor all my life,
and I was making a trade for having control of my time.
Even as a young person,
that's what I was signing up for,
is like, I know that I won't have a career
and I won't have money,
but I'm gonna have time to do these cool things
that I wanna do, and I'm happy with that thing,
because I understood for some reason,
and travel actually helped part of that,
I understood that time was more valuable than money.
And I had an encounter in Nepal where I was trekking,
I spent months trekking by myself
without a porter, just with my backpack,
through the, you know, on the treks.
And I met, there was some organized,
this was in the 70s,
when there was some organized treks
with many porters carrying their tents,
it's the rich people who were doing these tours.
And there was a guy, an older man,
who was obviously very wealthy,
just because these were very expensive things.
And we were mingling at some place or other
where they were camped out,
where I was sleeping in a tea house on the floor.
And he was commiserating with me,
hearing where I was going, what I was doing,
he was saying, I'm so envious of you.
Because you have all this time to see all these things.
And I don't.
And it was like, aha, here's the rich guy,
saying that I was wealthier than he was.
And I realized I was.
And so there was this sort of shift
in understanding that time wealth
was much more valuable than money wealth.
And so I was constantly leaning into this idea
of seeing my time as my wealth.
And not.
I couldn't really understand that.
I had a similar feeling.
And yeah, but I said live into,
I probably didn't say it clearly,
but that living into not trying to be the best,
but be the only, I feel like,
because to go back to that,
you said you were starting a real job at 35.
I mean, maybe we can say what you meant about that,
but by kind of whatever traditional standards,
at least there's a sort of pressure to do certain things
within a certain time.
And that mindset you were cultivating is not,
it's very different from that.
So yeah.
When I was 35, I got married
and I decided to have a family.
And so then you kind of have to think about
a regular income.
So I got a, I worked at Whole Earth.
I was getting $10 an hour at the nonprofit.
And that was my job.
It was like a $10 an hour at a nonprofit.
Okay.
It's, you know.
But it worked.
It was, you know.
And my wife, to her credit, married me.
She was way over educating.
She was making a lot more money than I was.
But it's kind of a mystery why,
because I had no college degree.
Well, this is love and philosophy.
So love is powerful.
Yeah.
So, but again, I was signed up for,
you know, a different route where, again,
I wanted to maintain control.
And so I had a lot of control of my time at Whole Earth.
I mean, I was kind of running the stuff
and I was the publisher and editor.
And so I had a fair amount of control
over where I worked and when I worked.
And I worked a lot,
but I could take time off if I needed to.
And you were cultivating all these skills
that actually were gonna come in handy.
Yeah, but I didn't know that.
Yeah, but you didn't know that.
But how did that switch?
Like maybe, I'm thinking about your first book
out of control.
How did we get there?
Also, I think you were writing,
that was the first one, right?
That was the first one.
That was in the 90s, I guess.
This was in the 90s.
So there was already, I was already online.
And I around 1998, there was this embryonic.
So I was involved in starting The Well,
which was the first public access.
So I was on the internet.
That was with Stuart too?
Yeah, it was with Stuart too.
So there was a thing that came over the internet,
which was this announcement
that this guy was gonna start,
have a conference called Artificial Life.
And he just basically said,
if you're doing Artificial Life,
come, it was in Los Alamos.
Oh wow.
And it was like,
I'd never been to a scientific conference before.
I thought Artificial Life, man, that is so cool.
I don't have anything, but I wanna go and attend.
And I'd never been to a conference.
I didn't have any money, but I remember it.
So it was a very small fee, like $100 or something.
And I was camping in a state park
because they didn't have enough money for the hotel
in Los Alamos, which was pretty high up in cold.
And so I was attending this conference
and I decided to do a summary of every talk
and post it onto the internet, onto the well.
And so it was like the first real-time conference reporting.
And so I did a summary of every talk.
There were, I don't know, maybe 60 talks over the conference.
And each one was kind of blowing my mind.
And I was trying to report and understand it
and did this little summary that I would post every night.
And that, for the tiny little internet at the time,
it went kind of viral into the internet.
Wow, that sounds wonderful.
Does that still exist by any chance?
I would love to read that.
Oh, it's on the well.
It must be somewhere on the well.
Later.
I never thought about that.
It must be out there.
I didn't take it down.
I don't, yeah.
So that, based on their reaction to that,
I thought there's something here.
I'd like to do kind of a book on artificial life
and all these connections.
And because what it was was there were economists,
there were computer scientists, there were biologists,
there were all these people talking about
the same kind of thing that later on
would come to be like the Santa Fe Institute
and Complexity stuff.
I was just about to say, Complexity,
that's what the book is.
Yeah, and Santa Fe, that's,
so that was the beginning, huh?
That was the beginning.
And there was one other journalist there
and that was James Glick.
Oh, wow.
There you go.
Chaos.
He and I were attending.
He was just a little ahead of me
in terms of writing ability and all these other things.
So yeah, so there was something happening.
And I came back and I said,
I think I should write a,
I'd like to write a book about this.
So I had this agent at Whole Earth
that I was doing books with and I pitched him a book
and it got accepted.
And then I was in a problem because I'm running a magazine.
So I took a sabbatical from Whole Earth to write the book,
which was a big step because it was not very much money.
So I'm kind of taking a risk there.
I just got a job and now I'm taking a sabbatical
from the job, unpaid sabbatical.
And while I was finishing the book,
which took longer than I thought,
that's when Wired came along.
So that's a very complicated story that,
but yeah, what happened though,
was that I agreed to start editing Wired,
but I said, I'm gonna have to take a sabbatical
after the first couple of issues to finish my book.
So I was taking a sabbatical within the sabbatical.
When I started Wired, I let Whole Earth know that.
Nested sabbaticals, that's very complex system-y.
The whole idea was that this was a book
that kept being delayed.
And so the book finally came out
and the book also, while I was writing the book,
the chapters that I was writing
became the early issues of Wired.
One of the chapters of the book was on e-money,
so I assigned Stephen to write a whole bunch on e-money.
And the first issue of Wired was Bruce Sterling,
and I had written a chapter on God games and simulations,
and I had Bruce go take my contacts
and write the story for Wired.
So I was using the early, my book,
the research that I had done
and the frontiers that I was exploring,
I used that to shape the first issues of Wired.
So it was useful in terms of what I was doing.
That's so interesting too,
because just even if you look at the table of contents
of that book, it's like the next 50 years
of topics that will be discussed.
So it's kind of wonderful, isn't it,
that all that came together in that moment.
I guess it's no coincidence, but.
Yeah, yeah.
There was actually a chapter on economies
that I never got to write.
It was too big as it was,
but yes, it was all there,
and it worked out in the end with Wired.
So I only missed a couple issues and then went back.
And so I learned a lot about writing a book,
which is that the first,
the last 90% takes longer than the first 90%.
And so they're just never ending.
You have to abandon books.
At least that's my experience.
You don't actually finish them, you just abandon them.
Yeah, or that sometimes I just think of it as like many,
all one sort of book and you just have,
you let one book go,
but then you continue the subjects elsewhere.
Exactly.
But that kind of relates to the way that book begins
and the orientation of that book about what's between,
what's born and what's made.
How do you say it?
The marriage between-
The world, yeah, the world is born,
the world is made, yeah, the marriage, yeah.
Yeah.
That is, that is still,
what's the word again?
I'm still writing about that, yes.
Yeah, and the technological, the biological.
That actually, I hadn't thought of it till you said it,
but you could almost blurb Wired magazine's edge
or what was different about it with that, couldn't you?
Part of it, it was, and also part of it was optimism.
Yeah, the optimism too.
That was another part of the secret sauce.
And then the other genius that was not my idea,
and that was entirely due to Louis,
who Louis Rosetta, the founder, the co-founder of Wired,
I was at Holworth, I was running the magazine
with what I call conceptual news,
which was new concepts, new stuff.
And Louis said, that's interesting,
but that's not mainstream.
What we wanna do is we wanna wrap around the people.
We wanna make the geeks the heroes.
We want to talk about the people who are making this stuff
and what their dreams are.
And so we don't gonna have to be the people
on the cover.
And so we don't gonna have technology on the cover,
we're gonna have people, faces on the cover.
And that was the brilliance of Louis
and the reason why Wired worked
and the difference between,
I was doing the same thing at Holworth
and it had an audience of 40,000 people at the peak
with no ads and Louis doing the same thing,
the same kind of concepts, but at Wired,
now we suddenly had the audience of millions
and we're at the center of the whole conversation.
And so that was because of Louis's instinct
that you wanted to be talking about the people
who were doing it.
Yeah, but I can also see how it fits very well
with even what we've been talking about,
the trajectories of the science fiction
or that marriage of technological and biological
and seeing the world in different perspectives.
And so it seems like it was a good meeting of minds,
so to speak.
Oh, yeah, absolutely, for sure, for sure.
I wanna move towards the book a bit before we leave
and to me, these two books actually feel very close though.
I don't know if, Out of Control,
the one we're talking about and the last one,
Excellent Advice for Living.
Oh, that's interesting, you have to explain that.
Well, I think it has to do with,
it would take me too long, but the complexity
and also that idea of marriage
between what is born and made
and this, I feel like you've, from the beginning,
had a lot of different, this multiplicity
or this kaleidoscopic vision that I'm just trying to describe
can be very hard to communicate, right?
Or to kind of make into something sustainable and real.
And if you look at advice, Excellent Advice for Living,
to me, it seems like the way you've been able
to find habits to do that better,
to clarify and communicate better,
to be a better person without losing the complexity.
I don't know if that makes sense to you.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
There's a lot of nuance in the book
and I would say Out of Control was fairly nuanced
because it was not binary.
I think there's very, very few things in the world
that are binary, most are continuums,
and that's part of the whole message of Out of Control,
which was that there was a continuum
between the most biological thing
and the most mechanical thing,
but they're actually just one long,
one long continuous thing that have different faces.
And so I think there is a lot of that kind of
non-binariness in the book.
Exactly, that's exactly what I was moving towards
because a lot of this is about trying to hold
dichotomies or binaries,
which doesn't mean you collapse them.
It means you explore the space around them.
You let them be what they are
and when you explore the space around them,
suddenly you see the multiplicities,
they're not actually binaries.
And you talk about that in the book in a way, right?
And this paradoxical nature of life,
of how do you say it, you know,
that we're shaping what shapes us
or we create what creates us or something like this.
What is that paradox that you bring out?
Yeah, yeah, and my own personal theology right now
is that the origin of the universe
rests on necessary paradoxes,
inescapable paradoxes to what we would,
to our minds called paradoxes,
which is like, you know, the origin of the universe
in any story you want to tell
is just unacceptably illogical, right?
I mean, it's like, well, there's God.
Well, where did God come from?
Always was, whatever, self-created.
It's not going to parse.
And the same thing with free will and determinism.
Yeah, they're both there.
They're both operating at the same time.
And it doesn't make any sense, but that's what it is.
It's kind of like super positions.
God's a super position, right?
It's God, not God at the same time.
So there's fundamental paradoxes
which I've become much more comfortable with.
And I like little,
I like even quotes and statements
that contain a little bit of that kind of paradoxical quality.
And so I'm pretty, so, you know,
so some of the fundamental mysteries are paradoxical
and I am much more comfortable with those than ever before.
I think it's a skill we really, really need right now,
being able to hold paradox.
I'm actually very serious.
And for the reason that I also think
everyone needs to read your book right now,
because, you know, like everything,
nothing makes sense right now.
You can't reconcile everything together.
And part of being able to make sense of it
in this paradoxical way that you describe in that book,
I think, is learning that, that you have to hold the space,
not try to reconcile everything.
And I feel like some of the advice you're giving
is ways of doing that.
And also I brought up awareness earlier, right?
And just taking a minute to notice the space.
Right, right, right, right.
Noticing, yeah, there was noticing is someone was,
oh, I think I subscribed to this Rob Walker's
little newsletter on noticing.
So he's big on noticing.
I'll write that down.
And different ways of noticing.
And one of the things I think he was saying
was this idea that a lot of people's creativity
and tremendous work and innovation and discovery
and good stuff comes from the fact that they noticed
something and decided that rather than being unimportant,
that it was very, very important.
And there's a sense in which through childhood and beyond
we're often taught to dismiss the things
we notice as unimportant.
And he said that the people who kind of retain
the seriousness of the stuff that they noticed
with this tiniest little thing is saying
that's really important and making something
out of that tiny noticing.
You notice it, you give it attention.
As you give it attention, you find it more interesting.
And so it's kind of like what you've learned
or at least I've learned is that you can start
with the tiniest, tiniest little thing.
And if you take it seriously, it can become something big
and huge and interesting to other people.
So you don't wanna lose that ability
to not just notice things, but to take it seriously as well.
Yeah, that's another thing in the book.
You talk about small steps or this thinking small
but not thinking in a small way,
but noticing the small things.
And I've also noticed that even some of the things
from your book where you,
cause sometimes things that seem obvious to you,
if you notice them, you realize they're not obvious
to everyone else.
Some of your life, maybe it has been like that.
Things that maybe you just noticed
that you knew that other people didn't know.
Exactly, right.
And not to dismiss them as being well,
that's not really important.
Yeah, or because no one else notices it must be wrong
or something, that's not true.
But you say, no, I think there's something there.
I think, and isn't it gonna make something there?
And so, like Jerry Seinfeld's entire humor
isn't noticing little tiny things
and making a big thing about taking them seriously.
And so writers can do the same thing
where they notice something
and they turn it into the world.
And that's a beautiful thing
that I think we do as children a bit
and are kind of educated out of it.
So I like the idea of trying to return
to your childlike fascination with things
and then kind of using that as a guide.
And that's where the enthusiasm is too.
Enthusiasm is also a big word in your book.
And it reminded me of that quote,
enthusiasm is the supernatural serenity
which I've always loved by Thoreau.
And the way you describe kids,
that's kind of what you have as a kid.
You can look at a little flower or whatever it is
and there's a whole world that opens up.
And I think we don't realize
that's actually the case all the time still
in the way that you said.
If you look at something
with a certain awareness long enough, it opens up.
And the book you wrote,
a lot of these little things are like that, aren't they?
There's sort of these distilled little cones or tweets.
Tweet is gone now, but you know what I mean.
These things where they look small,
but you could kind of unpack them for a long time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, it's, oh, well, yeah, that's exactly right.
In fact, I did a version, a prototype,
because I'm big into doing prototypes of things.
Yeah, I saw that when you make all the things
that you did the little prototype book.
Yeah, that's cool.
Oh, wow.
It's called Seeds for Contemplation.
Oh, wow.
That's beautiful, actually.
And it has my little doodles
in which the publishers say was two homes spun.
Oh, no.
Wow, that looks very special.
It should be a re-release.
But the idea was that these things were little seeds
that you would unpack.
Okay.
Right there.
It's wonderful.
Yeah, so prototyping is the way to go.
You want to try things out in small steps.
Like the fairy door.
It reminded me of the fairy door that you made.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, or you did it on cardboard first.
All the time, yeah.
But another important thing in the book, I think,
and one thing that's cultivating this thinking paradoxically
or being able to hold the space does is,
I have to bring up love,
but I think it's in the book a lot.
It helps you be able to
be responsible, to say when something is wrong,
to not take yourself so seriously,
to not get caught up in all the optics
that seem so flashy and wonderful,
but actually kind of make you miserable,
no matter how much money you have.
And all of this feels very important to me today.
I don't know about to you, but.
The one thing, for example, that you say,
if you're not becoming more responsible,
you're not growing or something like that.
Yeah, right.
I feel you have more responsibility
than you're probably not growing.
I'm a big believer in process and growth.
Protopia.
If you have growth, you have process,
you have growth.
And even my own personal theology is that
God itself is also in a process.
And we're part of it having its own understanding
about what it's doing.
And so, process and moving,
that's one of the constant things
in the stuff I talk about,
is this idea of progress, of movement,
of growth over time.
And so I have a very process view of the world,
of our own nature, of the nature of everything,
this sort of evolutionary movement of betterment,
ideally, and so, yeah, so that's just kind of my bias.
Well, it reminded me when you talked about
the internet as a landscape or something.
Yeah.
To me, I feel that movement,
it's part of the philosophy I do,
is thinking of, even thinking itself
as an exploration of a landscape.
Absolutely.
Yeah, and I feel that a lot in your work,
that you were already working from that place,
maybe even very young.
There's a conceptual idea of landscapes
that is really popular in computer science and biology,
which is this landscape is a way of mapping
the path, the process of an organization,
or organism, or an individual,
and the idea that the higher it goes,
the more perfected, more optimized it is,
and that you're kind of always climbing the hills,
so they call it hill climbing.
So you want to be always climbing up the hill
towards optimization, and if you're designing something,
you want to kind of optimize it,
and there are algorithms and methods
to kind of make sure you're always climbing the hill.
So they call it gradient descent,
where you're actually going up the gradients all the time,
trying to optimize something,
and the issue is that when you get to the peak,
if it's, the peak may not be the,
the peak may be a local optima,
there may be higher peaks,
more optimization on a different peak,
but to get there, you have to kind of go back down,
and that's really hard if you have an organization
built for excellence and optimization,
to go back down to where it's less optimal
is very, very difficult,
but the thing I wanted to talk about was this other peak,
like you could be optimizing,
Elevati optimized typewriters,
and they got stuck there because in word processors,
there was a bigger mountain,
and they couldn't get off of that.
You have to kind of go down,
and that's why the startups have an advantage
because they have nothing to lose,
they're not pursuing excellence,
it's all very, very low margins there,
but the important thing is that
to have the greatest effect in the world,
you don't want to be hill climbing,
you want to be hill making,
you want to make a new, new territory,
you want to create the new continent,
you want to make the new mountain
that can be hill climbed,
and so this idea of hill making versus hill climbing
is where I think the greatest rewards are,
and if you personally are trying to do something,
rather than trying to optimize what we already have,
you want to kind of be on the frontier
in making a new territory.
Andrea, it's been great.
That's beautiful, I know you need to go.
You don't have anything to say about love
by any chance at the very end.
Oh, I love love.
Okay, that's all we need.
Okay.
Thank you, Kevin, this is wonderful.
We'll continue the conversation someday.
Yes, please.
Okay.
I'll talk to you soon.
Thank you so much for your time.
I enjoyed it, I love your spirit.
I have so much I love about you.
All right, till another time then, bye.
Bye-bye.
I wish I could talk to you every day
to at least tell you,
my love,
I never liked to control you so much before.
Is it really that serious?
