There's a way in which play can help us with that question of what is it to be well and
for things to go well.
You need to break your own habits, you need to challenge those habits and step outside
of your comfort zone sometimes when you feel safe to do so.
That's where you get to grow, to develop.
It connects very much with the literature on active learning and play in learning where
there's this idea that what children are doing when they play is seeking out this sweet spot
where things are not too difficult or too complex so that the children don't understand
what's going on but nor are they so simple that the children have nothing to learn.
We kind of lose this curious openness over the course of our development that we start
out with as children that gets lost as we become adults and we get this idea that we
need to be serious.
There's this constant falling back on habitual ways of engaging with the world at the expense
of more openness, curiosity, exploration.
So I can say cliched things about love but I don't think that's very interesting for
your listeners.
If you really believe them, it is.
This is how I would answer your question.
Love is an experience of transcendence towards others, towards the world, towards nature.
So there's a kind of self-transcendence that comes along with a feeling of love, a movement
beyond yourself towards the other.
You're open to awe and wonder, you're open to a fresh appreciation of what would normally
be just seen as familiar and mundane and everyday.
Okay, Julian, so just to start, how did you get into studying mind and why play?
Yeah, so how did I get into doing all of these very different things about the mind from
the Varela Thompson and Roche embodied minds?
This is what I discovered as an undergraduate in the 1990s.
I came across this amazing book, The Embodied Mind, and it was giving me a way of thinking
about how to bring together mind, body and human experience.
And as an undergraduate, that was something that was fascinating me, I was puzzled by.
And here was a book that managed to tie together cognitive science, Buddhist philosophy, phenomenology
and show how to connect those very different traditions to address this question of how
to bring together mind, body and experience, consciousness and how to fit that into the
physical world.
And I was interested in Buddhism as well.
I hadn't really encountered phenomenology yet.
Then I read this book and it was bringing together, it was addressing the questions
of how to fit human experience into a scientific understanding of the world, but doing that
in a way that also connected to Buddhism.
So I found that very inspiring.
And all of my work, I should say, is collaborative.
So I love to work with other people and I find that I can write at my best when I'm
in dialogue with others.
So a lot of my best papers, the ones I'm most proud of are ones that I've co-authored with
other people.
And somebody that I've found very inspiring to work with is Mark Miller, who is based
at the University of Toronto.
With Mark, we've been exploring the dark side of mental life by looking at major depression,
addiction and at obsessive-compulsive disorder with my colleagues here in Amsterdam.
I work in a psychiatry department, so we've been thinking a lot about how to make sense
of mental illness, the experience of mental illness and what's happening neurobiologically.
And the predictive processing free energy ideas, as you were exploring with Karl as
well actually, in relation to schizophrenia, are very helpful for providing a framework
that can integrate the biological processes, the psychological processes and also the phenomenological
side to mental illness.
It provides us with formal tools that really allow us to bring together these otherwise
difficult to integrate strands of what is a very complex phenomena.
So then we started to think, well, could you flip this around and start to think about
how things can go well for a person?
Not only thinking about how predictive processing can lead to people having what we call a suboptimal
grip on the world, but what would it be for predictive processing to be able to model
human flourishing or people who are happy, people who feel like they're satisfied with
their lives?
So that's like the big question that we had, because you use predictive processing both
to understand mental illness, but also to understand subjective wellbeing or when things
go well for a person in their life.
And yeah, that's what then led us to think, well, maybe there's a way in which play can
help us with that question of what is it to be well and for things to go well.
And when you were looking in both those cases, when you're looking at something that we've
called mental illness, what do you think you're doing with the FEP or with the free energy
principle or with active inference?
Are you trying to notice patterns?
Are you trying to find a way to externally communicate about what you're noticing in
these?
How would you describe that to someone who doesn't really understand?
Basically what I'm asking you is what is modeling?
What do you think of that as?
There's two ways I want to answer that question.
The first is to go back to Francisco Varela again, who had this idea of creating what
he called a circulation between different ways of knowing the mind, between a third
person way of knowing the mind, which is what we arrive at through doing science and through
mathematics and through, in his case, dynamical systems theory, which is what he was using
to understand, to formally understand how the brain works.
And then this first person subjective experience that we have of being embodied creatures
in the world.
We have these different ways of knowing, different perspectives, and we need, I think the challenge
in cognitive science as I see it, one that you've seen beautifully articulated in the
embodied mind, is to create this circulation between these different ways of knowing.
There's lots to say about that circulation, but what the free energy principle does is
give us some formal tools, I think, for creating generative passages, as Varela called them,
between our lived experience and our neurophysiological and neurobiological processes.
So mathematics gives us this kind of neutral vocabulary with which to create this circulation
between these otherwise different ways of knowing.
It's wonderful, and maybe here you should say how your version, or I don't know how
to say that, but your take on free energy, and this is a little bit different, or is
illuminating something in a way that people have found very helpful.
There's this debate of realism versus instrumentalism, or something like that, where we think we
can either describe the world or we can predict it, and somehow there's this way you can't
be both a realist and just think that theories are tools.
I feel like you've shown in your collaborations that there's another way to think about this,
the literal fallacy, I think you and your co-writers call it.
The literalist fallacy.
The literalist fallacy.
Yeah.
So maybe you want to, for people who are thinking of active inference in a certain way, what's
important about your take on it that you want them to know?
So this goes back to the model, the map model, map territory fallacy, how to think about
the relationship between the free energy principle, active inference as a set of modeling
tools, and the system, the target system that we're trying to model, which is the embodied
creature in the world.
So I think the first thing I want to say about that is that it's important to think that
the model is an abstraction or an idealization, and so this goes back to your conversation
with Evan Thompson recently, and the blind spot that we shouldn't make the mistake of
taking what is an abstraction and idealization and mistaking that for reality.
And I think you can find places in my writings where perhaps I'm not suitably careful about
that.
Yeah.
But I think that my meta perspective on this is always to start from human experience as
what is concretely real, and then we need to somehow bring that into conversation and
dialogue with what we know about our minds from studying them scientifically.
So there's different ways of knowing here and that we need to bring into dialogue with
each other.
So what we might do then is we'll give some kind of literal reality to the free energy
principle as a model and think, well, if what's being modeled is real, so there really are
these processes that are where there's prediction error being computed and there's predictions
that are being made top down, and this is really going on in the brain, then there must
be this literal computation taking place in the brain.
The brain must literally be a computer.
And part of what we try to do is we'll say, well, that's one way of being a realist, but
we don't think that realism requires that kind of literalism about prediction error
minimization or approximation of Bayesian inference.
Instead, we can think that the model is giving us formal tools, and those formal tools are
mapping out some reality for us scientifically, and so that gives us a way of being a realist
about what science is doing, but we don't need to think that the algorithms that are
being computed here are ones that neurons or the wetware of the brain is literally implementing.
We can think instead that the models are more like fictional realities that allow
us to do counterfactual modeling, for instance, of the brain.
So they are giving us knowledge of something real, but we don't then need to impute them
with literal reality, these kinds of models, what we're trying to do in our philosophy
of science work on the free energy principle.
It gives us a middle way, I think, between a very literal understanding of the free
energy principle and a purely instrumental one like Ines Hippolito and Maxwell Rammstedt
sometimes offer.
In your discussion with Karl as well, he tended to use this formulation of, well, it's as
if the brain were doing Bayesian inference or were minimizing free energy, and that as
if qualifier there is often what encourages people to be instrumentalists.
But the philosophy of science literature, I think, allows for a more nuanced position,
which is neither literalists nor instrumentalists.
So that's what we've been exploring.
Michael Pertroff has a new book on scientific modeling that is coming out soon with MIT
where he develops this line of argument further.
So he's done a lot more thinking on this since we did that work.
My view is a little bit different from Michael's, probably, that I want to be a bit more pragmatist,
I think, about scientific models and scientific explanations.
So the kind of realism that I would go for would be more about, well, keeping the whole
of the scientific techniques that we're using, the phenomena that are created by the use
of those scientific techniques and being a bit more careful about what realism is exactly,
which takes us back to the realism idealism and the phenomenological pragmatist ideas
that are kind of the foundations from my philosophical worldview, as it were.
Let's play.
Where did play come in for you?
And what comes of it?
How did we end up with play?
That's an excellent question.
It kind of grew out of our work on predictive processing and active inference.
In that literature, you find this idea of epistemic actions, so actions that are for
seeking out new information for resolving uncertainty, and there's an emotional or
effective dimension to those sorts of actions as well.
I've always been interested in how there's an action component to emotions, but normally
we think of that in terms of goal-directed practical actions where, say, you're angry
at someone and then you're ready to strike out at them, or if you're afraid, then your
readiness is to run away.
But epistemic actions also have an emotional dimension to them where it's about curiosity,
finding out something new.
That's an important dimension of prediction error minimization or active inference.
So we started to explore curiosity.
And yeah, this was happening through work that I've been doing with Mark Miller for
a long time about emotions and cognition, where we think of cognition as embodied because
of its connection with emotion.
And Mark and I started to work on valence.
And then Mark Anderson, our colleague in Aarhus University, found our work on valence and
thought, hmm, this is interesting.
It connects very much with the literature on active learning and play in learning, where
there's this idea that what children are doing when they play is seeking out this sweet
spot where things are not too difficult or too complex so that the children don't understand
what's going on.
But nor are they so simple that the children have nothing to learn.
So the children are always trying to seek out this sweet spot in play.
And Mark Anderson started to think, well, maybe we can make sense of why play is fun
using our ideas about valence, where the basic idea that we have is that valence comes
from aerodynamics or from how error changes over time.
Maybe you can just say what you define valence as.
I think a lot of people already know that term, but just in case.
Yeah.
So that is an important question, and there's ways of defining valence like all concepts.
But the rough idea is the negative or positive feeling that accompanies an emotion.
So it feels horrible to experience fear or sadness.
So that's a negatively valenced emotion, whereas happiness or joy, those are positively valence.
So they have a feeling quality that is positive.
Mark Anderson saw this connection between his work on play in development and the work
that he was doing around just how children actively learn through playful explorations.
He saw some links between that work and our work on valence.
Thought might enable us to answer this question of, well, why is it fun to play?
Why do we enjoy playing?
It's fascinating because you think when people hear active inference and free energy principle
on these bigger issues that you're working on, it sounds so in the head that you wouldn't
necessarily connect it to play.
But as it turns out, it's almost a natural place to look at what is being described.
Absolutely.
Well, one of the challenges for the free energy principle and active inference is the dark
rim problem.
So why is it that agents don't simply resolve error by hiding away in a dark rim where nothing
ever happens?
Nothing ever changes.
Right.
If you're just trying to minimize surprise, wouldn't you just put yourself in a place
where you're least likely to lose your breath?
But of course, human beings are very attracted to surprise.
We seek it out in all kinds of ways.
We enjoy roller coaster rides.
We like to go to places that scare us.
We enjoy horror movies and we're thrill seekers.
Indeed.
And thrills often involve surprise.
There's a mystery, a puzzle there for anyone that thinks that the fundamental imperative
for biological creatures is to avoid surprise or to minimize surprise.
I know it's hard to define play, but what are we talking about really when we're talking
about play?
Yeah.
Well, it is something very difficult to define, but we think that creating situations in which
agents experience just the right amount of surprise is one of the key features of play.
So at least offering a cognitive theory of what play is and how to define play cognitively,
we would define it in terms of a kind of niche construction, a modification of the environment
where we are creating this surprise that is just of the right complexity for us to manage
it, to learn something from it.
Yeah, I think you use Winnicott, this therapist, psychotherapist, writer, and I think it's
interesting to think of it with children because we all understand what it's like to play as
a child and Winnicott has this great idea of the child being able to play in the space
of safety that the mother holds.
There's this idea of what you just said, there's a sort of niche that's been constructed
that's safe.
That's a word you talk about in the work too, and relaxed in a sense that you use, and yet
at the same time the child can engage in what feels and is dangerous, surprising, edgwork
kind of thing.
So you have these kind of layers.
There's risk.
There's always a risk in play, so you are only going to engage in play in situations
where it's safe to do so.
That's one of the things that we see in the animal literature as well, so it's not just
humans that play, but also many other creatures, but they only do it when they are confident
that there's no danger, there's no predators around for instance.
And that's in part why I brought it up, because there's a sort of thread that maybe we can
explore a bit with the play now, because for me it seems a bit, reading your paper or thinking
about it, that this space of play, which is a place where you talk about it as a trusted
place or an intimate place, or we already talked about the safe area, it's a kind of
place that's being held such that people can explore their edges, explore uncertainty,
learn from those.
That's an important part of your paper, that it's not only that you're pushing yourself
to certain edges and courting uncertainty in a way, but you're also watching your own
reactions to that.
That's sort of part of it, and learning from those.
So we have this space that we open for each other, like in the case of the mother or the
father opening that space so the child has it, we also do it for one another at different
levels, social levels and so on.
And the others have studied this, many people have studied.
Something about play is very fundamental to our survival.
I don't know if you know Stuart Brown and this Institute of Play in the United States,
But it's another take on this.
He worked with Jane Goodall and different people studying animals too, and then also
humans and pretty much showing that we need this to survive, I mean I'm generalizing.
So this space that you're studying and that you're using the free energy principle to
study is incredibly rich and important for flourishing, but also for survival.
So why is that important?
Or what does that give us?
In one of the papers you talk about how people who play, there's certain sort of ways or
characteristics they create within themselves, a certain kind of attention for example or
attendance, attending to the world in a certain way.
And of course behind all that is meaning.
What did you feel that was kind of different here about trying to understand those big
issues, meaning flourishing in relation to play?
One of the features of play is that it's intrinsically motivating.
So let's just unpack what that means.
It's obviously a technical difficult concept, intrinsic motivation.
So part of what we need to do there is understand the intrinsicness of the value of play.
So what we mean there is that it's rewarding to us.
It's something that we experience positively, not because of the outcomes of play necessarily,
but as an activity that's valuable in its own right.
So then one of the puzzles becomes, well, why would this kind of play activity where
there's no obvious goal, no instrumental goal that we're bringing about as the consequence
of our behavior?
Why would that be something that we find pleasurable or enjoy?
So that takes us back to curiosity again.
There's something that happens in play that is valuable to us because it resolves uncertainty
of a certain kind.
So the way we make sense of this is to think of the whole kind of process of playing over
time and how under the right conditions of safety, as we already emphasized, children
or animals or other agents who are engaging in play will create a kind of situation for
themselves where they increase their uncertainty temporarily.
And then through the playful activity, they find a way of resolving that uncertainty.
So there's a kind of error slope here that we can, if we put this in terms of how to
model it, we can use to model this kind of behavior that there's this rise and fall
of error.
There's a kind of dynamics to the error and that dynamics is associated with positive
valence, we argue, because the agent in the end is able to turn something that is unpredictable
initially into a predictable situation that they can then learn from, that they can then
control in some way.
So it's that process of turning an unpredictable reality into a predictable one that is enjoyable
to us, that motivates us.
So curiosity is, I would say, a motivating experience for many of us where what we're
motivated to do is to gather information that provides some resolution of ignorance
or something that we don't know.
We resolve that.
We're motivated by curiosity to seek out information that will resolve that gap in our knowledge.
Is there something about going through this in a safe space?
We're almost going through patterns or exploring new possible connections and regularities,
trajectories, I would say, or paths.
You talk about that some too.
And then does that give us, so if we do that in a playful way, if we were to encounter
that in life in other ways, those regularities, would we then have reduced our uncertainty
in some way?
Or what's the going on there?
It's almost like courting uncertainty such that we reduce uncertainty.
That's exactly what's happening, yeah.
So there is something paradoxical about it.
You are creating uncertainty, but at the same time, the motivation for doing that is so
that you improve your knowledge, you improve your skills.
So why is that something that we do?
Well, first of all, it's a way to learn, but it's also a way to grow.
And play, we can think of as a kind of niche construction where the child is creating
around itself situations that allow it to grow in its skills, that allow it to further
develop in terms of its understanding of the world and how the world works.
Alison Gopnik, a developmental psychologist, she uses active learning models to understand
how children develop causal models of the world.
But obviously, that's a very cognitivistic way of thinking of what the child is doing
in cognitive development.
We could equally argue that in play, children are improving their embodied skills.
And so the developmental value of play activities comes from this growth in abilities and skills
for engaging with the world and with engaging with the affordances of the world.
And what we've been talking about so far is how curiosity is an epistemic emotion that
motivates us to gather observations, sample information that will resolve, reduce uncertainty.
So for Carl, the way to think about what affordances are is that they're opportunities for reducing
uncertainty.
But we, in our work, following ecological psychology, work in a slightly different tradition.
So Carl and you were talking a lot about Helmholtz operating in the background of the free energy
principle.
And so Carl developed these ideas through his conversations with Hinton.
And in the background was this idea of unconscious inference.
But I come out of a slightly different tradition, the tradition of ecological psychology, where
instead of thinking of perception as this outcome of unconscious inferences that the
brain is performing, we think of perception instead in terms of this direct coupling with
the affordances of the environment.
So affordances for us wouldn't be understood in this information theoretic way that Carl
was suggesting, but we would instead think of affordances as structures that are directly
perceived in the environment.
So we think of affordances in a more relational way.
A meaning and flourishing, those are important for one of the papers in the trilogy.
There's a connection between meaning and affordances in that Gibson wants to say that the environment
for an animal is always a meaningful environment because of what you can do with it, because
of the affordances that it offers.
So Gibson will describe how we should think of the relationship between the organism and
the environment as one of mutuality or reciprocity.
So there's a kind of relationality already implied in the notion of environment in that
there would be no environment if there were not animals with a particular form of life
that that environment surrounds.
So what happens when you transform an unpredictable situation into a predictable one is that you
improve your grip on the available affordances of your environment.
We got onto thinking about meaning in life and wellbeing by wondering, well, what would
it be to have a prediction error minimising agent that was managing to do this optimally
so as to flourish in their life.
And there's always a kind of normativity intrinsic to or value intrinsic to any behaviour of
a living being in that living beings are autopoetic, they're self-maintaining, self-producing
in terms of their organisation and that autopoetic process is then their intrinsic source of meaning
and value in that you can now look at some encounter with the world, with the affordances
of the world and ask is that encounter one that's good or bad for the organism in terms
of this value of being self-maintaining, being self-producing.
So the classic example of this is the bacteria and the sucrose solution and how that's positively
valence for the bacteria and because it's a source of food, so something that can contribute
to the ongoing self-production of the organisation of the bacteria, whereas if the bacteria encounter
some acid in its environment, then that's something that's bad, that's negatively valence
because it impacts on the autopoiesis in a negative way.
We had the idea that the free energy principle gives you a way of modelling formally autopoiesis.
This is something that has been criticised, I should say, by Evan Thompson, Ezekiel DiPaolo
and Randy Beer in a recent paper.
So it's not something that we can simply take for granted, but a lot of the work that's
been done by people coming from 4E cognitive science to the free energy principle has been
motivated by this idea that the free energy principle gives us a set of formal tools for
pursuing this idea of the continuity between life as describing, or autopoiesis as describing
living processes and cognition.
So the idea of a continuity between life and cognition has been a central idea that's been
explored by philosophers that are working in what's called 4E, so embodied, embedded,
extended, inactive cognition.
Just going back a little bit, the idea of norms and values is kind of baked into life
because life is autopoiesis.
And then we started to think, well, could we then think about a richer notion of value
and normativity that might connect to flourishing and wellbeing and try to make sense of the norms
and values that relate to meaning in life and wellbeing using these formal tools of
the free energy principle.
What would that look like if we were to think about in this more subjective way, so not
just being an optimal rational deliberator who maximises utility or succeeds in being
a good approximator of Bayesian inference, but think of optimality in terms of how well
or badly is a life going for a person.
And we found that actually the free energy principle can be instructive for thinking
about that notion of optimality as well.
I can explore that further with you, but maybe you want to pause there because I've been
talking for a while.
I would like to know what you found, how it helped you.
I would like to know on the level you were already about to explain, but also just if
it changed something about your view of play and of these issues in your everyday life.
So theoretically, first of all, what we found was that because of the work that we had done
on addiction and depression and OCD, we saw that one of the features of those disorders
is that people are intolerant of uncertainty.
So there's a kind of rigidity or psychological inflexibility that characterises these conditions.
So that's very clear in addiction and OCD, which are these disorders that are characterised
by these compulsive behaviours.
So there's some kind of habits that you see that the person enacts that they have a strong
urge or needs to enact in their lives.
But you also see this similar kind of rigidity and inflexibility in depression, where people
will have this very fixed negative view about themselves and their future, where there's
this deep hopelessness and meaninglessness.
So their thinking is very shaped by their negative emotions and there's some fixity
or rigidity to their relentlessly negative view, perspective on the world.
So that's what we can think of in terms of this getting stuck in a particular attractor
state so that the way that people with these disorders tend to find to optimally minimise
prediction error is by falling back on these habits of thinking and addiction and OCD,
also in depression, that kind of trap them into a particular way of perceiving and acting
in the world.
And play disrupts this, right?
There's this word disruptive.
Exactly.
So there needs to be something disruptive to get people out of these dysfunctional, suboptimal
ways of engaging with the world.
You know, it's interesting, I just mentioned Stuart Brown and I'm remembering now that
as you talk about this, that he has written about, I think the reason he got into play
was that he was, as a psychotherapist, brought into a case of someone who was very violent
or did some violent crime and he realised that they hadn't played, they hadn't had
any chance to play in their life ever as a child.
I think they were also abused and stuff and he started finding this pattern with a lot
of people that they, and they became very rigid in the way that you just described with
certain kinds of mental illness, but there was this connection.
So yeah, in all these, you're talking about the rigidity and it's reminding me in the
papers you talk a lot.
That there's playful disruption and that the space, the safe space should have disruptive
possibilities.
Yeah.
How does that come in?
Disruption is very important.
The way it comes into it is because what happens in mental illness, we think, or one of the
things that happens is that there's this constant falling back on habitual ways of engaging
with the world at the expense of more openness, curiosity, exploration.
And so that's what I described in terms of an intolerance of uncertainty, that the way
that the depressed person, for instance, deals with the adversity that they've encountered
is to keep things as certain as possible in their engagement with the world.
And so uncertainty becomes something that's deeply aversive.
And similarly in OCD, you can think of the ritualistic behaviors that people engage in
as a way of keeping things as certain as possible, because within those ritualistic behaviors,
you can predict what's going to happen.
You have good control over what's going to happen.
So are these people able to play?
Motivation for that.
Are they able to play or are they motivated to play?
Because play, as we mentioned earlier on, involves the tolerance of uncertainty, involves
taking risks, involves setting up situations of uncertainty where the uncertainty is manageable
enough for you to be able to resolve it eventually over the course of the game that you're playing.
Can we set up safe places for one another?
Do you think of this as a practice, as play as something that could actually be helpful
at some level of helping us to avoid certain rigidities that could develop into these kinds
of things, or would you just completely keep those kinds of ideas separate?
I think what you're asking is, well, could play be used in the treatment of people with
serious mental illness?
Well on one level, but I'm also asking as a society, if we take it more seriously that
play is important, for example, as we develop, that we should encourage, you write about
cities some and creating safe spaces or places where you can be intimate.
And that's not necessarily something all of us experience in our development.
So I'm wondering if that could be helpful towards something in terms of the way we develop
our patterns of how we deal with uncertainty.
It definitely could be helpful.
So the paper on intimate places that you've been referring to sometimes is about how an
artistic space like an art museum or just museums more generally in public places can
be places that we go to to find some kind of way of regulating our difficult emotions.
So they can give us a way of de-stressing, give us a place in which we can find calmness
and a place to reflect.
And that can be a way of using our these places in the environment that are set up for us,
these public places to to regulate our emotions.
So it's an example of what's sometimes called scaffolded affectivity in that these public
places are being used to for us to to to well, they're shaping and sculpting our emotions
for us in a positive way in the example of the art museum.
Yeah, you write about El Echo in Mexico City, which is a wonderful paper because you sort of
walk us through it literally with words and and then images too, but the images don't come
until the end. But so I encourage people to to read that as a kind of example.
There's one thing that I think is an important bridge that we didn't cover yet is the this
dilemma that agents face between exploration of the environment, curious exploration and
exploiting or falling back on what we already know.
And so in your discussion with Carl, he talked a lot about keeping your options open and why
that's important for free energy minimisation.
And that connects with this idea of the maximum entropy principle.
So just keeping your different ways of interpreting your different hypotheses as uncertain as
possible, so that an only increasing certainty about a particular hypothesis when you have
knowledge that gives you reason for doing so.
So that's the idea of the maximum entropy principle that gives you a way of forming these
prior beliefs or prior hypotheses.
And an important idea there behind that maximum entropy principle is tolerance of uncertainty.
So they're exploring different hypotheses.
And that's something that children are naturally very open to doing.
So going back to Alison Gottnick's work again, she shows that children will explore a broad
space of different hypotheses in play and in order to to basically improve their understanding
of the world. So by being open to different perspectives, open to different hypotheses or
ways of understanding the world, that then allows them to develop, to learn, to grow.
Whereas as adults, we become, because of our extensive experience, much more prone to stick
to our preconceptions, our formed ways of understanding the world.
And we'll only explore when we think there's something new to be discovered.
But exploration isn't like our default mode.
So we kind of lose this curious openness over the course of our development that we start out with
as children that gets lost as we become adults.
And we get this idea that, well, we need to be serious.
We have to be productive citizens in our economic institutions and our societal institutions
kind of encourage that through making money, being one of the main motivators for people, being a
productive member of society.
That's something that we're kind of enculturated into, but at the cost of of playing, of being open
and curious. And so I think you're absolutely right in what you said earlier that for us as a
society, for the collective of human beings to be well, we need to create situations that allow us to
be exploratory and to play.
And that's one of the things that museums do for us.
That's one of the things that art does for us or fiction, stories, cinema.
These are all ways that humans have because of us being cultural beings for creating these situations in
which we can explore imaginary realities, which we can play.
Yeah, that's what I like about your work, too, is I think we want to understand we want to have models of
this and we want to understand it scientifically and philosophically in the most rigorous ways.
But also, even while doing that, you do bring in the art and the museum and you work with a lot of collaboration.
You said that earlier and it was something I wanted to bring up because to relate this to play, we've been
talking about children playing and the safety of that and the importance of development.
But as I've said a couple of times, it doesn't stop with our childhood.
We still need it as adults.
We still need those safe places.
And I hear you saying, OK, that's what books are in a way.
A good novel is a space to be safe and try out edgework, uncertainty, look at how you deal with what you're
reading, an art museum.
Do you see it like that, too?
Yeah, so one of the questions that arises in thinking about stories and why we enjoy them is always, well, you
know that this is not real what you're engaging with, but still you're motivated to engage with it.
So where does that kind of, what is it that makes it pleasurable for us to engage with fictive realities?
And back to that valence thing that you brought up at the front and also that one reason I wanted you to talk
about realism and taking it too literal is there is something real going on when we read something like a
novel and identify with it because we're bringing our regularities to that space and it's a real space.
It's just not real in the sense of that what we're reading really happened necessarily.
But I do feel like it's part of how you're trying to describe affordances as abilities and skills.
And the way you're talking about it's relational.
We don't really have the language to actually talk about this.
But when you go to an art museum and you play in this way or you read a book, it's very much real in your
everyday reality, isn't it?
I mean, definitely.
So, well, one of the things that's real is your embodied reactions to the artwork or to the fictional
reality that you're reading about in a novel.
So we can learn from engaging with fictions and engaging with art and how we're affected by those realities.
So why do people like horror films?
Well, because they provide this safe space in which we can encounter these most horrific scenarios,
which, of course, hopefully a very low probability of us ever encountering them in our real life.
But still, we can learn from engaging with those sorts of scenarios, how our bodies respond to them,
what our emotional responses are.
But there's also something profoundly disruptive about art and about literature and theatre that you
explored beautifully with Alvin Noé, his idea of art as a strange tool, and that what art does,
just like philosophy, it gives us this way of putting something on display so that we can then
question it, challenge it, break it even, and transform it.
So exploration can be this disruptive process, play can be this disruptive process, and that's
something that is essential to us, to our meaning in life.
Why? Well, because questioning, making sense of who we are is a fundamental motivation for us as
human beings. And art, philosophy, literature, they provide us with places in which we can
engage in that kind of exploration.
Yes, on that note, I wanted to ask you about your collaborations, and I'm glad you brought it up,
because I wonder about, do we have a space for play in academia? Or should it only be the subject
that we're studying? Or is there a kind of playfulness? Because to be honest, what I really
love about your writing, your collaborations, is they're often very deep in terms of, there's a
lot of substance, but they're easy to read, and they're usually a little bit playful. There's
something playful. And I get the feeling it's because the interaction that you're having
together is a joyful one. Does that ring true on any level?
Yes, definitely. Personally, you asked me how do these ideas come back into my life, and
certainly the collaborations that I've been involved with have been always wonderful people,
and they've always been joyful experiences for me. So I'm glad that you see that in our work.
I think that, can there be a place for more play in academia? I think there should be more
room for play in the classroom, and so it's crucial that we create environments with our
students in which they can explore these ideas, and not just be thinking about the
outcomes, and the learning outcomes, and what grade are they going to receive at the end of it.
Rather, it's necessary for us to set up a situation in which students can take risks,
because it's in that way that you've just seen, that you can be curious, and that can lead to
creativity, to finding out something new that you didn't know before. So that said,
the classroom situation, then as researchers, is there room for play? Well, because so much of what
academics do is pursue these perverse motivations, and you're getting a high
number of research publications that are in the best journals, and winning grants, and all of
these kinds of incentives that we have in academia. Often, I think that creates exactly
the situation that I talked about earlier of there not being room for playfulness anymore,
it's just being this serious endeavor where we have to have these successful outcomes,
we have to be these successful researchers, and that could be very narrowing. That can exactly
lead to this psychological inflexibility. So if academia is to flourish, which it isn't at the
moment, I would argue, then we need to create more space to find wonder, or in what we do
through exploration, through play, through creativity, we need to create these opportunities
for disruption, and not just, well, I don't think that we create the space in which that can happen
very often, in art colleges maybe, but in science, no, typically not, in philosophy, typically not.
That's a very profound, I'm just thinking about, because it relates to so many different things
about trying to create a safe space where people feel like they can explore
uncertainty. I mean, that's not easy to do, but it kind of circles back to why we need studies about
why this is important and what this does, because it gets into how it gets built into what's
expected, or what's part of the regularity.
It circles back to meaning in life again and flourishing. So you were
pointing out before that there's a connection with attention and playfulness.
Yeah, playful people can attend to the world in a way that's more open and expensive. I think
that's a key point in your paper. That's right, yeah. So this open, effortless attention
allows for a kind of freshness of appreciation as Maslow, the humanist psychologist described it.
So this continuous freshness of appreciation in Zen philosophy, this is described in terms of
beginner's mind. So the idea that you know that you don't know, which is also fundamental to
Socrates. So as long as you have this attitude that you're a beginner, that everything is uncertain,
that creates a space in which you can explore, that can create this attitude towards the world
where you're open to awe and wonder, you're open to a fresh appreciation of what would normally
be just seen as familiar and mundane and everyday. But within that, you can start to see
wonder again, you can start to appreciate it again. But that requires this openness, this curiosity
and this exploratory trait and disposition for engaging with the world.
Yes, I wanted to bring up that attention or mindfulness comes in sometimes or that seems a
very important part of this. And also, you said, you know, you don't think academia is working
right now. And I would like to hear a little bit about that if you feel like talking about it,
because I do feel like the way you described it, we don't really have time for the wonder and the
awe of it, which is kind of weird, because it's such a portal into wonder education, you know,
but it becomes hard because we do get into that rigidity of we're doing this to get to here,
to get to here, to get to here, and we have to rack up these certain sort of points. And I wonder
how it's been for you too. And you started with Buddhism a little bit. Yeah, I wonder what does
all that bring up for you, all those themes? Yeah. Well, you know, I've been extremely fortunate in
my academic trajectory to have encountered along my way, many people that have helped me and
I've had a privileged academic, my experience of the university, where I've been on a lot of
research projects, collaborating with other people, we've been able to create this freedom
for ourselves where we are able to play and explore that I have to be honest is a very
privileged situation. And so many academics are in a highly precarious situation where
they're uncertain in an extremely stressful way. Are they going to be able to sustain their
families? Are they going to be able to keep going? And it's a huge struggle for people.
There's in your paper, it's about playful people can tolerate more uncertainty or surprise, but
so can people in war zones, right, because they have to. So there's that safe space that we keep
talking about is very crucial, right? And that's not often there in academia these days.
No, I think academia is not a safe space for many people, first of all, and the incentives that I've
been privileged enough to be able to serve through the people that I've worked with,
many people don't have that experience. And the result of that is that,
well, they love what they're doing. And that's the connection with love. We all are in academia
because we love learning and we love teaching. Still, the price that they pay for that can be
very heavy and can take a lot from the person. And I think there's a lot of exploitation of
vulnerability in academia. So the price of doing what you love is often that you can be taken
advantage of. And I see that amongst some of my younger colleagues who are doing philosophy,
because it's something that is at the core of what's meaningful to them in their lives.
And they will do whatever to carry on doing that because it's so valuable and meaningful to them.
But at the same time, their position in academia is very precarious. And that has all kinds of
knock-on consequences for their everyday life and their family life. So it can be incredibly hard.
So we need to think about how to create an academic system that allows people to flourish
and be well. And I think a large part of that will be changing some of the motivations and
incentives that the system is organized around at the moment, so that people do have their freedom
to explore, to create situations for their students in which their students can experience
the wonder and awe of learning. Because part of curiosity is that we, through coming to engage
with what we don't know, we arrive at insights, and those insights are often sources of wonder for us.
I was going to ask you about how you did this. Is it just luck, or has there been a guiding
motivation, or did you learn early on something about yourself or the world that you sought out
collaboration or that you wanted to create this safe space? Because in a way, everything we've
been talking about, you've sort of done that in your academic life, which is a very rare thing.
Not only you, there's a lot of people that you're connected with and you do have this space that
I don't even know exactly how to describe it. It's not a playground because it's very real.
It's a kind of playground. We call it a material playground. So in the work that I do with the
architects and artists, we see that the spaces that they create as material playgrounds or
playgrounds in which to explore philosophy, but also the possibilities of art. And how have we
done that? Well, we've been fortunate to have a lot of support from the Dutch government here,
where I'm based, from the European Union. So research grants have kept us going. They've
given us the freedom to develop and to grow our philosophical thinking.
Did you also go out of your comfort zone? I mean, did you play in the sense of
exploring the edges and noticing how you responded to things? Because a lot of the
people you collaborate with and you yourself, it's very hard to put you into a category or
put you into a box, which is also unusual a bit in academia. So does that relate at all to the
playground, the material playground? It relates to us being unorthodox, heterodox.
That's part of being an interdisciplinary researcher, that you're always working at the
edge of different disciplines where they meet up. So inevitably that's unorthodox.
What academics do is that they tend to specialise deeply in on particular questions and then go
deeper and deeper into those questions. But the work that I've been doing with my collaborators
has always been inspired by this vision of cognitive science as a space where so many
different disciplines like linguistics, neuroscience, artificial intelligence,
anthropology, philosophy can all meet up. And that vision that people had of cognitive science,
I think is still one that is hugely important and valuable. And we need to try to realise that
vision of a space where all of these different disciplines can come together. And when I see
myself as a philosopher at the end of the day, but a philosopher that is interested in working
in all of these other fields as well. And that's something that was the beautiful thing that
happened in the 1950s when people invented this field of cognitive science that there could be a
space where all of these different disciplines would be able to meet up. I should say psychiatry
and psychotherapy now, because those are also fields that recently I've started to move into.
So we have a centre that we've just started up in Amsterdam with my good friend and colleague,
Damien Denys, called the Lemon Tree Centre for Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Philosophy.
So our aim is to bring together those three seemingly distinct traditions. And because
we think it's necessary to have all three really to make any progress in thinking about
the mental health crisis and what it is to be mentally ill, but also what it is to be mentally
well, we need all three of those perspectives. Have you found, are you a Buddhist?
I'm a Buddhist, certainly inspired by Buddhism and fascinated by it.
Do you have any mindful practices? I think I remember you saying you did Tai Chi or something.
Does that, do you have any spaces where you play?
Yes. Yeah. So one of the things that is a problem in academia is we're so dissociated from our bodies.
I certainly found that in my academic experience that we spend so long sitting and thinking and
writing and those are all great things to do, but they're pretty bad for the body as they don't
involve much movement. So I go to Aikido actually as a place where I find a way to be mindful,
but also to move. And also things like Tai Chi and Jigong, I think are also incredibly valuable
practices for me as an individual, but I think for everybody really, everyone can benefit from them.
So they are places, practices, traditions where you can find a way to be present in your body,
in the movements of your body.
Before we go, I want to hear a little bit about how you think about the word love. It doesn't have
to be in relation to play. You said a little bit of it, but I mean, it might be going too far to
think about all these collaborations or even when you first read Embodied Mind, this being a thread,
love of wisdom, or how does it connect to this motivating what got you into all this and what
I still fill in a lot of your papers, which is quite playful and joyful, but there's something
like what I would think of as love in it on some level, but I wonder how you think about that,
or if you thought about that.
Yeah, so I mean, I can say cliched things about love, but I don't think that's very
interesting for your listeners. If you really believe them, it is.
This is how I would answer your question. I think that love is an experience of transcendence
towards others, towards the world, towards nature. And so there's a kind of self-transcendence that
comes along with a feeling of love and a movement beyond yourself towards the other. And what comes
out of that experience of self-transcendence is a, well, many things, but certainly the wonder and
awe that we have talked about already as something that we become open to through remaining curious.
And so for me, there's a deep connection between openness, curiosity, and love in that I think of
this movement beyond yourself, which is characteristic of openness, as already
an attitude towards life, towards the world that is characterized by love.
And going back to Maslow, we had this, what we talked about as this freshness of appreciation
where you can start to experience wonder in the ordinary, in the familiar. And for me,
I think, again, that's bringing an attitude of love towards the world, towards what you're
perceiving, towards your perceived reality. So love, I think, is something that we can,
is an attitude actually, a way of being that one fosters through creating
spaces in which one remains curious and open to exploration. That openness is for me characterized
by love because it involves this transcendence of the self, this movement towards otherness.
That's beautiful. I love that movement beyond yourself. In a way, it's what we've been talking
about with play. It also reminds me of something. It's exactly what we've been talking about with
play. It's a space that we open up in which we can experience love.
Oh, that's a good way to say it. So it becomes a space where we can move beyond ourselves,
so to speak. Yes. When playing with others, we certainly, so love involves playfulness, I think.
Yeah. Even though in a cod of the mother or the father letting their child play, I think that's
kind of an act of love, that space that's held so the child can explore the uncertainty, too. That's
almost like a literal example of that love being a space. But also it reminds me of other things
you've written, and we don't have time to go into it, but about consciousness, of the way that we're
always kind of have that beyond ourselves potential. And somehow with wonder and awe,
as you've been using those words, there's something with maybe closer to what I was
talking about with flow with Karl or something where there is some space there where we
feel ourselves moving beyond ourselves, in a way.
Yeah. So they are experiences of flow, and experiences of flow happen when we
achieve moments of insight. John Faveke has written a lot about this in his cognitive
psychology research about how people experience flow at moments in which they have this feeling
of insight and sort of feeling of developing or growing in some way. And what comes along
with those insights is often an experience of awe and wonder. There's something that's
much bigger than us that we're now engaging with. So that's that self-transcended moment
of opening to something that's larger than us.
Do you feel like in your best academic work and these collaborations that you've experienced that?
I relish those moments of insight that you can find with in collaborations. Yeah,
that's one of the things that I think is much harder to reach on your own.
But when you're in dialogue, collaboration with others, in working through difficult ideas,
those insights become much easier to access. And I think doing that in a spirit of openness
is essential. And so that brings us back to the need for love again, that entering into
these collaborations with love is what creates that atmosphere of openness in which we can
reach insights together. And just allowing that orientation to be okay in academia to exist.
Creating a space for it, yeah. I don't think it's allowing makes it sound like it can just happen,
whereas I think it needs to be an active process that you make happen as in some agency that's
required. Yeah, I think that's a good point. Although I've been, I guess what I was thinking
of is there's sometimes situations where it could come, but people block it off out of,
you know, that it shouldn't be in that space or something. Or it's embarrassing or no one
knows how to deal with it yet. Because for the reasons we've been talking about, we haven't
practiced it or rehearsed it so much. Yeah, well that's the disciplinary norms that come along with
academia. There's these rigid hierarchies and old rules about how to do things. And those
have a function and a purpose, but they are also rigid and interrupting the possibility to create
interactions, collaborations where we're free and able to explore and play.
Well, I think one thing just to get from your work and reading you is that that is possible
and it does lead to good philosophy and science. So maybe just making that explicit is something
positive to do for students and people out there to know that that's something to focus on.
Yeah. Can hopefully point the way to possible possibilities for others as well. Other
affordances for others, create affordances for others.
Absolutely. It's quite exciting if you imagine academia through that lens, what it becomes.
You know, there's a way that academia could open to the spirit of that and still be rigorous. Yeah,
and maybe these kinds of collaborations we've been talking about as a good portal or way of
looking at how that might happen. Absolutely. Well, one of the things that we got to in
thinking about wellbeing from through the lens of these different ideas of ecological psychology,
active inference in action. Well, one of the ideas we got to was the needs to find the right balance
between falling back on what you already know and being held back by that in a way because
it provides a framework for your perceiving and thinking about the world, but it also limits us
in certain ways and being open to be curious and explore and seek out novel experiences that
disrupt. So you don't want to go too far in one direction or the other because if we're
and always exploring and not relying on what we already know, then we just end up being confused
and not understanding or being able to make sense of anything. You need some kind of past or some
kind of model or framework to work from to make sense of things, but nor do you want to get stuck
in your rigid preconceptions, habits and expectations for how things are because as long as you just
settle for that, then you're trapped in these preconceptions and unable to tolerate any
uncertainty and that's what we see in serious mental illness often. So we have to navigate this
trade-off between exploring for a novelty and exploiting the familiar and what we already know.
It just reminded me, when you talk about that in one of the papers,
don't you talk about foraging and farming? Yeah, so that's in the paper on play that we
make this distinction between foraging and actively sowing seeds that leads to new
discoveries, which is the farming metaphor. So we think that play is not just this foraging,
which is what happens when we're curious, we seek new information that resolves uncertainty, but
the farming is the creation of uncertainty to learn from and that's what we think happens in
play. But there's something that is crucial there also for flourishing and being well,
in that we have to be open to that possibility to be surprised. We have to create that in our lives
and that that means often being willing to put ourselves into uncertain situations,
to take risks, to not just get trapped in our familiar ways of doing things, our habits,
but to be willing to break them, to step outside of them, to challenge them.
So that I think is one of the key messages that I take in my own life and from these theoretical
ideas that I think could potentially be helpful for your listeners as well, if they're thinking
well what can all of this philosophical, theoretical stuff help, how can it help me,
what can it tell me about how to live well, how to live a good life. I think one of the things we
can learn is that you need to break your own habits, you need to challenge those habits and
step outside of your comfort zone sometimes when you feel safe to do so, because that's where
you get to to grow, to develop and being well, living well, living meaningfully is in the end
about creating these situations in which you can grow and develop. That's a very good point,
I'm glad you added that. It also makes me think of that explore exploit isn't a dichotomy,
that relates a bit to the conversation we're having about academia. It's not either or,
it's both and. Yes, very good. Yeah, that's very good. I think you wrapped up some of the
open threads there. Something that was in the back of my mind to come back to you there.
But I love where we went, that was very beautiful and moving actually and I think a message people
need to hear, so thank you for that. That's great. Looking forward to all of your future
explorations as well. Yeah, my pleasure. Thanks for having me. My pleasure too,
thanks for doing it. I hope you have a good day there. All right, bye. See you soon.
