These words popped into my head, this civilisation is finished.
I was pretty shocked by this, what felt like a kind of awful revelation.
It kind of literally stopped me in my tracks.
It confirmed my sense of a certain kind of fragility in what we assume in society.
What one is always seeking to attain in philosophy is freedom from ideological preconceptions,
from thought traps, from assumptions that make an asset of you and me.
And some of those thought patterns are exactly the things which divide us from other people.
Philosophers getting stuck in thinking of ourselves as separate from other people.
When we really manage to free ourselves from those kinds of philosophical entrapments,
we find ourselves in a web of intense care and interrelationality with other people.
Whatever does not kill me makes me stronger.
Although I've gone through a lot of suffering,
as have some of the other people we've named, Wittgenstein being a famous example.
It's interesting that Wittgenstein, his last words were,
tell them I've had a wonderful life.
And luckily I'm not at that point in my life yet, but I feel somewhat similarly.
The argument that I've made in recent years is that all of these difficult
emotions are in fact inflections of love.
That we, for example, are angry because what we love is threatened.
Being honest is a lifelong project.
There's nothing better that can happen to one than finding one's life's purpose.
And what I actually believe is that the epochal crisis we're moving into
provides an enormous opportunity for all sorts of people to find true meaning again,
and true community in their lives.
The attempt to avoid despair is a profound mistake.
Many people are going to be tempted to despair in the years to come
because of the immense difficulty of our situation.
And what I say to those people is, don't try to avoid it, to work with it.
These are exactly the things that give us a chance, that give us some real hope.
Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is Andrea.
Today I'm talking with Rupert Reid, who's a philosopher and public intellectual and much more.
You've maybe heard of him for all kinds of different reasons,
depending where you live, depending what you're interested in.
Today we're going to talk about crisis.
We're going to talk about Wittgenstein.
We're going to talk about liberation.
We're going to talk about love.
I came to Rupert Reid's work because of Wittgenstein,
but also because of this idea of through-topia,
which you might have heard mentioned here before,
relative to writing through dystopia and utopia towards through-topia.
I'll put that episode in the show notes,
but the reason I wanted to have Rupert on was
because I came across his book about paradoxes and Wittgenstein,
and I wanted to talk to him about it,
but also because in his own life he holds a lot of different worlds as you'll hear.
I won't try and summarize it all here because we have a very good discussion about it,
but it's really about how we hold these seeming contradictions,
or even, for example, this very conversation,
and all of the things that Rupert is involved in.
There will be some people who will hear certain words and find them difficult,
while others will find them very inspiring.
The same is actually true about Wittgenstein and the ways that his philosophy is interpreted.
For example, there's a book called The New Wittgenstein,
which Rupert Reid edited,
and I remember coming across and reading quite often when I worked at the bookshop in New York,
and it sees Wittgenstein through the lens of thinking of philosophy as being possibly
therapeutic.
I encourage you to look at the book,
read some of the essays Stanley Cavell and Hilary Putnam and others,
but there's this older idea and philosophy of understanding that philosophy can do something
therapeutic if we look at it as a practice.
Pierre Hedot has been mentioned on the podcast recently,
and I'll write about that on the sub stack eventually soon,
what this idea of philosophy as a way of life,
and I think right now I find it rather comforting to think of philosophy in this way
as something that can help us disrupt thought patterns
and also deal with disruptive thought patterns,
learn how to get some space around them to look at them,
and also there's this underlying theme through this conversation of crisis
and of love as a form of action.
Love as action, not a form of action,
but this comes up often too on the podcast that people discuss how love isn't a feeling
for them so much as an action,
that love is an action in the world,
and that's an important idea right now.
In this conversation, you'll hear us talk about his teachers,
Joe Animesi and Thich Nhat Hanh,
and also his Quakerism,
and you'll also hear him talking about beginning,
being part of the starting extinction rebellion.
You'll also hear him talk about being a scholar of Wittgenstein.
All these worlds are the world of Rupert Reed,
and he's got a lot of pushback for trying to hold all those worlds,
and I really wanted to understand how he's done it and how it feels,
and also just talk to him about some of his philosophical writing
relative to these ideas and to paradox and to Wittgenstein.
He held a lot of seeming dichotomies in the space of his own life,
and Rupert is doing that too,
and many people are trying to do that right now,
so that's what we talk about here.
We had this conversation many months ago before,
I think it was maybe even at the very end of the summer last year,
so it's been a long time.
The world has changed a lot since then,
but somehow the conversation feels even more up-to-date when I listen to it now.
I hope it brings something loving into your life,
somewhere, somehow helps you hold whatever it is you need to hold right now.
We are here, we are creating the future together,
and we can do that.
Everything we do, every action, really does matter.
Let's stay focused on the moment, the everyday action,
all there is to be grateful for,
and all we can do together,
realizing how much power and beauty and connection
is potent in this moment in learning and loving.
It's so nice to meet you.
Thank you for being on Love and Philosophy.
Hi, Andrew, good to be here.
There's a lot I want to unpack.
You've done so many things, and this is a broad audience.
But to start, I was wondering if you remember the first crisis
that you came to in your life.
Maybe it doesn't have to be the first one, of course,
but when you think back,
do you remember any sort of crisis that you had in your life?
I would offer two things.
Firstly, when I was very young, we had quite a crisis in the UK,
so this isn't really a crisis in my life,
but it's something that made a mark on me.
We had the so-called three-day week in the early 1970s,
during which time there were quite serious power cuts.
So one of my earliest memories is sitting around a dinner table
with, or breakfast table even, but probably dinner,
with candles, because there was no power, no electric power.
And that was, looking back on it, that was very interesting.
It kind of confirmed my sense of a certain kind of fragility
in what we assume in society,
and that we shouldn't assume that our civilization
is nearly as stable as we usually, most of us even now, still assume.
And that connects with things I've been doing recently.
In terms of a personal crisis,
my youth was relatively problem-free compared to many people's.
I had a very happy childhood and a happy family,
and it was only later really that I came into
what I would call true personal crises.
So in my 30s, I had a serious long episode of anxiety and depression,
and that taught me an enormous amount.
Quite a lot of my philosophy and my writing about art
and my spiritual teaching comes really in a way from that period in my life,
which was immensely painful,
but I tried to treat it in the way that Nietzsche teaches,
whatever does not kill me makes me stronger.
Is that when you discovered philosophy?
Where were you by then?
No, so I did philosophy as an undergraduate at Bayville College, Oxford University,
and that was absolutely amazing, brilliant,
and I fell in love with philosophy and did a philosophy PhD at Rutgers,
and that was the, obviously, led into my academic career,
which has been most of my professional and adult life,
although increasingly in recent years it's given way to other things.
Yeah, so I used to work at a bookshop in New York called St. Mark's Books.
I don't know if you've ever heard of it.
I know it.
I used to, but I did my PhD.
I was at Rutgers University, and I spent a lot of time in New York,
and that was, I think that was probably my favorite bookshop,
so I used to work there.
I used to work there when I was in school.
It's gone now, unfortunately, but yeah, I worked there.
But the point is, it's very strange,
but as I was, you know, looking at your work,
I was reading your Wittgenstein, which I hope we can talk about,
but I suddenly came across the book, the new Wittgenstein.
It's got, it's a picture of him and it's gold,
and I used to pick this book up all the time in that bookshop and read it.
Nice, successful ever academic book project in the sense that it became,
as much as academic books do, it became a kind of minor bestseller and,
you know, helps lead a kind of revolution in thinking about
who Wittgenstein is and what his philosophy was.
We argue in that book that his philosophy was fundamentally therapeutic,
if you will, throughout his career, throughout his life,
including in his early work, and that therefore the talk,
the common talk of there being two different Wittgensteins,
or two different Wittgensteinian philosophies is much overstated.
Speaking of therapy, speaking of philosophy,
one of your books you write about Wittgenstein,
it's like liberatory philosophy, I think.
And I want to see how this connects.
So you'd already studied philosophy when you had the crisis that you had, or?
Yes.
And had you already been working on this thinking of philosophy therapeutically?
Yes.
Yeah, okay.
And I just wonder if when you had that crisis, if it was, in fact, of help,
you brought up Nietzsche, but I can see, I guess I'm getting towards,
I can see how what you're doing now is informed by a lot of philosophical points
earlier in your life, but I wonder about for you and your private self,
if you were thinking about these kinds of things early on or, yeah,
in terms of crisis, right?
Because it's still about crisis within a different nested level.
Yeah, yeah.
So I would say two things on that.
The first is that, yes, I have found philosophy sometimes very personally
helpful across the years, especially in this period of crisis
that I mentioned earlier and its long aftermath.
I've found philosophy, philosophy is like Nietzsche's useful,
but also the Stoics have been important to me.
These days, I'm a big fan of Stoicism and in my final days teaching
at the University of East Anglia, teaching philosophy there,
I would teach the Stoics.
And also Wittgenstein himself, in his therapeutic philosophizing
and in his more or less religious and spiritual attitude to the work
that he did, his intensely ethical attitude to the enterprise of philosophy
and the enterprise of life.
And the second thing I would say is that as you've correctly
picked up on my book, Wittgenstein's Liberatory Philosophy,
which was my final work in academic philosophy,
and I regard it as my magnum opus as definitely my most important book,
at least among the books that I've done that were written by me
as opposed to edited books.
In that book, Wittgenstein's Liberatory Philosophy,
I go one step further than this idea of philosophy as therapy
and talk about philosophy as liberation.
And part of that exercise is drawing on Wittgenstein
to suggest a different idea of liberation and freedom
from the idea that we usually have.
So I argue that Wittgenstein's philosophy is really that
what one is always seeking to attain in philosophy
is freedom from ideological preconceptions,
from thought traps, from assumptions that make an ass out of you and me.
And I argue that when you understand liberation in this way,
firstly, it coheres with the spiritual enterprise
and the enterprise of seeking to free oneself from entrapment
by thought patterns that hold one captive,
as occurs over and over again in, for instance, anxiety and depression.
And secondly and crucially, that part of this redefining therefore of freedom
is that you don't think of freedom anymore
in anything like the way that Isaiah Berlin famously thought about it
when he said that freedom is basically negative freedom,
i.e. freedom from other people.
Instead, on the contrary, you think that freedom and liberation
are indissoluble from other people.
So I coined this slogan in Wittgenstein's philosophy,
autonomy is relationality, that the kind of autonomy that Wittgenstein seeks
is autonomy from thought patterns that trap you.
And some of those thought patterns are exactly the things
which divide us from other people.
I argue that this is what's at the heart, for example,
of his famous anti-private language considerations,
that what those are really about is about philosophers getting stuck
in thinking of ourselves as separate from other people.
And that when we really manage to free ourselves
from those kinds of philosophical entrapments,
we find ourselves in a web of intense care
and interrelationality with other people.
We don't, for example, speculate about whether other people have minds or not.
On the contrary, we move immediately to regard other people
as part of our concern and not just other people either, by the way,
other beings at large.
So yeah, my philosophy, my final philosophy, if you will,
the final version of it, as expressed in that book,
is intensely about the way that philosophy, if you do it right,
if you do it in the spirit of Wittgenstein et al.,
is actually a doorway to care and love for other people
rather than anything that gets in the way of such love and care.
Yeah, I think that's very beautiful.
And I guess that's why I wonder about the crisis you were going through.
And also, I mean, I also feel kind of close to Wittgenstein,
or I always have.
I mean, obviously, when I was at the bookshop,
I'm picking up that book and reading it.
And there's this strange kind of paradox,
which connects also to other work you've done talking about Wittgenstein,
of this solitary sadness or this being sort of trapped, right?
I think in that book, you talk about how the freedom is finding the right word.
And also, when you're introducing that book,
you're talking about this feeling that we all know,
if we've ever tried to really do a writing project or think really deeply,
where it's just so hard in a way and so liberating and so wonderful,
but so it's really writing that weird razor edge of almost too much to handle.
And I think of Wittgenstein in this way often as if he was,
maybe I'm romanticizing it, and you brought up Nietzsche too,
but you're so alive and so desperate to get out of these patterns you're in.
Or find another way of looking at them.
So I'm bringing all this up because I wonder if,
in writing that book, because it became a transitional moment for you, right?
I wonder what was happening there, if I'm reading too much into it,
or if it really was this kind of the tide going out
and you really having to look at things deeply and deal with them.
In this way that's solitary, but then you find the love in the community.
Yes, yes.
Gosh, there's such a lot I could say there.
I guess one thing I'd start with is that, yes,
so this was my last academic book, my last work of philosophy as such,
and partly it was so because I felt, right,
I've really done the work I needed to do in philosophy as such,
in academic philosophy, and it's time to move on.
And partly that coincided with the increasing urgent,
emergent aspect of my life to do with wrestling with the huge civilizational
crisis, including crucially the ecological crisis,
that we find ourselves in and finding that now more imperative.
But that makes it sound a bit too much either or because,
you know, the work that I do now leading the Climate Majority Project,
which I'm sure we'll come to later,
that work still involves a lot of what they call thought leadership.
It involves a lot of deep thought about, for example,
the nature of social movements, the possibility of fundamental
transformational change.
And these things are not actually alien to philosophical thought patterns.
And moreover, if anyone is strong enough to read all the way
to the end of Victor Neistat's laboratory philosophy,
you'll find that in the final chapters,
I kind of bring out a dimension of this already there.
So I argue there, as I mentioned briefly earlier,
I argue there that when one understands autonomy correctly,
it is the same thing as relationality,
that the kind of freedom that we are looking for
is a freedom from, for example, the kinds of assumptions
that are keeping us stuck in a civilization,
which is, as my former friend and colleague,
only former because he's dead, David Graeber,
as famously said, a predicament that we seem to be stuck
in a certain mode of social organization,
unable to understand other modes of social organization.
And this suchness is killing us.
We need to overcome assumptions such as the idea of progress,
and such as the idea that we are, in any meaningful sense,
cut off from other people,
or that we should try to assume liberation from them,
or from other beings, or from nature.
And I come to all of these things by the end of that book.
And these things are things that I'm trying to realize now,
but continuing to use thought as I do so in the life that I'm weaving now.
And you ask, you know, how do I connect that back to crisis?
And there's many ways, again, I could do that.
I would mention briefly a couple.
One is that, as I said, my beliefs and my experience
is that a fundamental dimension of anxiety and depression
is being stuck in certain thought patterns,
in a way which is quite similar to the ways
that we get philosophically stuck in those thought patterns.
And arguably, Wittgenstein himself was pursuing
this kind of theme in the first half of the Philosophical Investigations,
which is what my book is about.
So there's a whole kind of sequence of sort of parallels here, right?
It's the situation that somebody is in
when they're in a psychopathological situation.
It's a situation a civilization is in
when it's in, broadly speaking, psychopathological situation,
when one's society is stuck and thick.
And the way in which philosophy can give one clues
as to how to get out of these situations,
although it can't, as it were, do the work for you.
And this is one caution I would give, by the way,
that if anyone's listening is thinking,
oh, I've got anxiety and depression
and maybe philosophy can help me get out of it.
Yeah, maybe it can.
But you do have to be quite careful
because another thing that you can do
if you're not really careful with philosophy
is get endlessly stuck in more and more thought
that just kind of spins around,
which is often itself a characteristic
of being stuck in a psycho situation.
So that's what you don't want to do.
You have to find the break, the pathway into action.
And well, speaking of myself,
I've managed to find that pathway, I would say,
quite effectively in recent years,
which has been a great blessing.
Yes, indeed.
And I want to get to this because
there's these nested levels of it,
of trying to change thought pattern or notice thought pattern.
Sometimes it sounds even when you're talking
or when I was talking
that it's all in the individual head
or something like this.
You talk about that a lot about it's not.
And actually those patterns are in the community
or maybe in Wittgenstein's family
or in that kind of world he was in.
In Wittgenstein's Vienna, for example,
to use the title of the famous book.
Exactly.
So how do you see that?
The way that we can awaken to perhaps
almost a practice of noticing patterns
and thinking through them.
I know we want to talk about nature
and that you connected with nature.
How did you get out of your own individual thoughts
and notice the thoughts around you, I guess?
That is a huge question.
There are many parts of the answer.
One part of the answer is nature.
Another part is spiritual practice.
I'm a member of the Religious Society of Friends, the Quakers.
I'm also a Buddhist practitioner.
I'm a former student of Thich Nhat Hanh and of Joanna Macy's.
And Quakerism and Buddhism,
they come from opposite sides of the world,
but something that they profoundly have in common
in Buddhism, at any rate, in its most crucial forms, in my view,
is that you might say they are fundamentally
practice-based religions or spiritualities or philosophies.
They do not...
So in Quakerism, for instance, there is no creed.
And in Buddhism, one might say something like,
if you don't take part in Buddhist meditation
or if you don't naturalize that kind of meditative attitude
or practice into your life,
then it's kind of silly to say that you're a Buddhist.
You're not a Buddhist by virtue of believing in certain...
in the truth of certain propositions.
For me, when I had my personal crisis,
and Quakerism became more important to me,
and it was then that I actually went deeply into Buddhism
and ended up spending time at Plum Village in France, for example,
with Thich Nhat Hanh and his colleagues and Chen Con and so forth.
So I'm giving that as a kind of example,
because I think it's quite an important example,
not just because it's been important to me personally,
but because one of the problems with our civilization
is that it has tended to lose grip on the importance
of religious and spiritual practice of some kind or another.
I'm not saying everyone has to become a Quaker or a Buddhist.
I'm saying that in wisdom traditions,
as these get embodied in practices,
as for example in Buddhism,
there is something very precious and profound,
which I believe is a crucial resource to getting us out,
if we can get out of the absolutely terrible bind that we are stuck into.
And one of my future projects,
which is influenced by philosophy,
but also influenced by the work I've been doing in the world,
and influenced very much by my spiritual and religious experience
and by my attempts now to be a spiritual teacher,
one of my key future projects is a book
that I've got a lot of material for on eco-spirituality.
And I believe that eco-spirituality is sort of nature-connected orientation
to the world, which has a broadly spiritual dimension.
I believe that eco-spirituality is almost certain to be a rising trend
in the very difficult period of our life as a species that we are moving into.
Why? Well, it's simple, really.
People are going to seek something to take refuge in in these difficult times,
and refuge, a word that is very important to Buddhism.
I think a lot of that refuge will be taken in nature and going beyond that,
I think a lot of it will be taken in nature-based religious practice or spirituality.
Yes, I'm so glad you brought both of those names up,
Thich Nhat Hanh and also Joanna Macy,
because that's where I wanted to go with you is,
I wonder, did you seek them out?
I mean, because when you look back, when I'm looking at your life,
I didn't mention earlier, but I think you were with Stanley Cavell, maybe,
with the philosophy.
And I remember in that book, there was Hilary Putnam and others.
And then that world is one very particular kind of world.
And then I was also reading, I always say his name wrong, Thich Nhat Hanh
and Joanna Macy, and that's love, right?
He's writing so much about love,
and then she's writing about the difficult emotions based in love.
And I don't see these as different.
I mean, philosophy, of course, has the word love in it,
but did you go seek them out?
Were you missing something?
Did it all come together?
So in terms of Wittgenstein, I've had many great Wittgensteinian teachers.
The most important of all for me has been Cora Diamond.
And it was her who oriented me towards what became the new Wittgenstein,
towards the resolute, so-called resolute reading of Wittgenstein's work,
which you find across all of my philosophical work of the last 25 years or so.
And that has more of a possible bearing than some might think on where,
if you will, I've ended up.
Because Cora, for example, she writes quite a bit, actually,
about love and about its manifestation in life,
in literature, in philosophy, or its absence in philosophy.
So that's one starting point.
In terms of why I got into Buddhism in such a serious way as I did,
as I say, that was very much coming initially from my own personal crisis.
And that led me onto a journey of taking Zen, especially,
much more seriously than I had done previously,
and getting to know much more about it and practicing it a lot more.
That led me eventually to Palm Village and Thich Nhat Hanh,
and also led me to write some stuff about Zen and philosophy,
and in particular about Zen and Wittgenstein,
which people can find out there if they want.
In terms of Joanna Macy, that's an interesting little story.
So I have a great colleague, his name is Andrew Boswell.
He has been a friend for many years,
and is a sort of collaborator now in the Climate Majority Project.
And he and I have done quite a lot of Buddhist stuff together, too.
And Green Party stuff together as well.
Anyway, he urged me to listen to these lectures by Joanna Macy called
World as Lover, World as Self.
I was very busy, it was just an incredible title, isn't it?
World as Lover, World as Self.
And I instantly recognized the power of the title.
But at the time I was pretty busy with my important philosophical writing,
and with my important political work.
So for ages I didn't listen to it,
and he kept nagging me to listen to it,
and he said, she's coming, she's coming to England.
Please, you know, have a listen,
because I want you to go and study with her, with me.
And so finally I did listen.
As soon as I did, I was like, oh my god, you know,
I don't have heard this before.
And so I signed up and went on this course where Macy studied with Joanna,
and this work became, as you noted, very important to me,
and is a big, big influence on a lot of my writing and my actions
over the last especially decade or so.
And Joanna has become a really important mentor to me.
So that's kind of the story there.
And yeah, for me, a really crucial aspect here
is the way that Joanna Macy really gives us, I think,
a full embodied understanding of the importance of the difficult emotions.
So shame, anger, grief, anxiety.
And the argument that I've made in recent years
is that all of these difficult emotions are in fact inflections of love.
That we, for example, are angry because what we love is threatened.
That we are afraid because what we love is threatened
and what we most value and those we most value, including ourselves, are at risk.
That's so rich that I almost feel like it's the soil or something
and you're showing everything sort of growing out of it.
I want to pause just a second because that's a really important moment there
where your friend's trying to get you to go see her
and you're stuck in your philosophy.
Because I've been there and I see it a lot in colleagues
who are philosophically inclined, especially towards more analytic, right?
Where you just think you have to do this very serious work.
And it's even one reason I call this love and philosophy
because people find it very uncomfortable often to talk about love as philosophers.
Yeah, it turned out he was pushing us an open door,
but he had to push a little while before I fell into it.
And what became the most important part of that of all for me
was going deep into the understanding, the embodied understanding
and the philosophical understanding of grief,
which I think is the most neglected difficult emotion still of them all.
And the way that grief is love in the sense of grief is the terrible rip that we feel
when something or someone that we love is removed from the world.
And I've argued that the way to understand this is that our very world is therefore has a rip in it.
And that is what grief is.
Yeah, it does feel like that.
And as you're talking, I'm remembering Joanna Macy's tearing up or something.
She's so present with it, right?
There's an embodied feeling you get of we can sit with this.
And that reminds me of things you say about truth.
Just sit with the truth, look at the truth.
This is hard and it's even messy for me to try to understand
how I want to talk to you about it.
But it's so important.
Even someone like Wittgenstein or Nietzsche or these philosophers,
I feel they're also trying to do that or find that space.
Yeah.
And I wonder, do you feel that's part of the healing?
That's kind of a weird word too.
But these aren't disconnected from other areas of life either, right?
Love itself, I always thought as a kid,
it's very hard to feel so much love for my parents or for whoever
because you can't do anything about it.
You really just have to sit there with it.
Right.
You mean you can't do anything about it in the sense of you can't say you can't help it.
You can't change, make things good for them or you can't not love them.
There is of course stuff you can do about that,
which is why I've argued for many years that we think about love wrongly
if we think of it as a feeling.
Love ultimately devolves into what we do and I've argued slightly controversially
that love is a kind of activity or action.
But actually I think this is a very helpful perspective
and alternative to this kind of excessively internalised version of the emotions
which tends to grip us in our individualistic civilisation
where we're imagining ourselves cut off from each other
which takes us back to my argument about why that's the wrong way to think of ourselves
based again in Wittgenstein's thinking.
So yeah, for me love if you will is a kind of work
and I think that that connects helpfully with the way in which people sometimes talk about
brief work people like Joanna.
It also connects I think with what rationally I accepted for a long time
but until I think relatively recently hadn't fully actually realised or actualised
in my life and my work which is the importance of inner work as it's called.
So for many years I would say and I heard others say in a greedism
that when it comes to say activism or politics inner work is really crucial.
If you just kind of engage in campaigning and behaviour change and so forth
that isn't enough it needs to connect with stuff that you're doing within yourself
usually along with other people by the way
not just typically by yourself sequestered away somewhere.
But it wasn't until maybe well the last decade at the most
that I really pain to find more effective ways of embodying that truth
that inner work is a crucial dimension that you can't actually separate
the inner work from the outer work ultimately.
By inner work do you mean thinking through your own patterns?
Thinking through your own patterns, meditating on yourself on what's important,
working to process and handle things that you find difficult,
dealing with traumas etc.
Unless we do these kinds of things we can't actually be fully effective in the world
and it's an ongoing process.
It's not like you just sort of get yourself sorted with a therapist
and then you can just go to it.
It's an ongoing practice.
Yeah that's that therapeutic and liberatory thing.
I'm sorry to stop you but this does connect to what I was trying to get at
and also that it's not easy right?
So you're so right what you just pointed out that love is an action
but as a kid or when you're a teenager you don't quite know how to you feel overwhelmed
emotions but also just by that you want to participate in the world or you want to
sometimes it was just that I want to show this.
I don't know how to do something with the love like that's going to be worthy of it
so to speak right?
So that's interesting too how you learn how to even notice it.
That also gets to the vision sign and other things we've talked about of course a lot
of stuff you've written about but how you come to notice those patterns
and I guess it is community-based and again this does nest up to all these other challenges
we're facing but I don't know what does that bring up for you?
Yeah well very good.
I agree I would say a couple of things.
Firstly to try to illustrate a bit more what I mean by talking about the way that this
handling of these difficult emotions is crucial the way that inner work is unavoidable.
One of our key campaigns in the climate majority project is called the climate
courage campaign and what that involves is the idea that what we must do in relation
to telling the truth the difficult truth as it inevitably is around the climates and nature
crisis and so forth is help provide people with resources to handle that difficult truth.
You can't just kind of dump the truth on somebody and walk away right?
You have to help them with that the inner work has to be done and it is typically
shared in a word.
So for example what the climate courage campaign is saying is when kids get taught
about the climate crisis in schools they need to be resourced psychologically to deal with
the content of that teaching and that speaks to the way in which in the climate majority project
we see the work of transformative change as really very holistic.
It's about the importance and the centrality of truth.
It's about handling that difficult often difficult truth together also the wonderful
truth needs to be handled too.
It's about effective pathways to action together which are to some extent tailored to individual
people but also bring it together and it's about collective awareness of all of these
things and collective awareness that this kind of movement this kind of as I describe
it as a kind of neutral movement together a kind of wave even of action once we start
to actually face up to the difficult reality once we start to feel the emotions that
inevitably then those those emotions move us and that's built into the idea of emotion
actually if one understands it adequately which is another reason why thinking of emotions
just as feelings is inadequate.
Those emotions move us towards other people towards action towards what is needful and
what we say in the climate majority project is you've got to have all these four things
together the truth the handling of the truth the pathways to action on that basis and the
collective awareness of all of this and of all of this as being an inevitable process
and the only questions being whether that process will be wise enough and wide enough
and deep enough and and and smart enough and and swift enough and so that's one thing I
would say the other is kind of connecting this back to what we've been talking about
in relation to philosophy and truth is that yes as you imply I think that one can find
roots for this in the philosophy of Wittgenstein and also in the philosophy of Nietzsche and Foucault
some people take Nietzsche and Foucault to be philosophers who weren't really
in the end of the at the end of the day that that much on the side of truth but were rather
of unmasking truth itself among other things as a kind of a strategy or something like that
I think that's a misunderstanding of both Nietzsche and Foucault and have written
accordingly I think if you look at where Foucault got to in his final years and of course you know
he died tragically young really he was the same age as I am now when he when he died what Foucault
was trying to do Michel Foucault in those final years was to was to actually take seriously the
importance of truth in a way that other intellectuals such as Bachelet of Havel and
many others have have made made prominent and the way in which we have to do well in a work
basically if we are to and that's what the history of sexuality is about if we are to get anywhere
with that truth in the case of going back right back to Nietzsche I argue that Nietzsche did not
as people have sometimes said he did think of of himself as a sort of master of of truth or the
will to truth etc from the outside he saw himself actually as an exponent of it from the inside and
I think that what Nietzsche and Foucault and Wittgenstein all have in common is an absolute
passion for truth without which I think it's impossible really to be a proper philosopher
at all so when we talk about philosophy as the love of wisdom I think we're part of that is
inevitably the love of truth and this is this is an absolutely vital characteristic for our time
right truth and truthfulness are under very real threat in our world from dangerous politicians
from from people who are hungry to to make money in various ways and through conspiracy nonsense
through fomenting antagonism on so-called social media we need to counterpose that by doubling down
on truthfulness and authenticity and in their different ways I think it's a capacity to do that
which is given to us by the best philosophers very much including Wittgenstein by people like Joanna
Macy and that's what I'm seeking to realize in my work and that's and that's integral to the
practice of the climate majority project one way of seeing it is that we are trying to bring what
was palpably present in in movements like extinction rebellion or Fridays for Future the school climate
strikes the absolute emphasis there on truthfulness and being willing to manifest the difficult
emotions that arise in relation to it we're seeking to bring that in the climate majority project to a
much wider audience what is it about truth that's so hard we haven't talked much about language and
it is of course a part of Wittgenstein and your work but a lot of this truth gets caught up in
language or logic or or those kind of things but what I hear you talking about is the kind of truth
where you're present you're embodied you're just trying to see things the way they are not even
just see but sense the world as it is and that's the hard thing the language games are almost easier
because you're playing them but this kind of truth that I think you mean is it's different also next
to that all these people that you named aren't exactly people that we think of as having what's
a joyful life or something like this that could be a completely wrong characterization too but
I love all of them too but they seem to have suffered a lot right right so um one thing I
would say is that yes uh this is not easy why well because truth is a and truthless these are
constant hard task masters right and being uh being honest is a lifelong project including
being honest with oneself um being honest in relation to the the climate situation and our
civilizational crisis which is which is now unavoidable for anyone who is a serious
I would say human being certainly a serious intellectual is really really hard like how do
we how do we what's the project exactly of being honest with our children about this for example
that is incredibly hard because what you don't want to do is is like I said earlier that you
don't want to throw anyone especially a child into a kind of vulnerability where they're not
protected and supported in relation to dealing with something which is which is difficult so
there's a kind there's a genuinely genuinely challenging um path that one has to walk there
but my claim our claim is that it is a path that one nevertheless has to find a way to walk my
experience with students for instance at university is that they have been grateful to me whenever
I've taken difficult steps in the direction of being more truthful than I was previously
being the first time I gave a talk which was at my own university which was um
fully up front about the extent of the crisis that we're in that's when you were writing the
civilization is over or the civilization finish yeah it was in that exact period exactly yeah
oh I mean yeah maybe I'll take a step back and tell you that story properly so it starts really
in 2015 with me um walking down the street in this the city where I then lived Norwich and here in
Norfolk in England and looking at the the state of the gardens so gardens which had obviously had
weed killer applied to them gardens that had been paid over gardens with an abandoned bridge or
whatever in them and these words popped into my head this civilization is finished I was I was
pretty shocked by this what felt like a kind of awful revelation it kind of stopped me literally
stopped me in my tracks for a while I pondered on it and then did what any self-respecting intellectual
philosophy would do I started writing about it I wrote a bit shared it with one or two trusted
friends and colleagues and said look I'm writing this um it's rather different from anything I've
written before I'm worried about it because I think a it might demoralize people and b I might
get attacked for saying it what do you think and everything on one of them got back to me and said
this looks to me like probably the most important thing you've ever written um keep going this after
the Wittgenstein book so this is where you know and we're now in 2016 okay this is the the period
um the the work that's that goes towards Wittgenstein's liberatory philosophy is
underway but uh but it's it's some time before that book um that makes a lot of sense to me
you said something that people wanted to have had articulated was that the feeling that you got
exactly and so that's what I found the first thing I did with it is I published it anonymously
pseudonymously which I've never done before to sort of gauge reaction and reaction was was
positive and resonant um then I started very kind of tentatively in a rather scared state giving
talks with titles like this civilization is finished and the resonance was really strong
then and this is where I got to a few minutes ago then in 2017 for the first time I gave a talk um
along these lines to my students i.e. to a load of students at the University of East Anglia and
that felt kind of especially difficult because these were um 18 year olds right so you know on
that difficult kind of cusp of if you will full um adulthood and I really didn't know how it was
going to go down and felt quite kind of doubtful about it but the responses I got were students
coming up to me afterwards and saying things like this feels like the first time that any adult or
anyone in authority has ever really leveled with me and it feels good so you know this was the way
that the response was not what I'd expected it seemed like I wasn't demoralizing people and nor
except for that with certain exceptions was I getting attacked I was mostly creating resistance
people there was the people had a kind of reaction of feeling relief actually uh we can finally kind
of talk about it we can find an aphelios and chromatitis this this relates to everything
we were talking about in the 15 minutes ago that was then that carried on into 2018 uh I then came
across the people who were who were getting busy with setting up extinction rebellion and was very
impressed with what they were trying to do because they was basically saying the same thing as what
I was saying they're saying we're headed on a path which could even result in extinction um but they
had a plan of what to do about it namely to do what they called rebelling and so I got involved
and helped launch extinction rebellion in the UK and then spread around the world and in 2019 we
had some actual success with our truthfulness with our emotional disclosure and resonance and
disrupting this as usual extinction rebellion and my friend and colleague young colleague Chris
Thunberg and and others of course many many others had some success in breaking through the wall of
of denial really around uh climate and that was that was a crucial moment that moment
haven't been followed up on in the way that it should have been but that's what I'm still
trying to do is do that do that following up now one thing I want to just get to which I haven't
got to yet Andrea which you asked me is yeah but does this make for a difficult life is one um
unhappy as a result if one spends quite a lot of one's time for example looking at the hard
climate reality and the reality of the poly crisis at large the terrible artificial intelligence
situation etc etc does this make one miserable because that's what a lot of people assume
is going to happen to one if one goes down that path and my answer is is no it's it's certainly
true to say that that my life even now is by no means easy and I continue to undergo various kinds
of sufferings including those that come from looking with an open eye at the crisis but
although I've gone through a lot of suffering as have some of the other people we've named
Wittgenstein being a famous example it's interesting that Wittgenstein his last words were tell them
I've had a wonderful life to his disciples who were around his beds and luckily I'm not at that
point in my life yet but I feel somewhat similarly I mean the last you know I had a wonderful time
being an academic but the last several years of my life with extinction rebellion and you
and sort of applying my academic work towards movement building and becoming an organic
intellectual and becoming a bit of a spiritual teacher and now leading the climate majority
project I am having the time of my life I've found my life's purpose there's nothing better
that can happen to one than finding one's life's purpose and what I actually believe
is that the epochal crisis we're moving into provides an enormous opportunity for all sorts
of people to find true meaning again and true community in their lives the very things that
so many of us are lacking and one dimension of that is that by anyone who's listened this far
into this podcast will hopefully have realized that actually there is no incompatibility
between facing difficult truths feeling difficult emotions suffering in various ways and having
absolutely the time of one's life and that's one of my one of the central messages if you will of
my work over the last decade and the practice that I'm trying to embody is that that's basically
that's exactly what we need to do we need to go into the difficult places and what we start to
find there precisely there is our salvation or at least a very very strong compelling and
often as one experiences it wonderful way forward I'm so glad you said that I often have this thing
I say which is hold the paradox or yes or be the paradox or open the space for the paradox
and I do feel like that's what you're doing but before we get to that exactly there's a few kind
of things there first that that moment when you had the idea of this civilization is finished
did you think about just turning away from it and not doing it was it a because it to me it sounds
like not to be too spiritual I mean if this is about holding all dichotomies but it sounds like
that was a kind of the moment of something opened and are you going to follow it and
because when I hear you now saying you've never been happier even though this is hard
you found this way to ride the wave or hold the paradox but I just wonder about that moment
did you almost say no to it or was it simply no you've exactly understood I was very I was
tempted right and part of the temptation to not listen to it or do anything about it was these
quite you know rational seeming fears and it's not as if they're substance-less but well in
particular what I didn't want right was to demoralize allies young people people that
I respect and I was also afraid of I was afraid of being attacked I had been attacked worse than
I ever have been before over this last decade but to be honest that becomes increasingly
water off one's off one's back when for example when I something quite good that I've managed
to help engineer in terms of my the time I spend on social media in recent is that when I get kind
of very nasty negative comments on social media now most of the time it literally doesn't bother
me at all it just does not affect me at all I simply ignore or move instantly to block that
person there there is no negative impact is that because you know where you are and what why you're
doing it and you're are you clear about those things is that yeah I think it's because I'm
I'm very fundamental level confident that I'm doing what I need to do I found my purpose that
that's that I'm with many others roughly speaking on the side of the angels but it's also to do
with you know having worked through some some issues around not just kind of lack of confidence
but uncertainty about whether I was really kind of entitled to to to make these kinds of
ambitious and and difficult and risky claims by the way one important dimension for those who
haven't encountered my this civilization has finished stuff before one important dimension
that I do need to bring out briefly is that I do emphasize the word this here so it's not it this
is not saying for example this is certain that everything is going to collapse what it's saying
is it's certain that this civilization is going to come to an end either through collapse or through
transformation the path gone looking more and more like collapse is the most likely route tragically
for that transformation to occur but I I hold open the window of possibility that we could transform
in a way that does not involve and collapse one other thing I I'm totally with you Andrea
on the importance of paradox and this is absolutely fundamental to to my work too it's fundamental to
a lot of what I've done in philosophy it's fundamental to my spiritual teaching and it's
fundamental to the way that I live we have to be able and willing to hold all sorts of paradoxes
especially in the time that we are living in otherwise it's just important it's just impossible
to to keep going forward so yeah I love that theme in in what you were saying a minute ago
earlier you said when we were talking about love that's not just a feeling it's an action
so relative to what we were just talking about that's interesting I want to hear a little bit
more about because you had a kind of feeling you're walking down the street and you've got
this idea and it's wanting you to follow it yes and then you have to of course act it becomes
an action practice just to link back to this idea of practice and liberating liberation yeah
so I try to I try to do what you say to take what if something feels like a strong what we call in
co-incorporation a strong leading I try to to to follow it and to not give into the the kind of
small-minded voices that would encourage me um not to and this I think has to do with with a
wrestling with and in a certain sense overcoming um anxiety anxiety is is often fundamentally
about being more willing to listen to those small-minded voices and not take those kinds of
risks that one needs to take if one is going to really as Nietzsche famously remarks become who
one is become who you are I want to connect that to love too and also just to say for people
listening because I know a lot of people this is really a hard thing still you know to not feel
anxious or to not being not feeling anxious right it's about it's about not enabling the
anxiety to control you so the way I see it with anxiety it's if you feel it it's crucial to
feel it and not tend to to to suppress it and to be to be present with it and to know that there
is something some something deeper than it and that it is itself a reflected form as I was
describing earlier of of love a lot of a lot of anxiety is a is a refracted distorted form
of of love for oneself which is a very just form of love provided it doesn't get in the way of love
for for other people yeah and I think that's a very important thing if people can sit with
that because just noticing that you're anxious first of all it can be a big step and then
understanding there's probably some connection to love there if you can sit with it the lifetime
process again yeah I try also to take leadings from my dreams I'm very fortunate to have an
incredibly rich dream life it can be buildings have you always had that yes although it's become
stronger actually as I've got older and I try to really listen to to my dreams and I've written
things about things that I've learned from my dreams philosophical things for example that
have come after my dreams I've published on on that and that's another kind of ongoing practice
which I think is relevant to what you're asking yeah yeah it's definitely connected it would have
probably be a whole other conversation it makes me think of young and all of this stuff but
yeah for now let's we haven't really unpacked extinction rebellion and gotten into where you
are now because this is also a whole turning and paradox holding process almost I want violence
isn't the right word but when you had that statement come in the civilization is finished
it's almost shocking and extinction rebellion and just the words themselves there's this quality
about it that is kind of I don't know how to get into this but somehow waking us up or or jarring
us so that we don't have to be radical or something I mean to get to where you are now but
that moment where you had that feeling and others were having it too is very interesting and then
you sort of all met up with this extinction rebellion just for people who don't know what it
is really and they they maybe just have heard words about it this was early on 2018 and it
really was trying to be something very how would you say I don't know I don't know about loving but
um yeah I think very definitely loving um I'll give one concrete example perhaps we can put a
a clip in the the show notes of of a time on on telly where I um took on the criticism from a
conservative government minister of extinction rebellion and he thought lent across the table
and wagged his finger at me and said you want everyone to feel guilty about their their flying
or eating or whatever you're essentially trying to lay guilt on people and I responded by saying
well sorry look I don't think you've actually understood what extinction rebellion is all about
yes extinction rebellion is about waking people up to the awful situation we're in yes therefore
it's sometimes about being disruptive absolutely definitely disruptive of existing assumptions
and sometimes you know disruptive in a practical way but extinction rebellion was not about seeking
to be unpleasant to people or calling them out or anything like that we actually had a um a practice
a a motto if you will of no naming shaming and and blaming and far from saying oh you bad people
ought to feel guilty for your carbon profligacy uh we instead said look we've got a real problem
here it's more than a problem it's a predicament it's society by the civilization wide we need
to face into it together we need to figure out together uh what to do about it and I would say
that was love in action the reason why I eventually in 2020 moved on from extinction rebellion
is a lot to do with coming to realize as a lot of other people in extinction rebellion came to
realize that you can't carry on disrupting and seeking to wake people up in this kind of way
forever it starts to get old after a while and it starts to produce kind of polarizing
responses which become a problem in their own right so that's part of partly why I and others
started talking about the need for what we call then a new moderate flank in in climate action a
really encompassing way of bringing well everyone eventually but certainly many many people building
up to a majority bringing those together to try to find a way forward that we can all gather behind
which ultimately is going to be essential if we actually are going to um survive and find a way
to transform this civilization into something better something that can last so we a crucial
kind of icon for this change is the extinction rebellion yes it was loving and was based in love
but it was polarizing inevitably in a lot of its methods and approaches
because that's the way it tried to force a conversation and succeeded in forcing a
conversation and ultimately what we need to have is something which instead is depolarizing and
that is the ambition of of the form that the new moderate flank project has taken which is now
embodied in this idea of of assembling a climate majority and that's why the organization that I
just call the climate majority project and absolutely essential to our dna is depolarization
across society at large in social media in the way we campaign and talk and in the way that we
discuss with others so for example I quite often debate with labor or conservative politicians
or politicians even from the hard right in this country people like Nigel Farage but when I do so
on the one hand I'm I do not back away at all not one bit from the truth and I engage where
appropriate in emotional disclosure and resonance but on the other hand what I don't do is the kind
of denunciation and kind of calling out and and anger anger anger which sometimes has too often
been the way that that climate activism or other kinds of activism or indeed politics at large
has proceeded do you find that it is a matter of your embodied sort of presence in a way
not to get carried away in your thoughts or your anger when you're in those situations because
absolutely yeah is that the difference totally it would not have been possible for me to to have
this kind of poise and people often say god I don't know how you do it Rupert you know how do
you stay calm when you're talking with somebody like this famous unpleasant posh ultra rich
hard right-wing conservative politician who we have here called Jacob Rees-Mogg for example how
do you stay calm when you're talking with him it wouldn't be possible without having done a lot of
this inner work that we spoke about earlier yeah I was even when you when I was reading the Wittgen
sign that this discipline of writing and thinking through and of course also the meditative side of
you know but both of those seem like they would be helpful but I wonder if you ever get the feeling
from them even or from the audience is that there's a kind of relief in the way that the
students felt that somebody's doing that or that somebody's holding the space like that or saying
something truthful but in a without the anger behind it or yeah well that's interesting you
asked that and I've got some evidence in relation to that question I think that I know that sometimes
these folks that I've interacted in this way with have been very put out by it because
it doesn't enable them to do what they want to do which is they have you're breaking the scripts
right you're breaking the time but other times I've had feedback that actually they have really
appreciated it so that's for example how things went I think with my conversation with Nigel
Farage who is not one of my favorite people but we were able to have a genuine and very civil
conversation and the feedback I got was that he actually appreciated that because you know quite
often if he speaks with someone who is superficially like me he just gets shouted at and yeah at the
end of the day we have to move on beyond shouting at each other yeah and we also become the people
that others see us as unless we're really strong enough to kind of change his habit so
it's kind of interesting too how we can kind of shift each other's ability to see ourselves
differently if we see each other differently in the situations I do wonder if you all if you think
that depolarization is always the answer or if again we're kind of holding the paradox of where
sometimes polarization is can be held as polarization and looks at and not always bad I mean when I
think of extinction rebellion or even this statement of your book the civilization is
finished I mean there's something polarizing about that in a different way and I'm in a
practice based way or what do you think yes well I totally believe in there being contexts where
provocation is essential and and absolutely what we need is various kinds of awakening
and sometimes the way to do that is to be very direct with people is to is to seek to get them
to focus on things that they don't really want to to focus on Wittgenstein once said something
on the lines of I don't want you to believe what I tell you to believe what I want you to do
is to do something that you very much don't want to do now that's what reminds me of your parenting
book too and this idea that I mean do you think of it that in a way that there are certain things
that we can become aware enough of that we can do some I mean you've written about parenting the
planet or sort of yeah you can probably unpack it better than me but do you see how this do you
see this is connected in this kind of maturity in a way yeah we we need a project of of maturity
in the kind of way that Foucault and many others have spoken about the people coming after the
Frankfurt school and so forth it's incredibly difficult there are many features of our
civilization that seem very immature we we need at the same time I mean the basic idea in the
parents for a future book is it starts with the idea of look let's start from some kind of
simple basic unarguable premises that many many people would buy into this is always the strongest
kind of philosophical argument you can come up with something no one would disagree with this
right but look if you agree with this then it eventually proves that which you would we were
surprised by so the argument of the book is if you start from the assumption that you simply love
your own children which is what pretty much everybody says and I believe them they do then
it turns out the conclusion is that you are logically compelled to engage in to engage with
others in very serious action to save together our future now and deeply into the the future of
this entire planet and that's a surprising conclusion from simply out of my own children
but I show in the book how this is a compelling argument and a and a compelling way to go so
coming back to the question from a minute ago sometimes I say things that are very
um um provocative and that people find difficult but I hope to do it in a way and certainly in a
spirit that it not objectionable and I hope obviously to do it in a good cause and what I
strongly believe is that while there are occasions when even being um quite polarizing is the right
thing to do I'm totally convinced that what we did in 2019 with extinction rebellion and what
Drator was doing at that time and so forth was actually the right thing to do
and while I continue to believe that there are occasions absolutely where non-violent direct
action is justified um what I also think is that an awful lot of people are unlikely ever to take
part in non-violent direct action and we absolutely have to find compelling ways of bringing together
huge numbers of people if we are going to have any hope of having a future and of our kids having
a future and that we need to do that in a way which doesn't also just create doesn't just create
a violent or whatever counter reaction from those who feel threatened by what we're trying to do
that's the that's the project that's the ambition that's the finding new paths or telling new
stories or the through topias something else you've written about that we've talked about on this show
already but um I guess I wonder how you do that how you because it seems like it's either to go
extreme or even when we're talking about parenting this can very easily sort of go into oh well they
think they know better and they think they're more mature and there's a kind of everyone feels a
little bit better than those who they are parenting or something how do you find the balance with these
things of because we need each other as groups but communities can also get kind of carried away
you know in a kind of alias kinetic sort of way too so how do you how have you found a way to keep
a balance there or not to get carried away by those group thoughts yeah sure well so you mentioned
my concept of through topia and this is the idea that that we're heading towards dystopia fast
and that the traditional opposite of dystopia which is utopia is unfortunately no longer available
to us maybe it never was but it certainly isn't now um utopian ambitions now are merely wish
fulfillment fantasies but what if we try to create a way through what is coming at us which is going
to be very hard a way through coming a way through what is coming at us that is as good as possible
and that's a through topia it's a thoroughly kind of process oriented way of of thinking about how
we co-create a future together and it comes it's a lot influenced by Ursula Le Guin's work and if I
try to imagine a through topian future a key dimension of it is genuine intergenerational
solidarity so we need to be we need to respect our elders more and and find a way of taking
seriously the wisdom and importance of all people in a way that is in indigenous cultures
and peasant societies is is guaranteed but is often absent in our society we need to find a way
of taking our children much much more seriously that's what the school climate strikers were
urging them to urging us to do and they said to us save our world um that is what is um essential
to my ambition in the the parents for a future book and we need to combine all of these things
together and find meaningful ways of making them real so one little example of a missed opportunity
in relation to the covid crisis a key dimension of that crisis was young people made sacrifices
so that many fewer older people died than would have died if the young people hadn't made those
sacrifices well intergenerational solidarity would mean that the older people really repaid
that sacrifice uh so what does that mean well what it means it's not hard to guess
is that old people now need to take absolutely seriously their responsibility to the young to
help them to have a future and that means getting absolutely serious on the climate crisis and all
the other crises that that face us you know what should have happened after covid is that all
people of the world basically should have got together and said thank you for saving our lives
we're now going to for example give loads of our money quite a lot of old people have a lot more
money than young people give loads of our money to the cause of our having a future nature-wise
climate-wise etc that hasn't happened but it can still happen something along these lines can still
happen we badly need genuine intergenerational solidarity and those who are older who have power
or expertise or wisdom or money or other resources they need you need if that's you listening right
now to apply that in a powerful way to what our young people need what the future needs because
well if you don't they're they won't have a future it's it's simple as that
is that what you're doing with the climate majority offering people find ways to do that
yeah absolutely that's what the climate majority project is all about it's also what through
topianism kind of is all about really i guess it comes down in a way to thinking of self a bit
differently too and yeah and that kind of yeah yeah yeah and she has those three levels which
i'm not remembering now system change consciousness is the third one right and i i don't remember but
well i think the key dimension of what she offers here is the thought that if you're thinking of
yourself as an individual that's held apart from from the natural world you're not really thinking
of yourself that yourself correctly viewed is thoroughly interrelated exhibits what took not on
calls into being and what i do in parents for a future is sort of brewing out the way that that
also extends fully into the future if we think of ourselves as only alive here and now we're in that
sense making a kind of big mistake so folks are famously said the past isn't dead it isn't even
past so we might say something similar about the future you don't cease to exist when you when you
die because among other things that you live on in your ideas and your influences and your genetic
descendants and so forth and what what the future is in a certain sense therefore is your love
manifested and rolling down through the generations or alternatively it isn't if you don't succeed in
manifesting that love if you don't succeed in contributing to any projects which are going to
outlast you and that's a way in which we need to parent the future together and away it's another
way of seeing this absolutely ineradicable responsibility that we all have to do our
best in this time of extreme crisis to ensure that there is a future yeah i don't think we can get
away from even if we all at some point are putting forth into the future in the way you just said
just because that's what we're doing so there's some relief i think and some real motivation in
what you said about or what a lot of people are you and many others are we're trying to understand
this what i call an ecological orientation there's something wonderful about understanding you're not
stuck in your head and your body and you are there is a different self but i think it does
have to do with that responsibility right what you say at the market today to someone could change
the course of their life you'll never know but we're doing it all the time to each other and if
you're doing it from a space of love it's super powerful right even if you can't see it yeah i
totally agree and that's one reason by the way that so another of my future book projects is a
book i'm hoping to publish on counterfactual history which i think is really important
imagining how the past could have been different if certain quite small things in some cases have
happened or not happened because when we get clear on the way that the past didn't have to be
the way it was that can really help us to see how the future is to some significant extent an open
book doesn't mean that absolutely anything is possible it's too late for various things you
know we've left it too late for various things that we should have done vis-a-vis climate and
nature and much more but it does mean that there is still an enormous breadth of possibility for
what could could be what could come to pass after us and and through us and that sense of agency and
possibility is enormously exciting so what this is partly about is about people finding their
their power which inevitably means finding their power together and and realizing as you say Andrea
that that much of our power will go beyond what we ever know and therefore that responsibility is
continual i just look at my own life and i know there's little things people have said who i
never saw those people again that i think about or teachers i always hear about there was some
teacher but in any case i love that idea that you are going to write about counterfactuals because
i think that fits very well with that practice that we started with of learning how to notice
patterns and change them which is also part of the utopia which is also part of a lot of these
other things we've been talking about so that's it feels like a beautiful way of expressing it
and i can't wait so the last question we didn't get into it a whole lot here but a lot of people
feel it and you write about it a lot of this and we talked about Joanna Macy these difficult
emotions the crisis which we started with there's a lot every there's a crisis for everything now
there's a poly crisis a meta crisis everything crisis and it's real yeah and and it can feel so
overwhelming and there's a lot of difficult stuff there and uh we didn't really get into it but
i wonder do you still think we can be motivated by love in the way that we've brought out here
without all those difficult emotions or have you come to a point where you really do sort of hold
all that together um because sometimes i feel like we're striving for a dada through topia but a
utopia and um where we're just gonna not have those difficult emotions but is it more about
the practice of self that we were talking about where you hold those the space of all that
differently and so everything sort of changes or how do you see them yeah so interesting and
i think it's possible that after an hour and a quarter we finally found something we disagree
with each other on a bit which yeah i guess my goodness yeah i guess my view is that there is no
coherent way of imagining the future without imagining a strong role for those difficult
emotions and yeah sure it's possible there are contexts where there can be love present and love
enacted without those difficult emotions being present but i would say it's pretty unusual
and i would say that it is perhaps tragically inevitable that in the future a lot of the way
that we express our love which means express ourselves is going to be through the the medium
at least initially of shame and guilt anger fear depression despair you know i've written even
about these things people sometimes say well there's obviously nothing good about depression
or nothing good about despair i don't even agree with that i think that these emotions too
have their place and have their moment and that they too are ultimately forms of of of love and
that the attempt to avoid despair is a profound mistake many people are going to be tempted to
despair in the years to come because of the immense difficulty of our situation
which is going to get worse and what i say to those people is don't try to avoid it to work
with it i mean it's for a good reason that joanna in her early years called the work that she did
despair work we can work with our despair we're we're scared of our despair we're scared of these
difficult emotions and part of what i'm saying is we don't need to be as scared of them we can
befriend them more we can we can use them or we can find a way through them they are they maintain
they embody a tremendous energy and all of that energy in my view and i've argued this you know
in detail all of that energy comes back to love that despair and depression are are are are forms
of love refracted through a glass very very darkly and when we stop being so afraid of
depression and despair they lose their they start to lose their grip on us and they start to become
available so part of my excitement for the years ahead and i am excited even though i'm immensely
trepidatious about how difficult and often horrible it's going to be and how it's gonna
it's going to kill some of us including you know possibly obviously myself that can't be ruled out
part of my excitement is that i think we can go all the way with these things they're disasters
that are coming i write about this in my book why climate breakdown matters the disasters that are
coming the the epidemic of difficult emotions that are coming these are exactly the things
that give us a chance that give us some real hope and none of them have the power in and of themselves
to to overwhelm us they only have that power if we if we let them and we can actually find a way
that instead puts them to the best possible use which is expressing the love that we are
beautiful unfortunately i think we don't quite disagree but because i think what i was trying
to point out is that it can be fetishized or something the the depression the sadness i mean
just coming i agree as a kid you know i or even like in especially teenagers perhaps it opens you
up right it cracks you open and you want more of that and there you said it like at the beginning
of the conversation you have to be careful that you don't go too much into the thinking
and get too caught in it so i guess i was trying to bring that in this balance of holding it the
nuance i think that i read in your work that the way you try to kind of be in this space is is being
optimistic and seeing things clearly and being feeling things that are hard but looking for
people finding ways to get out of that it's an ongoing practice in action right like what you
brought up about the love it's not a it's not just the feeling yeah yeah yeah okay yeah sorry
you're right we we we end up agreeing once again well it's just been so wonderful to talk to you
and to read you and uh your work and i wonder is there anything before we go that you want to be
sure is said maybe i'll just reiterate that sam although i've suffered a lot and i still
suffer a lot and i am absolutely confident that there's going to be a lot more suffering in my
future i am absolutely having the time of my life and i wouldn't be missing it for the for the world
and i think that i would sort of invite people in whatever way that is it's going to be different
for different viewers or listeners i would invite people into the space of something like the the
climate majority project you know check us out on on our website if that's something that that you
can in any way relate to and we try to design it in such a way that it can be related to by pretty
much anybody and everybody try to think about you know what your role is in addressing this
deep civilizational crisis and and what your superpower is and if you haven't already done
that you haven't already you know really seriously done that i think what you're quite late to find
not necessarily immediately is that uh you find that you find the exact um meaning and role that
perhaps you hadn't quite found yet and there just isn't anything better in in one's life
in that sense you know in as much as philosophers are trying to pursue what is the meaning of life
i feel like to some extent i've found it and i invite other people into that space
yeah well thank you i think that feeling of liberation that liberatory philosophy
you know is kind of present i think you know in in that thread that we've been following
and where you've gotten now so thanks for the work you're doing and i guess i just want to ask
for people who are in the states and they're looking and a lot of this is in the uk is it
is it still possible to be part of these groups and talk about this and right so just on the
climate majority project we are mainly at the moment trying to prove concepts in britain and
until we feel that we've really done that which may take a while we are not going to put a lot of
effort into trying to spread the climate majority project as such abroad although we already have
strongly aged on with people in other countries such as california netherlands germany switzerland
but what i would say is the ideas that we've been talking about and hopefully this is obvious so
the ideas that we've been talking about including these ideas of the climate majority of the new
moderate flank of through topianism of depolarization these can be applied absolutely anywhere and in a
way the invitation is to people find an effective way to apply it with others in your life using
your skills and your resources etc and so yeah that applies to americans and anybody out anywhere
i think yeah good i just wanted yes people can create this for themselves wherever they are in
the world i mean anyway not just that is what is needed you know this is this is not going to be
a project which is if you will laid in a thoroughly top-down fashion that is completely
incompatible with what it is you know this is about a kind of huge distributed emergent phenomenon
have you ever read the book hopeful monsters by nicholas mosley i'd heard of it i haven't
read it it's i have this little rule that until um two or three people have recommended a book
to me i don't usually try to to read it so this one is now working its way up the okay just why
do you mention it it's something i read when i was a teenager or maybe in my early 20s i loved it
it's a beautiful as i remember it but it you remind me you could be a character in that book
i don't know what that means because literally i haven't read it in a decade but it just came
to mind but anyway it's been wonderful to talk to you and thank you so much and we'll put all the
stuff in the show notes for everyone to to look at and check out and of course all your books
yeah thanks all right thank you
