and I want to send you some beauty if it's in my power at all today. I think this conversation
is beautiful, so I didn't make it, but I send it to you. All right, be well.
Hi Sekiel. Thank you so much for taking the time to speak to me and come on the podcast.
My pleasure.
As you know, I've been really interested in your work for quite some time,
and trying to keep up with also the current research you're doing and the inactive approach,
which I hope we get to talk about some of these things. But I wanted to start and go a little
bit back to maybe the roots of the inactive approach and the roots of your own thinking
in the work of Francisco Varela and especially his book Principles of Biological Autonomy
that you've recently re-edited, re-published together with Evan Thompson, which is great
because it was since the publication in 1979. I think it was out of print, actually.
Yes, it was very, very hard to get that book. I never owned the copy myself. I had a photocopy
that I got when I was a student, and then when I tried to buy one, the copies were so expensive.
I was also, because I was getting into Varela's work and my master's, and I was looking for a
copy because I always wanted to read books and sort of copy. I was like, yeah, that's too expensive.
That's true, that's true.
I'm curious to know about your first encounter with the book. If there's a moment you can pinpoint.
Yeah, this is a good starting point because I wasn't aware of this work until I started
doing my PhD at the University of Sussex. I was doing my PhD in what was then called the School
of Cognitive and Computing Sciences, which was a very special place because it was very
interdisciplinary. You would share offices with psychologists, linguists, roboticists, AI people,
and so on. One of the founders was Margaret Bowden. So many people there
enjoy some sort of challenging and free discussions and debates, let's put it like that.
And it was then that people started to mention ideas such as autopoiesis. I believe it was
Mike Wheeler, actually, who gave a seminar introducing the concepts of autopoiesis,
autopoiesis for the under fives. That was the title of the seminar.
And at that point, I was already reading some of Maturana and Varela, and it was a bit of a bet.
I had to imagine that I had to go through this very difficult convoluted language, obscure prose,
because probably at the end of it, the ideas, there will be a payoff, or I will be transformed
by the process of reading it in such a way that things would make sense to me. I wouldn't say
that they made total sense to me, but I could see the potential. And then I started just tracing
anything I could get by these authors. And then, of course, the library of
Sussex had a copy of Principles of Biological Autonomy. And that's an interesting book because
you cannot really guess from the publication dates, because autopoiesis and cognition,
the book written by Varela and Maturana appears in 1980 in English. But in fact,
it was written before. It was written in the mid-70s, more or less.
Was it in Spanish, the original?
There was a version in Spanish, the Machinas y Seres Vivos, published in Chile.
But there was a version in English before the Spanish version in terms of reports,
the technical reports of the biology computing lab in the University of Illinois.
So all of that seems like, okay, well, this idea seems, all these books that appear more or less
at the same time. But in fact, autopoiesis and cognition is a bit like a first stage,
which in the book Principles of Biological Autonomy, Varela picks up on that. And in fact,
several of the first chapters are kind of repeating, going over again with slight changes,
but going over again the main points of the theory of autopoiesis.
But at that point, there's also, in Varela, there's a need to move in other directions.
He had interest in trying to formalize some of these ideas using formal systems, mathematics,
and so on, category theory. And he wanted to apply this in a more open-ended manner,
because the theory of autopoiesis was becoming too self-unclosed. I would say, this is my opinion,
in any case, not everybody will probably agree with it, in the sense that it was talking to
itself in circles and circles and so on. And Varela had a more, I would say, exploratory
spirit as a scientist. I think he wanted to look at examples in biological systems, such as
the immune system, neural oscillations, things like that, and the biology of the cell, and the
extracellular matrix, things like that. So the book is this moment of departure from a more
abstract beginning. This doesn't mean, I mean, Varela was also an experimental neuroscientist,
and so was Maturana. But the theory itself was rather abstract, and putting them together back
into work. And in doing this, he also kind of sets on its own course. And towards the end of the book,
you start reading something about naturalized epistemologies and things like that, that are
very reminiscent, with hindsight, that are very reminiscent of what we talk about in the inactive
approach over the last couple of decades. So that's a little bit about the book. And of course,
for me, it was very inspiring. It was like, not the mathematical part, because I was not really
able to apply it directly. I mean, I could follow it, but it was not like, okay, it was too abstract.
But the third part of the book was quite novel to me, because he was seeing
autonomy as a generalization of the idea of autopoiesis, which means, like the self-production
of a living cell, the self-production, self-distinction of a living cell. He says,
like, well, there are many systems that are similar in what they do in self-individuating
at different domains. And yet, he was very cautious of applying the idea of autopoiesis directly.
To systems like many people were very tempted to do, like, you know, the recurrent patterns in
family relations, for instance, there will be people, psychotherapists who say, well,
the family is an autopoietic system. And he said, no, this is not precise. We need another concept.
And that was his proposal in this book, the concept of autonomy, which then is very influential later
on down the line for an activist. So yeah, I think it was time for this book to become
more available again. And the idea came to not just reissue the book, but essentially
introduce it with some essays and lots of marching annotations, about 200 of them,
that connect the ideas in the book with later developments in Varela's work, but also
you know, contemporaneous interests and concerns in biology, in ecology, in psychology, neuroscience,
and so on. So that's the purpose of the new edition. That's great. I think it only came out
a couple of weeks ago. Indeed. I only got my, if I can show it, my personal copy a few days ago.
I mean, I don't know what it took so long, but this stuff with the annotations on the side to
clarifications and things like that. I only had time to read the introduction
and also the nice foreword by Amy Cohn Varela. Yes. You and Evan Thompson in the introduction
talk about this as a kind of an active text, or maybe you can think about the book as interesting,
many concepts that have become really central in the inactive approach.
First and foremost, the idea of autonomy. Can you give a rough maybe explanation of
the idea of autonomy and also how it relates to this idea of organisational closure or
operational closure? Yes. Yes, sure. Okay. Well, as I said, the idea of autonomy is a generalisation
of idea of autopoiesis. Maybe if I say what autopoiesis is very quickly, it would be easier
to understand autonomy. So autopoiesis was proposed as a kind of organisation that a system can have
such that it continues to produce and maintain this same organisation. It's a bit of a circular
idea. But with that, the point was to try to capture the constant self-production and
self-distinction properties of living organisms. We are made of stuff that is constantly flowing
through our bodies. And at the same time, we're not just simply made, like produced, but we also
distinguish from the environment. In the case of a single cell, there is the production of this
membrane and the cytoskeleton and things like that. And even now we know that there are
processes that are similar to some kind of immune system at the level of a single cell and so on.
All of those things are trying to work such that the cell doesn't quite dissolve into the
environment that's become indistinct. So as I was saying, this is a very interesting and powerful
idea that comes from a tradition of systems thinking in cybernetics. And for that, I used
the word organisation, essentially what matters here in the autopoietic theory that an organisation
is what is conserved and is tied to the identity of the living organism. Identity
in several senses, but maybe the most important one being that the identity of the organism as
such that we know that it's the same because it's conserving its organisation, kind of a token
identity. But you might say, well, isn't the organism constantly changing? Indeed. So what's
changing is not the organisation, but what they call the structure. So they present these two
concepts, structure and organisation as dual concepts. One kind of hits the other to be
properly defined. So say, well, you know, changes in structure can happen all the time, provided
that you remain autopoietic, then there's no problem. So all the phenomena of life that
we normally are interested in, like growth, reproduction, cognition, and so on. These
are manifested as changes in the structure, plastic changes in interactions with the environment.
What characterises the organisation is what sometimes is called organisational closure or
operational closure, which is this self-reference that I was saying earlier, that the organisation
is such that the processes that form the organised network operate in such a way that
they result in the reinstanciation of the whole network. I mean, there's some circularity there.
That's the idea of closure comes from mathematics. It doesn't mean that the system is closed to the
environment. So autonomy essentially is matching that story told, not necessarily at the level or
in the domain of molecular interactions that happen in the level of the cell of the living
cell, but told in other domains. The interactions between antigens and the immune system and the
immune system with itself can also be understood as a closed network that is sustained in itself.
This is an idea that then Varela connects to existing work on immune networks that was very
interesting and quite radically different from the traditional perspective. You could apply
this idea in different places. What Varela proposes is what he calls the closure thesis. It says,
well, in order to tell that a system is autonomous in this technical sense, it's enough to see or to
ask whether the system is operationally closed, whether we find in it this organisation that I
was talking about that is circular. So that's a little bit rough. There are lots of technical
details, but that's a little bit the rough idea of autonomy in this technical sense. I have to
emphasise because, of course, the idea of autonomy is broader than this. I think it also has been
developed in many different ways. I guess we will talk about that as well. I was interested in that
because in the book The Embodied Mind, which was I think in 1991 with Varela, Evan Thompson and
Eleanor Roche, introduces first this idea of an action and the inactive approach, which is then
in the last two or three decades been developed in various kinds of ways, but they actually don't
explicitly, I think, mention this idea of autonomy so much.
So I would be curious to understand a bit better the relationship between
the autonomy perspective on organisms and the kind of
way that it implies of how we think about the relationship between
environment and so on. And this idea of that in the inactive approach is called bringing forth
the world, right? Indeed. Yes, yes. Okay, so it's a long story, but a couple of things to keep in mind.
As you said, I mean, The Embodied Mind, which is like the founding text of an active approach,
appears in 1991. It doesn't mention the idea of autopoiesis at all. I don't think it even appears
in a note. I don't know. And it talks a little, sometimes it talks about autonomous systems.
And you might be forgiven by imagining that, okay, maybe Varela left all that autonomy stuff behind
him and then just moved on to something else. But that's not quite true. I mean, in 1991,
he also publishes a paper called Organism, Meshwork of Selfless Selves, where there
is almost as if there are different births of inactive thinking. One is the one that faces
the cognitive science audience and neuroscience audience and say, look how we have missed
understanding cognition from a dynamical, embodied and experiential perspective.
And how important it would be to continue the project of phenomenologists like Maurice
Malopanti in the context of a cognitive science that is dominated by computer metaphors.
And so there is that. And then there is Varela also writing on his own in 1991 and then in
1997, again, a whole sketch of what I often sometimes call an inactive theory. So you've
got an inactive approach, but there is a theory within the inactive approach which puts together
these concepts, autonomy, sense making, agency, blah, blah, blah. And he was already sketching
that relation. And the two things can only make sense together because you may read the embodied
mind and think like, so what do they mean by bringing forth the world? Do they mean it
purely in epistemic sense, in a sense of, for instance, yeah, we have different views on the
world. If our sensory systems are different, we want to see different things, if we even see things.
Well, there's a bit of that. But if you put that in connection with the other stuff that Varela is
working on, at the same time, you realize that this is a stronger claim. The claim being that,
I'm going to speak very, very bluntly, the whole of cognitive science got its problems wrong.
The problem of perception being the reconstruction of objective features of the world that then I
have to process and then that fits into some representational economy in my brain and so on.
Organisms don't do that. Organisms are constantly acting in the world, constantly doing stuff.
They're not in the business of reconstructing objective features of the world.
They can essentially survive and do very well by tuning in their dynamics, their embodied dynamics,
to the dynamics of what's relevant to them. And in doing so, they're not just selecting
what's relevant out of all possible interactions that they could have. There are only a few that
matter to them. They're also changing the world. They're also introducing changes by acting in the
world. Ideas that much later, not much later, a few years later, became more popular in biology
in terms of niche construction, for instance. The environment is not independent of developing
populations. Well, for the next approach, bringing forth another way of saying the environment and
the embodied agent are codependent. They're mutually defining and changing themselves
ongoingly. And if you get that problem right, then the whole approach implies maybe looking
for other things than necessarily what's happening, whether the brain is representing stuff or
reconstructing the world. Maybe the brain has a different business that is doing something else.
And that was, if you like, the key idea of the embodied mind. That one, and also the idea that
you have to bring lived experience into the fold. You can't just simply later figure out whether
this is connected to the way we actually experience our lives as embodied beings. It has to be there
from the beginning in terms of shaping the questions we ask, shaping the methodologies
we care about and so on. But then the other stuff is also there. And I think what happens later and
one of the last papers that Varela wrote in the early 2000s, just before he passed
with Andreas Weber, it's a kind of attempt to bring them together, right? So the idea of
autonomy comes back again, autopoiesis, autonomy, and idea of sense-making.
If you like the bringing forth of worlds, that is an activity more than something that happens in my
head. And combined with new actors, to put it like this, like the philosophy of Hans Jonas,
which is quite important and so on. So that is the chapter that brings the lines back together,
that apparently, if you only read the embodied mind, you may not see how everything is connected.
So I read this paper called F slash Acts. I don't really know how to pronounce this by you.
Just facts.
Which I think for me was really helpful in clarifying a little bit this stronger sense
of an action that you were talking about. And I think you mentioned in this paper also
this idea that you find in Varela's other work in the 90s, apart from the embodied mind that you
mentioned, of this kind of, I think you call it like a dialectical tension between ideas of self
production and self distinction. And I think for me, that was really helpful in also, I mean,
it's challenging to think about this in the right kind of way, because you're so used to thinking
about the organism and the environment on one side and the idea of them, in a sense, co-constructing
each other. Yeah, it's challenging. But after a while, by looking at concrete cases, by looking
at, as I was saying, if you look at it in biology, it seems less challenging, because you actually see
beavers building dams, changing the landscape and so on and so forth. And then growing in that
changed landscape, of course, that happens over more on, it's not just the one organism doing it,
so it's cumulative. So you start seeing, once you accept the idea, then you start seeing it,
you know, it pops up in many places, from human relations to, you know, microbiology. Now,
indeed, when, I think in the 90s, there was a re-edition of the Spanish version of Teotepoiesis
book, the Machinas y Ceres Vivos. And at that point, both Varela and Maturana wrote
their own introductions, their own, yeah, forwards to the world with their own reflections and so on.
Yeah, forwards to the world with their own reflections and so on.
And Varela does say something like what we were just saying, say like, we started with an idea
that he still thinks is correct, but it could be easily interpreted in very internalistic ways.
Like, okay, I'm self-producing, and I just kept my nutrients from the environment, and that's it.
And I reject the rest. And my mind is essentially how I cannot distinguish hallucinations from
perceptions, because all is happening inside me. And he said that, yeah, that criticism was kind of
right, because it was easy to get that idea, which is not what I intended. But he says that
since working on an inactive perspective, he wanted to emphasize that there's this historical
co-dependence between agents and environments, that they're mutually defining and building
themselves. And then that, later work, work that other people have done, myself included,
have emphasized that relationality, so that if autonomy becomes relational autonomy,
because it's constantly being enacted. That is the nice thing about the word
inaction, because you're not just enacting a world of meaning by engaging the world in certain ways,
thus transforming it and the whole transformation being significant for your own viability,
for your own continuity. You're also enacting your own body, you're enacting yourself,
you're constantly, by doing whatever you're doing, the body becomes, or is in constant becoming
itself, and changing and transforming itself. So you see that we start with ideas that seem to be
very locked into a world where things are the way they are, and they cannot change to, from there,
using the power of some of those ideas, start putting them in a different configuration,
such that we can understand change, transformation, and in human cases, we can understand
how we become together with others, how we participate in ongoing transformation,
mutual transformations, and things like that. So that is a little bit of a sketch of a trajectory
of inactive ideas. Well, since this book, we mentioned the embodied mind and later work,
it's an opening up of that initially very self-enclosed idea of production, which
in some writings, I talk about the dialectics between the two conditions of autopoiesis,
as I said, you're making yourself and you're making yourself different from the other,
from the environment. And I say that those two things are not independent, because the conditions
that would best satisfy self-production would be that every relation with the environment is useful.
Everything is food, so to speak. But if everything is useful, is that you have to accept
any interaction with the environment, it's like you're essentially open to the environment.
And the opposite happens if you want to do self-distinction the best possible way,
you just build a wall around yourself and do not allow any influence on the outside. But of course,
it will die because you cannot get the energy and the nutrients. So each of these two requirements
is pointing in opposite directions. And what you need to do is to see this as a dialectic
and the step that overcomes this tension, that keeps the distinction. It doesn't erase the
distinction between ideas. But now the ideas are working in a new plane, in a new mode. And that
I propose is an inactive idea of agency and adaptivity, that you're using the environment
constantly to build yourself. And in doing so, you build this self-distinction, but you're
also open. Adaptively, you're trying to conserve certain paths of becoming.
And that is a little bit the resolution of that initial dialectical tension.
At the, I guess, more existential phenomenological level, this is this idea
from Hans Jonas, this idea of needful freedom, both open, but at the same time,
I think Andrea also talked about this in another episode. I think for me, this was really helpful
because it really links the idea of autonomy directly to a notion of becoming in the inactive
approach. And I think that's one of the themes of your more recent research from what I could
tell is that you're trying to also make sense of this idea, how it relates to the idea of
a body, what a body is, which is actually very hard to say, although there is this
all this literature in a body cognitive science. So can you talk a little bit about this?
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're right. I think that, well, you just said it, the question,
what is a body? You know, when we asked that question, in the context of a body cognitive
science, you don't find many clear answers. That is something surprising. I mean, in other areas,
in other areas of inquiry, you know, there may be better, some better answers, but it's almost like
embodied cognition was trying to say, well, it's almost obvious what a body is. Come on,
it's our anatomical physiological structures, you know, our biological body, our sensor apparatus,
blah, blah, blah. Well, yeah, but that doesn't, in my opinion, go deep enough, because
you may speak of a body of anything like this, you know, a typewriter may have a body in that
sense, because it has a structure and so on, and it may interact with the world. So I think
the inactive theory, as I was saying, gives us a lot of tools to try to work out better
approaches to a more principled conception of bodies, bodies in the plural, I will also say,
because we end up proposing that we don't have just this one dimension of embodiment. We do
have an organic dimension, you know, our physiology, and so on. But we also have a sensory
mortal dimension. We are active in the world, we have powers, we can do things, we are sensitive
to things, and so on. And that seems to be not reducible to the biology, because, for instance,
you also depend on the environment for the possibilities that you can, you know, the
affordances you have, the obstacles, and so on, so forth. And then we have a social,
intersubjective dimension as well. You know, we are, again, these dynamics of affirmation,
recognition, distinction, they're also happening in this social domain. So we speak of these
dimensions of regulations of embodiment, or dimensions of embodiment. And the fact that
tells you that it's a good proposal is that these dimensions are sometimes at odds with each other.
You know, you may consider that for health reasons, you should go on a diet or something
like this. But that's something that comes from our linguistic knowledge. We know about it,
we're told, some people give us good arguments, we recognize that that's a good argument and realize
reflectively that we should do that. But the sensory motor body doesn't really agree with
that. You know, when we see the ice cream, we want to have some ice cream. It's hard to,
so that's all breaking a bad habit, because it could be unhealthy, you know, like habit of smoking.
So that is a total sign that is quite right to see that the body is not just this
unified thing. Even if you want to consider it's a process, it's not just this unified,
but it's an entanglement of different kinds of autonomy. That is what we propose that there,
the idea of autonomy comes back as a proposal. This is a theory, of course,
in the sensory motor domain. So we have sensory motor agency, and it comes back in the interaction
domain and the linguistic domains. That is a little bit of the inactive trick. If you like,
you just see whether in the new domain of interest, something seems to be conserving itself while
other things change, and see, propose, see if it is possible that there is evidence that that,
which is conserved, might be conceived as an autonomous system.
So becoming involves all of these dimensions. It's just not the one dimension. And in here,
you mentioned Hans Jonas, which is also, he's very useful also to distinguish these forms,
transitions in forms of life, from basic, little freedom to animal life or mobile, mobile life,
essentially, that can, you can perceive, you can have different dimensions for your emotional
life, and so on and so forth, to human and so on. So you see these transitions there, but another
interlocutor for me has been the philosopher Jean-Bernard Simon Don, with his theories of
individuation and so on, which, of course, is quite complex, and maybe we shouldn't go into that now,
but essentially, there is a confirmation of this notion that becoming is an entanglement of
dimensions of becoming. And when you talk about bodies, well, the first problem is that
you should not try to reduce the idea of a body to any one of these dimensions,
as if one was more important than the others. I have said many times that,
yes, you need an organic body to then become a sensory motor agent, and you need to be a sensory
motor agent to interact socially. Yes, but that's chronology, that that's not as relevant as what
happens afterwards, when all these dimensions are mutually transforming each other, so that our
physiology is very much dependent on the jobs we have, for instance, on the urban environment
where we live, and whether we have jobs or not. So that affects our body chemistry, affects our
immune system, and so on. So we constantly, all these dimensions are shaping each other.
And so becoming, what does it mean? It's not simply to highlight this process that bodies are
unfinished. They're always in a process of arriving, but never arriving. They're always like,
okay, let's go to this point, let's go to this point, but then you have to start again.
But it also speaks to, if you like, the more human dimension of becoming, which is the more
existential one, you know, whether you feel that you're living the life you want to live,
whether you live in a place that gives you the possibilities to do that, whether you can set
yourself goals that you can try to achieve, or whether that's very hard.
And then I've done some work on that existential dimension to show that
most of the times we think about it in a very individualistic sense, but in fact, becoming,
to make things even more complicated, can only happen, human becoming can only happen
in a community with others.
There's also an idea that's really at the roots also of Varela's thinking, no, in many ways.
In many ways, yes, yes, yes, yes, because Varela was also very concerned with such things as, well,
communities appear in many places, even in the early book, and because he talks about observers,
but then he says, in fact, we should say a community of observers. He keeps realizing
that he has to bring the community because the community will set a set of rules and norms and
interests to which you as a researcher would have to somehow connect, either by saying,
I follow this, or either by saying, look, no, I think we should change. By being critical of
them, you can also, but not by being indifferent. You are shaped by the community, which is also
an idea that Simon Donne has. Human individuation happens at the collective level. We become
individuals thanks to the collective, not against the collective, which is the traditional
way of thinking. It's like, oh, you've got the individual and the collective. The collective was
only the source of obstacles to your individuality. I mean, the collective is also the one,
the source of your desires, of your drive, of your powers. They also come from having developed in
this collective. So the idea becomes quite rich, and that starts to connect, opens up what was
originally an approach concerned with the study of the mind, or maybe life and mind,
to find connections with several interesting questions in the humanities, in social science,
in medical sciences, and so on and so forth. Yeah. I mean, you and together with Hannad Jäger,
I think this idea of participatory sense-making, which Andrea also has talked about with other
guests in previous conversations, I guess is the inactive attempt and version to understand this
social dimension and the way that it's entangled with our organic and sensorimotor dimensions of
embodiment, as you put it. And you think in the book Linguistic Bodies that you wrote together
with Hannad Jäger and Elena Koufari, talk about this primordial tension, as you call it, that is
implied by this notion of participatory sense-making. And I find this really an interesting
idea. So I was wondering if you can say a little bit more.
Yeah, sure, sure, sure. So the work we've done with Hannah on participatory sense-making is,
it was, if you like, the first connection that we could establish between these ideas of autonomy,
embodiment sense-making, with the social domain, with the, let's put it in the same interactive
domain, where more than one agent is involved in affecting each other. And so what we proposed
there in the context of debates on social cognition was that at the root of our interactions,
there is a way in which we are constantly affecting our sense-making. And sometimes
it could be an indirect way, like in an interaction, I point to something and you understand that as
maybe look in that direction, and then you see something you were not seeing, some influence in
your sense-making. Two more sophisticated ways in which we can create something together. We're
working on a project together, and it's hard to tell who is the author of these ideas, you know,
because we're constantly being developed together. So we did apply the inactive trick. So we said,
like, okay, we have our autonomy of these individuals and so on. But when is it a social
interaction? Well, we suggested that the interaction itself, the dynamics of interaction,
momentarily takes an autonomous dynamics too, an autonomous organization too. And then we asked,
well, if that's the case, we should have experiences where the interaction wants to go on
despite everybody wanting to stop it. And we did find those experiences, like the typical
case of the narrow corridor situation with two people walking in opposite directions. And then
by miscoordination or maybe by coordination, you end up doing this sideway dance for a while until
somebody says, oh, you first. Well, that's a case in which the interaction, something is becoming
self-generating, at least for a moment, temporarily. I'm not saying interaction is an agent or
anything like this. It's just this temporary organization. So we then proposed that a social
interaction should be defined as a situation where we as participants can maintain our autonomy
as participants. We are not negated in the encounter. And also it's not just simply that
we're sitting together ignoring each other, but somehow the flow of these dynamics, of these
relations, at least momentarily acquires a life of its own. And in sociology, there were lots of
support for the idea of interactions having a life of their own. So what is the primordial tension?
Okay. So the primordial tension is exactly, if you like, that tension within these two
forms of autonomy, that of the participants and that of the in-between, the encounter.
It's not necessarily tension between people participating. It doesn't have to be a negative
connotation to this idea of tension, but we are individual cognizers embodied, cognizers wanting
to do things, to do stuff. One of the things we're doing is participating in an interaction,
but I may find myself, I don't know, maybe I'd like to drink some tea now, but I kind of just
go and prepare the tea now. So the interaction that we're having now is regulating that desire
to say, no, later you have the tea later. So, or in the middle of interaction, we may have dissonances
because I look at somebody behind you that I know of, and you might interpret that as if I'm not
paying attention to you. Well, in fact, I am listening to you, but that change that was part
of my own sense-making, noticing somebody, has had an influence on you and has an influence on the
dynamics of interaction. Perhaps from that point on, you start thinking, you know, suspecting that
I'm not really taking you seriously in what you're telling me, just because I had that moment,
and so on. So the primordial tension is that tension that we have to navigate to
work through this potential misunderstandings, this potential dissonances, lack of coordination,
and when we do break down the interaction, we have to bring the resources to try to repair it
in some way, and that is essentially where we actually learn something new. The interaction is
telling us something like, oh, sorry, you know, the typical thing is, sorry, I thought that,
whatever, I thought you meant something else, I thought you wanted something else,
and then you recover that, and we do it linguistically, but it could be in a dance,
it could be people dancing tango, that that happens to. So the primordial tension is always
there, but in the book Linguistic Bodies, what we propose is to start from there and start developing
a dialectical understanding of this tension that takes you to increasingly more complex forms of
social agency. Each form of social agency reproduces the original tension in a different
way. It resolves it, apparently, but then you realize that, oh, from now on, there is another
tension and another tension, and eventually you go from basic participatory sense-making,
mutual influence in our sense-making, to things like acts that regulate how we interact, like
gestures, and so on, partial acts, we call them, to ways in which we regulate how we use those acts
with familiar participants or unfamiliar ones, to the formation of dialogical structures,
mutual recognition as participants in the dialogue, and eventually, you know, the possibility of
reflecting and utterances in the dialogue. You say something and I reflect something about what
you say, either using the same words or just in the tone or in my response, there's a connection.
So the dialogue becomes like a braided history, and that brings several interesting things,
consequences, like the possibility of personhood, essentially. Personhood, as such, becomes
theorized in an active approach at that level, when we can recognize each other
and we can reflect, because I can reflect utterances, I can also reflect my own utterances,
I can eventually self-talk, have self-control that is not just simply
self-regulation, like the, you know, the blood temperature is self-regulating. No, I mean,
I have a power which is imbued with social normativity that then I apply to directing my
becoming as a person. So that's why we are persons. So that's, sorry, in the end, I ended up talking.
I think we should maybe at some later point do another conversation.
One thing that you, or this idea of this tension, I think it connects very well to
a comment that I think Shea Welch made with Andrea in an earlier podcast, where she
made this interesting point that sometimes it seems like you're actually communicating
better with people that have sort of different styles, different perceptions, different ways of
being in the world because of the effort that you have to bring into this interaction.
And I think Rebecca Todd at this point said that, you know, this also shows the importance of love
in conversation and communicating success. This idea that I think you find also in the work of
Erich Fromm, for example, which I really like, that, you know, love is this ongoing practice of
trying to engage despite breakdowns, despite tensions. So how do you think about this,
since this is a podcast also about love and philosophy?
Oh, absolutely. Well, I think I think that's absolutely right. This is also
stepping a little bit into the ethical territory. What should be your attitude
if you want to participate and know the other? You can't come to this interaction
with insufficient openness to the other. You must let the other have their space, their say and so
on. And so even if that takes a lot of effort, okay, because that typically will take a lot
of effort because you think it's so easy, like, well, you know, I'm open-minded. And then imagine
you have to talk to somebody who says, I'm not open-minded. How are you going to be open-minded
towards that attitude? And then you have to really try. Okay, so essentially, what I'm trying to
drive out here is that if you think that our understanding and our becoming advances in
communities and through participation, if you like, one basic ethical attitude that you have
would be to always attempt to connect and attempt to reopen. That in itself will introduce new
tensions. And this is, I mean, Hannah has looked into this engaged and engaging epistemology,
precisely calling it loving and knowing. So you should then say, well, I'm not trying to
over-determine what's happening here, like coming with preconceived ideas about what you want to
tell me, who you are, what you're saying, the meaning of what you're saying. But at the same
time, you kind of just simply say everything is fine and disappear into the others that are around
you. So again, you find that tension, which is analogous to that original thing we talk about,
the self-production and self-distinction. In a sense, you are in these interactions
forming yourself, producing yourself, if you like, as a human being from all these relations.
So you must be open to them and you must be open to change and maybe change in directions that are
maybe scary. But at the same time, you should also be able to affirm your direction. So becoming is
not some simple change. It's affirming or attempting to direct your process of becoming
in a good way. And what counts as good will be a difficult question to ask, but it cannot just be
simply good for you because of how you depend on others constitutively, you know, existentially.
And maybe the flip side of this as well that I think also came up in this conversation that I
mentioned earlier, which I think they call the study of complexity, fatigue, that maybe sometimes
you're too open to everything at the same time. Exactly, exactly. Very overwhelming. And I mean,
I know this from my own experience as someone who I think needs a lot of time to like digest,
agents digest different viewpoints, but I'm also always open and wanting to engage. And finding
this right balance is really difficult. It is obviously difficult. And there's no recipe for
it. That's the difficulty as well in the sense that, yeah, you can get some advice about like,
oh, listen to what the others has to say. Do not interrupt. Fine. That's fine. But
these things never do away with the possibility of full breakdown and misunderstanding that that
can happen at any time and not because anybody wants it. Often it happens when everybody is
trying to avoid it. That's also one of the reasons why it happens. It's paradoxical.
Now, so what does love have to do with it? What's love got to do with it? Okay.
Uh, I think, okay, there are many, many different connections. But one is that this, this open this
that, uh, but would direct you to what it's like good ways to know others and to know anything
really is it has the same structure as, as the one we find when we love somebody or sometimes
more generally, you could love a place you could love, but in love, you do have that basic
existential structure of dependence, openness, but also tension and constant becoming, constant
negotiation and constant change. And there must be something that pulls this process forward because
sometimes it's just too much work. And what is it? I mean, well, I think it has to do with the fact
that you're into it, that in this complex relations, you're also changing yourself to the kind of
person you want to be. When it goes like in that direction, sometimes it may not be like that,
but sometimes you see that as a possibility, as a potentiality that then you, you become therefore
the person that you desire to be through this, this, this complex forms of relations.
So that, if you like, that can be extended to all forms of engagement with the world,
engagement with nature, engagement with communities and so on and so forth.
And that does not mean, please, this should be obvious that everything is rosy and great,
because suddenly we are kind of open and ready to love everyone. No, no, it's on the contrary.
It's what some of the more difficult forms of interaction. And sometimes it just doesn't work.
That's the thing. I mean, the good knowledge, like that, what Shay was saying, also the effort
you put into understanding somebody, just sometimes it does not work and it breaks down and that's it.
You, you, you try it. Maybe the things need to change in order for that to happen again,
maybe try again later. I was wondering how you think, how this connects to another theme that
I'm very interested in that I also came up in my conversation with Michael Wheeler, which is the
idea of authenticity and also being sort of yourself, a very big term.
Absolutely. Well, again, it's a really good question and I wouldn't have like an
absolutely clear answer. I mean, I have a certain direction because these ideas of becoming
that we were talking about already kind of suggest to you that authenticity
is not quite rightly conceived as a way of being true to something static, you know,
because there is nothing, nothing static. I mean, so, so I'm constantly changing. It doesn't mean
I'm inauthentic. No, I mean, obviously there's a tension. When you may be authentic is in that
process of becoming you're in a way involved in it. You just simply not being pulled and pushed
without you ever bringing yourself into it critically, reflectively and say,
maybe this is not quite right. These things are manifested emotionally before they're manifested
consciously as ways of thinking, but emotionally, you know that you're not living through a right
situation. Something doesn't fit. What is authentic is not necessarily also the self,
although that's how the language works, unfortunately, but what is authentic is the
form of life and in your situation, not just you. So it has to be authenticity also has to be
considered relational in relational terms. And then you look at authenticity also is historical
because in past societies, authenticity was not such an issue because you had your place in the
world, you know, the evil times of ancient societies. And to be authentic would be to
play that role. You were a farmer, you were something else. You were a soldier
and you just did that. The role defined you. It's just that it's become an issue, you know,
with enlightenment and maybe even earlier in the sense that the individual was put at the center
of the inquiry and then we became very conscious of ourselves as individuals.
What is interesting is that I like, for instance, I think it was Oscar Wilde who said that
I can't remember the exact quote, but it's something like
to be true to yourself, you should constantly engage in new artificial changes all the time.
You know, that is the way to be true. You don't need to conserve anything. You need to keep on
changing. I wish I had the exact quote. So that is interesting because it also speaks of
speaks of an openness of, if you like, the human essence, proxically being something that is not
fixed. There's a becoming. And in the article about inactive becoming, I talk about several
philosophers who have been looking at becoming, you know, from Renaissance philosophers like
Pico della Mirandola, 20th century psychologists like Gordon Oldport,
people like Paulo Freire, you know, his critical pedagogy and Marxist philosophy and so on.
So each of them is telling you something about becoming that is right, but it's just them
is telling, pointing to what's missing in the other one. And eventually you come to a conception
of becoming that I think is quite rich and based on ideas of Simon Donne and things like that.
How do you think about this in an academic context or maybe in a reflective context where you have
to engage with other people's ideas critically, but also stay true to your own ideas? It's
sometimes very difficult because of course there's so much information, there's so much
to read and you find yourself sort of repeating what other people have said and not really sure
is that what I think or is that what they so and I know one thing I find inspiring about your work
is that whether or not someone agrees with it, you know, you develop your own kind of positions
also often against mainstream positions, exposing yourself to this kind of criticism
and that's not an easy thing to do and you have to I think have also trust in your own thinking,
but there's always of course also the possibility that you're wrong and that you're and so I was
wondering how do you deal with this? Do you have some kind of advice for people? I think it's a
great question and I think you have to navigate it in each circumstance. Circumstances will be
different, it's not like a general thing, but one thing that I think might be general and helpful
is to stay true to your questions, to stay true to maybe your question keeps changing shape
because the formulations, the things you learn help you formulate it in a different way and so on,
but it's something that is driving your interest and your questions and so on and
that you end up knowing these questions so intimately, you know, you want to know
really what this means, that there is no, let's put it this way, that there is little chance
that you will be overwhelmed to the point that you abandon them.
They can change their shape, but if your question is sincere, authentic,
you will not be overwhelmed so much by the information. You may then, if you do it more
consciously, you may then understand better whether the information is really that useful for you or
not. You say, well, this seems to be about the same issue that I'm interested in, but after reading
two lines, I realized that they mean something else. Do I need to really learn all of this?
Maybe not right now. Maybe you seek everything, the things that connect most directly to your
question and speak to you. You postpone everything else, you know, of course,
the problem is that there are other requirements in an academic life, like you had to be scholarly,
you had to know lots of stuff and write lots of papers. Fine, that is difficult, but if you
at least want to make sure that you're true to your path, to what you want to do,
keep asking your central question or questions and then say, here is something that connects to it.
Often it's very clear. It's not intellectual, it's emotional. Often it's very clear. You just
read some old philosopher that you've never heard of and it suddenly comes across a paragraph and
say, wow, yes, that's exactly the right way to put it. Who is this guy? And those things
are emotional. You just feel them like this aha moment, this thing that hits you.
Other times, the opposite is happening. You're dragging on, you're dragging on. It's like,
why am I even reading this? Okay. Well, perhaps it's not the right time.
Somebody told you it's relevant. Maybe they're right. If it's such a difficult thing, perhaps
you should keep your questions alive because the real problem is that the whole machinery
often will just simply kill your inquiry, will kill the spirit with which you started and that
is a very common problem. If you keep to the track that you see as the one that is
interesting to you or important to you, you will be likely to be doing the right thing.
Of course, that doesn't mean your questions kind of change. It doesn't mean that you cannot learn
new things and new ideas. That's fine. But it's the same thing. You're enacting, you're bringing
forth your academic world, so to speak, and therefore you have to do it right. Not just
you, maybe with a community of people, you have to do it right by being truthful to what's
really important to all of you. So I know that that's not very practical advice.
Oh, it's super helpful, I think, and important also to remember. I was just wondering,
are there questions for you that you would say maybe they've somehow been left behind
a little bit that are driving you in the background but you would like to spend more time
thinking about in the future or are thinking about at the moment?
Oh, I'm sure there are. There are many, yeah, undoubtedly. I think, maybe too many.
We didn't mention the word dualism in this conversation, but the inactive approach,
it should be clear, it rejects dualistic ways of thinking. Like, oh, you have this on the one hand
and it's very different from that. You have rationality in institutions on one side and
biology drives perception on the other. There may be differences, but there are not
big walls. That's the thing. So everything interacts. But I'm interested in like,
okay, what kind of ontology is the right ontology for serving as the basis for this way of thinking?
I mean, of course, it's kind of going to be a kind of process relation on ontology and so on.
But then how does it extend to other questions such as that these ontological ideas will
connect to problems such as environmental emergencies or politics or science? The
problems in science and quantum mechanics, what's going on? So I see all these connections
that I find interesting and I've done some work on or have conversations about,
all coming from these very basic questions like, what kind of universe is this that we are able to
continuously do this creative stuff that seems to be unfinished and that when we do stuff,
it's changing. So interesting. I like to understand that better.
Wow. Okay. Yeah, that's a big, big task. I guess you still have.
Yeah. You asked for a question. It is a big one.
I think we probably have to come to an end soon because my attention span is running out. But
is there anything that we didn't mention that you would have loved to talk about?
I think we covered a lot. Happy. Thank you so much.
Okay. Thank you.
