Welcome to Love and Philosophy. Thank you so much for being here.
I was going to let you both introduce one another,
or introduce yourself as you see fit today.
One another is a good idea.
Here is David Ponti,
who is a researcher at the French National Research Center
and also a member of the Center for Sociology of Innovation
from an engineer school, Ecole des Mines, mining school, in Paris.
And this is Jérôme Duny,
who is actually the director of the CSI in Paris,
in the Mines Paris School of Mines.
I was actually there not too long ago,
so I actually have a good visualization of your university.
I was walking and going into the museum with all the beautiful rocks.
Nice!
Yeah, I loved it. I love seeing all these rocks.
Wow, it was really spectacular.
Just so you know, I'm actually envisioning you.
You have an idea of the kind of book.
Exactly.
So we're going to talk about this book,
which I want to show the cover because I just love the cover.
I mean, I'm sure there's different covers,
but the care of things, ethics and politics and maintenance.
So how did you come to the subject?
How did you come to one another, and how did you come to this subject?
You can start anywhere with that, but I'm very interested in it.
So one another, it's a very long story.
It began in the end of the 1990s, actually.
We were doing our PhD, not together, but we were on the same team.
So we were quite young.
It's more than 25 years ago.
And maybe David can explain,
he was working on scientific signature, co-authorships and stuff like that.
And so progressively we decided we would do that,
sign and do research together.
And that's one of the outcomes of this decision made in, I don't know,
maybe in 1998, 1999, maybe, probably.
That actually fits very well with the care and slowness and overtime.
But did you want to add anything to that?
Yeah, we cannot dive into old decisions.
We did all along this journey, but at some point, very early,
because of the topic of our respective PhD,
so I was working on scientific authorship and on other things
related to writing in organization and work settings.
And at some point, writing came up as really a topic to investigate.
And we did different research separately,
always talked about what we did separately.
And at some point we came with a collaborative investigation in the early,
it was in 2005 or 2006.
And then we really go into these urban signs in Paris, inquiry.
And we were really into the design and the production of those signs
and how they organize, shape all the subway settings,
all the corridors, all and everything.
So writing has a powerful means to organize and discipline people into this area.
And at some point in this investigation, maintenance really apprised.
It was not part of the topic.
It was not a decision to investigate, study maintenance,
but it really came up from the field almost at the end of our inquiry,
because we were in this meeting with one of our, let's say, the main informants.
We were discussing all we did and if something is missing,
and we were almost saying goodbye.
And she, this kind of flash, and said,
Oh, did you went to the maintenance department and follow the maintenance guy?
And we were, no.
So it was a new start for the investigation.
And at the same time, Graham and Thrift published a paper in 2007.
The title is Out of Order.
And so we realized how far these two years in the investigation,
one to design and the other one to maintenance about these subway signs,
was not only a monograph,
but it really relates to broader concern in academia and not only in academia,
but to different people, organization, practitioners.
And so the decision come here after the maintenance president herself
have something interesting, we decided to dive into it.
And so we organized different panels and conferences
to meet with different people we didn't know before that
and discover different topics and objects
and the way these scholars deal with the way they are maintained.
So at some point we became part of what we call two branded maintenance and repair studies.
I think it's becoming actually a real world, it looks like.
I mean, the more I look, the more I found, which is always a good sign.
But I like that you came across this in a way that was a surprise.
As I was reading the book, which of course is about maintenance of things and we'll get into that,
I did find myself thinking a lot about writing and about research
and about the other topics that I imagine had led you into it.
There's definitely a lot of resonance there,
which maybe we can come back to or you can say something about any time.
But just you were looking at the signage or the writing of the metro signs in Paris,
which are very special.
And then that was a big project.
And it was sort of at the end that someone said,
have you talked to the guys that are doing the maintenance?
And you were like, no, and you went to do that.
And then in the book, you say it changed everything in a way, like everything.
I'm not sure exactly how you say it,
but somehow everything that you had thought was different after you talked to the maintenance people.
This is very important because this is maybe a specificity of this book.
We are not philosophers, we are sociologists or STS scholars.
But there is this idea that we needed maintainers to do philosophy in a way,
or to understand their own philosophical problems, let's say it like that.
So maybe to put it in a nutshell, at the end, at the first end, at the fake end of our investigation,
we consider that the power of signs, their ability to organize the world of wayfinding systems,
and especially the Paris one, was, I don't know,
the source of this power was immutability and omnipresence
or the fact that the boards were standardized, the signs were standardized, heavily standardized,
and they were made in a specific material, a very sturdy material.
That was how a lot of people told us.
So we were like very first Bruno Latourian, we were Latourian in a way,
saying that, okay, it's immobile, immutable, and this is how they are so important.
The first rounds we did with the maintainers, so we separated each other,
and one went with two guys and the other with two other guys for the whole day,
for the first investigation in the maintenance department.
And everything we imagined and we knew about signs seems to be, yeah,
not exactly like it is in the real, in reality or in the corridors or in the station,
on the platforms and stuff like that.
All the places, because they seem to be, these signs seem to be fragile,
they change, they were not all up to date, they weren't here,
they were things that were absolutely not in our picture in the first part of our investigation.
And what changed at first is that we thought that we were wrong, that we were completely,
I don't know, it was a misinterpretation at first,
and so we said we have to put everything we knew and we thought about signs in the bin
and just completely start over our investigation.
But thinking about it and reading about maintenance and really,
especially reading about care, we will go about that further, I imagine,
but reading about the work of Anne Marimol and the idea of versions,
and progressively we understood that it was not that one version was the right one
and the first one was the wrong one.
It was that the idea of immutable I-mobiles were performed by the fragile signs
that were taken care of by the maintainers.
So the idea that maintenance produced generates the solid, completely standardized version of the signs.
So we reconciled the two sides of our investigation eventually,
but it changed everything because especially we were completely in depth
with the first Bruno Latour and Madeleine Akrisch sociology with objects and artifacts.
And the idea that matter is important, matter matters in social relationships,
and generally when you say that in social sciences you think of matter as something that resists,
and you know people doing this, to say that matter is important in social sciences and in social relationships.
And so we just, we progressively understood that the point is obviously matter matters,
but also in terms of fragility and of people taking care of matter and of objects and of artifacts,
which is not exactly very present in the first actor network theory studies,
even if in the first Madeleine Akrisch papers, repairers, maintainers are present, they are not completely erased.
In Bruno Latour's works, it's less, it's really, they are less visible.
And actually Susanne Nistar wrote a very important paper in which she wrote that there is no reason to put aside maintenance.
So she didn't really dive into it, but she insisted about that,
discussing Bruno Latour and the sociology of door closer, the famous Bruno Latour paper.
Maybe just to add two few things, that change is the way,
because at that time we were not in the Center for Sociology of Innovation.
The thing is that being Latourian, Akrischian, we were, let's say, into innovation
and following different kinds of innovation and in writing practices.
And so the thing that changes is to step aside a bit from innovation and understand how maintenance is related to it or not.
The second, not the second, the other thing that changes is the way that we make room for maintainers
and making room for maintainers is to investigate some parts of the world that are no more designer and users, just to be quick.
To try to make it a little bit general, one thing that comes to mind for me when I was reading this and when I hear this is,
there's a similar pattern, I think, that I've experienced in different areas of life and one that I think is very general,
that maybe everyone would understand if I express it as, when I started studying neuroscience or science,
I had this idea of it, which is, I think, comparable to the way you might have thought of those signs.
It's a solid object. I think it fits with the Latourian concepts. It's solid, in a sense.
And then the closer I got to it, what I would say becoming part of the maintenance, in a way,
the more I couldn't really believe in that and it became much more complicated.
And yeah, there was a kind of a rupture, which was leading to a lot of further insights,
but also you have to recognize this fragility that I had been putting a lot on it not being fragile, in a way.
I don't know if that makes much sense to either of you or if that opens anything for you,
but I just want to put it there for people who don't, maybe, I've never read Bruno Latour
or how this opened out of a clear either or sort of situation into, in the book you talk a lot about fragility
and multi-sensory and multi-dimensions. It just becomes intra-related.
And that moment seems like an important one.
Yes. So first thing is there is important connections with science studies and the first laboratory studies,
which means that people really observing how science is made, is concretely made,
is a very good way to grasp and to understand this fragility and this processural making of, for instance,
or Michael Lynch did at the end of the 70s and the beginning of the 80s.
So one of their main gestures was to acknowledge this fragility, this heterogeneity of the science practices.
But then the science and technology studies went with technology, the T of SDS,
and the discussion somehow was displaced around mainly innovation, as David said,
and more large settings of discussing not the fragility of innovation.
It's a bit like that, but the heterogeneity of the trajectories of any innovation.
Just to criticize the idea of you have research and development and then market studies
and then users who adopt or not the technology.
So the technology studies, in science and technology studies, did that mainly.
And when they insisted on a role of objects and artifacts, it's like in material culture studies
and in the first laterian text about sociology with objects and with artifacts,
they almost forgot the fragility part of it, in a way.
To insist that we live and humans live among artifacts which participate in the organization of the society.
And this is what Bruno Latour called the missing masses.
And he used to criticize sociologists saying that you are speaking about social relations,
but only with humans, and this is completely stupid because humans couldn't do society
if they didn't have any objects, if they were naked.
And this is why we are not exactly like monkeys.
So that's the first aspect of it.
And this is why fragility and heterogeneity and processes are important in science and technology studies,
but intriguingly not as much when it comes to discuss the importance of artifacts or objects.
So that's the first point.
So what you say about the fragility and the material heterogeneity is really important
because this is the first thing that struck us when we followed the maintenance in Paris subway,
in Paris metro or subway, is that they were dealing with the science in a very special way
that is as some things that were constantly transforming, that were constantly changing.
And actually, of course, signboards for them were very important, but it was not only signboards.
It was rust, it was the wall and the materials with which the wall is made
and the materials of the science itself and how everything interacts.
And so it's not only fragility.
I think fragility was the first thing that really struck us.
They are not as solid as we thought.
But then we discovered that what was very important for maintenance is this material transformation.
And this is very important to us because they taught us in a way,
and they helped us to understand what Deleuze, for instance, or Deleuze and Guattari said about the craftsmen
and the idea that these are the kind of people who are able to plug themselves into the flux of matter,
which is something, or materials, the flux of materials.
When you read this, this is quite abstract. You can understand, but it's quite abstract.
And when you follow maintenance, it's very concrete.
It's exactly what they are doing and it's exactly their problems.
They want to understand how matter reacts, how materials interact between each other.
And this is really crucial to get these lessons from maintenance
and to understand how they deal very simply with very huge problematic issues and philosophical issues.
And I remember during our first presentations and our first communications,
we met with Karen Barad in a conference.
And we did one of our first presentations about the signs that were fragile, that were broken,
and saying that they are not as immobile and immutable.
And she was very nice, but she disappeared after that, so we never met again.
But she really, she went after our presentation and said,
OK, you are exactly explaining very simply what I try to explain to people and they don't understand.
But this is not us, this is maintenance.
And I think it's very important because it's the way maintainers live in the world
and the way they are experiencing material world that can help us thinking very crucial and important issues
or matters, philosophical issues, philosophical matters, and even, of course, political ones.
That's great. That's exactly what I was hoping to kind of start to unpack.
It seems like this is what a lot of that literature was calling attention to, but not about objects,
which is very weird in a way. It's almost like we had we're doing an excavation.
We could only handle so much. And now we can now we're like looking a little deeper somehow.
It seems a continuance of even as it has to kind of criticize a bit, which is interesting and actually part of,
you know, the rhythm of the book in a way.
So did you have anything you wanted to add there, David, before I go on?
I don't know, depending because you mentioned multi-sensory or everything.
And to follow up on what you just said, I can add a few on that.
Because to consider things or objects, not as much as table and with very clear boundaries,
but as flows actually involve those kind of people to to engage bodily with those things made of flows and processes.
And we discover and they really we learn from them how, of course, this is about noticing,
noticing and so the eyes and the vision clear.
There's so much about that. Maybe I can it's not I can skip a bit because it's obvious.
They see the world, they see the thing, they see Jerome already get into a bit of it.
But vision is always articulate with other senses and depending on situation,
depending on the kind of things they are dealing with, it can be smelling, it can be hearing, it can be touching.
Touching is really also another one.
But one more time is depending on the settings, the kind of maintenance work that is involved.
And so the point is that depending on configuration,
we can make a kind of hierarchy between the different bodily engagement and sense senses that are involved.
But the point is not to have this kind of cartography.
The point is that this is always multisensory and this is always something that involves different kind of part of the body
that is clearly related to rules and objective because those people come with they are monetary to the situation.
They don't come when when we are in professional and organizational setting, of course, they don't come just to see or to smell.
No, this is mandatory.
And in advance, they must know or imagine or anticipate what they're going to see, smell and do.
But what is very important in this multisensory aspect is that it's on one part to confirm and to go into what the rules
and the framework actually already organized and framed.
But by multisensory involvement, they also they are also open to surprises.
What are the rules already anticipated?
What what come up?
And this is part of a very of their expertise on this part.
Yeah, it's a bit cartoonish of me to say this, but in reading the book,
you can kind of imagine that you go back into the body when you start to talk to the maintenance people again.
I'm exaggerating, but it's almost like it's all in the head and it's this kind of thought experiment in a way.
And then it becomes really bodily and and the senses and and it's interesting the movement that comes there in the book.
And you can correct me or whatever if this doesn't make sense to you.
But to me, it's hard to talk about, which is why I want to try to talk about it.
But it becomes more mundane in the sense every day kind of way in the same way we we were talking about science.
It's this thing that seems wonderful and perfect.
It's this object that's there.
And then it becomes a process that sensory and embodied and it becomes so rich.
And at the same time, nothing happens in a way because it becomes so consistent and all the time.
What does that bring up? I know that's a lot, but it's messy.
I'm just trying to see how we can get into this because it's not a very clean cut.
It's fractal.
No, it's very important.
And I think it's really it's crucial of the of the question of the maintenance and maybe.
But we can address this question maybe later.
But it's maybe the differences between focusing on the repair and focusing on maintenance because.
So this is there is this idea that there is a very concrete bodily commitment and the senses are really important.
First aspect is that it's also the case in settings where maintenance operation interventions are equipped with tools,
because, of course, you have a lot of maintenance interventions that are equipped with things to to to look throughout something,
for instance, or with sensors and stuff like that.
So but but but you cannot do without bodies.
And this is super important.
Actually, even the high tech tools that are used nowadays are in tension with the importance of the body and the senses.
And you have really interesting situations now where in which maintenance maintenance resist to to to high tech tools or instruments to to to keep their expertise and their bodily expertise and sensory expertise.
So this is important.
That's that's the first aspect.
But then it's again and again.
And this is what the artist, the conceptual artist we discuss with all along the book.
And she was on the cover of the French version of the book.
Well, the performance say it's something that you do every day and you have to do again.
And a lot of people actually participate in doing so.
It's it's unnoticed.
Even if it's not completely invisible, it's mainly unnoticed.
So it's a very it's something that that is in it's not actually it's absolutely not in the foreground of our experience of most of people experience.
So the idea that it's a background activity, a repetitive one, and sometimes really not as fun as that to do is super important to us because it's still an expertise.
And it's still something that not everyone can do.
And so this was also important to us because when we when we got into the subway stations with the maintenance, we discovered, for instance, how they are able to pay attention to things that we didn't notice at first at all.
So we weren't able even to look at things correctly.
And of course, we were not able to touch things and to understand how what was happening here and what should be done, of course.
But still they do that every day.
Their pay grade is not great.
And it's kind of a dirty job, dirty work, something that is made by people, mostly racialized people, men, mostly in urban settings, women at home.
And this is part of all this question of invisible work in general.
So in some how, and we are really connected to UKLS work and all our performances.
Our idea was, how can we make this expertise, but very mundane expertise matter?
How can we take maintenance into account?
And in a very large sense, because into account in our stories, in the way, for instance, we explain the relationships between humans and technologies, for instance.
But also take maintenance into account in accounting practices and in prices and in salaries and in all these important aspects,
which is not detailed in the book, but is part of what we do and how we also talk to people and other kind of research we did.
How can we have a fair price, for instance, for maintenance?
Because, of course, these activities are mainly the ones that are considered as costless or not.
They are undervalued in most of situations, not all of them, but in most situations they are undervalued.
So the idea of bringing to light these expertise and this bodily expertise, which is still mundane, is super important to us.
One phrase that's coming to mind is the one about normalcy.
They're taking care of normalcy.
And I was even thinking about how much of the most important jobs from teachers to maintenance workers are doing that,
because it's so consistent and so important overlooked, which is part of that weird paradox, too, that comes.
But you raise this point about, well, there's a couple of things hanging in the air, like ukulele or ukalele, because that's so rich and it's weaving through the book.
But the idea of innovation and development and also the idea of there being a difference between repair and maintenance.
Well, first, David, if you want to say anything about the other, did you have any comment?
Yeah, we got a specific sentence and maybe to summarize the drama of maintenance.
That is to make everything go on as if nothing had happened.
And actually, as soon as you followed maintenance, actually a lot of things happened.
So as if nothing had happened to whom?
And clearly, this is one of the clear distinctions we try to underline between maintenance and repair.
And so to put up what you want to say about ukuleles, maintenance.
She really into maintenance and the mundane, repetitive, boring activities.
And at some point, repair what are going to be the distinction I'm going to dive into is not on the reality is more on the approach and more on what you put forward and backward.
So the two words do not refer to different realities.
They refer to the same, but depending on if you switch on the forefront maintenance or repair, you've got a very different picture of what you are describing.
So maintenance, this is really, okay, repetitive, boring.
And actually, most of people are involved at some point in it, doing the washes, you know, knitting different clauses.
So it's a very different situation and made on a very regular mundane and boring rhythm and a continuous one.
Repair is in this contrasting attempt is more a clear cut activity that come after something broke, after a kind of event.
And this is another event that responds to the first one.
You got repair that come in front of the scene in action films.
You got all those kind of very famous actors, of course, men with muscles and everything that saved the world.
So I just underlined too much, but just to explain the thing, you got one event and repair is another kind of event that repair so that bring back to the thing,
the situation, the institution to order, to oversee, as you just mentioned.
And so this is really something that is binary, contrary to maintenance, that is continuity.
And you get this kind of different kind of factors with, let's say, heroes or people that saved the world or the situation.
And in maintenance, it's a notice and ongoing activities made by regular people just to contrast too much, but to make it.
No, it's great. There's these layers. And I think it relates a lot to time and to attention to noticing all of these things that you're layering and that we're trying to talk about.
So there's this way in which things go on and we focus on development or innovation, maybe because it's so every day and so overwhelming to be aware of all the time.
There's a lot of reasons, maybe. But then there's a rupture and something happens like we have an emergency and something has to be repaired.
And then everyone focuses on it. And those people doing the repairing sort of become the focus.
And that's often maybe confused with what we've been talking about here.
And I think when it comes to the noticing and to the time and to the care, this matters a lot.
And also to what Jerome was saying about this isn't just like this is in all kinds of areas of society.
In a way, we're talking about approach to the way that we are living, too, and what we prioritize as, you know, people living in different places at different times.
So I just want to bring all that up, all those layers.
And I think maybe we could you can say whatever you want to say, both of you.
But then maybe we can talk about an example or more than one example. The yesterday to what is the news?
Yeah, no, we have we can we have several stories.
Maybe we can start with one of our hero, quote unquote, is John Oliver, because we have we use a lot of performances from UKLS.
But we also use one particular episode of Last Week Tonight, a late show from John Oliver,
who we love really because he's super interesting and his team is really a great team between thorough investigation and sketches and jokes.
And so he has in 2015, he did this episode about infrastructure.
And actually, it turned out to be an episode about maintenance.
And it's very hard to understand how much maintenance is invisible or unnoticed and how much is important.
And he said to if you want to understand that you can just imagine a movie and a movie and a movie about great catastrophes and great breakages
and where you have these very famous actors who are playing the role of the savior.
And so he tried to to to and you can find it on YouTube.
He filmed a trailer for a movie who can be about maintenance.
And it's very funny because very quickly what it means, for instance, to maintain a bridge.
And he says, you look at people, you know, just adjusting.
I don't know the term in English.
Let's say a screw, for instance, or watching for leaks and saying, is it a big leak?
And so he used very famous actor to do that.
And music is very suspenseful music and stuff like that to make it understand.
So that's for instance.
And in front of that, he said that, of course, if the bridge would explode and people bringing pieces all together to to to manage to have some kind of bridge.
So the car could could and I don't know, escape something or it would be a much more valuable movie than the movie about maintenance.
And you have a lot of that for for for for for cars, for instance, you can offer let's say for cars, for instance.
And we worked with Cornelia Hummel, who owns Mustang herself and also did a really nice book about Mustang, classic Mustang owners.
And for instance.
In France, right? Classic Mustang owners.
Yes.
In Europe or in France?
In Europe, yeah, in Europe.
Just for the American viewers, because it's a special thing, a different thing.
Yes, this is a very strange thing, because in Europe, classic Mustang are really they're not as they're not really costly because they are not cars for for museum at all.
But but they are cherished because I think they represent something like that, like America.
Yeah, the Mustang.
That's important.
And so so a lot of people have won.
They are not rich people.
Yeah, you know, they have to wait a lot to to have a classic Mustang.
And of course, you could insist on the I don't know, yeah, accidents and breakage.
But what she was interested in and what we we worked on with her was the daily maintenance of these classic Mustang.
And what is really interesting is that people are afraid they are worried about the continuity of their car and of their cars authenticity.
Will it really remain a classic Mustang if I have to change this or that because of of norms and standards or of just because, you know, some some equipment is not available anymore, for instance.
So you have to to put different kind of things.
You have to change the brakes, for instance, because it's more secure to have breaks.
And what is really interesting is first we're talking about the sensory expertise.
The owners of these cars feel with their body every things that could go wrong with that car when they when they are driving it.
And it's really it's it's even touching in a way because you understand in the description she gave about these people and in the interviews that they really are plugged into with their feet, with their back, with their ears, of course, but with their end to the vibrations of the car, for instance, for the sounds of the car.
And they know the sounds that are OK, for instance, but they are also able to to to to pick the sounds that are quite strange and to be very careful of the next occurrence of this sound.
And if it's too much, you have to go for service the car and just to verify everything is OK.
So, for instance, these car owners are experts of their cars.
A lot more, I think, than most of people with their regular cars, of course, sometimes listen very intriguing sound, for instance, but not as as they can do it.
But what is important also is that they are worried about it.
They really are. So this is a disquieting attention.
It's something that they are obsessed with and they can become obsessed with.
Definitely gets to the care, care thing, having been around a lot of people and a lot of different cars.
What I think what you're talking about there is sometimes people collect cars and it's a very different kind of being than this way of being in relationship with the car and this continuity,
which I think relates a lot to what what you were both saying about the maintenance workers earlier, too, just to kind of make that connection.
It's a more bodily, everyday relationship. It's just, yeah, just just put that in.
Yes, and they and they are they are listening to the car.
So in a way, they also pay attention to what the car has to say in a way or has to show in terms of fragility, for instance.
And so this is a this is a real relationship.
And when they need to intervene on the car, which is the other side of the thing, which is almost every month with this car, they try not to intervene too much.
And they discuss with the whole community of classic Mustang owners to check if it's still a classic Mustang, if they do this or that or change this or that, which is very interesting.
And one important aspect of it is this kind of cars to be to really be a classic Mustang.
They have to drive it. It cannot be collected and remain at least somewhere completely mobile.
It reminds me, too, I mean, in the work in the book, you also talk about Mona Lisa and there's something similar going on there, but just at a different level that nobody ever sees in terms of keeping it the Mona Lisa.
But it's always changing, too. But this is a more personal, everyday level.
But did you have something, David, that was coming?
I don't know if you agree or if you want to touch on this, but this continuous relationship also shed light on the ambiguities and the, let's say, dark side of maintenance because those car owners worried.
But at some point, the relationship is too much for them and they sell the car.
So that really puts the attention on the way maintenance is not that beautiful or something very positive or whatever.
And to be clear, we are not for maintenance.
We really like it as a topic to be investigated and to learn from maintenance, not as something that to push for or to say maintenance of anything is good.
So on this very ambiguity of maintenance, the ambiguity is both for the thing and for the people that take care of it.
You can destroy the thing, you can Mona Lisa, not this one, but other paintings have been destroyed.
You really miss the thing you try to care for it so much that you destroy it. Is that what you mean?
Yeah, because I'm thinking about in the book, too, you talk about care is work.
And that is a really important point that this is and I guess we need to kind of draw some lines like we've been talking about care, but we haven't used that word exactly.
So but also, yeah, in the book, it's very obvious that this is work and it's not easy.
And I think that's what I was trying to get at, too, with the with the attention thing and how it can be very hard to pay attention to everything that's happening in this way that has to be done.
If you are the maintenance worker or the person taking care of the Mona Lisa or with the car, it's so sensory that it actually takes a lot of energy to in a way.
So I'll let you both whatever might come up there.
But yes, it took energy and it's just to follow up on what I just to connect with this, but to follow up on what the ambiguities.
It's only it's harsh and it's harmful.
You can you can not only destroy your miss the thing you try to to maintain, but you can also hurt yourself with the tools, with the products, with everything.
And so in some situation, maintenance is not that positive or like working on the bridge.
Yeah, you know, it's dangerous to take care of the bridge.
Care is work on the expertise, knowledge, whatever things apart.
But this is work also on the way the bodies are really put at the test and more than test.
Yeah, that's that's an important aspect because so every kind of maintenance is not work in a strict sense.
But saying that maintenance and care is work is completely connected to feminist theories about care.
And of course, why we call that the care of things is because we found very important and crucial resonances between what we were looking at and the theory and the feminist theories of care.
And which is very interesting is that Fernando Dominguez Rubio, who is a friend and a colleague who worked on Mona Lisa around 2015 and Steve Jackson, who did this beautiful paper in 2014.
Rethinking repair. We were all together paying attention to some kind of maintenance phones with computers for Steve Mona Lisa and then contemporary art with Fernando and our subway signs at first.
And we all did this connection without knowing each other with the ethic of care, which is very interesting because and then we very quickly became colleagues and friends
because we wrote to each other and the work of Lara Houston, for instance, also a lot of people actually.
But we all have this vocabulary of care and super important because there is tons of lines of thinking and reflection between care of people and care of things.
It's not the same, obviously, but in one of one of the line is fragility, of course, taking fragility as a starting point.
The theories, feminist theories are more likely to use the term vulnerability, which is not exactly the same, but it's quite, quite, of course, close.
But work is in another aspect, the idea that it's work. So it's not as easy as it seems.
It's costly and sometimes it's even a matter of health for workers.
And the way to put this is it's another way to say that for us it's important to make maintenance count is at what costs a thing can remain the same.
At what costs, economic costs, but also human costs, a bridge, for instance, or a nuclear plant to say things that are less romantic that Mona Lisa, for instance,
at what human costs this remains in place. And this is very important because and this is the third aspect of the discussion with the theories of care is that I'm missing the point.
Yes, it's these objects are generally presented or casted as autonomous as something that lasts for themselves.
And they are not actually they need people to take care of them.
Our computers or infrastructure, tons of things needs people, needs maintenance to remain the same or to stay in place, to stay functional.
And this is very clear, for instance, in architecture, when you saw a picture and you look at architecture journals, you don't see anyone.
Sometimes you see an inhabitant, sometimes you see a user, but you never see a maintainer.
And if no house, no building, no nothing can last without some kind of maintenance.
So this idea of this need work, this is really closely connected to the theories of care saying that no people is autonomous.
We all need some people to take care of us at some point, some day. And so we are all interconnected.
And so this is also this struggle against the myth of autonomy, autonomous people and autonomous thing.
And this is an important, really important aspect, which comes with the idea that people can get hurt doing maintenance, of course, and they can die doing maintenance.
And it's very in some situation, it's very problematic.
It also comes with this idea, OK, so these things that seem to be only material, that seems to be only technological, actually take people,
maintainers who sometimes are getting hurt or getting sick doing this maintenance.
We should put them in the same picture, that the picture that describes all that cell, this beautiful infrastructure, for instance.
Yeah, it reminds me of the ecology of fragilities. Ecology of fragilities is something that comes up in the book.
Do you each have about 10 more minutes or do we need to wrap it up real quick?
Yeah, it's OK.
OK. Yeah, this reminds me of the ecology of fragilities, but also that it could sound like that we're trying to say that maintenance is better than development or innovation or something.
And I know that's not what's being said here.
So also the deeply disquieting aspect of it, I think, relates to what both of you were just saying, that it can be harmful, but it's also uncomfortable.
Or I want to get into that a little bit about how you see, like maybe even how this has changed your perspective of everyday life or something.
Or what is this doing when we start to think about care of things?
It is different from cares of people, but as you express in the book, these are changing the way we...
Our capacity almost for care is changing here in a way that reflects in all aspects of society.
How can we talk about that part of the book a little bit?
I was thinking it was a question about our own experience, but actually it became in the same sentence, the whole globe.
Yeah, you can take it with your own experience if you want.
It's not that easy, really.
You don't have to solve the global perspective.
Okay, I can try only on my own experience.
Actually, I was raised, let's say, in a middle range class, but my grandparents really cared about thinking to last.
Everything we had was really important for them to last.
You know, when you are a small kid and you're always on your knees and never on your feet or everything like this, and they go up.
You know, think of your parents.
So just to mention that.
And so let's say that for a long time it was, okay, this is a generational thing.
We don't care of it that much now.
And all those investigations we did with Jerome really make me think differently, of course, from their worried.
And of course, they are no more there now.
And in my own experience, it became very important not only to make them important and actualize in some sense what they taught me when I was young.
It's really connected also to, you know, climate change and everything today.
But so, you know, it's really connected and I re-articulate things I learned when I was a small kid with my bike and everything and try to have it to last.
But at some point to replace every part because, you know, innovation.
Just to explain, I did for a long time, I did freestyle BMX and in that sport the parts are breaking.
But at some point I used to change a lot, not because they break, but because I want some new ones.
And so all the things we did with Jerome, more than 15 years on maintenance really made me think, switch it and re-think differently at home.
And with my boys, I tried to explain them very differently because, of course, we are all the daddy that is very boring.
But we try to do something more political in a very feminist sense, political in the kitchen, political in the room, not political at the ground level, so to speak.
Yeah. In a way, you sort of bridged, nested all those different worlds.
And Jerome, I want to hear your experience.
But I just want to say, I want to ask, did it deepen?
I'm thinking about my grandparents and they had a farm and you had to take care of everything.
And there was a noticing and a kind of sensual connection to everything in similar ways to what we're talking about here.
And not to romanticize that, but to have it sort of taken for granted and then to grow up in, you know, a pretty wealthy kind of family where you could just get new stuff when it broke.
And that was kind of more my childhood after those early years.
I guess what I'm trying to get at and ask you about is for me, it was about realizing that when you care for things and when you can notice them and engage with them, they mean more.
And the experience becomes richer and deeper.
It can also become more overwhelming and more disquieting in the way we've talked about.
But there's something in there that feels important.
Did you realize that too in this experience with Jérôme and also just even in the way you started looking at the signs differently or this whole project that has now become a book, has it deepened something?
I mean, would you say it's added kind of or expanded your own perception or way of noticing in any way?
Maybe just one sentence and Jérôme is going to go.
It's really connected to what Jérôme just said before about interdependencies.
Now, every time I'm looking, touching, whatever I think, it's not only a thing.
It's always a lot of connected people, rules, ideas, values.
It's really a chain of interaction between very different things.
Even if I cannot acknowledge and identify all the components of the network, to say differently, this is really a flow.
This is no more stable and autonomous things.
That makes a lot of sense, especially with what Jérôme said, realizing the ecology of it.
But OK, Jérôme, so what about you and your personal world?
My personal world is also, I think, also connected to the more general aspect of your question,
is that I realized, I knew that, but I really realized how much in 50 years and even less,
a whole kind of model of consumption had been installed by a certain kind of capitalism,
which is hyperconsumption, basically, which has replaced everything that is black,
and then that's the carelessness, the idea of, at first we were obsessed that
maintainers were experts in paying attention to things, to fragility.
And then what I really understood eventually was that we were all experts of that a few years ago, a few decades ago.
It was just the way things were supposed to be.
Of course, because things are expensive, and maybe for affective reasons,
but also for very mundane economic reasons, you would make them last.
It's completely abuse, and it was completely abuse in very, very numerous situations and a lot of situations.
And then how come, so I reversed the aspect, how come we could not pay attention to these fragilities?
How come we didn't care? And the we is very situated.
How come I didn't care, for instance, for some things?
And I discovered that I was taught not to care.
And I remember a podcast we did a few years ago, a French one,
and the podcaster, the woman who was interviewing us, just called her dad.
And her dad said, you knew how to take care of things, but you didn't tell me.
How come I don't know how to do that?
And he answered to her, yes, because we don't you to bother with that.
We want you to enjoy life, which means that comfort and modern comfort was designed with carelessness,
was designed with the idea of you don't have to pay attention to things and their transformation.
But there is another important aspect, and it's important that even in your question you connect the two.
It's sometimes overwhelming.
So there is a risk of ableism in this situation of we should all pay attention to everything every time.
Of course not, of course not.
Of course people cannot bear this idea and they cannot stand to pay attention to everything or to worry for everything.
And this is the question for Mustang owners, for instance, but for everything.
Of course, when I take my bicycle and I go in the street in Paris in Boulevard Saint-Michel,
I have to pay attention to the fragility of the road, but not too much.
And not that some things are supposed to last.
And some people are specialized in taking care of them.
And it's a good thing to know the distribution of this work.
So the point is more paying attention to their ecologies and their interdependencies.
And this is the last point you mentioned with David.
The point is less paying attention to every kind of fragility of things,
but of people who could be involved in the becoming of the things with you.
So it's also a matter of repopulating the picture.
It's not only a relationship between you and the thing,
it's also taking this interdependency into consideration.
And then maybe asking, is it worth it or not?
I think the thing that really struck me eventually was this idea of carelessness
and the configuration of carelessness as comfort,
which is quite troubling and disturbing, at least.
Yeah, and there would be a whole other podcast there about how that relates to technology
and kind of our mindset today.
But I think it's very rich to think about the care of things right now in that context,
in the way that you're presenting.
We talk a lot about beyond dichotomy or holding paradox here.
And that doesn't mean choosing one or the other of these is somehow better,
but just that realization that people are maintaining
and it's a disquieting, difficult and enriching sensual process.
Just that kind of noticing is almost like a meta-layer to some of what you're discussing
in these situations that give something, I think,
about a way of being in the world right now and thinking of it through this lens more as an ecology.
But to kind of end, I wonder about...
Well, I was thinking about when you both go to the metro now, if it's different,
in that sense that you're holding things a little bit differently, not every day maybe,
that you're aware of all these people around you as you go through the city on your bike
or through the metro or whatever.
What has this brought to that relationship with the students?
I'm just bringing up a few things. You can go wherever you want to go with it.
Well, of course, once you have this in mind, you cannot navigate the world exactly the same
because you pay attention to fragility of things and to people who take care of them.
And actually, the very modest but also very ambitious aim of the book
is for each reader to end it, close it, and don't look exactly to the world in the same way.
And this is, in a Deleuzian way, this is a matter of percept,
and the book is something like a percept, more than a conceptual book.
And this work is quite modest, but a lot of people are saying,
oh, wow, we don't go to the subway and we don't see the same thing,
we don't live exactly in the same city.
And this is very simple.
And this is our political contribution, which is very mundane one, but perceptual one.
This is very, very, very important to us.
So it's also something personal, but it's also something we want to do with maintenance,
this idea of paying attention to the attention of others, the maintenance who are not paid who take care.
And regarding teaching, of course, this is something that is important because I teach,
and David too, but a bit less because he's more a researcher,
something that is a specialty in France.
You can be only a researcher, but you teach a little bit.
But I teach to engineers and to very elite engineers.
It's like, it's not Ivy League, but it's something like the Grande Ecole in French.
There will be very important people as soon as they leave the school.
And trying to debunk some things, some aspects of, especially the idea of autonomy in technology,
autonomous technology, and saying, no, no, no, there is no autonomy.
There is never, and each time you say that a technology is autonomous,
you are doing a kind of coup de force and you say, yeah, you are leaving a lot of people aside.
And this is problematic because this is also a matter of value.
And if you put them aside, you say that this is the thing only who is valuable and not people.
Of course, for AI today, all the work of annotators and people who are trying to make this thing work
as if they were autonomous are crucial, for instance.
So this is an aspect of how this kind of research can enrich that chain.
Wonderful. That could almost be a whole other book about the autonomy.
I mean, that's such an important point.
I'm glad you put it in there at the end, but I also just want to highlight it a bit
because that opens up a whole other world right now in terms of technology.
OK, but what's coming up for you?
Yeah, clearly I'm not a teacher, but I can talk about the professional setting
and teaching the students that are doing PhD with me.
And that's really changed the way I envision their projects
and the way I manage to really to take care of what they want to do
and what they want to do not only with this kind of topic, but they want to do in their life
and how they project themselves in the academic world or not.
This is not a problem to me, but I really take more time to really, let's say,
go deeper into it and not just trying to infuse or explain how to do a good PhD.
Yeah, of course, I'm still on this, but this is really a tiny part now.
I try to really understand who they are, what they try to do with this topic,
how the topic, the object, the scientific objects relate to their own experience
and take really care of it and try to manage to drive all this towards having a good PhD.
But this is not, yeah, it really sends the way and the time I take.
I take very differently the time with those people.
So this is not teaching, this is really to accompany someone with his or her goal.
And it takes a lot, but at some point, it's no more at some point, not on every PhD student,
but at some point, it relates to two persons going in a, yeah, not to be a care rock,
you know, on the road, but yeah, to have a few steps on the same road for a time.
And for some, they are no more PhD students because they defend the P&G,
but we are close friends at some point because of this new time I try to investigate.
Wow, that's actually really moving because I think that in a way is what the book,
kind of what you were saying, Jerome, it gives people something that's deep,
that it's hard for us to put into words, but I can just say,
having talked to a lot of like really successful, famous people, whatever,
that almost all of them end up talking about a supervisor or a teacher or a PhD or somebody
who did kind of what you just expressed that, you know, changed their trajectory in a way.
And it relates to a lot of the things we've been talking about,
about what you don't really notice or see in the everyday and all of that,
but also I think that it gets at something like meaning and care in a way
that makes it worth all of this that we're going through and doing.
So on that note, I always ask if anyone has anything they wanted to say about love
because we didn't bring that word up, have to at least say it.
We've been talking about it, but I don't know if you think it relates.
If not, you don't have to answer, but I want to at least ask
if you have any relation to that word that comes up before we go.
But I also want to say thank you for the book and for taking that moment
and meeting with the maintenance workers and following that energy
because I think it's doing something important right now.
But that's it. So anything you want to say to close
or anything we didn't talk about you want to be sure you say,
then this is your time and thank you.
Yeah, thank you for having us.
Now, love is quite important, actually, and Steve Jackson has a few words on this idea
of if you could love our artifacts and the things we are living with,
maybe a lot of things would change in the world.
So it's a bit romantic, but I think it's important.
And for instance, we didn't mention that other kind of very special
maintenance we followed is graffiti removers in the street of Paris.
And there is no doubt that they really love Paris and they even love graffiti, actually,
but they love Paris and the way they take care of the stones, the facades
and the way they try to remove the graffiti is something like an act of love,
which is important to understand if we want not to be too much critical
about the big picture of graffiti removing, of course,
which can be problematic in a political way,
but discovering that the guys that are on the streets that remove graffiti
actually do love Paris and try to do the best to take care of the city
in a very material way is fantastic.
It's really super interesting.
It adds something to being a part of the city, too,
when you know that that feeling is part of how you're experiencing it every day.
It reminds me of something someone just said about love is sometimes
what's holding you that you don't even feel like when you can't feel it,
it's still holding you.
And it's interesting to think of the city like that in terms of those people
caring for it from that spirit.
David?
Maybe just to say that graffiti removal loves Paris in a very different way,
but how to speak in as much emotional sense that writers themselves love Paris.
I don't know.
I'm a bit shy about emotional and love.
I'm not sure how to articulate it, and maybe I can have a very short sentence,
but I really love this interview,
and I really love the way you put our ideas into question
and really pick very differently because, of course, this is not the first interview,
not about the English version, but with the book,
and I really love the way you articulate the topic.
Thank you.
That actually brings us back to that idea of writing that I brought up at the beginning, too,
and because it's such a big part of that city, too,
and I do think all these are connected, you know,
the writing of the book that you did, the writing of the city,
the reading, the way I read it.
Maybe that's its own kind of ecology that we can't fully see,
but maybe the listeners can grasp it.
So thank you.
This book did something for me, and I'm already sharing it with lots of people,
and we hardly got into it, so for everyone listening,
pick it up in French or English.
Is it in other languages, too, yet?
No, not yet.
Okay. All right.
Well, thank you both so much.
I hope you have a beautiful afternoon there, and stay warm.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Bye.
Bye.
Thank you. Bye.
Bye.
