Hello everyone! In a world of increasing polarization and fragmentation, where we're
pushed to choose sides and think in absolutes, what if there was another way?
Or many other ways? Welcome to Love and Philosophy, a cumulative philosophy
project where we practice kaleidoscopic thinking, moving beyond either or to
embrace the complexity of existence itself. I'm Andrea Hyatt, and along with
other hosts and contributors, we bring together philosophers, scientists, and
many other people from all walks of life to explore the intricate connections
between loving, knowing, and the patterns that shape our world. Every conversation
is deeply researched and spoken from the heart, yet unscripted. This allows us to
have real dialogue where ideas surprise us and it's okay to be messy as long as
we're moving towards what matters. Realizing there's many, many layers and
dimensions and possibilities for what cognition and consciousness might be, for
what the body is, for what it means to be sensual, for what all this life is, all
this space and time that is all around us and that is creating us and that we
are creating. So if you have any conversations or ideas or if this idea
of beyond dichotomy or planetary thinking or constellatory thinking or
kaleidoscopic cognition, if any of that makes you think of some idea in your own
life or your own work, your own way of being, you think would be interesting to
see or hear or have represented here, we sure would love to hear about it. And
let's hang out on this threshold and notice what's around us, look at the
world in a new way through the eyes of all these other creatures and beings
that are all around us, human and otherwise, and remember ourselves,
remember our future, and let love be part of it. And hold two contradictory ideas
in mind at once without going crazy, that kind of thing. Also, if you know a good
poem that has anything to do with it, please do send it on over. Poetry is very
welcome and wherever you are out there in the world, today I really, really hope
you have a wonderful day, if not a wonderful day, at least one wonderful hour
within that day. Head is heart, heart is head, embodied being, movement in the
world together. Thanks for being here, thanks for supporting us in whatever way
you can, and yeah, let's let's keep going. Who knows where we'll end up.
