Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is the third post in one week. I had
these conversations many months ago, but this is how they all finally come together. I've
been trying to understand what empowerment is, and I guess I mean that in an everyday
sense, but I also mean it in the sense of algorithms, artificial intelligence, Shannon
information theory, measurement. If you have no idea what I'm talking about, don't worry.
I didn't really understand this either not too long ago, and I still don't, which is
why I'm doing this podcast, to try to understand it.
Claude Shannon and information theory is at the heart of pretty much every device you're
near right now. Whatever you're listening to this on, your computers, our phones, everything
has to do with this digital computing, which deals with a way of transferring information.
It's pretty much that process of my voice coming into your world right now. Claude
Shannon made that possible. He reconsidered the way that we might change one form of energy
or communication into another one. I would have a look at the diagram of Claude Shannon.
If you just Google Claude Shannon information theory, you'll see this wonderful little diagram
of a receiver in the process of encoding and decoding to get to the receiver. This is a
conversation of me trying to learn about empowerment with someone who works in robotics, Dari Trendelov,
and he is trying to help me understand it, and we talk about how it relates to a lot
of the other themes I've talked about on this show, like affordances, because Gibson is
a big inspiration there. Empowerment is looking at this quantity that's information based so as
to characterize how efficient the perception action loop is between the organism and the
environment. But in this case, it's not an organism, it's a robot. So the robot and its
environment. So the real sticky hard question is what's the difference between an organism
or a living body and a robot. But it is important that we realize we're all using words
in different ways. Information, empowerment, entropy, inference, belief, all these are
really important words, and they mean really different things, depending on which world
you're using them in. I'm bringing it up here because it's part of what this conversation is,
is trying to understand what I feel like gets really, really blurry when we're working in
technology. For example, Dari, who talks with me here, is working in robotics, and I'm very
interested in robotics, and the empowerment measurement is something that he's working with
as he works with swarming robotics. So that's fascinating. But as you'll hear in the conversation,
we quite often switch between talking about humans and these words as they're used for humans and
the robots, which are really different things, actually. I mean, empowerment is a measurement
in a very literal sense, which I'm trying to understand in the way it's used in developing
artificial intelligence. Empowerment in the field of artificial intelligence is formalizing and
quantifying the potential an agent perceives that it has to influence its environment.
So it's the measurement of channel capacity, of how much the robot, for example, perceives it can
influence its environment. It's the robot's intrinsic parameterization relative to its
encounter. It's a utility function that depends on the information gathered from the encounter.
So how can it gather information from its encounter so as to increase its control
within that interaction? I think that's kind of what empowerment is measuring.
It helps develop patterns so as to increase control. So it's rewarding what we would call
intrinsic behavior, which means the robot will inherently be rewarded for exploration and
curiosity because the more of its environment that it encounters, the more it's going to increase its
ability to control those kinds of regularities. This is really similar to the way psychologists
talk about intrinsic motivation and empowerment, too, because that also has to do with the body,
our ongoing living activity, and that we are doing things to satisfy our internal desire for control
or wanting to have control. But also intrinsic motivation could just be something like hunger
and wanting to satisfy your hunger. So perhaps the more you can explore the world, the more likely
you are to find something that will be edible. Either way, empowerment is measuring the potential
of this agent, this robot, or this organism to align with the environment such that the environment
itself becomes a way for it to actualize itself. It's almost imprinting itself in the environment
and the environment in itself through this perception-action loop of interaction. And I
think that perception-action loop is the information, and the technologies are the translators of that
perception-action loop. I think information is really a translation process. It's not a thing.
We tend to think of information as a thing that's being moved through the world, but I actually have
come to think of it as a translation, the process of translation, which is the movement from, for
example, my voice right now into your ear. So there's not one thing that's moving from me to you right
now, but there's a process of translation that's happening from me to you right now, and that is
information in my point of view. That's not the point of view of information theory as it stands
right now, and that's what I want to understand better and discuss. A lot of Bayesian approaches
are doing an inverse. They're working in ways that you can infer the so-called internal structure,
or maybe the way that we are as living life, the way that we're coming to align with or increase
our control of the encounter, so to speak. You can kind of infer this from the way that the external
world, the data that that world generates, so it's going kind of backwards. So you're starting to
infer the structure of the external world from the data of that world. So it can go both ways,
I guess, in empowerment. You can understand how life, the living body, is controlling the world,
and by controlling the world, that means increasing its ability to structure it,
and you can also understand how the world is controlling the body or the mind, which is to say,
structuring it. So I'm really interested in the way patterns and regularities of the world
might empower those of the body, and it goes vice versa. The body is also empowering
particular regularities that are experienced in the world, and this might be something that
empowerment can help us to better understand at the individual level, but also at levels of
robots swarming or birds swarming or humans acting in crowds. In any case, empowerment,
as it's used by people like Dari here, is an information theoretic quantity that's usually
motivated by some desire to make the sensory motor loop more efficient between the agent
and the environment. We sometimes confuse and say it's the robot that's trying to become more
efficient, but really it's whatever that robot's affordances point to, which is the human who has
created it or that wants it to do something. It's really for those, that's really where the
empowerment is. It's not in the robot, but the empowerment measures how well that's happening
via this technology, this agent-environment system, and these stochastic transitions.
How much then does that technology, that agent, that robot have over the environment that it's
being tested with them? Two words that come up a lot are controllability, which is the influence
on the environment, and observability, which is the measurement by the sensors, and that's
the controllability and observability has to do with this ongoing encounter or what we call
the environment. You can't take those things away from each other, so that's the interaction.
This ongoing interaction, sensory motor loop between the body and the environment, and we
substitute the robot into that, and we discuss it as if it's the robot's sensory motor loop,
but actually that robot is an extension of the scientist or the engineer or whomever is
focused on it or whoever has created it. It's actually an extension of their
sensory motor loop. I think that's what gets confusing. We're actually studying the empowerment
of this scientist or the researcher, not the robot, but the measurements that are being taken
are also called the empowerment measurement because that robot is itself part of our sensory
motor loop as the researcher. We've done something very similar to what happens when we
talk into a telephone and our voice is translated. We've just sort of talked into this robot,
so to speak, with our controllability of the environment. We've sensed that into the robot
or somehow tried to translate that into this robotic model, represented it there so that we
can then look at that sensory motor loop from a different point of view and translate it,
hopefully, into the environment. Who's the receiver of that? What's the destination?
In this case, it's the same researcher or at least the field of study that the researcher
is studying. It might be, for example, if it's with a Nokia phone. As Dari says, then the Nokia
company and the researcher have extended their affordances into this robot so as to see how that
robot might increase the controllability of the sensory motor loop in that environment such that
it will afford them better because it will mean they can give their customers a better utility
function. It's also important, some of these studies, I found that this only works when you
have a very particular recognizable semantics. That also speaks to this idea that the robot is
already an extension of the researcher or the research project, so the affordances aren't the
robot's affordances. They're the affordance of the researcher or of this field of study. It only makes
sense as long as you have set that parameter, that landscape of potentials. That's why it's so
confusing and also so fitting to use these words like intrinsic motivation and empowerment
because, in fact, in a way that we aren't always very clear on, it actually is about the empowerment
of the research project or the researcher or the field of study. It is intrinsic motivation. It's
just that we've represented it in the robot and we're now measuring it with very particular kinds
of maths and algorithms that we call empowerment and intrinsic motivation. It's a bit of the
doubling that Thomas and I talk about, which doesn't mean that we've doubled life. We're not
a double body or a double person, but we've done this heuristic of doubling so as to better
understand ourselves or understand this process, this looping between ourselves and our encounter,
but it's a very limited one because we've had to set this very limited scope of semantics
so as to be able to study it. It's a very limited and controlled representation of
one part of our sensorimotor loop with the environment, but in doing that we can understand
it better in the same way that in writing something down we might understand it better
in drawing a diagram. It's just that we've now been able to do that in a more complicated
way in the creation of a robot, for example. We say it's about the robot's potential ability
to influence the environment by this capacity to imprint information into that environment
and then perceive it through its sensors. That's the representation, all of that,
is an external representation, like a little model of our own sensorimotor loop, but it's also part
of that sensorimotor loop. We've literally extended it and created this little model,
but the voice, so to speak, like when the voice goes into the telephone, in this case we're still
putting the voice into the robot, and by voice I really just mean the whatever it is that we're
trying to understand. We are the sender of that into the robot, but the affordances always point
back to us as the researcher or us as the company or whoever, wherever you want to put the scale,
and that's what often gets confused, I think, and what I was trying to better understand with Tomas
in the conversation about the body, and it also gets to this very essential question,
which I think is the real question at the heart of this, which is, again, what's the difference
between the living body or the body and the material technology or machine, the phone or the
artificial intelligence or the computer or whatever you want to call it, and I think that the
difference is in the affordances. I talked about this with Carl Friston, too, and he seemed to agree.
We talked about the thermostat, for example, and that the affordances of the thermostat are
not its affordances. They're the affordances of whomever might be using that thermostat in order
to control their own sensory motor loop. So I've been thinking about Boolean logic and George Boole,
who had this idea that we might be able to put things into a kind of binary logic that would
help us understand thought, that would actually give us a kind of math of thought, and I think
that's very interesting because what we often think it is is that we're trying to solve what
thought is, but in fact what we're doing is representing thought externally so as to create
ways to better understand the process that is thought. So it's not that we've created something
that thinks. Instead, we've represented our own thinking with something, and the affordances
always point back to us. So actually Boolean logic and Shannon information theory and also
Shannon's early paper, the masters that he did, where he basically came up with the binary
digital computing code that we are all so familiar with, we often think of that as if we're getting
a computer to think, but what we've really done is, and it's a remarkable thing to have done,
is we've found a way to represent this ongoing process by which we come into different states of
life, what we call thinking, and we've found a way to represent that in the most simple form
so as to understand what is redundant and what is not, and in so doing that we're increasing our
efficiency for further translation and communication, but we haven't actually created
technology that thinks. We've created technology that represents our thinking. This is a really,
really different thing, and I actually think that once we understand that the affordances of that
representation or that model, that robot, actually point to the researcher and the specific
semantics of the research interest, which are the researcher's affordances, then it actually
starts to make sense. The robot is not the one that has the affordances. It's an extension of
some sort of research semantic program, therefore the affordances point to those bodies, that
researcher or that group of researchers. I go into that more in my research diary, trying to understand
it, and for now I'll just leave it, and those of you who want to try to learn with me, this is just
a conversation I'm sharing with you, with someone who is generous and try to open up the world of
robotics and the measurement of empowerment with me. I'm trying to find a happy balance here between
people who've never heard of such things, people like me who are trying to learn of it, and then
others of you out there who are already experts. If you want to comment on the YouTube video of
this or the YouTube audio of this and share some points in a friendly way that might help us all,
you're welcome to do that. I would love it. So here we go.
Hi. Hi, darling. Thanks for being here. It's great to talk to you today.
Thank you, Andrea. Thank you for inviting me. It's a pleasure for me to be here.
Ah, good. So we met because of a conference in France about complex systems, and after the
conference, actually, you brought up this wonderful, which was then at the time new to me, the idea of
empowerment, which we are going to talk about in terms of reinforcement learning and machine
learning and so on. But to start, first of all, maybe we could just hear a little bit about you.
You work in swarm robotics and intelligence. Would you like to tell us a little bit about
in general your scope? Yes. Currently, I work in the field of swarm robotics,
artificial intelligence, and more precisely in applying the empowerment measure to
different contexts and scenarios in the field of swarm robotics. For example, one scenario
in this domain is collective perception. Another scenario is a site selection task,
and there are further and further scenarios. So we try to apply the empowerment measure to provide
generic predictions for swarm performance and enable the design of different decision-making
controllers for the robotic swarms to operate in a decentralized and autonomous manner.
So this is currently the goal of my research. That's great. I just wanted to set it up so
people know we're coming at this from that background in a way, because empowerment,
you mean so much to so many different people, right? Yes. Especially listening to this.
The term is actually quite overloaded. As I noticed yesterday, I gave another talk here,
the Sorbonne, and actually this question popped up exactly after the talk that,
wait a minute, empowerment, it means so many different things, and we are just using it as a
very narrow technical term. It's like a function, mathematical function, and it's probably misleading
because in different contexts, it could mean, of course, it's used in sociology, in
humanities as well, so in politics as well. And people tend to have different, slightly
different meaning, but here, as I will talk about it, it will have purely well-defined
mathematical content. Yeah, it's kind of a sexy word. It kind of draws you in and
can kind of mean a lot of things. And actually, the way it's used, you sent me a bunch of papers
to sort of help me get an overview, and there's no way we'll get through them all today. But as
I was looking through these and trying to get my head around all of this, coming from a more
philosophical background, so in your work, are you working with multi-agent reinforcement learning
mostly? Well, yes and no. So currently, we're involved in swarm robotic studies, so this is
kind of a multi-agent environment. But that's one form of reinforcement learning, and then
there's also reinforcement learning that's just with the single agent. That's a more kind of normal
way that it's used. Well, yeah, that's the standard way how it began, and it was invented,
but it was then applied to multiple agents. And the more agents you get into the scene,
the more complex it gets. So in a sense, in swarm robotics, I'll get back again to that field that
I'm working on currently. The difficulty in swarm robotics is to enable multiple agents to perform
dynamic tasks and operations simultaneously without any guidance from a control system,
from a central control system, and self-organize to perform the task and achieve the goal,
which is a completely decentralized multi-agent system. And in the case, it's a collective
intelligence task. So the term is also very well used, collective intelligence. Because all agents
are intelligent, and they are right on, and they perform, and they behave independently from
everybody else. They still communicate and are driven by a goal in the end of the day.
Like humans, we also have collective intelligence when we do things together,
and we try to emulate this in robotic agents, too.
I think so, but some people would... That whole idea of collective intelligence and what even
intelligence is, you can go down many rabbit holes. But just for the sake of this, an agent,
in your case, do you mean an actual kind of robot, an independent robot?
It's one independent robot. So if we take the case of bees, for example, it's one bee. We also try
to emulate nature, so we learn from bees and ants. And they are also swarms of independent agents.
And when you say the environment, that's just everything that's
not included in what the agent is? Does that include all the other agents for each
individual agent? It could be. Yeah, that's a very good question. So the environment can be
anything outside the swarm, or depending how you look at your model of the world, it could be also,
if you look from the viewpoint of one single agent, then everything else, including
all the other agents, could be considered as environment. But it could be that
only everything else, except the swarm, is the environment. So you see the difference.
So it depends where you're going to put the scale. Depending where you put the viewpoint.
Okay. And that'll matter if learning is happening or not, right? Depending on where you set the
scale. And what's learning? Is the swarm learning or is the agent, individual agent learning, right?
Yes, exactly. Very good point. So that is exactly what is the difference. Because if you set
the model to be a single agent, then you learn the policy or the behavior of a single agent.
But if you set it for a swarm, then you optimize the behavior of the whole swarm at once.
And then by learning, right? So we've got this agent, we've got some kind of environment. It's
going to depend where we set the scale, but we can definitely set the scale where the agent is,
where the environment is in terms of actual math and everything. But then the learning itself,
how would you describe that? So the learning process is of course driven by some task.
So there is a goal for the swarm and therefore for the individual robots to perform something
collectively. One simple example is the collective perception where the agents explore a swarm of
agents, explore a field, a site, or you can imagine it can be an agricultural field or it
can be a minefield. And the agent tried to count the number of the bugs in the agricultural field
or the number of mines in the minefield to discover them. So it is exploring the two-dimensional
environment or the field on the ground simultaneously, and deciding the quality
of that field. Is it very damaged or is it good quality? For example, so this is just a very,
very abstract example, but the point here is that a single agent, and that's what's important in
swarm robotics, is that a single agent is not able to cover the whole field or it would take
very long time and it would not last so long to detect the quality of the field on its own.
So that's why a group of agents can do this faster cooperatively, but they have to communicate and
they have to share their knowledge and therefore they need a sort of decision-making mechanism.
How they exchange opinions by communicating with each other locally and then arrive at a
consensus, at a conclusion in the end of the day and solve the problem and decide that the site is
badly damaged or the site is good enough. So if there is something to work on or to perform
on this site. Okay, I'm going to stop you there just for a second because this is where it gets
kind of confusing for me. So if I was thinking of something like rats, which is used a lot in
neuroscience, and of course in the literature, the rat needs to explore the space and all of
this and then relative to how it's going to solve the task and so on and there's a goal and all of
this and it sounds a little bit like that. They have to explore the space and there's a goal,
but it's not quite like that because you've programmed them in a certain way. Can you help
me understand kind of what you've given these agents such that they then are going to kind of
do something new with it? So in this particular example that I mentioned, collective perception,
the agent or the robot have a simple sensor for detecting the ground, the quality of the soil or
the ground, the floor and that's what they can detect. They can move freely, they can randomly
explore the environment and then they just read the quality of the ground underneath.
So it might be like a little camera. Yeah, it's a little camera. Yeah, exactly. That's a little
camera. So it's trained on images of what it's going to see with that camera. Yes, it collects
the data from this camera, from the images and by collecting the data, it forms an opinion of the
quality of the site and it changes that opinion because as it moves, it finds different patterns
of different quality around as it walks in the field and it changes its opinion, but it also
changes its opinion by sharing information through communication with its neighbors,
with the close neighbors. So if the close neighbors are telling each other that the quality is very
low of this field, then they kind of persuade each other. So they convince each other that
the quality is low and that's driving the consensus, the convergence of the swarm.
But nevertheless, the exploration is driven by this sensor which is deriving the images of the
field. But because this is local, they cannot see the whole field at once. They can only explore
one little piece of it at a time and they have to move around to explore other pieces of it.
So this would take forever for a single agent. So by communicating and exploring at the same time,
they share information and in a way they collectively integrate or aggregate that
information. They're almost like, we were talking about scales before, so they almost become sensors
themselves. Yes, yes, exactly. Yes. For the larger collection. Exactly, intelligence sensors, yes.
You've input things in before. They've been trained on many, many different images that
they could encounter. So in this, because this is quite a simple example, there are actually no
real images for training because the quality of the site is binary. It's black or white.
So it's really blank. But what is learned here and what is trained is the decision-making mechanism.
So how they decide when to change their opinions and how they aggregate that information.
So in our case, this is trained using evolutionary algorithms and it evolves
and actually a neural network. So this is a neural network, which is a black box, as you
also know, which drives the decision-making control mechanism for the individual robot.
And that put together on a swarm scale drives the self-organizing behavior that will collectively
solve the problem. So here the learning is how to share and how to exchange information and
change the opinions of each other. So this is what is automatically generated. And if we train
that with evolutionary techniques, as I mentioned, we use machine learning for that.
And we don't know the actual mechanism because it's, as I mentioned, it's a black box.
Does it answer your question? Yeah, yeah, it's great. So it's not standard machine learning,
as you thought I think it was, but it is the same thing, essentially.
Well, what gets confusing is sometimes there is no robot, right? And so it's just,
then it's kind of an algorithm as the agent. Yes. Yeah. Then let me iterate on this,
because probably that would be useful. So here we are talking about the behavior of the individual
agent, of the individual robot. So there are real robots that we are using for this. We just
develop using evolutionary algorithms, we develop the neural network that we install into the
agent. So the agent has an algorithm. So it's like an algorithm, which decides what the agent does
when it reads black or white, and when it reads from the communication with the neighbors,
when it again reads black or white, how does it integrate that information? So this is the
neural network or the algorithm that is evolved, and that is the black box in this case. So that
is the decision-making mechanism only. So I'll say something and then you correct me, right?
In this very general example, and I'm generalizing too, the swarm is a lot of different agents trying
to come to a conclusion about this space. And then they're going to do that through communicating.
Is the problem of overfitting that each individual agent will just sort of fit their own algorithm
to the algorithm that they're communicating with? I'm trying to understand why something like
intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation to get towards empowerment.
Yes. Okay. Well, when we talk about intrinsic motivation, we mean some drivers that are inherent
to the agent itself, which for example, we have typically homeostasis as one biological metaphor
for that, because this is not driven from the environment from outside, but this is internal
for the survival of the organism that is necessary. And similarly in robotic systems, we try to
apply this same principle of intrinsic motivation that is independent from the external world.
And any driver that is coming from outside, then that is extrinsic. So when you have something,
yeah, that is driving you. So for example, yeah, you can think about hunger. It's an
intrinsic motivation. So this is entirely within a single organism. So that process-
We'll see, but now we flip to the biological.
Yeah. Yes. I'm sorry.
No, no, it's not your fault, but the papers do it. Everyone does it. And I understand these things
in real life, or even in philosophy or neuroscience or biology, the way they're used. But I don't know
if I understand this correct, but maybe you can go into the history of that. But I seem to think
that machine learning and all of this robotics, in terms of robotics, to sort of develop on an
extrinsic or with concern about the external, like there's a goal and you have to reach it.
And so it doesn't matter that much about something like the equivalent of hunger, right? But there
were some problems with that in terms of maybe with the swarm intelligence not working as well,
or I don't know what, but intrinsic motivation, which is basically modeling something like
hunger or the robot itself having its own kind of algorithms that apply only to it,
and that only it can kind of work with through the sensors. This is something different,
but I don't understand it yet, really.
Yes. Yes. Yes. I will set this right now because yeah, I understand the point because yeah,
we were talking about a few different things at the same time now, but to make it clear,
when we talk about intrinsic motivation, this is one of the motivations and the driving force for
empowerment. So I think because we have read the papers about empowerment and you have seen
intrinsic motivation there many times, hopefully. And empowerment is such a driver. Let me just
explain because when you apply empowerment to guide an agent or robot or whatever or organism,
you are trying to maximize the influence of that agent over the environment.
And that is something inherent or internal. And that is why empowerment is an intrinsic
motivation drive because it forces the agent to maximize its influence over the environment by
applying actions and perceiving the effect of those actions. So that is what actually
empowerment measures. And by maximizing this level of control over the environment,
the agent places itself in a better position to survive. And that is driven, so that is
not driven by the environment or by external forces. This is driven purely by internal forces
for the agent.
How much one robot can influence its own environment or how much agent E that robot has on that
environment would be the...
Yes, so that is the drive for the agent itself. And as empowerment is defined, it is purely
measuring the level of control an agent has over its environment. And if the agent tries to
maximize its level of control, tries to maximize its empowerment, then therefore it is driven
only purely by intrinsic motivation. So that is why intrinsic motivation is mentioned so
much in those papers. So it is not related to machine learning. So we have to separate
now this.
Okay, that is very good. And how is that different from before there was such a thing as... Or if
you do not use intrinsic motivation, it has to do with the goal, I guess, or I do not know.
Yeah, well, yes. So the goal is something external to the agent. And if the agent needs to
set targets and achieve goals, then there is usually a reward function and that is used in
reinforcement learning to drive the process. So there are different perspectives in this,
also in machine learning. So the important thing is that when you try to look at the
natural drives in nature and you try to mimic them, as I already mentioned, bees and ants
and other organisms, they are really very well studied nowadays, especially the simple
organisms, which are easier to study. And principles from their intrinsic motivation and
from their biophysical process being implemented in machines and in robots. So that is why
intrinsic motivation is gaining so much traction, also in research and in robotics. So there are
different concepts and there are different applications for intrinsic and extrinsic
motivation. So we should not mix them. I just wanted to say that intrinsic motivation has been
evolving over time as a way to mimic nature. Because microorganisms, people, humans, animals,
microorganisms, they all have intrinsic motivation for survival. And that is a basic principle
that is driving the behavior from foraging, feeding, to mating, to everything. And that is
the principle to reproduce and survive. And those are purely intrinsic motivational processes. So
that is something behind many robotics achievements nowadays as well. But yeah, I'll stop here now.
And it's sort of independent of the task too, right? So there's something very interesting.
I mean, can we kind of think about the big picture of why robotics is so important? And when you're
making these swarm robotics and you're studying intelligence through robotics, do you think of
yourself as sort of modeling what's going on in nature so as to try to understand nature? Or is
there any kind of orientation like that for you? Yeah, a very good question, by the way. Thank you.
Because I should have raised that topic as well. So as we try to understand nature and we try to
replicate it in robots and in machines, by creating these theoretical or artificial models,
which we implement in machines, we also can reverse the trend and understand better what
nature is doing. Because we can do simulations in machines. By using these models, we can run
simulations. And by seeing the performance of these models, the performance of the natural
models in artificial simulations, we can compare to the observed behavior of the natural systems.
And we can pipe that feedback into the biological studies and then help
observe better and better natural systems. So this is a two-way process, actually.
That's perfect. And that's kind of the point too, because it can get very confusing about the
difference between the process itself and modeling the process, first of all. But also, I'm trying to
understand the bigger picture for you too. You as a person, but also what your field is doing and
what's motivating the work. Where you came across it and in so unpacking that, maybe we can start
to unpack the history of empowerment too. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Very good question.
Because then I will say some words about how I came across and why and why empowerment.
So let's get that clear. So as I mentioned, I started in the field of human-computer interaction.
And when I first... Did you get a degree in human-computer interaction?
Yes. Yes. Actually, I did my PhD research in human-computer interaction.
Okay. And that's when I was looking for some potential measures that could help
human-computer interaction research. Why were you interested in that? Did you just
happen to kind of come across it or was it something you'd been interested in for a long time?
Was there a problem you wanted to figure out? Well, I was working at Nokia Research on
mobile multimodal human-computer interaction. So human-computer interaction for mobile devices,
smartphones, et cetera. So there we have used the usual methods and tools used in human-computer
interaction and usability testing. And we have realized the limits and the difficulties that
every researcher in human-computer interaction faces because there are various theories and
schools of thought in that field. I guess that's what I want to hear. For those who aren't familiar
like me with that whole area, what's a problem that you hit your head against early on that
you might want to solve or that you're still trying to solve? Yeah. I will come to that now.
So there are different methods and there are different disciplines actually
studying this field like psychology, sociology, physiology, engineering, computer science,
or linguistics. So you have people from all different backgrounds and so it's quite a complex
research community. And they're all concerned with studying and improving the factors that influence
the effectiveness or efficiency of human-computer interaction. But what is used in that field is
usability testing, usability specifications and metrics. And they are used to ensure consistency
and the compatibility when we create these structural user interfaces. And that is typically
the goal of UI design. However, the usability in general provides tools and measures which
guarantee the user goals and needs. But as the market becomes increasingly more discriminating,
this term of usability or ease of use becomes very often too vague. And it needs more rigorous
evidence to back claims like easy to use or user-friendly interface. Because we have been
working on improving user interfaces for mobile devices and mobile device small. So it was
difficult to come across the exact paradigm at that time. And from that, we thought that we need
some more formal models and more sound theories and principles to enable this whole process of
research that will improve the current usability studies. And because this usually is like in
HCI research, when I was looking for some potential methods and tools, I came across empowerment.
And during my PhD research, I looked into this formalism of empowerment or the principle of
empowerment for characterizing human performance. Since it was quite novel at that time, it was
quite novel information theoretic measure that taps directly into the perception action loop of
dynamic interactive systems. And that's what I needed for mobile human computer interaction.
Let me just be a little bit ignorant or something. If you're basically creating technologies or
working on how to create better technologies, is that kind of fair? And then you want it to be
usable, which basically means that the consumers are going to easily be able to interact with it.
So that's the human computer interaction. When you pick up a phone, the way that you interact with it
is everything about how successful that technology is going to be, but also like for the company,
but also for the person who's using it. But what I don't really understand is how that connects to
the algorithms or to this intrinsic motivation. Maybe you can help me with a bridge there of
why would you start looking at empowerment if you're trying to think about
the usability of a machine device for a human? Yes. Well, okay. Then I'll explain that now
because I think that we need some motivation for this because the view now of a user interface
for human computer interaction, the view rests that the user behavior is about the user controlling
their own perceptions. So we have interaction, we have actions and feedback as we press buttons
on the touch screen and then we get feedback from that. And so these are actions and perceptions. So
this closed loop interaction, but when you have a human in the loop, then there becomes a
perception action loop. Well, now it becomes an integrated system because you have a machine
and a human and that's why it's called human computer interaction. And it depends both on the
computer and both on the human because there is a closed loop. The human has sensors like eyes
and ears, and it has actuators like fingers and voice. It can speak as well. And it's interacting
through the microphone or through the speaker and through the touch screen. And it can also get
vibrotactile feedback as a feedback. It can get audio alerts or audio icons and it gets
text on the screen. It gets images on the screen. Just taking generally, for me this sounds like
the machine, which in this case we're talking about a phone, but all of this is kind of cartoon
examples, but that we need the machine in the interaction. The machine needs to be able to work
with similar patterns in a way, in a kind of continuous way with the human for the communication
to be seamless. So somehow the patterns of interaction need to be continuous. Does that
make sense? Yes. Yes. Perfect sense. And now the focus of my work in this field was actually to
develop a measure that could qualify or quantify the effectiveness or the user-friendliness of
user interface from a human perspective. Okay, now I get it. So it's not about designing robots
or designing artificial humans. It was about measuring or capturing the essence of a human
computer interface, how usable it is. Because previous usability, as I mentioned, they are very
different and vague. Sometimes they cannot be replicated. Usability I think mostly conveys some
satisfaction, user satisfaction. But actually in this kind of work that you're doing and in terms
of how it's going to scale up into other things like the swarm robotics, there's actually a very
real connection there between why we would want to care about the way that the phone or whatever the
machine is, its algorithms or its motivation in the sense because there's this dynamic
interconnection. But you were going to tell me how you got into empowerment from here, right?
Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, so it starts from this view that the user's behavior is about them controlling
their perceptions. And since the perception is tangled up with specific possibilities of action,
which are called affordances by Gibson. So such affordances are the possibility for use and
interpret the actions which are offered by the environment to the embodied agent.
Wonderful you bring up Gibson. Were you reading him? Were you aware of that back there?
Oh yeah. That was all part of your...
In HCI he's one of the seminal reference.
Yeah. I just interviewed someone who was one of his students actually. Harry Heft who writes a
lot about affordance and it's a really different way that they're using it there. But that doesn't
matter. What I'm interested in is just that you were already really influenced by that early on.
Well, as I mentioned, this field is very much mixed with researchers and their
psychologists and sociologists. And they come with references from from Gibson, Wittgenstein,
and others. Because that term affordance is perfect for what I was just trying to describe
because that is that interaction, right? It's not in the environment or in the person. Yes.
It's the interaction. It's the human computer interface or the whatever, the dynamism of that.
Exactly. Okay. So you get it now because actually that is the primary motivation from my work in
that field that was at that time an ability to quantify affordances in a principled way,
just to benefit the design of HCI systems. So...
Wonderful. Fascinating. So that was your motivation in a way.
Yes. Yes.
Okay. And then so you were kind of dissatisfied with what you had, the tools that you had.
Yeah. Right.
And how did you find Empowerment? Was it already... When did it start?
The first publication of Empowerment was 2005. So it was about that time. So I started a bit later
my work on human computer interaction, but Empowerment was already published and
that's what I came across.
Do you remember when you came across it?
2008, I think.
In what context were you trying?
I was in a collaboration project with researchers in the University of Glasgow
and that was brought up to my attention by Professor Roderick Murray-Smith,
who later became my PhD supervisor.
So that was how it came together.
Okay. And maybe now we could say what Empowerment even is in a way.
Well, if we want to give some brief description for the original principle of Empowerment. So
as I mentioned, it was introduced as a universal task-independent utility,
which is defined by the channel capacity between the agent's actions and the subsequent sensory
observation. The Empowerment is the channel capacity. So if I put it with direct terminology
using Shannon channel capacity between the actions of the agent and the subsequent
perceptions. So that's channel capacity is maximum mutual information between the actions
and the perceptions. And in that sense, it measures as mutual information measures
the common amount of information between actions and perceptions. So the relevance
between actions and perceptions. So if your actions and perceptions are irrelevant
between themselves, then it doesn't matter what you do and what you observe, there is no
correlation at all. So if we use that term correlation instead of Empowerment. So if they're
highly correlated, then you are in control of your perception action loop because you know
what to expect when you apply an action. You know what perception you will observe in the end
of the perception action loop. So that is essentially what this mutual information
or the channel capacity is measuring because it's maximizing the mutual information between
actions and perceptions. And when you maximize this mutual information, you maximize your level
of control through this perception action loop. So it's a measure of perceivable control because
you perceive an observation from the environment through which you're applying your actions. So
it's a closed loop through the environment. So that's why it is very important to emphasize that
the perception action loop is between the agent and the environment. So agent applies an action
through the environment and receives a feedback from the environment and applies another action.
That unrolls over time. So you can do this over many time steps and then
you can ask for the perception after n time steps. And there we talk about n-step Empowerment,
for example. If you skip the intermittent steps, you just apply actions but you don't observe
anything and you observe the feedback from the environment just after n time step, then you have
quite a long horizon in this perception action loop. And of course, the longer the horizon,
the more options you might have, but you never know.
Did that speak to this idea of potential? Because in the papers or in a lot of the writings,
there's these distinctions made between. And so you can measure kind of
almost like patterns or potentials. This is showing you kind of patterns and potentials
that can be applied in different situations. You don't have to have the environment exactly
the same way or do you? No, the environment depends on the task or the scenario and it's
part of the stochastic models. So for the model, you need specification of both the agents and
the environment and that is all up to you. So that is why it's flexible. It can be applied
to anything because it is actually something like a scheme. So that's why we call it a notion
and a principle because it's not strictly defined for some applications or environments.
It is just a tool, that mathematical tool that can be applied. It's not guaranteed that it
will be beneficial for all cases, but it is quite abstract and universal.
It might be with some tweaking and expertise, it might be applied to almost anything
on an uncertain level because it's quite abstract. And you also mentioned, yes, so it's just to
state that it's measured in a single unit, it's measured in bits because that is what
entropy is actually, that's the background. What is measured? The motivation is measured?
Well, the channel capacity, the channel capacity actually is measured in bits because it's a
communication problem. Shannon communication theory is defined for communication. We were
talking in these bigger senses about what is intrinsic motivation in this kind of wider sense
and then this is where I get kind of lost because if we start talking about Shannon information,
we are talking about bits, right? Yes, that is the measure. It's minimizing surprise more or less
then. Would that be almost like what the intrinsic motivation model is helping the agent do,
minimize surprise? If we talk about entropy, yes, you can say, yes, entropy is measured in bits.
But this is a model, so it's literally doing it through bits of information, which is different
probably than how it's happening in the real world, but we've used the model to understand
the real world. Well, now this measure is quite a bit of different bits because it gives you
now a measure, a value of bits, which doesn't tell you much because it's incomparable to other
problems, to other models. It depends only on the model. So the point of this measure is
to give you a benchmark so you know the range of this measure for this particular problem.
When you design it, you know what's the maximum level of empowerment, what's the minimum.
And then within this range, you can benchmark what you get for different solutions.
And that's how you can tune your system. For example, your user interface or your swarm
robotics decision-making controllers. But it will be all different. So if I say now for this
problem, the range of empowerment is between zero and one bit, but that doesn't say too much
because for other problems it can be between zero and one million bits. It all depends on the model
and that's why it's not absolute. It's all relative to the model and you cannot compare
the values of empowerment in absolute terms. You cannot compare them between different models.
They're just illustrative for one particular model and for one particular
scenario that you want to study. When is this helpful? I mean we talked about the phone or
we talked about the robots or I don't know how to kind of make it into kind of an example that can
then help us understand the parameters towards a real-life situation. I mean this will be messy,
but something like with the phone or with if you're trying to understand how you're interacting with
your iPhone or whatever, why would that click or put a light on in your head that oh this might be
a way to go at this problem of understanding this affordance relation? What is clicking for you
that's helping you understand something that interaction differently? If you're trying to
understand the human computer interaction between any device, why is that way of looking at it
giving you something that without that way you don't have? Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, I understand. Let's say in the example with the phone, so if you
you're trying to make a case or scenario use case of empowerment in the case of a mobile phone
with which you interact every day and you know that there are different factors that constrain
the usability of the device. So there are usually different form factors, different sizes,
smaller, bigger. The keyboard is quite packed. It can have different characters
from Chinese, Japanese, Latin, whatever. Different number and Arabic as well. So
operating with for example such keyboard with now we can also consider different people with
different finger size. People who can hit three buttons at the same time when they touch the
keyboard and that's not really helpful to type a message. So this all boils down to usability.
So we can just term it as a disturbance or uncertainty. So for example you press a button,
you try to type a message and there is an uncertainty which letter will come up because
sometimes you hit the wrong letter because they're too small or you're walking on the street and
a lot of disturbances again. So this is noise. So now let's put this all together. Uncertainty,
noise, disturbances of any kind. So from your sensorimotor system, so your finger, your muscle
which is operated by your brain but your brain is at the same time guiding your walk on the street
so you are multitasking. So these are disturbances that constrain your abilities to type
properly while you're moving and your hands are moving as well, your body is moving
so it's shaking and whatever people are hitting you on the street. So there are all kinds of
disturbances, noise and on top of that we also have system disturbances that are bringing delays
and there are also sensor inaccuracies in system errors in the software itself. So you know there
are windows that come and disturb your typing every now and then and then you think that you
have hit a button but actually you just closed the pop-up window because it was on top of it.
So this all accounts to the uncertainty in the interaction process. So if you try to model that
and this all affects your measure of control over the interface. Now if we think the environment
as the phone and that's the interface you're trying to interact with and if you have a
very bad performance, let's say very bad typing accuracy, it is due to low empowerment. Does it
make sense? It makes sense but what's interesting is this can happen at the algorithmic level,
can't it? So like the phone could, in a way, instead of needing me to get exactly everything
right, infer from the overall kind of pattern that I've expressed. It can use this algorithm
to find that solution quicker is what I'm trying to get at. Exactly and they are doing that. They
also use machine learning for correcting user errors. That's exactly correct but empowerment
is not the replacement for these algorithms. It is just a measure that encapsulates all these
different kinds of disturbances that I just mentioned and listed. All these different types
of noise and uncertainty in the interaction process which otherwise would have to be measured
separately by sensor imprecision noise with some units, by communication delays which are measured
by milliseconds or something, by size of the keys on the keyboard because some are bigger,
some are smaller and these are all contributing to your user satisfaction or to the usability
filter interface, essentially to your performance, typing performance and if you consider them all
separately then it's not too handy, it's not too useful. Empowerment, if you bring all of this
uncertainty, types of uncertainty into the same model, you measure it in the end in bits. It's
just a single value and as I said if you know the range 0 to 5 or 0 to 100, let's say in percentage,
then you can modulate, you can control the level of user satisfaction by changing for example
the size of the keys on the keyboard. But essentially that was exactly the motivation
to understand better the quality of the user interface and therefore use that information
to design a better user interface in the end. That's wonderful and that makes things a lot
clearer for me and as you were talking I was also thinking back to the robots that we started with
because you were saying at the beginning how each one can explore the whole space by itself
and needs everyone else so to speak but it also has to sort of communicate. Does it help you there
too to understand how each robot might have its own intrinsic motivation? Sorry I'm kind of making
it a little too psychological but if each robot is talking to each other and sharing information
is there also a way in which studying it this way, even from your point of view, the way you're
studying the robots this can help you understand what collective intelligence really is happening
there or what does that bring up for you when I try to bring it back to that, to these different
agents who are trying to communicate and your position trying to understand how to make them
communicate better? Yeah yeah very good point because there is again a two-way interaction
between these studies and the natural studies so we try to implement
decision-making mechanisms or neural networks into robots to drive the swarm
towards some goal but in the same time these observations and these swarm models can be used
to compare with data that is observed in nature in bird flocks or in fish schools and
swarms of ants and bees because that's where we learn from, that's what we get as a
background and we just try to mimic but when we implement these simple robotic swarms we have the
tools and also the simulation so we also do a lot of work with simulated robots because that's
much faster and easier and there you can do much more and with those models of simulated robotic
swarms you can try to understand better what happens in nature so because those are models
that you can control so there are system parameters you can you can change control variables and then
the behavior of the whole swarm changes and then you can link it to bird flocks or other natural
swarms and then infer what is actually the behavior or the driving force behind that.
That makes a lot of sense to me then because I think I was trying to put it into the robot or into
the swarm right and actually empowerment isn't about putting it into it in the sense that I'm
talking about it's about from your perspective understanding what you're trying to understand
by building that whole system because understanding that then sort of increases our agency and our
wonder of the world and from that position from you trying to understand it it makes a lot more
sense to me because I can see how that would give you something of trying to understand better how
certain changes in the pattern of the kind of intrinsic motivation of one robot could lead to
a whole kind of cascade of changes in a way that like to go up a scale would itself seem
like one intrinsic motivation. Does that make sense? Like the swarm's intrinsic motivation.
Yeah yeah yeah and exactly it's just analytical measure which gives some kind of quality
estimation of what's going on if that makes sense of the process and that helps you
that helps you actually see the big picture because it brings together many things
on a higher level and it can explain and it can actually make predictions so the important
thing is that because it's analytical you can compute it theoretically with the system that
you have designed you don't have to run any experiments you don't have to buy expensive
robots and invest in that but just by computing the level of empowerment for specific system
parameters for specific levels of some parameters you can decide actually what you need
in your future robot when you're building robot for example what capacities what sensor range
what communication range what camera you want to build in your robot because usually swarm
robotics i didn't mention that is is is driven by by very low cost small robots which are
notorious for being able to to break very easily because they're they're very low cost but that's
okay because there is a redundancy in the system because the swarm is big enough but of course that
is why you you try for minimizing all the costs of sensors all the hardware because you know that
it's dispensable anyway and you still want the swarm to solve the problem because you have to
invest into the hardware something but you want to to trade off the the cost versus the performance
and if you can do that in design time and if you can get a prediction from the empowerment measure
prediction for the system parameters that will solve your problem at this cost
then you don't have to play with real hardware to decide that oh no this is too expensive
to solve the problem i i should do something simpler so you understand what i what i'm trying
to say you you can yeah yeah that makes a lot of sense relative to your work and also how you got
into this and everything yeah that's like the big picture of it yeah do you think of yourself as
modeling intelligence well it's not not oh well um modeling intelligence and i mean modeling
intelligence when you see intelligence in the world do you think the birds forming are intelligent
for example or does that word not apply it only applies well i think it's a it's a kind of
collective intelligence it depends on what we mean by intelligence of course because
it's a collective behavior certainly and because it is it is very complex we might say that it
needs a certain level of collective intelligence to to perform all these shapes of bird flocks
without collisions you know they're they're very proficient in that and and and that is yeah that's
incredible but yeah i just want to point out that the empowerment is not uh directly supposed to
build intelligence so if you ask me if i'm creating intelligence not not with empowerment so of course
for the robotic swarms we build systems that behave intelligently but they they use neural
networks so not that empowerment i don't think you're creating intelligence but i meant modeling
it trying to understand it modeling well yeah it's part of yes yeah well it's part of the process
yeah and by intelligence i mean to go to gibson or somebody that almost any to try to get past that
dichotomy he was trying to get past that subject object the way we think of mind body and so on
for me any creature any being especially birds and swarms of birds that's intelligence but when
people hear that word they often think of it as human intelligence which means it's attached to
some kind of symbols and it's thinking about itself and all of this which i definitely don't
mean at all i really mean almost like a foundational problem solving movement you know so to speak and
it seems you would almost have to go to that level when you're modeling something like a bird a swarm
you know that you almost have to go to that level of yeah whatever that is yeah yeah yeah
well that that's exactly right so there are different different levels in in this in this
process and and empowerment is is operating on one particular level as i already mentioned
perception action loop level but of course yeah we are we are aware that there are levels up and
down of that so um and which are very important and empowerment just like a building block in that
process yeah what's like really exciting for you when something happens in your work what's like a
something you is it when you figure out a math equation is it when the robots do something
different is it collaborating with everyone around you like what what's what feels yeah well um i
think in in my work most exciting uh parts have been uh by bringing together different fields
of science and research and applying models from one field to another like cross-pollinating
different fields and in particular applying empowerment to to different different paradigms
which uh seemingly disparate but in the end as i said empowerment is quite abstract too and
it can it can be leveraged to to quite many i mean different sciences i mean
don't mean just natural sciences but humanities as well
so the empowerment is so empowerment is measuring channel capacity or somehow the utility is a channel
capacity but i wonder how we relate that to love what's empowerment relative to
you love does love have a channel capacity does our expression of love in the world have
some sort of parameters of capacity
so
you
