if it's a real, what is it?
Pieces of work that I want to do, I think,
is bring the ideas of 4E cognitive science
to an education audience.
Because, like, because, and I know it's not just that,
but I don't, you know, I clearly want,
it's a much bigger landscape than just that,
but I'm more, it's so interesting to me how,
like, how rooted the concepts of learning and education
still so hinged to things like behaviorism and cognitivism
with a kind of, you know,
a sprinkling of constructivist pedagogy or whatever.
But the actual fundamental layers really are rooted
in behaviorist and cognitivist psychology.
And people just don't know any different.
Like, you know, no criticism,
but there's like, it doesn't feel like there's much else
in the conversation.
And even to the point I was having someone who works
bringing cognitive science into education,
I mentioned 4E cognitive science to him recently,
and he had no idea what I was talking about.
And I'm like, is it that niche?
Is 4E-
Is he in cognitive science?
Well, he's not a cognitive scientist,
but he is trying,
he's bringing cognitive science into education.
Oh, yeah.
And he'd never heard of 4E cognitive science.
And I, so I guess that's part of my wondering,
is it that obscure and that niche that people,
like that very few people have heard of it,
this tiny little corner of, you know,
that no one knows about.
I think it's becoming less so,
but I mean, cognitive science itself
is a little bit of a niche world.
Yeah, maybe.
What you call cognitive science is also a big question,
even for people who call themselves cognitive scientists.
Okay.
Because it can encompass so much.
I mean, you can be doing robotics,
or you can be doing more psychological,
psychology-based kind of things.
You could be doing computer programming.
All of that informs cognitive science.
So it's a wide field.
And I think when I,
even when I did my degree 2018-19 in neuroscience,
4E cognition was definitely fringe then.
And it's much less so now,
but I remember I wanted to talk about these things
and it was not easy.
Of course, I was in a more analytic department in Berlin,
but there were no embodied cognition departments
necessarily even available around there.
So it's changed a lot in the past five years, I would say,
but I'm not surprised that he hasn't heard of it
because once you hear of it, you see it everywhere.
But if you haven't,
he's probably heard of embodied cognition.
It's just the 4E kind of way of talking about it.
No, fair enough.
Potentially, yeah.
But I mean, that's one of the other things I really like
about cognitive science as a frame is that it is,
as I understand it, inherently interdisciplinary,
rather than, I think the way a lot of educators
see cognitive science is as cognitivist psychology
or cognitive psychology maybe,
or cognitive neuroscience maybe.
But it's like, it's cogs in its brains as machines
and it's cognitive architecture and memory and, you know,
what do you call it?
It's escaped me ironically, cognitive load theory.
And all of these things,
which are really commonly understood now in education,
which is fascinating to me because that then colonizes
the conversation about what learning is
and what education needs to be doing
very much around all of these narratives of recall,
retrieval, just memory basically,
short-term, long-term memory,
as though that's the thing we're doing in education.
And that's the thing that I get so,
I can feel myself now, I get so annoyed by that
because it feels so, it feels such an impoverished version
of, it's like as Indy Johar says,
it's like teaching bad, bad robots,
humans to be bad robots, so impoverished and superficial.
It's like there is the depth
of what education could and should be.
Yeah, I wonder, is that because we,
you know, this has been sort of an age of neuroscience
and that we've become so fascinated with the brain
and that somehow the idea of the brain as a computer
has been the dominating metaphor.
And so it's a lot, I think a lot of what you're saying
is almost like an assumed orientation
that no one's thought about too much
in the excitement of realizing
we can study the brain in certain ways,
having better tools for it.
And this unfortunate metaphor,
or I mean, it's been very helpful, the computer metaphor,
but it's thinking that our brain is a computer
and thinking that thinking itself
and all cognition is in that is I think assumed
in a weird way across, you know, most areas of society.
So a lot of that feels like assumed for me.
You have to notice that you're even assuming all of that,
that cognition is in the brain,
that cognition works like a computer and so on.
Because it's just, it's been built up
through what neuroscience is in a way.
And memory, I mean,
memory is almost the beginning of neuroscience.
If you look at McGill University
and a lot of the famous people of neuroscience
like Donald Hebb and Penfield and everyone,
they were really trying to understand
what we call memory now.
And that's when all those categories of memory
started to become built up and, you know,
just kind of taking a word from William James,
memory and saying, we're gonna look for it.
And now we can look for it in the brain
so it must be in the brain.
A lot of that was just assumed and in good spirit
because it was exciting.
We were trying to understand memory
and thought are so connected.
So it feels like we're trying to really get at the heart
of what are we, who are we?
And these famous cases where people lose their memory
and then we try to figure out what happened
because it's as if they've lost who they are.
So that was the beginning of neuroscience
and all of that became understood as, you know,
what you just described as the cogs
and looking for this in the head.
Even these ideas of memory and what memory is,
they're not very, I mean, they're very helpful
but it's not like there's actually such a thing
as declarative memory and associative memory
and semantic memory, you know, separated in our body.
But how to understand all of that
because we developed it looking for those things
and we started calling what the patterns
that we recognize those things.
So I think the hard part is understanding
that we're assuming that mentality that you said
and not just rejecting it
because a lot of good stuff has come
from that cognitive approach.
I mean, right?
I don't think it's, is it bad that in your,
in education people are thinking about that, would you say?
It's a really good reminder to me to not, you know,
to not fall into the binary trap of, you know,
and of just, yes, valorizing one side of it
and, you know, whatever the word is, you know,
yeah, criticizing the other side because I agree with you.
I think a lot of really good stuff has come from that
but my, and it's still really relevant and important.
My issue with it, I think, is that that's been seen
as the whole of what it means to be a learning,
growing human.
Yeah.
Like that has overtaken the full story
of who am I in the world?
How do I show up in this space?
How do I learn to do things better, to be better,
you know, to learn about the world,
to learn propositional knowledge about the world?
That's really important.
But the broader picture of who am I and how am I showing up
and what is going on in this space together as we learn
gets at the best secondarily treated, right?
It's like, that's the afterthought of the reason
why we're here is to lay down strong memories
of propositional knowledge.
Like that's, and procedural knowing skills, you know,
that's, it's a really instrumental view
of why kids go to school, like why schools exist
and I think it's clearly, it has real value
but it's so far from the full story
that that's why I struggle with it.
And I think that the rebalancing, the counter-narrative has,
I feel passionate that that's part of my role
is to bring back in, bring back the body in,
bring back the context in, bring back all these other things
which have just been kind of ignored by teachers
because they, you know, as you say,
enamored by neuroscience or whatever,
we have kind of assumed that that thing is the whole,
is the whole thing that we're doing
or the project of education.
Yeah, I think about that quote or that poem,
TS Eliot, you know, coming back to where you started
and knowing it for the first time
because you kept saying bring it back
and that we've forgotten it
but I'm not sure we ever knew it
because the way that we've gotten to,
like a lot of what you just described
with the propositional knowledge and stuff
and what education is doing is a kind of attention
or awareness of what we're doing together, you know?
You can look at that in whatever subject
you want to look at it as.
It's a kind of way of like sharing
what we've been doing together
in ways that can help us orient towards futures
but we didn't think of it like that.
We thought of it in the way you described it.
So it's about learning facts that are important
that then get you to the next step on the ladder.
We kind of had to structure it that way
in order to take it seriously and make it what it was.
Do you know what I mean?
It's like, that was kind of the first step
of the awareness of what I just said
that you and I are talking about now
but I'm not sure we could have started there.
We almost had to, okay, we need,
we created these systems for how is the society,
how am I gonna have a good life?
How's my kid gonna have like a good life?
And we've created these systems,
these educational systems out of that.
And it's like a ladder.
We've thought of it as like, you first you do this.
There's a step-by-step process and that fits very well
with that older mentality that we're talking about
where you have categories, you have facts,
you have things you learn that never change.
We almost couldn't have started in flux and dynamism.
It would have been too stressful.
We needed to believe all of that stuff, right?
To create those systems.
And we created the systems and they've done a lot of good
but through that creation, we've now come maybe,
hopefully to a place where we can understand,
oh, okay, actually all of these things that we've been doing
are right and good and true for a time
but it's this process itself
that we've been trying to become aware of.
It's this process of how we intersubjectively communicate
and how we co-create our world,
which is what we're doing with education, with colleges,
with the jobs, with all of that, right?
It's that action, that process, that co-creation
that we're only now, I think, just barely getting
to understand as the actual reality of all of that.
Not that we get a degree and do da, da, da, da, da, da,
which, I mean, you've talked about this, I think,
some on your podcast, that's an amazing,
like we're realizing how amazing we are as part of life.
And we're also, it's also really scary and hard.
That's that whole relational view.
I mean, that's a, it's hard to realize
that there are not particular definite categories
and things and facts that will always, always, always
be exactly like they are, that you can just learn.
I think that's a scary, hard thing to realize
if that relates to you.
So there's a, yeah, there's a kind of a disorientation
in the acknowledgement of constant flux.
And so there's a kind of a convenience in stasis, right?
There's a convenient fiction of imagining
that things stay the same in order to orient ourselves
somehow as we move through the world, right?
But the thing that struck me, as you were saying there,
was like that I've learned a lot with you,
from you on your channel is,
and in other ways, there are,
throughout that whole history you've just described,
there were always voices saying,
hold on a minute, we're missing something.
Hold on a minute, you know, and there's like a,
there's an attractiveness to the control and the power
of being able to leverage the scientific method
and all of these abstractions to do stuff in the world.
Like that's really addictive and powerful, right?
And all the time, you know, from your conversation
with Evan, you know, Husserl or Heidegger or, you know,
Alfred North Whitehead or all these people,
even just in the European tradition in the, you know,
as the things were emerging in terms of science,
there were also voices constantly saying,
maybe we're substituting the method for the being or,
you know, the, what is it, surreptitious substitution
that Evan talks about, the blind spot.
It's like, maybe we're missing something,
we're mistaking the whole for the parts.
And that's kind of what I'm saying about education.
It feels like that's the thing we've mistaken.
It's not that there's no value in the propositional
and I completely agree with you.
I think it allows us to extend our cognition in a way, right?
Like when we can externalize stuff, ideas into tokens
that we can share and point to and like, you know,
into algebra or into a map or into a, you know,
a concept that we can say, hey, look at this,
or I can teach someone else about it.
I can show them that thing, right?
Even though it's not a thing,
but it kind of tends to be a thing for a minute
while I'm talking about it,
because it helps a young person orient themselves
in the world or something.
That's all great, but we've missed,
but we've mistaken that as life.
And that's what I heard Evan talking about in a way, right?
Yeah, I mean, it's funny that I'm sort of defending,
I'm not, because the whole point of, you know,
what I'm doing is this participatory sense making
and this understanding the process,
but it's also holding all these things together,
which is a really, really hard thing to do.
And also, of course, what I'm talking about
in terms of education is a very specific kind of education.
I'm talking about the kind of education I had
in my very specific way where you go to school
and you learn in certain, there's many other,
I mean, education is not about only the school
as you've talked about.
But I guess what I'm trying to hold here is that
what happens in maybe cognitive science and elsewhere,
the reason these, what seem like actually
the most true thing, that life is a process,
that we are participatory together,
that the cognition is not only in the head,
it's in the body, it's in our interaction with one another.
Those things, if you think about them seem,
you know them, you know, it's your experience.
It can almost seem trivial.
Like, if you let yourself reimagine
what this word cognition means, because, you know,
that word, people often just put it in the head.
But if you start to think of cognition
as the ways we make through the world
or how we, you know, just interact
with our encounter every day,
if you think of it like that,
then all of the stuff seems very normal.
Yes, it's our whole body, it's our sensory body,
it's different according to what kind of being you are.
You know, the teacher and the student,
that's an interaction, that's changing,
that is the education.
It's not just this like stuff in books that are facts.
All of that can seem, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's good.
But I guess what I'm saying is,
it often feels like all those,
if you introduce it in a certain way,
which I've seen it introduced,
it's as if it's against all this that's already been done.
And that's not only in the way we teach kids.
It's like, I see it in science, you know?
You have this whole world that many people depend upon
that's built on what can seem like
for a cognition or embodied, ecological,
and active or processual or transformative.
There's all kinds of different ways relational.
It can seem as if you're saying,
oh, you've gotten it wrong the whole time
and everyone's been trying to tell you
and you've built this whole system
and wasted all this money and done all this research
and you've even built your experiments in the wrong way.
And I don't think that's helpful or true.
And I don't even think that's what people
in this discipline are trying to say.
But because you get sucked into the system,
you start taking on those patterns.
And that's just exactly what we don't wanna do.
You don't want to mirror the very patterns
we're trying to discuss here.
So that's why I bring this up
because it's good to have some tension
and some dissonance about it
because as important as it is for me,
I mean, participatory sense-making
and I feel like this can really help us.
Hannah DeAger talks about it as constantly
determining what matters, you know?
That is what we're doing in education.
But that is a process that takes so much care
and so much community and so much patience.
And if we just are putting that against
everything that already was,
I just see that we've somehow gotten back
into the system of it.
Do you see what I mean?
So what we're trying to do here
is even get out of that way of talking about it.
It's very hard.
So I completely see what you mean
because that again,
that's something I've really appreciated about your work
is that you are calling out the paradoxes
where we have to acknowledge that that is a pattern
that we don't wanna just keep falling back
into the either or.
Because so I totally hear you and I really agree
and not to disagree, but I'm saying
that I think there's something about what is valued.
That's the thing that's coming up for me.
It's like the thing that we,
you talk about dissonance, right?
Like I hear this a lot from young people
and from teachers and there's like this felt dissonance
in formal schooling that shows up in all sorts of ways,
right, in school refusal or mental health issues
or all sorts of ways that the felt dissonance
is between all the things you just said
about I am participating, I'm in relation,
I'm doing all these things.
I am an embodied organism making my way through the world,
finding out what matters in every moment.
I'm doing all these things and yet I'm sitting in this space
being told to ignore a lot of that data
and only value the things that are being put up
on the pedestal of the things that matter,
which are the more abstracted,
the more decontextualized, the more conceptual,
not always, but often.
And so I think there's something around challenging
that there is just more going on
and how can we bring that, again, bring that back in,
like, you know, in the sense that not,
maybe it's not a remembering that we've forgotten,
but it is definitely something we feel
but are not always given permission
to bring into the space.
It's life.
It's what we care about.
It's the reason for doing all of this work.
And yet it's also, like, we have to soften a little bit
and sort of, you know, let the knots untangle
just a little bit.
I mean, and because it is heartbreaking actually,
you know, that we judge each other
by something like an SAT score.
I guess you have that, you know,
we all have these numerical things
that are basically just about memorizing certain facts.
Some of it's critical thinking,
but it's a kind of critical thinking,
like, that's divorced from your actual embodied
ongoing interaction, you know?
And it's actually, it's heartbreaking.
When I think, I don't know about you,
but when I think about my own life
and how alienating and strange it feels to be in that system
and how I think most people feel that way,
even when you're really good at it,
like, even when you do really well,
because there's no end.
You have to just, you know, I was told,
oh, you're so smart when you're a young kid,
and then you feel so pressured.
Like, what does that mean?
I have to keep doing that or something.
I'm supposed to be some kind of...
And it never really makes sense
with all the tests and everything
because they're all not seeing
what we're talking about here.
It's not taking context into consideration.
It's not understanding that every time you take a test,
you're gonna be in a different space.
It's not even understanding that all of those little facts
that we're learning aren't really a sign
of what we're going to be able to best give in the world.
And it's also not understanding that best giving in the world
isn't about an individual cut off from that world.
It's about, you have a unique position
and place in this world and we're all in it together.
And like, it's that whole re-understanding
of what a self is, that we are inter-beings.
None of that is in SAT scores, for example, or something.
And it's heartbreaking, you know?
It is, it is really heartbreaking.
And to me, the meta-communication of the system,
and this is where I...
The meta-communication is that's what matters.
The SAT score is what matters.
And all the things you've just said,
yeah, they can exist,
but they're not the real thing that matters.
And that's the alienation for me.
And that's the thing that I, you know,
I can feel it right now.
Like I get passionate about that point
because I feel, yes, it's not a binary
that we've just got it all wrong,
but there is something that we've just,
we've allowed the map to be ultimately,
you know, valued over the territory or the, you know,
all of those ways of thinking about it
that Evan was talking about.
Yeah, why have we done that, Tim?
What do you think?
Because I was thinking about this, right?
Like, why do we have all those kinds of tests and metrics
and like, what has that been about?
Because we're at a really crazy moment
of transformation right now.
And do we really know what we've been doing
and what we want?
Because this happened and we all did it
and we were responsible for it.
This is what we've created.
We've created a metric system
whereby we decide how worthy individuals are
in certain ways based on weird numbers and things, right?
Like, this is what we've done.
And we can leave aside all the good stuff in that,
but it's where we are right now.
But we're also at a moment
where we're having to really confront that
due to what everyone talks about is AI,
the, you know, LLMs and all this
that suddenly is showing us,
maybe all those facts are what we thought
and maybe knowing them in this old memory way
of just knowing them as facts, not living them.
Yeah.
You know, like almost taking them as the word or the map
or whatever is the territory.
That seems, okay, first of all,
we have technology that can do that for us now.
So what does that mean?
Who are we?
So why did we do that in the first place?
And I guess like that question is hard.
And that's why I'm trying to bring it up
that I think we did it to become capable
of knowing where we are, to develop our attention.
Completely agree.
And the fact that we can now begin
to understand ourselves as inner beings.
So we're at a really beautiful like tip,
like we're on this wave.
And if we can understand, oh, like,
oh, that's what we were doing.
Oh my God, like think of what we can now do together.
But that has to be a space that's shared and safe
and there's care involved because if it's just like,
if we go into the school system, I know you know it well,
where basically you just have to make your career
on some ideas and theories and so on.
So you need, you're fighting the other.
That's a, feels like a very dead, difficult, sad,
lonely space, you know, for everyone.
But it's so easy to just go into that.
And to make this what I'm saying into a theory,
which I then need to like prove to everyone else.
So how do I, how do we sit together right here
and like look at this?
Like what, what do you think?
Why have we done this?
Why have we, you know, why have we created this kind
of metrics?
I love that.
But the, just quickly, the reason,
I think part of the reason why we continue that,
and I have this conversation all the time
with different people as parents or as teachers or whatever,
is that the ladder is still there.
Like people still want their children to be successful
on the ladder.
So the ladder still exists, right?
So it's like, while at the same time,
many of us are looking at the ladder saying,
this is radically insufficient and alienating
and all these things, but it's still there.
And it's a kind of the-
We're still doing it.
We're still doing it.
It's still the steps to success.
So part of it is in this,
I think this long now of the great turning or, you know,
Joanna Macy or whatever you want to call it.
It's like, it's a long process of, of acknowledging,
but I loved, I totally loved the way you just said that,
because I think that the big piece of why,
I mean, I'm nowhere near smart enough to like,
be able to articulate it,
but there's something around like,
for example, it makes me think of Daniel Schmachtenberg
and the way he talks about technology.
And then this is probably like Heidegger and other things,
but like, somehow we use the affordances
of the technology that was available to us at the time
to do stuff in the world, right?
To try and figure, problem solve, figure stuff out,
be in the world together.
And like, he talks about coordination technologies
and, you know, artifactual technologies.
Like, so a spear and the human coordination
was what allowed humans to be able to, you know,
to kill the wooly mammoth to survive
and to stop threats, to get food, et cetera, et cetera.
So it wasn't one or the other.
It was the ability to do the coordination technology
and the physical technology.
And somehow that those two things,
those two kind of categories of things in a way
have been like interacting.
And I, in a way, I sort of language, maths,
all of those things I see as somehow,
or there's one way of viewing them as technologies
that we have used to afford
further exploring of the world, right?
And some people will like, you know,
die on that hill of mathematics
as the ground of being or whatever,
like Rulliad guy, whatever his name is.
Can't remember.
You know who I mean?
I don't know what you mean.
The Rulliad, no.
Oh, the Rulliad, oh, Stephen or-
There you go, exactly.
Yeah, I can't remember.
But it's like, you know,
mathematics is like the ground of being almost.
Wolfram, sorry.
Wolfram, right, there you go.
And so it's like, in a way,
in a way that's just another technology
that humans have invented to talk about
or explore the world in different ways.
And in a way I see education as a coordination technology
that we have used to bring groups of people together,
to distribute, to participate in knowing the world,
sharing these technologies amongst each other.
There's, you know, multiple ways
that we've used different coordination technologies
to continue life in some way,
continue exploring,
continuing like figuring out what matters.
And so it's somehow been this like emergent story
of just trying to figure out
how we can enact our will in the world
or, you know, like, you know,
minimize free energy or, you know, maybe like,
it's like, however you describe the thing that we're doing,
part of, and that's where I love your work,
I think part of what we're doing is just waymaking together
and using the affordances of the landscape
that we find ourselves in.
And you can only do that from the point you are,
when you find yourself born into the late 20th century,
early 21st century,
you are given a bunch of affordances
that are existing there.
And then suddenly like when AI comes
and it brings us whole another layer of affordances
into the space,
that it's just blowing people's minds,
it's scaring the hell out of other people.
It's like, and we're trying to navigate
using suddenly this new piece of technology, new to many,
which brings new affordances
and then makes us question other technologies.
And like I'm saying all this aware of the fact
that technology as a frame is one way of talking about it.
But there's something very emergent and complex
about the ecology of the thing that's brought us to now.
So in that way, right?
Yes, and I think part of that awareness or attention
or appreciation for rumination,
which sounds like very weird
that we could develop that right now
when we have a tension economy and all of this.
But I think that's giving us a way to hold
a very difficult understanding
that there's not either or and there's not,
there's always many possible paths.
First of all, the landscape itself is not flat,
it's multi-dimensional, it's kaleidoscopic even.
The landscape itself is changing
with every sensory change of view.
And that's a really strange way to think, right?
We have to think in constellations instead of in lines.
How do we do that?
Some of all of this we've been talking about
and all of the stuff that we've gotten stuck in
and rotted in and that's become rigid now
and that's constraining us in bad ways,
or that we're appreciating as constraints
instead of interacting with.
But a lot of that has been ways
that we can start to get to know that constellation,
that start to understand
how we're changing the kaleidoscope all the time,
start to understand how you and I
have had really different paths
and even though we're meeting in a space here together
and this is the landscape,
we're both overlapping in a lot of ways
as we turn our kaleidoscope,
but there's so much richness and stuff there of your path
that I'm trying to sense, you know?
That's what we're doing in this conversation
and that interaction, if we really,
are we at a space now where we can start
to notice the beauty of that
and how that isn't always good and easy and clear and so on,
but starting with that again,
now that we've kind of mapped the territory
in so many ways,
that there's so much power in there now
that maybe we can begin to understand
and hold a little bit better.
So way making sounds like it's,
oh, it's so easy or something,
you're just moving through a landscape
and there's affordances and affordances, you know,
like everyone has different ones,
everyone's on a different path.
Yes, okay, but actually what I'm really saying
is pretty radical because you have to start
with a scaffolding that's not binary
and you have to distinguish the representation
from the relation.
So like the way that we're using language
or the way that we're using whatever
isn't the relation itself.
So I think what it really comes down to
is being really present with where you are,
how you got there,
how you are the people and the places that you've been
and how that's always going
and you didn't leave them behind.
The consolation is ongoing.
It's all of this, everything all at once, right?
And even in terms of education in a really traditional way
when we think of ourselves as kids being educated,
we tend to think now we're adults, you know,
but we are, but we're still kids too.
And what does it mean to always be the kid
and to be the teacher and to be like these,
to be our soul who takes on different roles
as we turn the kaleidoscope in awareness
that we're taking on roles, you know, what is that?
Like the kids teach us too.
And not even kids, but adult students.
I mean, you know, there's that old thing
where you learn what you teach.
It's so true.
So how do we, like, that's the space I'm thinking attention
and all the stuff allows us to sort of start to explore
that we are the teacher and the student and the landscape
and the material we're teaching, you know?
We're all of those things
and it's not a crazy messy blur
and it's not anything goes and it's not,
there's no truth and nothing is right and wrong.
That's not it at all.
It's that in every moment, we're gonna express
and experience those things differently.
They're there, they're real, they're traceable,
they're legitimate, but they're changing all the time
and how we express them, how we communicate them,
where you and I are gonna connect,
we're gonna have to dance a little
and it's constantly going with ourselves too, you know?
With our own. Absolutely, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
And the thing that also comes up for me
when you're saying that is something about implicit
and explicit because there's a lot going on implicitly
in all of the things you've just described.
And I think, again, that's one of the other little traps
that we get locked into in education
is that there is, again, a valuing of the explicit
because it's the thing you can talk about.
It's the thing you can write on the exam paper
or it's the thing that you can show that you can do.
Exactly.
And that's that either or thing too
because what I hear you saying,
what I've heard in your other podcasts,
maybe even with Nora Bateson,
is that it's the implications
and it's all the stuff we can't put
into those external representations,
those yes, no answers,
or even right now that you and I can't actually say,
that's actually the orienting of all of this.
And that's part of that cultivation
of being able to sit in presence and not judge each other,
but also to be rigorous and to believe in what we believe in.
We're not just being passive as if everything goes.
Yeah, to notice that, what you're saying.
So it's not the implicit or the explicit.
It's what those are generating as all that's implied
and can't actually be pointed to as implicit or explicit.
But there's also something maybe about trust
that that is all going on though,
because I think there's some sometimes
in order to acknowledge it or notice it,
it has to come up into attention or awareness.
And I don't know, it feels like a lot of stuff
is going on not in that zone, right?
And so there's something about trusting,
I don't know whether that's the right word,
but like allowing,
like being okay with all of that happening
without necessarily being in our conscious awareness.
That's where the care comes in and creating spaces
where we can actually explore this stuff together.
And that's the kind of education
that I think has what we're maybe talking
about orienting towards the kind of relational interaction
where you're coming together towards understanding something
and it's gonna be a process that you're gonna do together
and you're gonna bring in all the ways,
other paths that people have been on
that have understood this in a certain way,
but you're looking at it as a constellation.
So there's gonna be a lot of different ways to get there.
And the only way you can even have any of this
is if the space is safe enough
and if everyone agrees
that this exploration can take place,
which means you don't necessarily have the expert
who's gonna give you the answers
and then you're gonna get a good grade on the test.
It's a different way of thinking about what that is.
I think it relates more to like homeschooling
or to having some kind of,
I mean, traditionally the way those things go
because when you are homeschooled,
you have a one-on-one interaction
with someone who cares about you.
Or when you do something like a cognitive apprenticeship
in a, I don't mean that in a strict way,
but just when you're like working
with someone who cares about you,
who's been through a lot of experience,
who's gonna share that experience with you
and also learn from you in that,
what is it like that zone of proximal development,
that area where nobody really quite has the answer,
but you're bringing stuff together.
So that feels like a good way to orient education.
Totally, totally.
And it really reminds me of,
I had a conversation with Helen Street about,
she calls it contextual wellbeing rather than care,
but I really like that idea that,
often the idea of wellbeing has been situated
in the individuals,
but actually she's talking about the context,
you know, how well is the context,
or how flourishing or how enabling of thriving
is the context that we're situated in.
And in a way, that's what you're talking about.
In the ideal situation,
if you've got someone, a family doing homeschooling,
you would ideally hope that that's happening
in a holding of care, right?
In a context that is rich with love and care
in order to do the things you've just been talking about.
I like that a lot.
And also the context, just understanding context,
how important it is, is part of this, right?
That is a kind of care in the way I mean it.
And understanding we're not just calculating
or memorizing, we're elucidating for one another.
And yeah, that kind of opening of space
feels important, difficult,
but let me just say this too.
In all these talks I have,
we mentioned forecognition, participatory sense-making,
and processual, and really what that is
is a way of noticing that there's a third entity
or kind of another thing, right?
Like you and I right now interacting,
we are autonomous beings who have paths
and that are very important
and haven't gone away and that matter.
But also within us, we've created a third thing here,
which is that is what we're doing all the time
with one another in education.
And somehow recognizing
that that's the process of education.
It's not two separated brains,
computational machines in heads,
coming together to give each other some information
or some data, or maybe it's warm data, I don't know.
But it's this third entity is where it's exciting
and where education really is.
And we don't know actually what's possible
until we engage in that.
And that opens up further possibilities
for further worlds and landscapes that we can explore.
That feels really motivating to me in ways that we need.
100%, no, I totally agree.
And it makes me think like,
are we creating third entities in all directions as well?
Because you and I are creating a third entity between us,
but we're also creating third entities in a way
with the context we're in and you're in,
I'm in France, you're in, yeah.
It's like, so there's something multi-dimensional
going on there.
Thank you for saying that, yeah.
Because the third bothers me a bit
because the third people tend to rest there.
And actually in this book I wrote,
which is a like poly philosophy,
it's a hippocampus inspired book,
Holding Paradox that comes out next year.
I actually talk about that space of the third.
It's a really important idea and we use it all the time.
I mean, I studied Hegel in my first degree
and it's the synthesis, right?
And you can find this trend in like all kinds of religions
and philosophies and psychologies
where you have the third and it helps
because you can step to that space
and then see that you've been in a binary
and it's so important, but we don't stop in the third.
The third's not even really there.
It's a portal into exactly what you just expressed,
which is also what's so hard to hold is that constellation,
that we are multiplicities, that we are inter beings,
that there are truths and paths that are traced,
but that there's a lot of them.
It's not just one line.
So thank you for saying that
because it's a really important point.
No, and that's the disorientation in a way
that we kind of got at the beginning, right?
Yeah, and that's why it's so hard.
It's like so hard.
It's so hard.
Maybe I really- Even a little bit dangerous.
It's hard.
I mean, I think we should pause on that a minute
because people talk about, oh, just adopt a relational view
and just think about it as all relations in all ways
and there's no boundaries and everything's fluid.
And that is incredibly disturbing.
And I don't think we actually pause enough
to realize how disturbing that is.
I see it with people
who are really trying to understand it.
We assume everyone's been on our path,
but if you haven't had this kind of very gentle lifetime,
years and years of leading into what that means
and you just suddenly encounter it,
it can be very, very scary and dangerous.
So I think that's something we also sometimes forget, but-
I love that.
I mean, it came up in my conversation with Indeed, Johar,
and it also, it was one of the first things
I wanted to ask Nora Bateson when I met her in person.
I remember we met in Switzerland
and I was like, this like niggling issue of like,
boundaries are important
because they make people feel safe, right?
And yes, they limit and they do violence
and all these things,
but they also make people feel safe.
And there's a really tricky holding of this thing.
I completely agree with you because I think if you say,
oh no, just step.
I mean, it's like, before we started recording,
it's like, just shift your ontology,
just like step into this relational space.
It seems so easy once you've seen it.
I mean, it's not easy actually, but it seems obvious.
I had a conversation with Jessica, who's an engineer,
who's a lot of people are starting to try to do philosophy
in whatever field they're in as a way of life,
whereas there's all these ways to think about it,
but just thinking critically, right?
And she also talks about how she was kind of happy
in her little engineering world
and then she discovered relational philosophy in it.
Yes, it opens up a whole new universe
and it's almost like for these times,
we're being forced to deal with this,
but at the same time, how disturbing it was.
And I think that's part of why there's a lot of resistance
too from all points.
I'm really glad that's an important part of what you say.
And I do remember you bringing that up with Indy, I think.
Just to check, you're okay for time?
Yeah, I'm okay for a little while.
A few minutes.
Because I'm really curious about this point about sensing
and how we sense into that landscape
that we're talking about.
We've been talking a lot about all of that,
but it feels like that's come up a lot for me
in the conversations you've had.
Mike Levin, for example, this idea,
and with Eric recently about the tree.
I use the word, but the affordances of the body
of that thing, like the thing that's not a thing,
but the affordances enable a certain type of sensing.
And as Mike said in your conversation with him,
if we had just such a visceral example,
if we had tongues that faced inwards,
maybe we'd be better at sensing our own inner organs
and movement inside our bodies, like interoception, right?
Like just what an image, but also just makes the point
so strongly to me that our ability to like sense
into the landscape, to navigate all these like third entities
that you're talking about are really contingent
on our sensual apparatus that we have, right?
And in a way, that's part of what 4E Cognitive Science
is doing, right?
It's like to bring the body back in, in activism, et cetera.
It's like cognition is happening through our limbs,
through our bodies, through our gut biomes
and all these different aspects.
Do you feel like there is a,
do we have an ability to shift that, augment that
without changing our own bodies or like,
there's something for me about,
I don't know quite what the question is,
but like how, if we're talking about sensing
into a more multiplicitous, you know,
constellations, universe, et cetera, multiverse,
it feels like we need different sense,
like sensing apparatus to help us with that.
And can we get better at those things?
And Nora talks about sensitizing, like, I don't know,
it just feels like there's something there for me
about like an ability or a different kind of tool
or apparatus or something.
Yes, I think this brings out a lot of the points
we've been talking about
because we are sensitizing ourselves
into another existence of literally, you know,
whatever scale you want to look at it as individuals,
but as communities, as countries, as ecologies,
that's, there's a level in which you could understand
that's what we're doing with this way making this,
as we encounter and as we adjust,
we're creating new calibrations with the world,
which is sensing.
I think what's so important about understanding this thing
that we began with where cognition is not a computer
in your brain, but rather your brain is part of your body.
You actually have a central and peripheral nervous system
that extends in through your body.
You have neurons all over your body
that if you understand literally that your body
is a sensing being and that that is cognitive,
that's very hard, right?
Cause we've separated it all
in the same way we've been talking about.
But if you just start to fill into that,
that your whole body is what you've thought of
as cognitive as the brain and computer in your head,
but actually know you're this incredible cognitive being,
like all that stuff you thought was a computer in your head
is your body and it's your interaction
with all that you encounter.
Everything you read, everything you watch,
every conversation you have, every walk you take,
all of that actually is contributing
and giving you the material
of how you are going to continue your thinking.
But your thinking is just like the tip edge
of your cognition.
Your cognition is how you're moving through the world.
It's how you're interacting with everyone.
It's the gestures.
It's the way you're treating yourself
because we are also multiplicities within ourself.
So if you start to really understand cognition in that way,
it's not that, I mean, of course our bodies are changing
and we have all this technology
and we could go into crazy ideas about that like Mike does
and it's all very interesting and I explore a lot of it.
But I think just on a basic level,
if you think of your attention
as something that's changing,
you're literally changing what's possible for you
in the world when you began to be able to hold
that sensory body as your cognition.
I mean, this word cognition,
but as the way that you're making through the world
and as something very unique to you
that you can share with others
because we're all in a different space and time.
And that cognitive process or that bodily process,
that living, that sensing is so unique
and shared at the same time.
And if you realize that interface is what's so meaningful
and you start to become aware of it
and not judge yourself and accept it, wow, you know?
Yes, I mean, we start to change
into different sensory beings
and not as this old self that we thought
was stuck in our head,
but as a participatory, a participating being in the world
that can, I can look at other beings like trees
and understand them as part of me, even fill into them
without it being kind of mystical or crazy,
just literally you can start to understand
that you're respirating with each other
and giving each other the ability to be.
I mean, probably the tree more us than us, the tree,
but we're here, we can take care of the tree.
So, and that actually isn't mystical and crazy.
It becomes incredibly motivating
and a walk through your neighborhood
can be a very different thing.
So can a conversation with anyone,
so can just the way you interact at the shop.
I find that incredibly exciting
and like to think of what kind of beings we would be
in that space is very exciting.
To think of the way we would do science, even,
the way we would structure technology,
the way we would do education becomes very exciting for me.
And there's people trying to do it.
You know, right now, a lot of our scientific experiments,
as I know, you know, are set up
where you have this linear observer,
there's the observer, there's a subject, you know,
we talk about it in a lot of the conversations
on love and philosophy, but that, everything's separate.
But there are people who are trying to create new ways of,
you know, how do we have a participatory kind of experiment
where you and I might do an experiment together
and instead of, and the scientists might like be there
or watch or record it, but that is the experiment.
There's a thing called Prisma
where that's built on the Feldenkrais thing,
but goes in a totally different direction from that,
where they actually try to do that.
You know, they create experiments
that actually the experimenters co-create as they do them.
And then you have data,
but it's not data that's been dictated in that linear way.
Or there's perceptual crossing experiments,
there's hyperscanning,
like we're starting to understand ways
that we can understand ourselves as beings beyond
what we've decided is the computer in our head.
And I find in education and technology and science
and just everyday conversation,
that's the thing that I think I would answer your question
with as what's possible in terms
of creating new capabilities or new bodies, you know?
They're already there.
It's more becoming aware that they are.
Yeah, right.
No, absolutely.
No, and it makes me think,
it's almost like you can,
some of it you can see in the language.
I was doing some work with Ray Eisen
and like they've got this great paper,
him and some other authors on called the Praxis of Co.
Co hyphen, in the sense that like,
you can almost see it in the language
that words like co-creating, right?
Which you just used,
are just coming up more and more.
Like there was, I would say X number of years ago,
10 years, 20 years ago,
people weren't using the word co-creating
anywhere near as much as they are now.
That's interesting.
There's something that you can notice
in the way that we use language, I think,
that indicates us sensing into that thing
that you've just described.
Absolutely.
I think that's a really good point, yeah.
Even a lot of the people on your show
or the people I talk to,
they're using those kinds of terms
and that kind of way of speaking.
Which is why it's sometimes uncomfortable for people
or slightly disorienting,
or it's a new set of language.
Some people will dismiss it as jargon,
but there's some really interesting responses
to the way this stuff gets talked about,
which I find fascinating.
But also just maybe to end,
one of the things that I keep with me all the time,
so as I said to you,
I do some work with Nora Bateson,
and it's kind of a motivating question to me,
to your point about what does it mean to educate
if all of those things were true.
The question that I sit with all the time
is what does it mean to educate
if information is alive,
if communication is an ecology,
and if cognition is everywhere,
and if the individual island self is a myth.
So to me, that is the motivating question.
What does education mean
if we take all those things to be more true
than we've given credence in the last 200 years, maybe ever?
Yeah, it almost isn't a noun anymore, right?
It's almost, as you were saying that,
I was thinking education sounds,
or maybe it's just this somehow living process of-
Right, exactly, exactly.
I actually used to educate
rather than education, because I agree.
I think there's like, what is it,
the misplaced concreteness of a thing.
It's like, it is a process.
Educating is a process, deeply, a relational process.
It always has been, whatever we're teaching,
in whatever space you're in.
But again, back to some of the things we've talked about,
I think it's partly about allowing the value
to be given to the things which are implicit,
all the things we've said,
rather than just the things that are concrete
and the thing things that we can manipulate.
Or just noticing the value.
You don't necessarily have to allow.
And also, I mean, who are we to allow?
I think that comes up, too, and this to educate,
as if that still implies there's one locked-in kind of brain
or body that's gonna educate another, whether it's-
That's a tough question.
I'm sure you've explored that before,
but it just came to mind, that's also-
That's part of the learning issue.
So, and Gert Wiesner calls it learnification.
People gravitated towards the word learning
in order to circumvent exactly the thing
you've just described.
It's all about learning.
Now that's become symbol-oriented, hasn't it?
A little bit, but there's something interesting to me.
It will be a lifelong inquiry,
but there is something in the educational relationship
or the educational act I've played with.
And it's like, there's something in that relating,
which is not just about two people learning together.
It is about that, but it's also something,
there is a relationship that is saying,
I have something, like Gert Wiesner talks about,
I have something I want to show you,
or I have something about the world I'd like you to notice.
Oh, I love that, that joy and that-
Right, exactly.
And there is something-
You just can't wait to share it with someone, isn't that?
There's something powerful, I think, in that idea,
that it's not a power imbalance.
I'm not meaning it in that sense,
like the master and the student.
It's not like I'm here and you'll be here one day.
It's something about, I'm passionate about the world.
I'm passionate about this thing, and I want to show you.
And I've maybe done a bit more thinking about this thing
or some exploring of this thing than you have.
And that's given me a richer understanding,
richer kind of appreciation and wonder for this thing.
And I'd love to show you this thing.
Like, that feels like an important relationality
in the mix of all the things we've just talked about.
Yeah, and that only makes sense and works
if we've kind of stepped back enough to understand
that we all have unique paths
within this kaleidoscopic constellation,
nested, multi-being place.
And all of those paths are necessarily going
to offer the being that's been on them
something different to give,
which doesn't mean we need to compete.
Right.
But does mean we can still be very, very motivated
to find ways of doing that, right?
So that we don't lose the motivation.
But that, because often it would come,
oh, I know this and I want to tell you
because I've had this incredible life.
And it's like, okay, yeah, all of us have, right?
So how do we, all of us, no matter who we are,
how educated we are, I absolutely believe it.
And I'm sure you've seen it too.
You have something to give that others can't give.
I've just seen it, it's, you know.
Yeah, totally.
And that was your point about learning
from the young people as well, you know,
or the older kids, you know, as you said earlier,
it's like the person doing the educating can be anybody
because as you say, they've had this rich experience
and they want to share it.
It doesn't mean that you have to be,
it's not a position as such or a role as such.
It's like- It's like a state.
We're in educating or something like let's get,
let's do some educating.
I don't even know what the word is,
but you almost get into kind of like a little,
like a little spirit together, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But it does, I think it's easy to forget
that it doesn't have to be degrees and all of this.
I mean, sometimes it's very hard for me to hear
because I know my channel, it's like very heady, you know,
all these scientists and philosophers and technology
and all these words as you were talking about.
And if someone just comes to that
without maybe they didn't go to college
and they know a completely different kind of knowledge,
I don't want it to seem like that's a better knowledge.
You know, I still struggle with how to hold all that.
Because once you've gone through with these paths,
you tend to group in people who've also been on those paths.
So how do we really like connect
those different parts of the constellation
that feels important too?
And I know you're doing it on your podcast.
No, no, I agree.
And it's a trap for everyone, I think.
But I think you do it really well by bringing love back in.
And I'd like, if we can explore that separately
in another, in a future group conversation, maybe.
Because I do think that is you bring people,
you ground your conversations in the embodied,
the kind of relational with the idea of love as the frame.
So I...
Because loving is knowing.
Yes, right.
Hannity Yeager has wrote about it.
I really think that's kind of like a way of knowing
that we all share, even no matter, you know,
what you love or who you love or, you know,
there's a, that is a knowing, right?
That is something relative to the education
that we've been talking about that we have to give,
I guess, and receive.
Can we talk about that another day?
Thank you.
Oh, this is amazing.
No, I so appreciate it.
Sorry, we've gone way over time, but...
Yeah, we started kind of late, so it's okay.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
I really enjoyed talking to you.
And thanks for all the work you're doing.
