You only have certainty if you cut yourself off from reality.
We've lost our confidence, if not even our taste, for the real.
So that's part of what's going on. So that I think in that setting, AI and all our, you know,
temptation to be on our phones all the time and think that's reality, it might not be so tempting
if we weren't so vulnerable already. So when I'm talking about bike riding, I say once you figure
out how to ride a bike, the world comes to you in so many possible bike paths that you never saw
before. And it's because you're in, you become embedded. The knowledge is information, knowledge
is focal information paradigm. The information actually cuts you off from reality such that you
might not even care about reality because you have the information. That's called positivism.
You know, I've heard plenty of scientists talk that way, you know, that this is just about the data.
My job and what I'm doing is teaching them what they've been doing all along. What I see myself
doing is kind of relaying the accents under what it is that they do when they know so they can see
it. Because modernity teaches us to misdescribe when we self-describe. We haven't put the right
words on what we actually are doing well. So the things that we're doing well don't get honored
and can, and they can atrophy. There's nothing wrong with information, but there's everything
wrong with information as the philosophical paradigm of how we know. So you got to collect
information, but why do you collect the information? You collect it so you can wear it. You indwell them
subsidiarily. And so what the word, the idea that practically everybody is missing
that Polenia has is the idea of the subsidiary. So even when your students rightly feel like they
want their cognition to be embodied, they're not given the word subsidiary. They don't get
this from-to thing. He really felt like this subsidiary focal integration is what resolved
the presumed mind-body problem. And just in an ordinary way, right now, to try to understand
my mind, you're indwelling my body, right? As I am yours. So, you know, it's a very exposed thing
to give a lecture, for example, because you welcome people to indwell your body to get at
the what we call the mind. And you got to indwell your own body to get at the mind, too.
Actually, I was on the faculty at Manchester University when Alan Turing was. Polanyi says
in a footnote in Personal Knowledge, I dissent. I dissent from Turing's idea that machines can
think. And actually, the two of them put on a symposium and invited scholarship to enter
into this conversation. And what he says is that could never be because knowledge is inherently
unformalizable. So I think you can kind of quick associate it with me saying, well,
information is not knowledge. It's not knowledge. So, but when you, again, when you think of the
baseball pitcher or you think of the trainer of Seabiscuit, that's way richer. It's an artistry.
It's an intimacy because knowledge is inherently unformalizable.
OK, well, hello, Esther. It's so wonderful to have you on Love and Philosophy. Thanks for being here.
Well, you're so welcome. And I'm so excited. You know, Love and Philosophy, what a great title
full of all kinds of resonances and possibilities. So look forward to a good conversation.
Indeed. It's not an easy title either. Talking to a lot of philosophers and neuroscientists,
the love part is often a bit hard. I don't know if you've encountered that at all with your
your work talking about love in any philosophical context or.
You know, I haven't. I mean, and I haven't talked to that many neuroscientists, but
to me, it's just not it seems so obvious. And I really have been doing a bit of my own thing.
So I've been charting my own course and I think and the people that I think of as my audience are
not in the ivory tower. You know, they're they're in the streets and that I think usually if I have
some time, you know, what I have to say really resonates profoundly. I don't see, you know,
what I usually see myself doing is helping people see that this is what they've been doing all along.
So it's kind of kind of restorative. And I think a lot of people resonate with that.
And I love it that you're just doing your own thing. How did you get into doing doing all this?
I know you had some big questions as a kid. Is that a good place to start for how you became
a philosopher? Well, I think of myself as starting when I was 13, but now I don't think that anymore.
I think I started with babyhood. But at 13, I found myself with really skeptical questions.
And one was, how do I know that God exists? I was in a Bible believing church and family,
but I was missing a premise, I think. And so how do I know that God exists? And the other is,
how do I know that anything exists outside my mind? And it seemed to me glaringly obvious
that I was certain of the contents of my mind, which is pretty hilarious. And just because
I was in touch with that, and that was certain, it was actually blocking me from reality.
So kind of a picture of me in here and the world out there. And then this screen of ideas
or mental content that actually prevented me from being sure it was true.
You had that feeling as a kid already? Like, I mean, did you feel that kind of blockage?
I know you probably wouldn't put it in such words, but yeah.
I never told anybody, because I knew they were odd questions, but I just felt like I had no
proof that the world was outside my mind. And that seemed to me to be like the most foundational
thing that one needed to have proof about. So yeah, in my more recent writings,
you know, for many, many years, I called myself a baby skeptic. But now I see I wasn't a baby
skeptic. I was an adolescent onset skeptic. So that actually freed me up to see how exuberant
I was about reality as a baby, as a child. Why was it a secret? Why couldn't you tell
people this? Because I feel like this is in a way a very, a lot of us can resonate with this.
I'm resonating with this. I remember being a kid and having questions. But I also resonate with
not being able to really feel like you could express that. What was that about for you?
Why couldn't you? Well, the main one was, you know, I was surrounded by people who loved Jesus.
And I, you know, if you have questions, if you're skeptical about the existence of God,
that sounds like sin. You know, so I was a very dutiful child. And so there were, I don't think
anybody around me would have, you know, been open to my expressing that. And then honestly,
I thought the question about the world outside my mind was no, like it was just, it sounded
ridiculous. Yet, you know, I couldn't discount it. But I sure wasn't talking about it either,
because nobody else seemed to be having problems, you know, not that I asked them,
right? So moving on real quickly from that, you know, it was in high school that I read
some of the work of Francis Schaeffer. And that's when I feel like I realized that my questions
weren't sin, they were philosophical. And that responses to them had shaped whole cultural epics
across the disciplines, which fired my imagination for interdisciplinary studies. But then I still
didn't realize, I didn't know you could actually study philosophy. And when I found that out,
it took me 12 hours to change my life. And, you know, go study philosophy, because it just,
it just, I felt morally obligated. I was sure I wasn't smart enough, but I had to, I had to do it,
because I felt like those were the most important questions.
Yeah. How much did you think about this? Do you think as like an adolescent and I mean, was this,
this was, this was a pretty urgent feeling in you, I guess, right?
Yeah. And I guess I would say, I think I lived a normal life, but I don't remember a continual,
existential, ongoing angst about it. But, you know, obviously, there was, there was something
about it that seemed absolutely fundamental. And it's to me all along, especially as I got
into philosophy, it just seems so obvious to me that the fundamental questions were the most
important ones, because they were like the bottom, the foundation of whatever anybody's argument.
It just always seemed to me that the most fundamental questions were the most important,
because they affected everything else, which will make a philosopher out of you.
Yeah. And I think it relates to what you're talking about, about street philosophy and
philosophy being this everyday thing, or even a therapeutic approach. Sometimes people have to
go through academia and all the study to realize that that that's actually what it is. But it
sounds like from the beginning, you're integrating it in a way, to use that word.
Maybe not. I mean, I do, you just described sounds accurate to me, you know, I became a parent that I
needed to study philosophy. And then it became apparent that if you study philosophy, you have
to go as far as a PhD, if you're going to do anything with it. And I did all that. And although
even I addressed this matter in my dissertation, I don't, I didn't feel like it was resolved,
I felt like I still had the questions. So, and also, like I as tell in my new book, The Mother
Smile, you know, I had babies by that point. So, so I had a life to live. And I was like,
this was like down to earth life. And so I, because of them always had a drive to,
to take, to just step out of the guilt and, and make it every day. And finding Michael
Polanyi's work around when I was, let's say 24, you know, really gave me an epistemology that,
that started to allow me to do that. It just seemed to me that I'm not done my work as a
philosopher until I can express it for every day. When you were doing your degree, though,
were you trying to do the conventional, you know, the conventional way? Is that sort of where you
were? And yeah. And what gave you the confidence to, was it Polanyi maybe? Or how did you find,
because I think it takes a certain kind of confidence to even begin to write the way you
wrote your books, where you kind of say, like, okay, philosophers, I'm going to do this. You're
kind of holding both things, right? Obviously, you've studied your philosophy, but you're also
taking this confident stance that this is going to be about real life, which is not an easy thing
to do in academia. Thank you for appreciating that. Oh, I appreciate it so much. Yeah.
Yeah. So because at the beginning of Loving to Know, which is the book that you're primarily
interacting with, you know, I really do say, look, this is for ordinary people, but it's also for,
you know, the philosophers, because the philosophers are ordinary people, too.
You know, so, and I do feel that, you know, the approach that I take in Loving to Know,
and the things that I develop are actually really essential to philosophy. It's just that nobody
talks that way. I think so, too. And I think it's really about all those main problems that we would
list as philosophers, you know, and I actually think bringing Polanyi in is really wonderful.
And even though it is written in a way that's very easy to read, and we're talking about life
in a direct way, which is really refreshing, and you don't have to be a philosopher to read it,
you know, as the book goes along, it's quite philosophical. I mean, you're layering things
together. And, you know, you can tell you've thought through it as a philosopher. But I think
this talks to this focal subsidiary integration aspect, which I would like for you to maybe unpack
a bit, because I feel like we already have been talking about that a bit. Like that, for me,
helps me understand that childhood experience that we have of where, you know, that movement
of kind of the subsidiary becoming focal or noticing the patterns. But also, you know,
in philosophy itself, how we might need to focus on particular kinds of academic sources at first
so that we find our confidence. So all of this, for me, becomes, by the end of the book, really
the, almost like a practice in practice, you know, like the book is a practice of the practice. But
what is that practice? Like, how can we unpack that for people that-
Oh, that's so great. And you are just, like, connecting on a very high level. This is
wonderful, because it has everything to do with dissertations. So when I talk to most people that
I talk to, I start with riding a bike.
Yeah, your dad, I think I remember this.
Yeah, the bike stories and loving to know. But I get people to identify in their own life
their aha, like an example of an aha moment, a moment of insight, but also what's a skill
that they have. Because skills help you show the subsidiary focal integration in the performance.
So skills are pretty easy to get people talking about, whether it's penmanship or crochet or,
you know, athletics or music, you know, especially something with an instrument
helps people see. So in the case of the bike, you know, as you're beginning to learn a skill,
you focus on disparate things that you're being expected to put together. So, you know, the bike
for me was an alien contraption that I did not trust. And I didn't know how one would ever keep
their balance on two points, which is pretty funny. My body was totally opaque. And my father's words
might as well have been another language, right? So all of it was opaque and disconnected.
He's telling you to balance or something, right? As if you would know what that is.
He yells, balance and push me. He pushed me down the hill, which, you know, isn't exactly a bad
thing to have done because he knew he couldn't put it into words, right?
So he hoped that by the end of the hill, I would be riding.
Well, when you get so you get the skill, what happens is all those things that you were focusing on,
you come to indwell and Polanyi's word is subsidiarily. So when he says that, he means
you rely on them to shape or focus the pattern. And actually the pattern is the thing that
interprets the clues to you. So the clues are subsidiary to the pattern. That's where he gets
the word. So when you get so you can keep your balance on a bike, you realize that keeping your
balance, like that sense, that felt sense of balance is essential to the riding, but it's
also subsidiary. So if you were to focus on it, you'd probably fall off the bike.
Right. So so Polanyi's point is all knowing has not one, but two levels,
the from level and the two level. And your job is not to get rid of the subsidiary.
Your job is to actually cultivate it as from awareness so that if you're in a skill or in
an artistry, if you think of, you know, I don't know, I always think of examples that I've never
done like, you know, surfing, driving, you know, that sort of thing, or just driving a car, you
know, it's not this linear focal step by step process. It's that you artfully indwell the car
and you do subsidiarily with intentionality, the things that you need to do to
to carry out the performance. So your focus is not on your foot on the pedal.
And if it were, the car would, yeah, I mean, you'd have an accident, you'd have an accident.
So if you revert to fixate on what you ought to be indwelling subsidiarily,
Polanyi called that destructive analysis. And some, it has to, that's where you start,
it's kind of, it has to be done from time to time. But the point is that A, it's meant to be
temporary. And B, it's not meant to be the paradigm of knowledge. So focal information
as the paradigm of knowledge, it has is what has infected modernity. Knowledge is information,
what that does is actually cut you off from reality, which is why I had the problem.
Yeah, I love this on so many levels. Let me just be a little messy and you take it where you want,
but coming out of neuroscience, I think of cognition as an act that's that subsidiary,
that then maybe some part of it is focal, which is what we think of as our thinking,
this whole voice in the head thing, but it's really just the focal part in this kind of,
kind of support that's always there to, or I'm not sure how you could maybe clarify it better,
but as I read the book, I start to notice you're kind of showing us that we're part of a sort of
larger process that we can trust, but then you can't keep thinking about it all the time. Like we
don't think about what the alphabet is and all this stuff when we're reading. I don't know if
that makes sense for you or if you want to bring up maybe what the body means in all of this or
something, but for me, it feels, it's actually solving a lot of those seeming mind-body problems
in a way. Yeah, and Polanyi himself does have an essay that you might like to read. It's in
the collection called Knowing and Being. I can't remember the name of it, but it's
the two last essays in there. I think it's the next to last one, but he really felt like
this subsidiary focal integration is what resolved the presumed mind-body problem.
So, and you know, as I think just in an ordinary way,
right now, to try to understand my mind, you're indwelling my body,
right, as I am yours. So, you know, it's a very exposed thing to give a lecture, for example,
because you welcome people to indwell your body to get at what we call the mind.
And you got to indwell your own body to get at the mind, too. So, there's all that. Now, let's
see. Have I lost the train of thought? Oh, I know what I thought maybe you were headed toward is you
said something about trusting, trusting maybe what's beyond you. And so, like, what I would
like to say is Polanyi said all knowledge is from, to, from the subsidiaries to the focal pattern.
But, and this is what captured my heart in Polanyi and I did my dissertation on. It's also from,
to, and beyond, because what he, I'm the kid that felt like she had no contact with reality,
you know, and here's this premier scientific discovery that would blithely say, oh, by the way,
you know, you've made contact with reality. Like, who says that? And that's exactly what I needed
to hear. When you have a sense, an unspecifiable sense, you can't put it into words, of indeterminate,
you can't say what it is, future appearances or manifestations. So, I called that the IFM effect.
That's what I wrote my dissertation on. Well, those IFMs or indeterminate future manifestations,
you know, a simple way to say it is possibilities. You know, so you found my work and you said, oh,
there's a possible, there's a possible podcast or two in this, right? So, so, so that's possibilities.
And it's actually those possibilities that you feel, but you can't, you can't even test them
because you can't articulate them. But you've got this felt sense that it's like you walked into a
place that there's a space and it's fraught with richer meaning. Okay. So, I would say if you think
back to learning to read, right? You struggled to learn what the letters say, you know,
you struggled to write them. I taught my kids to do this. And then I handed them a little book
and got my camera. And, you know, they were following the rules that they had learned.
And all of a sudden they went, oh, and they were reading. So what that oh moment is, is when the
letters on the page went from focal to subsidiary. And you honestly, you have got to have subsidiary
focal integration to read and to make meaning, because what happens is you've got to indwell
the text. You know, you're not, if you fixate on the S, that's the end of the story,
you know, because you've just blocked the view to whatever the reality is, Tolkien's Lord of the
Rings or whatever it is. But no, you wear the text, meaning, you know, you read, you're reading.
That's what we mean by reading, right? So reading is putting it at the subsidiary to open the world
to and through the integrative pattern to all kinds of possibilities.
That's really wonderfully said. And yeah, when I read your work, or actually, some people told
me about it just recently. So I'm just like, this is the first book I've read of yours. So hopefully,
this is the beginning of the conversation. But it wasn't that I thought, oh, there's a podcast in
that. Definitely not. It was more because I'm a philosopher. And the reason I do this is,
like, to try to make it public what's happening in the same way that you took the picture of your
kids in a way, I like to show this exact process that you just described in a way where you're
coming into awareness of what's been holding you all the time in a different way. And it's,
it's an aha kind of thing. Yeah, it feels like isn't that what what this knowing is in a way?
So that if you if you want to, so I feel that when I teach people subsidiary focal integration
and teach them my philosophy, they're not going to be taken, like out of their comfort zone into
some alien word full of realm of jargon, they're going to be restored to themselves. My job and
like, what I'm doing is teaching them what they've been doing all along. And what I see
myself doing is kind of relaying the accents under what it is that they do when they know,
so they can see it. Because modernity teaches us to misdescribe when we self describe.
Right. So we, we, we haven't put the right words on what we actually are doing well.
So the things that we're doing well, don't get honored. And can, and they can atrophy.
Right. And that was Polanyi's point, you know, if knowledge is explicit information, no scientific
discovery could ever happen. But it does. So fix your epistemology if you want science to continue.
Wow, this is really rich, because as you were talking the last two times, it reminds me,
I mean, it feels like opening pathways between what is connected or something like that, which
is a very different feeling from there being these separate containers, which is more like what we
learn in education. So I feel like, you know, that's that integrative, I guess, but you're sort of
opening up whatever's all come from the past till now, and into the future, through these different
maybe ways of becoming, I'm thinking of the magic eye, where you suddenly, you know, I love that,
where you suddenly see this kind of new thing that's been there all along. And I guess, like,
that's really different from that dichotomous way that a lot of us assume, right? And that's even
in our language.
It's very liberating. It is so liberating. I mean, I have seen repeated transformation
in my students, teaching them this. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing.
So because they connect to it in their own life and in their own body, is that? Yeah. So it's
different than just sitting there putting something in your head, kind of that idea.
And that's why, you know, I can't write epistemology textbooks,
because it's not going to be additional information that fixes this.
Okay, I got to say some stuff, but that's why I use the word therapy. It's something
that you've been bodying that's mistaken, that needs to be reoriented.
Yeah, I love that you talk about that, epistemological therapy, or even being a
sort of philosophical therapist. Because I think it connects also to the body too.
And it's because you're not talking about just talk therapy. I mean, you talk about dance,
and the body is a very important part in all of this. And I actually feel like maybe that
kind of academic world is starting to realize that too, through something like
4E embodied cognition and all this, they're trying, we're all trying to kind of come to this.
Young students now want to understand knowledge and cognition through exactly what you're
presenting this lived bodily way, which doesn't mean we like get rid of all the other stuff.
I'm thinking about the dichotomies or the daisy of dichotomies or this kind of conventional way
that you talk about in the first part of the book. So if you see knowledge as focal information,
right? And we do, that's what the mindset is that defines modernity is knowledge is information,
and then your job is to collect it. Exactly.
People kind of assume is what we're talking about. So that's what I'm trying to bring up here.
So well, the thing is, what information, like what is not expressed in that,
is that information is articulated in sentences, and it's focal, meaning you focus on it.
Okay, so somebody might like say, well, what does that even mean? Well, there's good reason
they might say that. But you know, if you think of writing sentences up on the board,
you know, or like, you know, people are just liable to say, well, two plus two is four,
right? Okay, that's got to be knowledge, right? Well, there's nothing wrong with information,
but there's everything wrong with information as the philosophical paradigm of how we know.
Okay, so you got to collect information, but why do you collect the information?
You collect it so you can wear it. So what you want, you learn the times tables,
so you indwell them subsidiarily. And so what the word, the idea that practically everybody is
missing that Polenia has is the idea of the subsidiary. So even when your students
rightly feel like they want their cognition to be embodied, they're not given the word subsidiary.
So they don't get this from two thing. But if you're going to be a baseball player,
you better be doing subsidiary focal integration, or you will not make it as a professional.
You know, it's like, you cannot play baseball if you're not doing subsidiary focal integration.
So and then you start saying, okay, baseball, well, now that might lead to this daisy of dichotomies
where we think, well, if it's physical, you know, it's not what goes on in the classroom,
it's kind of, we can think it's mindless. Or even when we start talking about, you know,
training our bodies, we use the word motor memory, which we which can tend to continue
to treat our body like a machine that needed to learn like AI needs to learn. Right. So it's not
it's not a felt body sense. But if you see an athletic artist, you know, like we at in
the Pirates in Pittsburgh have a a pitcher that just won the Cy Young Award.
There's just like nobody that could get a hit off of this guy.
And he's young, he's young, young, young, but somehow his body has is this rich wisdom
of being a pitcher. But then see what what we've inherited in modernity is, okay, yay, knowledge.
And knowledge is information. Best example would be science has something to do with objectivity.
So yay, objectivity. We love analysis, breaking it down to the bits. That's when we think we've got
control. Actually, this is a kind of a control approach, which is what modernity is really all
about. I think it's control and power. Right. So yay, objective, yay, science, boo, emotion,
yay, knowledge, boo, faith, yay, reason, boo, art, yay, mind, boo, body, though that's, you know,
so complicated now because of the whole neuroscience thing. I would say we also tend to say this is
male, yay, male, boo, female. Not that any particular man might think that way, but somehow,
you know, this masters and possessors of nature that set up modernity is very
masculine sounding, like it's about triumph over a female. So those binaries, and the reason I'm
talking about a daisy is I developed this as a diagnostic to help people see that they've got
all kinds of presumptions about knowledge. Right. So it's knowledge or it's not knowledge,
it's faith. So as a Christian believer, the faith reason divorce, you know, is a big thing.
You know, do you have to give up your mind to love Jesus? Which is I think any Christian believer
gets confronted like people considering Christianity have their nose pressed into that,
you know, which is what the book Longing to Know is about. So I think that whole,
all those dichotomies are endemic to modernity. Another thing that's endemic is on that daisy of
dichotomies. There's no role for responsibility, like taking personal covenantal responsibility
to risk, to pledge, to invite reality. None of that's on the daisy. So I think, you know,
I like to stack on the metaphor. So I think we need to torpedo the daisy.
Just tear it up and start over. And I find that Polanian subsidiary focal integration,
it doesn't even, like, critique the daisy. It just dispels it.
Yeah, gosh, Esther, there's so much in here with control, for example, you brought up control,
which is very different from this communicative covenant view way that you present in the book
and that you're living. But I guess what I'm trying, what I want to bring up is this is kind
of hard for people. I don't think it's maybe hard in certain circles. Like if you're in a religious
community that talks about love and stewardship and a lot of the things that you get to in the
book. But I know a lot of people who are listening to this maybe are in a different kind of community
where if you talk about these kind of things, you probably get laughed at and you can't write
your papers about them. And it's hard, right? Like, there's something there about the control
that you're supposed to always have control. And the way you show it is not by being in your body,
the way you show it is not by being in your body and dancing. Do you know what I mean?
But which is more objective? Like, my point, well, and you caught on to Parker Palmer,
he's the one that says this, you know, is it more objective to garner information or is it more
objective to dance a dance with another person? You know, like a personal relationship is actually
way more objective because you don't have control. And see, in On the Daisy, we've thought,
yeah, objective. And so all the members of the ordered pair are in the center clustered in the
center and then out on the pedal are the delegitimated ones, right? So if knowledge is objective,
your only alternative is subjective. Well, so again, where does inner person relationship,
where does it show up on the Daisy? It doesn't show up at all. But if you stop and think about it,
if you want to, if you think about the word objective, it ought to have at least
as one of its meanings, something beyond me. Right? I mean, the push is to keep myself out of it
to be objective. That's where Polanyi starts personal knowledge. And he said, well, that's dumb.
Because you can't have science if you don't have a great scientist.
I think that is the real knowing. But I guess what I want to also appreciate is that it's scary
and a bit hard. And maybe that's why we created all these seeming blocks and containers,
you know, because you're so vulnerable and you're so having to realize you're not,
you are these personal relations. And I guess I'm just trying to put out that that's actually,
that takes a kind of practice with other people, doesn't it?
Yeah, you know, and the people, the students who have struggled the most are the perfectionists.
So there is something OCD. The information side is OCD. You know, so if we're control freaks,
it's kind of because it's the air that we've inhaled. So but isn't it, you know, when you
start to think, well, maybe control is endemic to this modernist approach to human mastery,
possessing nature, control, letting, having, you know, doing, making it do what we want, right?
If you start to think of that in relational terms, don't you see that that sort of posture
would make reality, not what it really is, but it would reduce it to compliance
and turn it into like, we can't get to know it. We can't get to know it. I mean, you can't do
that to a horse and have the horse flourish, right? I mean, endless stories, endless stories.
Stories. I don't know if you know Seabiscuit that speak of horse.
So that was one abused horse. And then when he was loved, he gave his heart.
He gave us all, you know, a great horse. So, so that that's what that's and this is where I
thought maybe you were going maybe a little bit back is, is that's way more three dimensional.
And so in loving to know, you know, when I say when I like starting from the Polanian idea that
knowing is from to and beyond that it opens these possibilities in longing to know, I say it's not
like reality answers your questions so much as that it explodes them. So it kind of redraws the
playing field. And you're the one that's being questioned sometimes. But, but it's almost like
there's a person there. So, you know, that moves me toward trying to argue also in loving to know
that reality is person like. And that and if that's the case, then if you treat it like a person,
that might be really good, you know, wise epistemic practice, which is what inviting the real is about.
I love the invitation to the real and the way that the real it's this potency and this,
this you mentioned Parker Palmer and I talked to him recently and we talked about maybe love is
what's holding us even when we can't fill it. And I think that relates to what does that make sense
for you at all? Yeah. So the subsidiary in a way is a kind of intimacy. It's also a kind of trust.
If you think about becoming a great bike rider or a great guitarist, there's an intimacy,
a communion with that instrument, right? But there's also, and this is what I was going to say,
okay, the aha moment. So what, when you have an aha moment in the, in the context of a skill,
when you have the, oh, I'm a bike rider moment, I figured it out. Or if you make a discovery.
So I have a wonderful copperhead story and longing to know. I think there's a tarantula story,
loving to know, but the copperheads and longing to know where I spied the copperhead
and he was sitting at my feet, looking up at me in the presence of my three small children.
So anyway, my world shifted, right? My world shifted. But when you have that aha moment
of discovery, what it feels like is you have like the veil has dropped and you are eye to eye
with that reality. You're looking eye to eye. And then it like that, it's like, okay, there's somebody
there. And what's more, they were looking at me before I was looking at them, right? They found
me first. And so that's the known thing, which I think you mentioned in your notes too. So you
were being known before you recognized that. And that's way more three-dimensional. It's like,
how can that not be objective? That actually, I think might be something like an epiphany for
some people, because then what you were saying before, you can understand that it was always
there, but you hadn't had that kind of, what is it like? You talk about differentiation and longing
and loving, because I feel like all these things are in that moment of the real, of the invitation
of the real, of that. I think we've all had that time, whether it's when you first learn to read,
when you ride a bike, when you see the copperhead suddenly, or even in a more mundane way, when you
look at the magic eye and suddenly you see the pattern, just suddenly that sense of being in a
different reality, even though it's the same reality you've always been in, how is that also
a way in which we are, it's beyond dichotomy? I mean, things are still different. It's not that
we've made everything into one thing, but so how do you, what can you say about that?
Just say that you constructed it. I mean, it's like, you know, it's just, no, reality
was looking for you. Oh, I've been seen, I've been seen. So this takes an incredible humility,
but it's so joyous. And then see what happens is if you figure out, let's say,
so this guy, Paul Skeens is the Cy Young Award Pitcher. Somewhere in his childhood,
his youth or childhood, something must have clicked. And he went, oh, and what happens is
when you have that aha moment, you are actually embedded in reality. It's like you connect with
I know how to pitch whatever ball, you know, it's like the, and then the world opens up to
you in possibilities. So when I'm talking about bike riding, I say, once you figure out how to
ride a bike, the world comes to you in so many possible bike paths that you never saw before.
And, and it's because you're in, you become embedded. So unlike the knowledge is information,
knowledge is focal information paradigm, the information actually cuts you off from reality
such that you might not even care about reality because you have the information.
So, you know, that's called positivism. You know, I've heard plenty of scientists talk that way,
you know, that this is just about the data. Well, that's, you know, I'd like to say something
crass at the moment. You know, that's just crazy. You know, so, but to have to find yourself to have
been thrust out into this beautiful world that was your own all along, you know, and that,
that your intimacy is encounter and count. Of course it takes everything you have. That was,
that was Polanyi's point, but that isn't subjectivity.
That's humility. That's covenant. It's intimacy. And, you know, what I'm arguing in my last book,
the mother smile is we were born into that encounter. We, we were born into the most
sophisticated philosophical paradigm. We're born into it.
I just had a conversation too, with someone, a neuroscientist philosopher talking about
being in the womb and how we're always nested in this way. And how kind of when you were just
talking, I was thinking of the larger nesting of what we're all in still. And that I can't remember
exactly how you say it in the book, but that where reality sees you or where, where you feel seen by
life in that way, that makes me think of what you were saying about the objective and what
Parker said and stuff about the most objective thing being that it's a different idea of what
self is though, isn't it? It's, it's not, yeah. Self is no longer the absolute anchor and guarantee
the Archimedean point for certain knowledge, which is what Descartes gave us.
And it's also not static, is it? I mean, right. That's right. But it's not subjective.
I mean, it's not in the same sense. It's all of you with all of it in communion.
It's that communion. Yeah. That interpersonal relation.
This is what we were made for. Communion with the real. Lovers of the real.
Yeah. And that interpersonal connection and that relation, sometimes you talk about it,
I think, even a stewardship or, you know, there's a responsibility to it too. It's,
we're not going to extremes here and yet it's an extreme place to be, to fill, to be, you know,
it's so alive. And how was like, you know, to relate that to knowing because
this is a different kind of knowing than the information in the head thing
that we were talking about before. Well, I would say this is knowing and that's
something else. Okay. So, you know, like David Schindler says, well,
if you don't have knowing and all you have is information, well, it's better than it might be,
but it's not knowledge. Because what the knowledge is, is communion. And all you need to do is be a
baseball player to see that, right? Yeah, I agree with that. And I think we can understand it when
we're doing something like playing baseball, but when we're doing something like learning in
a classroom, which is changing now, it feels really important that we try to connect this
in the way that we teach even. And even what teaching is, what education is instead of,
because now we have a very different relationship to that information side. And there's something
about that communion and that way of knowing that feels so crucial right now. Yeah. Well,
so I, and I, you know, I'm an emeritus professor, so I've had some classroom experience and
I have taught lots of students this, and then their concern is, well, my classes, my other classes
don't get this, you know? Well,
do you remember I said there's nothing wrong with information? It's just wrong is a paradigm. And
I think that this covenant epistemology ends with its subsidiary focal integrative
component, which I'll always have. What it does is it makes information sing.
So if you want to do the best by your information, again, what you want to do is wear it.
So like, you know, I started life in chemistry. Well, that periodic table, it needs to be somehow
printed on your psyche so that you see the world in those columns, right? So I think
in any place where learning is going on, there's some things you can identify that maybe you have
been overlooking. One is, I had told my students, you always want to find a professor that's got a
twinkle in their eye. So they're rhapsodic about their own work. And you know what, they like you
too, right? So that means they like teaching. So that twinkle is a piece that I would want to
underline an accent of. Another would be, I think that I wish my, you know, that colleges would see
that their job is to cultivate lovers, you know, to cultivate lovers of the real. The whole thing
you can do with data and assessment, educational assessment, that's all stuck in the modernist
epistemology of knowledge as information, which means it's not going to give you the read on
whether you've made a lover of the real. But when you see students who graduate and they're glowing
and so excited to get involved in the human genome project, it's that love. It's the love
that's a clue that the education has happened. So, and then you see every discipline has its
moments of destructive analysis. If you're going to learn the Hebrew, biblical Hebrew,
you know, you've got to promise to love, honor, and obey the syllabus where the teacher gives
you these assignments. And you've got to trust that that's going to get you to the place
where you can see reality, right? You have to, that's part of the commitment angle,
the covenantal angle. So, you know, every student has to commit. If they don't commit to do the
homework, there is nothing I can do. I taught logic for 45 years. There's no way you can do
logic if you don't do the homework. So, but you, you know, I remember one student who did really
well, you know, and had this surprised look afterward. He said, well, early on I decided
I would do exactly what you said. I said, good, you know, and that got him out, you know, and it's,
and I would say to my logic students, okay, what the goal is for you to wear your logical,
you know, I kept saying you want to stick this in your pocket, you know, and then the world comes
to you in something like a logical structure. It's like inviting the real by doing that, by
doing the work and communicating. I think also you probably must in your classes, there's a sense of
that you're not alone, right? Even though you got to do the work alone at home or whatever, it's,
it feels more, I'm thinking of in your book, when you talk about some of the students who
were friends like their whole life and they love learning together, that kind of really stayed with
me or even your book club or these kinds of things where you're doing it together and you,
there's, that's a different feeling than I see a lot of students where they feel like they're
alone and they're fighting all their peers, even fighting their teacher, you know, maybe.
Yeah, so, so in my course in which I taught longing to know and loving to know,
the third component of that course was a project and so I called it a covenant epistemology project
and the students had to identify and get approved an act of coming to know that they would then
undergo and then their report was to identify all the features of knowing a la covenant epistemology.
Okay, so there was the authoritative guide, there was the aha moment, there was where I was living
life on the terms of the yet to be known, you know, as meant throwing as much of that terminology
on it as they could and that's what they presented in class. Well, at that moment I was sitting in
the back of the room doing nothing and they were teaching each other and getting to be bosom friends
in the process because it was just heaping on one proof after another. If you look around
this office, I'm not going to take you on a tour, but there is covenant epistemology projects
that I had in my room. You can actually see one there. That is, oh cool, that's arm knitting.
So you use your arms as the needles of the knitting. What she did in that presentation was
she got us to knit on and off of each other's arms all around. Oh, wonderful.
She gave it to me. Because I'm too hot to wear it. Wow, there's just so much in there and education
itself is it feels like it's in a crisis because it thinks AI can do everything a teacher can do,
but actually this might be the moment where we go to that and we understand that we need to learn
that that's actual education. That spirit that you're describing there and that feels really
inspiring to me, the personal, the invitation to the real, which I definitely feel in your book
too. Also that love, you're worth loving, right? That sense in the classroom that it's worth
something to do this. I think a lot of people miss that now and that's part of that spirit too.
I know you need to go because you have other responsibilities today.
Oh, I have 15 more minutes. I'll run out.
You do? Okay, good. If you were going to try to think about this age right now
where everyone's freaking out a bit about AI and we're just going to let AI take over everything
and a balance isn't the right word, like your dad screamed out to you, but how do we hold the
differentiation of that kind of amazing technology or whatever and what we were just talking about
there because I see people really struggle with how to get back in their body or how to fill the
community or wear these things in the way that you're saying now because a lot of kids just
grew up without that act as knowing and all that's coming to mind. Also the longing, that this isn't
like we're not satisfied or something. There's a longing that's very important like your preacher
told you or whoever it was told you that's the most important word. All of that's coming up,
so I don't know. You take it anywhere you want. Well, one nasty thing about modernity is we
distrust reality and we have forgotten that knowing of course is about knowing the real.
So like I call it the devil's bargain in Mother's Smile. It's like you only have certainty if you
cut yourself off from reality. So we've lost our confidence, if not even our taste, for the real.
And so that's part of what's going on. So that I think in that setting, AI and all our, you know,
temptation to be on our phones all the time and think that's reality, it might not be so tempting
if we weren't so vulnerable already. So there's that.
So there's that. Polanyi actually was on the faculty at Manchester University when Alan Turing
was and Polanyi says in a footnote in Personal Knowledge, I dissent from Turing's idea that
machines can think. And actually the two of them put on a symposium and invited scholarship to
enter into this conversation. And Polanyi's got a little two-page essay. It's called Introduction
to Cybernetics. That was the old word for it. And what he says is that could never be because
knowledge is inherently unformalizable. So I think you can kind of quick associate it with me saying,
well, information is not knowledge. It's not knowledge. But for AI or for, you know,
Turing's can machines think, you would have to say that it's formalizable. Knowledge is formalizable.
So but again, when you think of the baseball pitcher or you think of the trainer of Seabiscuit,
that's way richer. It's an artistry. It's an intimacy. You know, another movie this comes out
in is Sully. I haven't seen that. Well, it's about the pilot that actually landed the plane
on the Hudson River. Oh, wow. Right. Right. So he makes, you know, the deal that, you know,
you know, the computers say he could have gotten back to the airport. Well, he knew he couldn't.
So it's a kind of listening to, what, your body or something? Or, I mean, with Sully or with,
or is it the being in relation to the current? Okay, so back to why I brought up Polanyi. Polanyi
would say artificial intelligence is a wonderful tool. And what Polanyi said about tools and
theoretical frameworks, too, is that they're meant to be subsidiarily indwelled.
You know, that's where does the information go? Well, you want to put it at the subsidiary.
And so like somebody said to me in a conversation yesterday that, you know, just even in the last
few months, as a business design thinker, you know, he can now do the work of that it would
have taken a team of 10 people to do. He can now do by himself because of AI. Well, the fact is,
he's still doing it. You know what I'm saying? And so more of it has become like if you get a
good tool, it kind of leverages whatever. But you don't worship the tool. I mean, and actually,
you know, I do think computer scientists love their software and love their computers. But
it's meant as a subsidiary the way you'd love your guitar, right? If you're making music.
So I may very well be incredibly naive. There's so much I don't know. But it just seems to me
a question of what you've got above and what you've got below.
Actually, it's very refreshing because it just feels kind of putting it in perspective that
it's another way to be in vicinity, maybe with the real or something without it becoming the
real. I think that's the kind of the trick that people have maybe grown up with thinking the
screen is the real. And that's maybe the hard thing to realize, because then you have like,
when you're in vicinity, when you're with a bird, whether you're with another person,
when you're with your friend, that's a different and a real kind of knowing in the way we've talked
about. But I think if you've had the mediation of the screen, since you were born, it can be,
you know, you have to relearn that in a way, or you have to learn that or something is.
So for somebody said to me at a recent conference, why isn't the internet just as real as the world?
Uh, well, I guess one thing I want to say is it does seem to
there's something about it that seems inclined to vice rather than virtue.
You know, we all kind of have a sense that this is not good for our children.
And, you know, and I, one of the things about my kind of subsidiary awareness that I cherish,
cherish, cherish, cherish is orientation. Like, I want to know where north is, south,
east and west. And I want that to subsidiarily fill in my driving. I, if I don't know which
way the sun's coming up, you know, I want to be able to say, well, you want to get to the
mall, you want to go west from here. But if people have grown up on Google maps,
they're deprived of the opportunity of learning that intimacy. So, and I think you would find
that with any kind of craft or skill, like one of the books I talk about in doorway to artistry
is one my artists son-in-law recommended, which is called, um, fewer better things.
And, and, and he talks about the, uh, he talks about material intelligence, you know, that really
this is dumb, not smart, right? This is a dumb object. Funny. We call it smart, right?
And, you know, he's a curator of a museum, but he talks about skilled learning. He talks about his
grant is somebody, some kid, girl in his grandfather's generation who, um, she babysat
at the neighboring farm. This is how the book starts and the pig, something happened to the pig
and she had to butcher the pig. She knew she had to butch in it or they'd lose the pig.
She was babysitting. I don't know. You have to go around. I'm not very good at remembering such
things, but go read it in the book. It reminds me of Charlotte's web, which is sad for you.
Yeah, right. That's something. But anyway, you know, when you start, stop to think of the,
when you start to think of the craft that can get lost or, you know, here, you know, my temptation,
I'll be very frank, you know, I've had, I've had a body issue that's kept me, you know, laid out a
lot for the last several months and I've gotten really good at Sudokus. What I've found is,
I don't, if I'm on my phone all the time, my, my head somehow doesn't have the space of
reverie or wandering or just kind of that presence to, to just following your thoughts.
It's, and even if I'm listening to a book, even if it's a great book, my, my, I don't have that
leisure, you know, my mind that I'm sure is essential to artistry. You know, if I'm going
to have a new book idea, I better get off my phone. That's how I feel. There's something really rich
in that. There's like 5 million things I'd like to ask you now, but it's at the end. So I mean,
one thing just, why don't we talk about Pallani more, but that will have to be another conversation.
But what, in all that you were saying you brought up and in the book too, there's a kind of sense
of when your orientation or I think about this a lot because of thinking about the hippocampus
and movement, but just being in a space and knowing where you are in relation to everything else
and how that metaphorically I think feels very important, but also like literally kind of that
sense of what you're in relation to. And when we are in relation only to our screen, it's narrowing.
Yeah. Like a feeling that somebody's behind you.
Yeah, or that you're in that like multiplicity or this constellation rather than flatland or
something. I guess we do have to go now, but I want to bring it to love because I don't know
if you have any experiences of love that you want to share, even just of Pallani or something. I
don't know. What's that word mean for you or what is it? Because it's such an important part
of this book, of course, but it's where we kind of go in the end. It's not even mentioned that much,
but it's so much a part of it. And then we get to the invitation of the real and then love feels
very potent. But in longing to know, I said, well, knowing is a little like a marriage.
And you've got to promise to love, honor, and obey. And then if you're having promised and
covenanted, if you're blessed, reality will self-disclose. Like literally. So the
covenantal dimension of knowing, it's like you are not entitled to reality. You're not entitled to it.
Right. That was the arrogance of modernity. So there's that. But here's what I've said in
Doorway to Artistry. And that might, I don't know, it might be my favorite book. It's certainly my
happiest book. You know, all this inviting the real stuff. Well, guess what? Reality was inviting
first. Reality shows up and welcomes you and says, here I am. And I'm just following David
Schindler in this, you know, that that's the moment of beauty when you say, look at that.
Right. And then what he says is beauty attunes us to respond in love. So when we notice something,
it's like this thing that said, here I am, kind of commanded our attention
and then our devotion. So that's where we promise to love, honor, and obey. So for any student
choosing a major, there was a moment of love. There was a moment when they fell in love with
something. Parker Palmer says, geologists are the ones that hear rocks speak.
Okay. And then what do you do? You just follow it in love. And love makes you a better knower. So
well, that's in the Loader stuff in in Loving to Know. It's like you need to be fully four-dimensional
to be a self-giving love. That's what he talks about. So to be able to and to be a great knower,
I talk about this as readiness to know and little manual to know. You need to be fully
formed having had kind of a face-to-face encounter in the, with the gracious
in breaking of new being so that you grow a taste, just a love of reality.
You want to be lovers of the real. Andrea, I've got to go.
I know. I know. Thank you so much, Esther. I hope you have a wonderful day.
Yeah. Come back after me again and continue this conversation and thank you so much.
Thank you so much. And thanks for all your writing. Until soon. Have a good day.
