Maybe we'd start on the brink.
On the Brink of Everything is a book that you've published, was it in 2019?
18, right.
And this phrase, On the Brink of Everything, I think, can lead us into a lot of places,
especially today.
But just to start, what does that mean for you?
Well, as you know, Andrea, in the book, I tell the story of how the title came to me
from a young writer I much admire, half my age, Courtney Martin, who had written an essay
about her then, I think, three-year-old daughter, Maya, who as a toddler was, you know, discovering
the world with every step and every movement and every new experience.
Courtney wrote about how Maya was visibly and audibly and bodily on the brink of everything,
just full of the excitement of discovery and, you know, learning the world anew every day.
And I was 80 at the time that I wrote the book, or close to it, and 86 now.
And it just struck me that I, too, at the other end of the lifespan, found myself on
the brink of everything, looking at the world through the eyes now of the world,
the eyes now of age and a lot of experience, but really devoted, as best I know how, to
the Buddhist idea of beginner's mind and trying to see things anew and not get stuck,
as so many elders do, in sort of bemoaning the passage of time or
becoming frozen in their perception of how things are and often how things ought to be,
which is, of course, the way they used to be, not the way they are now.
I didn't want to step into that trap. I don't think it's at all necessary.
So the title contained a lot of energy for me about how I wanted to live out
my elder years. And it all came from Courtney Martin and her three-year-old daughter, Maya.
You found a lot of inspiration in youth or in those who are at different parts of life
than you. How has a conversation between generations been important for you?
Well, it's because younger generations, and there are several of them, of course, when you're 86,
stand at a different point of human experience than you do. And they look at things differently.
They understand things differently. From my point of view, they may lack a certain experience that
would help them reframe things. And when I see that as a possibility, I'm always glad to be in
dialogue with them about how that same thing looks to me, how today looks to me in the world,
for example, as one who has lived through a lot of apocalyptic moments in U.S. and world history.
But before I ever get to sharing my experience with them, I listen carefully for their experience
because they're looking at a horizon that I can't see so clearly or well as they can.
But it's the same horizon that's coming at me. And I need their eyes. I need their voices
to help me see how it looks through the lens of someone whose experience is relatively fresh and
new as of today so that I don't get stuck in yesterday.
I think you use a Kurt Vonnegut quote about things looking different on the brink or at the edge
relative to the center. And as you were just saying that, I was thinking how I'm almost
too nervous to talk to you because I so want to know what it's like for you right now. And I feel
a little nervous to even ask things so personally. So I just want to say that because I feel like I
need to say it. And within that is that I'm really wondering how things look from where you are now
in that Kurt Vonnegut sense. And I mean that in terms of age, of course, where you are in
your life, but even today and how you're feeling. And I would just really love to hear that,
an expression of how things really feel for you today, if it's okay to ask that.
Well, absolutely. And please feel totally free to ask those more personal questions. As you know,
I've written about deeply personal experiences such as my several bouts with clinical depression
over the course of the years. And I find it very valuable to show up in the world
as I am, as fully and honestly as I possibly can. I've often said I can't imagine a sadder way to die
than dying with a sense that in all the years I had on earth, I never showed up as my true self,
you know, with both my light and my shadow. So today, in the midst of the political,
economic, ecological, societal calamities that seem to be engulfing the U.S. and the rest of the
world, I go back and forth between the shadow and the light. You know, I have days when
it's really hard to get up and feel energy to pursue the work that I feel I need to be
doing as a writer because I still feel very much called to using my writing as a way to
shed light, if possible, but also to be honest about the darkness of the times that we're in.
And there are days when it's just very difficult to sit down at the keyboard and feel as if
those words might make any difference to anybody. I think where I always come down
when it feels like what difference could this possibly make is to realize once again,
once again, beginner's mind, realize all over again that it makes a difference to me.
What makes a difference is the feeling of continuing to be engaged with the world,
with my gifts and the best of the light I have to offer and honesty about my own shadow.
Because in the past, that impulse to do what feels whole and true and honest and full of integrity
to me has been what's animated all of the work I've done, not only the writing, but the founding
the founding 30 years ago of the Center for Courage and Renewal and the work it's doing
across this country and around the world, helping people in my catchphrase anyway,
to rejoin soul and role, to bring their identity and integrity more fully into the world, into their
personal lives and into their vocational lives and into their public and political lives.
Because I think we need a whole lot of human identity and integrity
and to reassert itself in a world where the identity and integrity of so many people is
being trampled on and disowned and dismissed. When language of that sort
reasonably well describes the work that you've been doing for many years and the work you'd
like to continue to do, that sets a pretty high bar for getting up each morning.
And trying to practice what you preach.
Yes, and it's meant a lot. It still means a lot. It will continue to mean a lot.
You know, even your substack is meaning so much. So you're reaching so many people from that,
you know, writing as you do. And that brings up gratitude. And part of what you've said in
your books is that part of this feeling alive and staying in this place that you just described is
also that you have a sense of gratitude that you are still alive after all you've faced.
Is that part of how you find this way to continue helping others too?
And help yourself, of course, in the way you said.
Yeah, very much so. Very much so, Andrea. I think, you know, if you're not grateful for a life like
mine, in which you've not only been able to survive some deep darkness, but also find
yourself thriving on the other side, if you're not grateful for the opportunities that you've
been able to make use of your own privilege. So the privilege is structural, and it's not what
I would choose. I would much rather have a society where the distinctions between those with and
without privilege are pretty close to eliminated. But when you do have privilege, the question is,
are you going to use it for anyone else's good? Or are you just going to, you know, enjoy it yourself
as if you had earned it? So I'm grateful for all of those forces in my life which have said,
in regards to my own privilege as a straight, white, male, well-educated, reasonably well-off
person, this just came to you for historic reasons that are fundamentally unjust reasons.
So no, I'm not grateful for that, but I'm grateful for the fact that I got some great help along
the way in using that privilege on behalf of other people. So when you put it all together,
both that which, you know, I have had help to understand, and that which I've worked hard
to achieve, and the simple fact that the gene pool from which I come has allowed me to have
this many years on earth, what's not to be grateful for? You know, it seems like ingratitude would be
really gross at this point in life and very, very unseemly and sort of not worthy of a grown-up,
right? Yes, do you still feel that sort of gratitude that I feel in your books? Gratitude
just to like walk in the Douglas firs and gratitude that fill life, you know? I'm thinking
of maybe we can go into it a little bit, some of the struggles that you've had and that you've
written about and that have been helpful just because you've, as you said, just stated where
you are right now in that moment, which is so hard to do. You mentioned the roles and the soul,
in the undivided life and elsewhere, you help us understand how we can be ourselves and
what the soul is. And I wonder how you see that in connection to your life, but the life that you
are part of and are feeling, because that connects too, I think, to why we still want to write
and leave these messages for future generations.
Mm-hmm. Yeah, well, I do. I feel myself, and this is a feeling that wasn't sort of
native to me at first, but as the years have gone by, it's grown in me. I feel myself
to be part of this sort of vast chain of being, this vast network of life, which is not only
human life, but the life of the natural world in which we're all embedded. And I think,
unconsciously, even before I had that personal bodily awareness of connectedness with this
largeness, I was using metaphors from the natural world. For example, the metaphors of the four
seasons that I used to frame the retreat work that we do at the Center for Courage and Renewal,
where we explore what it means that a human life gets lived through,
metaphorically, through the seasons of fall, winter, spring, and summer
in ways we can track very directly. And, of course, we do, because we are creatures of that world.
Those aren't just seasons in the woods or the mountains or the desert or across the waters.
These are seasons of our lives. So, even before I had a consciousness of being joined with all of
that, I was drawing on those metaphors out of some instinct that this is true. And if we can touch
that bedrock truth, as we began doing 30 years ago at the Center for Courage and Renewal,
we can frame the search for meaning and purpose in life in a way that accommodates a huge range
of philosophical convictions, religious beliefs, and worldviews, which has always
been my intent. I've never been a person who thought, okay, my particular way of looking
at the world has it all wrapped up, and I don't want to hear about others. I've always seen
wisdom traditions, spiritual traditions, religious traditions as just one turn of the prism,
but when you turn it again, the light gets refracted in another way, and it's the sort of totality.
There's a word here that I'm losing or lost for the moment. I'll get back to it. The holographic
principle that in the microcosm, you can see the macrocosm. And if you keep turning and looking
for those microcosmic instances of a larger view of things, you can begin to put together
something that never exhausts the truth of the whole, which is inexhaustible and ultimately
a mystery. But you can come into a deeper appreciation of the vastness of that in which
you're embedded. I even wrote a poem about this called Everything Falls Away that maybe
at some point I could read. I think I can find it here.
Of course I noticed, because you write poetry in the book we already discussed, and
poetry comes up often, and it's very important for me too. I just want to notice that. That's
a very important source too, isn't it, of connection to life.
No, you're right. It's good to know that you're a fellow poetry lover, because that's such an
important lens for me. The poets are just kind of remarkable. Well, just flat out remarkable.
What they pick up out of the corner of their eye and then somehow communicate to us.
Emily Dickinson has a great line that I've always loved. She says,
tell the truth, but tell it slant. Because if you try to run headlong at it, it'll blind you,
and you'll be wiped out. But if you tell it slant, the way astronomers say,
if you're not using a telescope, there are some heavenly bodies that you can only catch out of
the corner of your eye, because the receptors there are more sensitive to light that you
cannot see if you look headlong at it. I love the fact that poetry tells the truth,
but tells it slant. It sort of sneaks up on us with meanings that are never fully
comprehensible, but that somehow hint at the vastness of possibilities.
We need to walk around respectfully as a mystery to be seen and to be observed and to be given a
deep bow, while still remaining curious, what is that and what's it all about?
I think that curiosity is a huge energy for life that somehow the poets
manage to capture with very few words.
Yes. What you were just saying makes me think about other parts of your work that I love so
much. I know it's been important for you, the idea of paradox and living the tension.
I think you've talked about writing the contradiction or writing like W-R-I-T-I-N-G.
Poetry does that in a very special way, but I want to put that word out there as I want to
talk about it with you, paradox, and hear what your feelings are of it. But also,
as you were talking, I was remembering there's so much nature even early on in the sunrise,
the sunset, but also wildness, this word wildness that I remember you using when you were in deep
depression. I think you said it showed the wildness of the world to you or something like that.
I just want to put those two things there and you can go wherever you want with them,
but they both came up as you were talking about poetry.
Yeah. Well, you're absolutely right. I think those are very insightful connections that you're
making that actually helped me think about my own work in a new way. I'll try to keep them both in
mind, but let me start with the wild piece, perhaps original wildness that I sometimes
maybe have talked about. I've often said about depression,
the kind that I've experienced on three occasions in my life, deep dives into
months of debilitating clinical depression. It's not like being lost in the dark because
if you're lost in the dark, there's a difference between you and the darkness.
You can imagine yourself in a dark room still there as someone separate from the darkness,
able to grope around, maybe find a shade to pull up or a switch to turn on, a light or
a little opening somewhere, somehow. If you're just lost in the dark, you can somehow negotiate
the dark, but in the depths of depression, you've become the dark, so there's no difference between
you and the darkness. There's no negotiating it. It just is what it is. The only choice you have is
that it's not even a choice. You either endure or you don't, but it was under those circumstances
that I was sometimes, after a lot of enduring, able to see a tiny, tiny, tiny possible spark
of life deep, deep in that darkness, distant from me, but there, a kind of micro reminder
of a possibility that I'd almost forgotten about, which is the possibility to live again.
I came to liken that, in a rough metaphor, of being lost in a very dark wood, but finding
back in the thickets, the far thickets of that wood, this thing called the soul, which sort of
came to me as a wild animal, that original wildness of the human soul.
Which is able to survive on hardly any resources at all, as wild animals do,
and it somehow was calling me to reconnect with that original wildness and feel again that pulse
of life, that possibility of life over against all of that in me, which said,
there's no life left for you, and so do the obvious, get it over with.
That became not instantly curative, but it became a source of hope.
In some way, I think that connects back to the other piece that you mentioned, Andrea,
which is the notion of paradox. Paradox is something that, the power of paradox,
the importance of paradox, came to me very early in my career as a writer, and earlier still
in my own personal journey to understand what life was all about, and how to frame it in a way
that opened possibilities. In fact, my very first book was titled The Promise of Paradox.
How have I missed this? Oh, my goodness. That's very exciting for me, actually. There's a book
I didn't know. Sorry, but now I have something to find.
Not at all. You obviously know the other books well, and I appreciate that.
The Promise of Paradox was published in 79 or 80, and it was really stimulated by
the reading I was doing at the time in Thomas Merton, the great Trappist monk and mystic who
also became patron saint of folks in the civil rights movement and in the peace movement of the
mid-20th century. A really remarkable guy who spanned two worlds.
Didn't he say that undivided life, or maybe it was hidden wholeness or something that you talk
about a lot, but I feel like there's a paradox there or a kind of holding of contradiction in
some of his words that you used. You're right. He was the originator of the phrase of hidden
wholeness. But earlier than that, what sparked me was a journal he wrote called The Sign of Jonas
based on bouncing off of the book of Jonah in the Bible. The epigraph to that book
by Thomas Merton is his statement as follows. I am traveling toward my destiny in the belly of a
paradox, playing on Jonah traveling in the belly of a whale. And I thought, wow, that's it.
So I started opening myself to understandings of paradox, and I think for me a breakthrough
was reading about the great Nobel Prize winning physicist, Niels Bohr,
who once said, and he was such an interesting guy in himself, he once said, I mean, one of the
reasons that I found him so interesting was that there was a story about how he had visitors in
his lab one day, this Nobel Prize winning fellow, and somebody noticed that there was
a horseshoe hung on the wall over his work table. And they said, well, Dr. Bohr, you're a great
physicist. Surely you don't believe in that horseshoes bring good luck. And he said,
his response was, oh no, I don't believe that at all, but they say it works whether you believe
it or not. So I just love the looseness of that mind and that imagination and that humor.
So he said, this was the phrase that really opened my mind. He said, the opposite of an ordinary fact
is a lie, but the opposite of one profound truth may be another profound truth. And I loved that
understanding of paradox, partly because he says it may be, right? There's discernment involved
here. But I got to thinking about human realities that might fit that formula of
one profound truth being the opposite of another profound truth. And of course, the bodily piece
that came to me pretty quickly was, well, breathing in and breathing out is a paradox
in that sense. We need both. And if I were to say to you, I've decided I'm basically
a kind of breathing out kind of guy, so that's all I'm going to do from here on out.
We'd be saying goodbye to each other. That's just not the way things work at that level of reality,
but similarly, I can construct a statement like this. Is the human self made for community?
Absolutely. No question about it. We come from community, we're sustained by community,
we return to community. Is the human self made for solitude? Absolutely. No question about it.
We all have to come to terms with ourselves and what's going on inside of us and embrace
ourselves in a way that no one else can embrace. And we all have a solitary journey to make from
life to death, which no one can accompany us on, no matter how well we've been accompanied
in earlier journeys of our life. So I got to thinking how right on target Niels Bohr was with
that notion of one profound truth may be the opposite of another profound truth.
That's beautiful. And it relates very much to what we were discussing about the brink,
but also this wildness. That moment when you were really depressed, I'm not sure which of the
episodes it was when the wildness came, maybe the first. In any case, that feeling being the
darkness, as you expressed it so well, I remember you wrote about it as being in the dark and then
you sort of realized, no, you are the darkness. When you're in that place, there's no real way
to describe it or whatever. Actually, it's funny because what you're talking about with the
individual in the community, I was just with a group of philosophers, I don't know if you know
the philosophers of embodied cognition and inactivism and this idea of what is a self,
is a relation and so on. And we were talking about how at the same time that that's so true,
there's something in you that is so individual and so unique and maybe you're even here to express it
or I'm saying that, but that can go the other way too. Like when you're depressed
or when you're in pain and there's something that's so only individual that you can't express.
And I guess I'm trying to see, how do you understand or hold that paradox of the self
being relation and the self being so sometimes painfully unexpressible?
Yeah, it's a great question and it could take us in so many different directions.
And of course, the philosophers like you are still working on it because it's one of those,
I don't know, it's one of those questions that Rilke wrote about, questions we can't answer,
questions we just have to live in hopes that some distant day, he said,
we might live our way into an answer, which sometimes does happen.
Is that what happened when you were seeing the light and the way you described it,
when you are the darkness but the light comes? How is that possible?
It's such an interesting conundrum. Let me quote, we get along with a little help from our friends
and I've tried to read friends, as it were, intellectual, spiritual, philosophical friends.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the great German pastor who found the courage to stand up against Hitler
for which he paid with his life, he wrote a book called Life Together, which is about community
and it's one of those books that I've trusted deeply because if you know the story of Bonhoeffer
building community under the Third Reich, underground community, resistance community,
community that put people at great risk, you really think, okay, this guy has a right to talk
about community and I should pay attention to what he says. One of the things he says in his book,
Life Together, it goes like this and Niels Bohr would have approved, I think. Bonhoeffer says,
let the person who cannot be alone beware of being in community and let the person who cannot
be in community beware of being alone. I think there's just a deep wisdom in the way he puts
that particular paradox because when a paradox falls apart, when you don't hold these life-giving
poles in creative tension with each other, community, solitude, back and forth, what I
sometimes call life on the Mobius strip, co-creating each other as you go, when that paradox comes
apart, solitude devolves into loneliness, isolation, and community devolves into the crowd
and what we have going on in the United States right now is a lot of lonely people who have
joined together in crowds that become mobs, that become Third Reich kinds of mobs and it's not
good to say the obvious, but when that paradox is held together and people in community understand
what it means to protect and nurture their own solitude and people in solitude understand
their need for community and the availability of community, the whole dynamic becomes very
life-giving. It's that mutual resourcefulness and again that life on the Mobius strip
where you can't really distinguish between the two because they keep co-creating each other
as you travel the Mobius strip. It's one of those phrases I think of a lot about because a lot of
this is being able to become aware of that and to hold life in that way, to understand that
when things are happening. It's a whole different way of thinking which and then as you were talking
I think somewhere you even say paradox is a sort of survival concept. It's about
surviving and I wonder if it even can relate to when we're really sick,
when we are in those moments. Can we still hold that paradox there? I know you don't have an
answer for how you've gotten through all these hard moments exactly. Well one of the first things
that comes to me is the work of Carl Jung who's been another influential thinker in my life.
Jung was very big on saying that the cure is in the disease so that we make a mistake if we simply
try to eliminate the symptoms of the disease. The secret is to go deeply into the disease to
find the cure which is a big, big paradox that Western medicine generally tends to ignore or
or roll right over. We are involved in the symptom relief business so the whole metaphor,
the whole medical metaphor is take a pill or undergo a surgery that just gets rid of the symptoms
without looking deeply at the disease for its sources in which there will also be a cure.
I mean that applies more directly to psychological and spiritual pathologies
than it may to physical pathologies but I don't think that they're altogether different.
Even in Western medicine and in Western medical schools these days there is a recognition that
mind, body, spirit, healing is a real thing and that there are things that allopathic physicians
can do to invoke the mind and the spirit as they work with the body
that actually enhance healing as determined by laboratory studies and observations.
So for me, how to put this, as you know this is such subtle stuff and language is sometimes not
subtle enough to really express it well but there's something for me about working my way
through depression that has to do with respecting the mystery of depression
and walking around it with that respect rather than demanding an analytic understanding
that will fix me. So once I let go of that sort of empiricist demand, I want an analysis,
I want an answer, I want a pill or whatever that will fix this thing and I'm not speaking against
medication. Some people need medication. I needed it for a while. I haven't needed to stay on it.
So if that's what you need please do it but it seems to me that a posture of respectfully walking
around a mystery is more likely to lead to healing than not. I do have a poem that I think I've
memorized. I'll see if I can. It's a fairly brief poem. I think I can quote it from memory
that has to do with a moment, with a curative moment I guess is what I'd call it Andrea,
with regards to my depression and maybe it will speak a little bit to this idea of holding
the mystery without demanding a fix. So this was based on an experience I had and
I think I was probably halfway through or a little more of the way through one depression
when I decided to, I had enough energy to take a trip out into the country in another state,
into a rural area where there was a community of Roman Catholic sisters, one of whom I had gotten
to know earlier in life who was a very trustworthy conversation partner, a deeply empathetic and
understanding person with whom I could speak about my depression, maybe an hour or two a day.
Meanwhile, just rest at this retreat center, this religious retreat center in the middle of this
farmland. It happened to be in Kentucky and one day halfway through that week I was out walking
down a country road where there were farm fields on both sides of the road.
No human beings in sight, no buildings in sight, just acres and acres of farmland,
which had recently been plowed, a stage of plowing that farmers call harrowing.
This carrow is dragged through the fields to bust up the earth prior to finer plowing and
prior to planting. I have enough of a firm background to know that I was looking at harrowed
fields and I was suddenly struck with the multiple meanings of that word. I was feeling harrowed
myself and there were these harrowed fields. A poem began to emerge, which I worked on over the
rest of the week while I was there, but a lot of it came to me just out walking and I'll see if I
can get it by memory. It probably would help if I closed my eyes. I was going to close mine too.
Called Harrowing. The plow has savaged this sweet field.
Mishapen clods of earth kicked up, rocks and twisted roots exposed to view
last year's growth demolished by the blade. I have plowed my life this way.
Turned over a whole history looking for the roots of what went wrong until my face is ravaged,
furrowed, scarred. Enough. The job is done. Whatever's been uprooted,
let it be seedbed for the growing that's to come. I plowed to unearth last year's reasons.
The farmer plows to plant a greening season.
Wow.
And that poem, I've sometimes felt like the most important line of poetry I've ever written was
that single word enough. That there was something in me that said, you know, you're at a turning
with this. What you need to understand is that you've plowed plenty. You've plowed enough and
more than enough. You're not going to get any farther by harrowing yourself. So, you know,
that wasn't an instant turnaround in my depression, but it gave me an image that sort of holds the
mystery of when to say enough and when to take that step forward in faith that there's something
worth stepping toward.
Thank you so much for reading that. I think that will be very important to a lot of people who hear
it. It's important to me and to hear you read it like that. And it made me think of the roles and
the soul and it's soul and soil, you know. There's a lot in there, but also I think it's so helpful
to be able to hear that it's okay, that enough, you know. Isn't that connected a bit to being
your soul, letting yourself see your soul, feel your soul? Is there something about, I mean,
I'm thinking of the writing process itself and how important it is in your life and
how that was kind of an expression of how the writing was a way of surviving but also holding
this paradox and also, I don't know how to put it exactly into words, but when we think of soul and
role, how can you, how can we express that it's, for people who don't, haven't read you yet and
are just listening here, that it's okay to be the soul and the soil and the flower, too,
and also to say that it's enough. I'm not sure what I'm trying to say here, but there's some
connection there that I want to bring out with the soul and the role and the soil.
Yeah, I think that's a great kind of force field question, you know, which is what we're
really doing here to explore a sort of force field that's hard to pin down because it can't
be pinned down. But what my mind turns to when you asked that, Andrea, was the word humus
or earth or that which fertilizes the seed, that rich compost in which the seed begins to grow,
it's, you know, it's closely related to the word humble and humility and it's closely related to
the word humiliation. So we live in a culture that regards all of this as humiliating, right?
When I started writing and speaking publicly about my experiences of depression, which incidentally
I didn't do until almost 10 years after my first experience of depression when I felt like, okay,
I can talk about this in a way that is integrated into my sense of self,
that I'm no longer ashamed of it. I'm no longer embarrassed by it. And until that point,
I wasn't ready to talk about it. And I'm glad I waited because until it's integrated, you can't
be a reliable commentator on the experience. It's still sort of other than who you are
and it's like you're reporting on an enemy rather than on a piece of your complex wholeness.
That's where I started coming up with this notion that wholeness has nothing to do with
perfection. Wholeness is about embracing our brokenness as part of who we are along with
our strengths and our light. But when I first started writing about depression
as this sort of, you know, mid-career professional who was trying to establish himself as a writer
and a speaker and a workshop leader and soon to establish this non-profit that's still going
strong 30 years later, people around me said, no, no, no, don't do that. That'll make people
feel like you're weak. You know, that'll make people feel like you're on the edge of collapse.
Who wants to follow anybody who's on the edge of collapse? And my response to that was simply,
this is who I am and I'm no longer at a point where I feel a need to hide out
about that. But people felt like that would be humiliating. And of course, a lot of women will
get the same advice about anything that involves emotional vulnerability. You know, don't go there.
You're, that would be showing weakness and a man wouldn't do that. Well, I'm here to say men
should do that. And we need, you know, everyone who's willing and able to model what it means to
live out loud in public a whole life, not overemphasizing or overstressing any of it.
The humility that comes with one's struggles is an essential part of what we were talking
about at the very beginning of this conversation, which is beginner's mind, which is the willingness
to say, yeah, life is about getting up and then falling down and then getting up and then falling
down and getting up and falling down again and getting up again. That's what it's about.
And it does no good. If we're interested in authentic community and relationship,
it does no good to pretend that it's otherwise. Because at some level, even the folks who don't
want to talk about this stuff realize we're faking it when we, you know,
talk in an unbalanced way about who we are. I think that's one of the big problems, isn't it,
of a lot of social media is that people are presenting themselves in heroic,
championing ways all the time. And there's a terrible distortion of reality for everybody.
Parker, I'm so happy that you brought that word humiliation in with the hummus, with the earth,
with the soil. That's so rich in so many ways. I mean, not only in where we are right now,
in terms of what you said about men needing to get in touch with that and wanting to get in touch
with that side of themselves and also women. Also, I think of it in academia, this word humiliation
or shame is such a big, you know, monster kind of chasing everyone around. Nobody wants to be
humiliated. And yet we're all sort of always at the brink. That beginner's mind is where the
best stuff comes in science or in life and anywhere. And to be there is a kind of humbling
place to always be. So it makes me think about your early years and how you learned those lessons.
And that's like that holding the paradox that we were talking about, that now at where you are now,
it seems so easy that you can hold this. But then here's me, like half your age and around a lot of
people right now who are really trying very, very hard to figure out how to hold what you just
expressed in so many ways. We don't have to go into all of them, whether it's a man, a woman,
an academic, whatever. But that feeling that you expressed, I feel like is really the thing we're
trying to figure out how to hold right now, which relates to the paradox and so on. But when you
think about yourself, when you first went to, when you sort of set off out of academia,
which also you were told not to do, I think, in a similar way, right? Like with the humiliation.
When you think of that person who did that and where you are now and how
clear in a way or calm you can be about these things, I wonder what that feeling is for you.
Yeah, I think it's probably worth mentioning that as soon as I put in all the hard work and
the years necessary to get a PhD at the University of California, Berkeley,
I looked around the world where our cities were burning because of racial injustice.
And I decided that I didn't want to use my training in the social sciences in the academy,
but I became a community organizer in Washington, D.C. And I did have friends and colleagues who
thought right away, well, that's humiliation right there. Why are you not taking one of those
academic jobs that you've been offered with a great PhD from a great university? And all I
could ever say, Andrea, was I can't not do it. Looking back, I would say there was something
in me that said if I didn't follow that imperative of my soul, which is how it felt
to get engaged with racial injustice in this country, if I hadn't followed that,
I would have paid a real price at the level of soul in years down the road. So it was tough,
and it was tough for probably 15 years as things unfolded. But eventually it came together in a
sense of vocation that I at this point clearly treasure. And that's so many treasure, I just
have to say. I mean, thank goodness you were able to hear that and go with that back then.
Everything we talked about at the beginning comes from those decisions, right? That you
really went a different way. I think you went to Lindisfarne, by the way, and then to the
Quaker community and so on. So it was a whole other path than this. Anyway.
Yeah, I got to know a lot of the communal experiments of the 60s and 70s, that's for sure.
And I have to say, Andrea, that I did none of it by myself. There was always a community
either coming together or forming around me. I mean, again, that's on the Mobius strip,
right? You lose some connections, you gain others because of whatever magnetic field we have
in which we attract or repel one another as life moves along. So I think really all I can say is
that to folks who are midstream with that is just hang on and keep
tracking the unfolding of your consciousness, of your feelings, of your sense of self as time goes
by. And find a path that allows you to feel, I guess the phrase I want to use is more and more
at home in your own skin and more and more at home on the face of the earth for all its complexities,
still a good place to be. And I think the desire to feel at home in who we are and in who we are
and in whose we are, the two great questions, who am I and whose am I in community,
I think that the desire to feel at home in both those regards runs very deep. And just keep your
eye on it and take your temperature on a regular basis on both of those counts and make those
midcourse corrections that you need to make. There's no one size fits all, that's for sure.
I know people, I had colleagues at Berkeley who unlike me stayed in academic life and I'm glad
they did because they made a great contribution, a transformative contribution from the inside
that I couldn't have made. My work as a writer eventually brought me back to the academy,
writing about the academy, not in terms of employment, I've worked largely independently
for 40 years, but I wrote about and spoke about and agitated for education reform in a way that
brought me back to the academy. So even that piece of the Mobius strip returned me to where
I thought I'd left. Courage to teach, we were going to talk about that another time.
Yeah, so I just say that some physicians will talk about the tincture of time as remedy,
and I think it's true. I think if you stay alert and aware and make those midcourse decisions that
may feel risky but also feel true. I wonder about this word love and as you're talking
about community, by the way thank you for saying that about academia because I don't think it's
that you have to leave academia. It's more what we're talking about of getting to that clarity,
that holding that place wherever you are, and then you can see which path feels like the one
you can't not do as you so well expressed it. But how does love come into this for you just to kind
of go out of this? I know somewhere at the beginning you were asking how can I love
my family? How can I love my job? That was a question I think for you earlier in those
years that we're talking about and how would this communion and community and
one of the philosophers I was just with, Hannada Yeager, writes about loving and knowing being sort
of really close together in a way we were holding there and she said something to me and she gave
me permission to say it but just this past week we were at a conference or at a science thing and
and we were talking about depression and she's felt it and she said there's a place you go where
there's no love anymore, you know, and it reminded me of what you said about what you just said,
where you become the darkness. I just want to put that there and see what you think about that
because I find it very hard, you know, I'm thinking about love a lot and love is really
hard. It's that humus, that earth, soil, soul, humiliation, all of that too. So I just want to
put that there before we go and see, you know, if you have any experiences about love that you want
to share or just whatever might come up as I say all of this. Yeah, yeah, well first of all let me
say I think your friend and colleague is exactly right that you do go to a place in deep depression
where there is no love and you can't imagine that there ever was or will be and yet, you know, on
the other side I have to say that one of the things I glance at out of the corner of my eyes
the possibility that maybe even in that deep darkness I was somehow held by a love I couldn't
feel because in depression you can't feel anything. Depression isn't sadness, it's the deadening of
all your emotions. So yes to what your friend and colleague said, you know, it seems to me that
that there's such a continuum of kinds of love that it's a hard thing to talk about under one
rubric. At one end of that continuum I think is a sort of common understanding of love,
which is the desire to be intimate with, to get close to, to grow in intimacy with a person,
with the natural world, with experience, maybe with a subject matter that you love very deeply.
And the link I think between knowing and loving is exactly in that, that knowing becomes a way of
understanding and thereby entering into a more intimate experience with whatever the loved
one may be, human or otherwise. At the other end of the continuum, you know, without trying to
tick off all the stops in between, at the other end of the continuum is a definition of love that
comes from Rainer Maria Rilke that I've always loved. He said, love is this, that two solitudes
border, protect and salute one another. That's a quote from his book, Letters to a Young Poet.
And I think it's a brilliant insight in that, you know, and both can be true at the same time. I
think in a good, in a good loving relationship between partners, human partners, there's both
this desire for intimacy and an absolute need to border, protect and salute the other person's
solitude. Because when we don't do that, that intimacy becomes
segues into a desire to fix and save and mold and shape the other in a way that's not at all loving,
but that maybe fits our comfort zone better. That's an old story, isn't it, in intimate
relationships that we get to a point of destroying the intimacy by trying to alter the other person
in ways that make us more comfortable. So it's, love I think partakes in the essential nature
of paradox that we were talking about earlier. And when you don't hold those poles together,
both of them devolve into unhealthy forms of themselves.
That reminds me when you were depressed that you didn't want advice and people trying to fix you
and all of this. That's a kind of related to what you're saying too, that maybe love with what was
holding you and when you felt it was when the people just were also there holding it right,
or even maybe with touch or whatever, but somehow just not what you just described,
withholding the solitude. Yeah, exactly. There was this one person who really broke through
in a way no one else did, a man a little older than me, a friend who came to my house every
afternoon when I was in deep depression. He had asked my permission, of course,
and I trusted him enough to do it, to say yes. I would sit in an easy chair in my living room. He
would take off my shoes and socks and for half an hour he'd massage my feet and he'd very rarely
say anything. He was a deeply intuitive man who occasionally would say, I can feel your struggle
today, but nothing else, or I feel you getting a little stronger, nothing else. But he was there
every day with having found the one place in my body where I could feel a connection
with another human being, somehow intuitively knew that and had the courage to walk into a situation
that most people try to avoid, as if a depressed person were contagious, and instead be present to
me in a very non-analytical, non-judgmental way, connecting me with the human race in a way that
I think really helped save my life. So I think let that stand as testimony to
some of those simple ways we can love by practicing presence that is unafraid
of whatever is going on with the other person and that's aimed purely at
supporting them in a way that can be curative.
Thank you for sharing that. That is exactly, that's a lot of what we've been talking about right there,
that paradox, but also that beyond the humiliation and the humbleness even, it's, I often wonder,
knowing that story from your writing, how he knew and how we get to a place where we can do that.
I don't know, but I do know that having had it modeled has made a huge difference to me.
And to a lot of people. He's helped a lot of people from that act.
His name was Bill Taber and bless his memory, he died a few years ago.
Well, bless Bill for giving and I'm sure will continue giving. Yeah, I think let's just let
that be, because it's powerful. Is there anything else that comes to mind or anything that you want
to express, please? Well, I would, just one final thing, Andrea. I've done a lot of interviews,
as you can imagine. This is one of the very finest I have ever experienced. I'm so grateful for
the homework you did and for your, not only attention to what I wrote, but your way of
having internalized it and coming to the conversation with your own authenticity,
which I hope has also evoked mine. I've just, it would be a mild thing to say I've enjoyed it
tremendously. I have, but there's more I've learned from it. I think I will grow from it.
And I just want to thank you very profoundly for your investment in this and for inviting me to
be with you this way. Thank you, Parker, for saying that. It means really a lot to me and to connect
back to that first part of the conversation, that life that we are, that we're sharing, that we're
uniquely giving. It means so much. It's so important, right? These things we create and give
to one another. Absolutely. The world has been in great need of exchanges of this sort and
connections of this sort. And I'll just say that if you'd ever like to talk again, I'd be delighted
to do it and also to wish you and yours the very best in all that you're doing. Thank you.
Thank you so much, Parker. I really appreciate you. And yeah, let's talk again. Have a beautiful day.
Thank you. Take care. Take care. Bye.
you
