For Hegel, everything is contradictory, and so that can also seem to be a kind of mystical way of not allowing us to draw any boundaries or limits or make clear distinctions.
He was sort of obsessed with life and love, if we think of it in those bigger terms.
Objects must conform to our knowledge, if that is to count as knowledge and experience in any meaningful sense.
To eliminate the subjective aspect, the subjective perspective from knowledge and experience would be completely unintelligible.
Self-consciousness is a kind of subject-object phenomenon because it's a way in which the subject can grasp itself as an object of a certain kind.
Kant made self-consciousness so central to his philosophy and yet didn't give us a theory of it.
The model for thinking about living things, so not human, not consciousness, but certainly bodies, was the model of a machine.
And that reached certain limits that we very quickly run up against when we tried to understand living animal bodies on a more mechanistic machine model.
The importance of understanding the phenomenon of life was also in part to help us understand something about ourselves,
because the model of a machine very quickly is not the right model for thinking about the unity of our mind.
A tree is, he says, organized and self-organizing.
It takes in materials from the environment to sustain and reproduce itself.
We can never quite be located in either of those dualisms.
It pops it out into a complex system.
We don't have to take one side or the other anymore.
Instead, there's something more organic.
So it turns out self-consciousness isn't the only subjective perspective on the world.
If we look at nature, we can actually see that there are similar forms, similar structures.
So the thought is that self-consciousness is self-conscious life.
We can't just drop that, that self-consciousness is self-conscious life is very significant.
A lot of what the science of logic is about is the conditions for intelligibility.
Thinking isn't disembodied.
Reason is living activity.
It's still radical.
And we're still trying to find ways of understanding the mind that do not reduce it to a machine
and to insist that minds have to be living, that the concept is free love.
What a wild thing to say.
But I think we should take him serious.
I think he means it.
True union or love proper exists only between living things who are alike in power,
and thus in one another's eyes, living beings from every point of view.
To love someone is to see them as fully alive.
Reason is living activity.
That's what it is.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
After one week off, we're back.
I'm back and I'm going to post a conversation I had with Karen Ng about Hegel's concept
of life.
You've probably heard me talk about Hegel or you know that I studied Hegel and his idea
of the problem of contradiction, which is the central idea in his work that everything,
whatever you want to call everything, concepts, ideas, processes, however you want to define
it has some sort of contradiction contained within itself.
The process contains its own opposite, so to speak.
I'm not going to go into all that here, but I mention it because Karen and I dance around
and talk about it in terms of how we might understand Hegel's work as a rhythm or a
pattern to help us hold the paradox.
Karen Ng is the associate professor of philosophy and the director of graduate studies at Vanderbilt.
She's also George S. Allen Chancellor's Faculty Fellow and an associate professor of
German, Russian and East European studies.
She specializes in 19th century European philosophy, especially Hegel.
Karen has done a lot of research in post-Kantian philosophy and the connection between Kant,
Hegel, Marx and others of the Frankfurt School.
The book we talk about here is Hegel's Concept of Life, Self-Consciousness, Freedom and Logic,
which was published in 2020 by Oxford and it won the Journal of the History of Philosophy
Book Prize in 2021 and it explores the concept of life and Hegel's philosophy, which is
what we talk about here.
This idea of process, rhythm, movement that I feel one understands when reading Hegel
but can never quite put into words.
It's part of the movement of the writing, this expression of how everything already
contains its opposite and how I would say that it's not actually an opposite.
It's part of this movement that we make towards understanding the process.
Karen and I talk about her book through this lens in a way and I enjoyed this conversation
very much.
We had it quite some months ago but I'm posting it now because it goes very well with the
one I just had with Evan about subject and object, which you might think of as a problem
of contradiction, so to speak.
She's the Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellow at the Center for Post-Kantian Philosophy
at the University of Potsdam, which is one way I came across her work because of being
in Berlin and she was there for some talks, but also her book on Hegel is really one of
the best I've ever read.
I love that she brings in the idea of life in the way that she does and how we discuss
some really difficult things.
First of all, it's just hard to talk about Hegel at all sometimes, much less when you're
trying to talk about paradox and process and rationality and the Copernican turn.
All of these things we talk about here towards understanding life and love, so that's fun
and I love conversations that can somehow touch on all of those in an authentic way
and with passion and that's one reason I also really enjoy reading Karen's work and listening
to her talk and I hope you will go look at her website and read her book and listen to
some other of her talks.
She's a great philosopher.
I'm also just glad you're here and I wish you wonderful and good contradiction that
resolves in feeling of love and life.
Wishing you lots of motivation and all the best of what philosophy has to offer.
Hi Karen, it's so nice to meet you today and thank you so much for coming on Love and Philosophy.
Thank you so much for having me, Andrea.
I asked you to come on because I've been looking at your amazing book about Hegel, Concept
Life and today we're going to try to do something that's a little bit impossible, which is have
a general conversation about Hegel.
So Hegel is not known to be the easiest philosopher.
So maybe to start, maybe we could talk about you and how you discovered him, just to sort
of get into this.
Sure.
I majored in philosophy when I was an undergraduate and I came to it, I guess like many people
do, I just, actually I was very lucky.
I first had philosophy in high school, so my first great philosophy teacher was actually
in high school.
And then what continued to draw me to it was reading in the history of philosophy, but
also I was just fortunate to have really good teachers.
I think that's a very familiar story that we need good teachers to bring us into especially
a difficult text like Hegel's.
So I came to Hegel first as a skeptic.
Maybe that's another good way to approach a figure like this, that I came to Hegel as
a skeptic.
I read a lot of figures in the, what we now know as the continental tradition that were
very, very critical of Hegel.
Interestingly, of course, I subsequently learned that the history of analytic philosophy is
also shaped by its skepticism towards Hegel.
So skepticism towards Hegel in some ways shapes a lot of 20th century philosophy, and I think
we see influences of that even today.
And so I also came to Hegel as a skeptic, and then because I read all of these people
who were all complaining about this figure named Hegel, I figured I should learn something
about him.
And so I did end up taking a class as an undergraduate where we read the Phenomenology of Spirit.
And I just got very, I was immediately sort of just very attracted to it.
I found it very, very difficult, so I don't pretend that at the time or even now that
I understand all of it, but there was something about the rhythm and the movement of the
phenomenology that just got me to keep reading.
And so that's how I came to Hegel, initially as a skeptic, and then I realized, oh, but
this isn't so bad.
Why do you think people have this reaction to Hegel that can often be so negative?
In the book, for example, you do mention how there's this romantic or this mystical thing
that gets associated with Hegel, at least in philosophy circles.
It can seem that he's somehow, I think you bring up, what is the term, Hilo's sowism?
Is that how it is?
Yep.
Yeah.
Or even this shelling idea that sort of like the whole world is just alive or there's this
feeling of either it's just too hard to read Hegel, this is what I've heard, and just doesn't
make sense and people get frustrated, or everything is alive and spiritual and there's a kind
of almost mystical monism to it that people just don't want to touch.
I don't know what your experience has been with it, but what did you find was so initially
that people were so skeptical of about Hegel?
I think you're touching on some of the reasons why people were so skeptical of Hegel.
I like that you call it a mystical monism.
Another way of putting it, it's commitment or rather its commitment to hyper-rationalism
sort of makes it right, turns it around and it becomes almost again a form of mysticism
because of what looks like the powers, you know, he uses the term all of the, not just
Hegel, but in this tradition, the idea of the absolute, that reason is somehow absolute
and that the worry, I think there was a worry of a kind of hyper-rationalism in Hegel where
reason just determines the world.
I think that's I think one of the earliest criticisms we have of Hegel's, what looked
to be Hegel's hyper-rationalism, nothing outside reason.
Everything is determined by reason we get from someone like Schelling.
I think on the other side, there is also a suspicion of the way that he treats the problem
of contradiction.
So on the one hand, there's this hyper-rationalism.
On the other hand, there is this acceptance of a certain notion of contradiction.
I think there's a lot of misunderstanding here about the exact sense of contradiction
that Hegel is interested in, but I think there is a worry that in accepting contradiction,
here's where maybe the mysticism comes back.
You have this hyper-rationalism, but for Hegel, everything is contradictory.
And so that can also seem to be a kind of mystical way of, you know, not allowing us
to draw any boundaries or limits or make clear distinctions.
And so there is a worry about that with Hegel if we don't sort of think carefully about
what he means by contradiction, just for one example.
Yes.
And I like in the beginning, you said the movement caught you.
I've always thought reading Hegel that it's almost something like what you talk about
as method in the book or a practice almost that he demonstrates with his writing.
And I bring that up because what you just expressed is still trying to fit it into these
kind of boxes, right, that modern philosophy is severed into, whether it's rationalism
and empiricism if we go back to Kant or whether it's a certain tradition in philosophy or
whether it's even life and mind if we want to get closer to Hegel.
But also what I've always felt he was doing or that Kant sort of opened and he opened
further is getting past those dualistic ways of thinking.
So just prefacing with that to think about that modern philosophy has put things in these
boxes.
This convention even that life and mind are different or you put life here and then you
talk about cognition, which people actually have argued that Hegel does that, right?
And what you're saying is actually no, what he's done is show those are inseparable.
You can't separate life and mind and cognition and open up this other way of thinking about
it.
I know that's not adequate to kind of a summary of the book, but just to get us going in that
direction, what do you think about?
So I think you're right.
Anti-dualism is something that really motivates.
You could look at this Hegel's opposition to stark dualisms, whether it's the dualisms
of Kant, whether, as you were pointing out, these more traditional dualisms that we work
with in modern philosophy of life and mind, of mind and body, and that it's absolutely
the case that the structure of Hegel's arguments often is to try to debunk these dualisms and
show us how what we took to be separate is actually deeply interconnected.
In the book, of course, what I was most interested in was this problem of life.
I think one of Hegel's most, one of the most exciting radical things that Hegel does in
his philosophy and is actually, historically speaking, I think a very interesting moment
because he's writing at a time in the 19th century, sort of just on the cusp of the development
of the biological sciences.
So that's an interesting 19th century moment.
But then he's also harking back to a more ancient moment because in ancient philosophy,
especially in the philosophy of Aristotle, for example, the connection between life and
mind or life and suke, life and soul is something that was very deeply explored.
And so you could see Hegel as almost working against early modern philosophy, certainly
Cartesian philosophy, but more immediately, right, the dualisms of Kant, reviving this
more ancient way of thinking about the connection between life and mind.
But in this moment in the 19th century or on the where we're in as we're moving into
the 19th century on the cusp of a new way of thinking about life also in the natural
sciences.
So I think that's something that when I was at the time when I was writing the book, I
thought was was really overlooked in discussions of Hegel.
So I started by saying a lot of the skepticism about Hegel concerned his hyper rationalism.
But what I saw when I was reading the text was that if Hegel is a rationalist, right,
if there is a commitment to thinking about reason and understanding how reason may or
may not shape our world, that understanding of reason and the powers of reason, the powers
of cognition are completely tied to what he thinks of as right, the powers and capacities
of living beings.
And so that was one way for me that if if he is a rationalist, and I think undoubtedly
there is certainly a rationalist, he is a rationalist, there's there's no denying that.
But he has such a subtle and expansive way of thinking about the powers of reason that
in which reason permeates the living natural world.
And so that was what drove me to write the book to think about the questions that I explored
in the book.
That reminded me of I think it's just once very briefly in the book, or maybe twice,
you talk about the young Hegel and how he was obsessed with life and love, if we think
of it in the way in those bigger terms.
And then in the book, you go through his writing and you show us in the phenomenology of spirit,
how the absolute negation almost takes the place of what we might think of as life.
And also in science of logic, we get to the concept and the idea not takes the place of
life because you're basically putting that back into it.
But in these old theories, those things would have been the rationality, the focus on rationality
is the absolute negation, it's the concept, it's we're all stuck in our head somehow with
this rationality.
But actually, what you're opening up or what I was thinking as reading is maybe this was
his way of actually infusing that fascination with life and love into this language.
You brought up Kant and this was the Enlightenment, right?
And he was, what was he trying to do?
Not save reason, but there was a focus on the Copernican turn, maybe we could talk about
that because I want to get towards this idea of proposiveness relative to this idea of
rationality.
How can we help people understand what you're really meaning by rationality when you say
that Hegel is a rationalist?
Sure.
So there are a few ways that we can think about this trend, this big moment from Kant
to Hegel.
And of course, over many, many years of scholarship, people have tried to think about
this question.
And I'm always a little bit careful when I start here because there's never any
agreement. I just want to be clear that there's never any agreement and philosophers
will always disagree about this.
But you focused on the Copernican turn, so I think that's a good place to start.
And I think I'm a reader of Hegel who wants to stress a lot of the continuities
between Kant and Hegel.
There are a lot of readers who want to say that, you know, there is a radical break.
And of course, you know, there's truth to both.
But in terms of the Copernican turn, I do think so Kant's Copernican turn, this
thought that is so simple and yet so I think so profound that he says, you know,
hitherto, you know, all previous philosophers thought somehow that we had this
puzzle about how it is that we know that our thoughts and the objects of our
thoughts can somehow hook up together.
And Kant just had this insight, it's the Copernican turn, where he says, well, no,
objects must conform to our knowledge if that is to count as knowledge and
experience in any meaningful sense.
And so that sort of create that that allowed Kant to sort of turn to
self-consciousness as a very important focal point for thinking about the
problems of knowledge, thinking about problem questions of intelligibility.
Now, there was a worry in the aftermath of Kant that this was too subjective,
right, that the the accusation of the early figures like Fischner and Schelling
were that this is merely then a subjective idealism if we think that all objects have
to conform to our knowledge.
And so you could see, again, I'm speaking in very broad terms, this German idealist
project of trying to, right, not to go back on the Copernican turn.
So we still need to acknowledge this, the importance of our subjective
contributions, the importance of our subjective perspective on any possible
knowledge, right.
That's something we could say is irreducible, ineliminable, right, to
eliminate the subjective aspect, the subjective perspective from knowledge and
experience, right, would be completely unintelligible, but we want to find a way
to make sure that this isn't just mere subjectivism.
And I think that one of the ways in the early, in the work of the early
post-Kantians to try to resolve this problem, square the circle, was to
precisely turn to thinking about nature, think about whether or not we could
identify within nature aspects that already looked like.
So it turns out self-consciousness isn't the only subjective
perspective on the world.
If we look at nature, we can actually see that there are similar forms,
similar structures, similar, right, we could now say sort of
proto-cognitive aspects or proto-cognitive shapes within nature that could
allow us to see that this wasn't merely a subjective idealism when we say that
something like, you know, objects have to conform to our knowledge.
We see this kind of activity taking shape, right, not just with us, with
self-conscious human beings, but already with different forms of nature.
So that's one initial way that I try to get into the problem.
And I try, what I try to show actually is that Kant in a work called The
Critique of Judgment, which we now call The Third Critique, in a way already
gave us a first step into this problem.
Because one insight that Kant comes to in The Third Critique is that when he's
considering the problem of the human power of judgment, he immediately sort of
comes upon this puzzle and he says, well, if nature was completely chaotic, showed
no unity, no regularity, no form whatsoever.
He sort of came to this puzzle that it's not clear that judgment, the power of
judgment, the power to just bring unity to nature's forms, it's not clear that it
would work at all if it was the case that nature was just, right, completely chaotic.
As he likes to use this term, a crude, chaotic aggregate.
And so in a way, Kant himself comes to this problem of life and living form in
thinking about the question of judgment himself in this text from 1790 called The
Critique of the Power of Judgment.
Yeah.
The reason I brought up the Copernican turn and I'm trying to bring up the
enlightenment and stuff is I'm trying to get at what was really going on.
Why was this so important?
Why is it still so important to us, you know, in a way, because it's kind of a
caricature, but let's think of the enlightenment at the time and more, more
focuses on machines and less on something like our inner subjective understanding of
the world or something like this.
And Kant sort of does this thing where he's in the way you just described this move
of we can start to understand that you can't separate those things, right?
That the object being studied and the self consciousness or whatever are tangled up.
Isn't that kind of what idealism in this sense is, would you say, or would you
impact that better, do you think?
Absolutely.
I think this idea, there's this, there's this term, it's a kind of technical term,
but in some ways you, you described it very well that, that gets used.
And I talk about it a lot in the book, this idea of a subject object, a kind of
hyphenated term, and that can seem right.
What, what, what is this, this weird thing, subject object.
And in a way you're just, what you're describing is exactly the point, right?
That we have to understand the subject and the object is intimately bound up together.
They, uh, Hegel and some of the other idealists use the term subject object to
think about the problem of self-consciousness, right?
Self-consciousness is a kind of subject object phenomenon because it's a way in
which the subject can grasp itself as an object of a certain kind.
And then very importantly for, for Schelling and Hegel, they refer to life
as a kind of subject object in part, because life living things are subjects
because they have a perspective on the world and on their environment.
So they are subjects of experience.
That's something that we, a term that we now use as well.
On the other hand, of course, they are also objects, right?
They can be perceived by other subjects.
They have an objective shape and objective form.
And so this idea of a subject object is actually very important for the idealist.
Oh, I love it so much.
And that gets towards the speculative identity thesis, which is a big part of
the book. And, but it's, these are very hard things, right?
So I hope it's okay that we, this is kind of messy and, but I just think it's worth
trying to relate this in a way to, we're trying to understand the world.
We create all of these machines and we start to put our sort of, what is it, our
trust in the external, like in understanding science as something external.
But then with Kant and idealism, we at least get this feeling that it's all
important. We can't, we can't separate our mind and our internal entanglement
or entanglement with that world from those objects that seem so scientific,
let's say, at this time.
And he's, so he shows us in a sense, I guess, that there's, we can take it all
seriously. We don't have to necessarily say subjective is bad or objective is
bad, but he doesn't really talk about self-consciousness, does he?
I mean, it's more, yeah.
Cause it's all about it, but he's not exactly, yeah.
That's right. That's, that's so, this is something I, I'm making reference to
another scholar, but yes, very famously self-consciousness is very important for
Kant, but so the story goes, he doesn't have a theory of self-consciousness.
And so, and it's really only with Fichte that we get a theory of
self-consciousness.
And so I think this is, you know, like everything, as I said, everything is
disputed in the literature, but that, that was for a long time, a thought that
Kant made self-consciousness so central to his philosophy and yet didn't give us
a theory of it.
Let me pick up on something you said about machines and this, this problem of
machines and mechanism.
I think one way, one reason, another reason to think about why the concept of
life is so philosophically important for this period is that there is a debate
about mechanism and teleology.
I think certainly, and this is even before Kant in, in a kind of Cartesian
way of thinking about the world, the model for thinking about living things.
So not human, not consciousness, but certainly bodies was the model of a
machine and that reached a certain, as you, as you can imagine, right, there
were certain limits that we, we very quickly run up against when we tried to
understand living animal bodies on a more mechanistic machine model.
And even, and, and in Kant's third critique, he also, right, in, in trying
to understand the distinction, so his way of thinking about the internal, the
very special form of self-organization of living things, he thinks about this, he
calls it internal proposiveness and the contrast for him, he sets up, he says,
well, imagine a watch, which is obviously right, very well organized.
We understand how the parts and the whole work together to help us tell time, but
there's still a difference between, right, whatever unity we want to, and
functionality we want to attribute to something like a watch versus the
unity and self-organization that we want to attribute to a living being.
And so the, that your, your mention of this problem of machines is actually
really important because the issue of understanding life and its unique
organization, its unique unity, its unique perspective on the world.
A lot that we could say the interest in that wasn't just about an interest
in figuring out nature, although it was also that, right.
We also want to understand nature as a whole and nature as a system.
But the importance of understanding the phenomenon of life was also in part to
help us understand something about ourselves because we wouldn't want to
think about our minds, our cognitive, right, the unity of our mind.
We see that the model of a machine very quickly is not the right model for
thinking about the unity of our mind.
And then even more importantly, for this tradition, the problem of freedom.
If everything in nature, including ourselves as a part of nature, operates
in accordance with a deterministic flow of causality, what Kant is going to call,
right, this mechanistic flow of causality, that also threatens our
understanding of freedom, our understanding of ourselves, as self-determining, as
being able to set our own ends, as opposed to just being determined on the basis of
a causal flow.
And so the interest in life, while of course we're interested in understanding
nature in the natural world around us, the stakes of having an account of life, the
philosophical stakes of having an account of life was also about having an
understanding of ourselves, an understanding of our mindedness, as much as
an understanding of our own freedom.
Wonderful.
Yeah, very well said.
I guess what I'm trying to set up in a way is this, there's still this bifurcation
going on almost as if where the world is there and there are machines and then
there's nature and then there's us.
And I feel like in the book opening up this idea of proposiveness, which comes
out of Kant's third critique and you spend the first part of the book unpacking
that and we can say what that is now, but I feel what I'm seeing happening, and you
can completely disagree with this, is that we're opening up the space around
that bifurcation and then we're going to get this kind of movement that you talked
about at the beginning, that Hegel's going to come in with this speculative
identity thesis, subject-object.
We can never quite be located in either of those dualisms or those things.
And in a weird way, it pops it out into a complex system where we don't, we can't,
we don't have to take one side or the other anymore.
Instead, there's something more organic, lifelike, but to get there, you know,
Kant had to sort of, first of all, open this up because he sort of linked the
inner and the outer world, even if he did it in a very different way than Hegel
is going to do.
And I think the way he sort of does that is the way you're pointing out.
And when you look at the third critique and this idea of proposiveness, inner
external, maybe you can unpack what you, I know you took a whole book to do it,
but just for people who haven't read the book yet, what this really means is
inner proposiveness moving towards the speculative identity idea.
Good.
So the problem of, and proposiveness is sort of a clunky word, but it's trying to
think about the problem of, right.
So thinking about the problem of the unity of form of nature.
And this is where Kant also, I had mentioned earlier that Hegel was sort of
reviving some Aristotelian ideas, but Kant too, in the third critique in a way is
doing that again, trying to do it in a way that is, you know, doing it in a way
that attends to the Copernican turn, trying to do it in a, right, many,
obviously many, many years lie between Aristotle and 18th and 19th centuries.
So trying to take into account, right, things that, things that they know,
the scientific theories of their time, but in a way Kant was also trying to
revive a certain Aristotelian idea and the thought, so the main, one very
important distinction that I talk about in the book, and this is drawing from
Kant is a distinction between internal and external proposiveness and the
idea, the idea of a purpose is pretty straightforward, right?
It's the idea of an aim, a goal, an end.
How do we understand, and this is very controversial in Kant's time
because basically Aristotle thought that everything in nature had an
end or a purpose or a goal.
And then in modern, and I'm also doing this very sketchily, the short version
of the story is that, that in modern philosophy, the idea of ends and purposes
were sort of wiped off the map, that it was not, that there was something mystical
and something very inappropriate about thinking of nature as, right, guided by
goals or ends, and Kant sort of comes back on this, he basically sort of starts
to think about this problem anew and the distinction he draws, so external
proposiveness is a way of thinking about nature as being organized by goals or
ends that are, it's external because it's given by something else.
And this is an idea that Kant entertains, but I argue that he ultimately
rejects, which is that, well, maybe we can think about nature as parallel with
an artifact, right?
And if an artifact has a designer, then maybe nature sort of has a designer god.
And we can think of the organization of nature as having aims or goals or
purposes that are given by a designer god in a similar way that artifacts have
ends or purposes or goals that are given to it by its designer.
That's what he calls external proposiveness.
Another sort of less, maybe less extravagant way of thinking about it is
that he also says, well, we can also see external proposiveness as a way
of thinking about usefulness.
So he says, sandy soil is useful for spruces.
Well, isn't that handy?
Isn't that nice?
So that's, that's also, we could think of that as a relation of external
proposiveness, but Kant, I argue, and also, I think all of the idealists,
Schelling and Hegel as well, think that this is a very bad way of thinking
about the organization of nature.
Hegel has a joke somewhere where he says, oh, well, then we think that, you
know, we, God made cork trees so that we could have corks, right?
That's the sort of, that's a, that introduces a kind of arbitrariness,
they think, in our understanding of nature that, that doesn't really grasp
what is distinctive, right?
That basically we can't distinguish between artifacts and nature at all,
because in a way, if nature is an artifact, then right, we, we
lose the very idea of nature.
Internal proposiveness is a way of thinking about nature as setting, right?
Nothing, but the unity and form of the organism, and I'll stick with an
organism, sets its own goals in accordance, right, with its own activity.
And so here we do not see aims and goals as given from the outside, whether,
whether it's an artificer or whether it's from any other outside force, but
that living beings have an intrinsic unity, a form of self-organization
that sets its own aims and goals and purposes.
And it's very important.
This doesn't have to be done intentionally, right?
So we can see that, cause Kant's example is a tree.
He says that a tree is sort of, or he says organized and self-organizing
in that it reproduces other trees of its own kind.
It takes in materials from the environment to sustain and reproduce itself.
And its parts are also, right, organized such as to contribute
to the functioning of the whole.
And all of this, he says, he calls this internal proposiveness because this
is a form of self-organization in contemporary philosophy, a term
that sometimes used is autopoiesis.
So there is actually, there are a lot of connections to the way that Kant
is thinking about this is something that we now think of as actually quite
helpful for thinking about the internal unity and organization of living beings.
And what's distinctive about the organization of living beings, as
opposed to artifacts or other non-living things.
And in a way, I think internal proposiveness is similar to what we
might say to say is an autopoietic way of organizing oneself.
I was just thinking of the Varela Maturana book, Tree of Life, as you were saying it.
And it's interesting that the example is a tree.
So that kind of proposiveness, do you really think of it still as having to
have sort of an end or as an end?
Or because sometimes in the book, it feels more what is beneficial is the purpose.
Or, I mean, by the time we get into Hegel, it's become more of that movement
idea that I was picking up on in what you said, that we've gotten, because again,
I'm trying to get, I feel like we're trying to get out of these rigid
categories that we're so stuck in.
And these kinds of examples, like the tree, which is a dynamic ongoing process.
And there's this great quote, which you have in the book that Kant says, where
I wish I could remember, but every form is a form of every other.
It's a kind of fractally way in which you can look at any part and it's, you
know, there's other auto-poetic parts that are part of it and so on.
There's this, again, this complex scaling feeling that's starting with
Kant that we then see much more of, as you expressed it in Hegel, of this
movement, this subject, object, you know, kind of ongoing.
But having said all that, do you still kind of really think of purpose as an
end in that Aristotelian, Tilius kind of way that's always so criticized or was
and is still criticized quite often in some circles, or do you think we can
think of purpose in a different way in the way that you're using it here?
That's a great question.
I think the idea of, so the idea of Tiliology, I think it's, is
itself a very controversial idea, especially when we're talking about.
Zveck, I think you use that more often, but.
Yeah, the idea of, but the idea of Zveck and Zveck message kite is very much
connected to these, again, as I think it's a way of trying to revive or
update Aristotelian ideas.
I think the way that I, I don't know if I say this exactly in the book, but
the way I would answer your question now is that you're right.
We shouldn't think of it as an end because end, even the word, especially
in English, right, end, it sounds like it's an end point and already suggests
finality, even though it already doesn't fit with that example of the tree.
Right.
Yeah.
And so one thing that Hegel emphasizes is that in a way, and I think this is
very novel and again, really speaks to a lot of our contemporary ways of
thinking life is a process.
And so instead of, although I do think that there's something very important
about the teleological structure of how Hegel is thinking about living beings,
not just living beings, but also us and how we, we, we set goals and ends, but
it's not, it doesn't have this sense of finality.
It really for Hegel is about process.
And in fact, this is something that I think he, he really comes to, especially
in the mature work, when he's talking about life in the science of logic, it's
all about process and it's not an accident that a lot of process philosophy,
whether you're thinking about Whitehead or more contemporary, the philosopher
like Jean Dupree, that process philosophy has a lot of Hegelian roots, you could
say, because you're absolutely right.
We don't, while I think there's something about the teleological structure and
form, that's very important to how Hegel understands life and reason, the, the
non finality of it, the, that it, that it's always has to be an ongoing process
is very important and that life for him, right.
It's not a, it's not a thing.
It's not a stable being, but really an ongoing continual process.
Yeah.
And that fits more with this life itself in a sense of, of, um, we're trying to
get at something that's very hard to talk about, which I think is why probably
Hegel writes in a way that seems so obscure.
And that's what we were talking about.
It's almost the movement itself within the writing kind of comes through.
But I do think we can talk about it in a really practical way too, maybe for a
second, I mean, purpose can also mean something like meaning, right.
Or, and a lot of this with the speculative identity thesis and going into this is
about internal organization, it's about finding a pattern in that movement or
regularities in that movement and taking that seriously and that being robust,
which would be almost in a contrast to what we started with in terms of this,
everything is alive and we just dissolve in wonderful mysticism, which can
feel good, but this is, he's trying to do a science of logic.
It's trying to be very robust in the way that you show in the book, but can we
also think of it as really connected to meaning and to actually trying to
understand this mind, nature connection on a level that really does
pertain to our everyday life?
I, I think it absolutely can.
And maybe I'll start, I really like that you connect this idea of purpose
and meaning, and I think this is important.
So I'll start with a more technical way of thinking about it, but move out to
this more general sense of meaning, which I think is for Hegel has to be connected
with life and living things rather than saying machines and mechanisms.
That's something I think that that could really speak to our present moment.
But starting with the more technical sense, I think along with other scholars,
but again, other scholars disagree.
But I think that a lot of what the science of logic is about is the
conditions for intelligibility.
So that would be a very technical way of thinking about the condition, right?
If a few, we would take a few steps and really it is about meaning
because it's the conditions.
What does it mean to say that to make anything intelligible, what are the
conditions that allow us to make things intelligible, to render things
intelligible is sort of a technical way of speaking about it.
And again, I think Hegel's most radical thought, and I'm not, I want to say,
sometimes I want to say that Hegel is really not just thinks about this in the
deepest way, but also really is among the first to make this big claim.
I've said that, yes, Aristotle certainly connected life and mind, but I don't
know that he connected intelligibility as such, right?
Or eventually what you're going to say, meaning as such as connected with life.
And the reason for that is because he thinks that it is only once we have,
life comes on the scene, so to speak.
And again, so it's not an empiric, he's not interested in the scientific
question of like the, how did, right?
How did, which is still an open question.
How did life begin?
Right.
Where does life come?
Right.
That's not the, he's not a, that's not the natural scientific
question he's interested in, but he is saying, if we're interested in thinking
about intelligibility and meaning and how things, how anything can become
intelligible or meaningful to us at all.
That question only makes sense once life is on the scene, because it's only a
question that makes sense for living beings and that this idea that all living
beings have to make sense of themselves and their environment in a certain way.
Now, obviously depending on the living thing, we can, this can happen in a very
primitive level for very basic, even, even bacteria, right?
Have to say sense and make sense of their environment in a certain way.
In order to survive and reproduce.
That's obviously a very primitive and basic idea of sense-making, but that
can, that gets more sophisticated with more sophisticated forms of life.
And I think Hegel's saying that for self-conscious forms of life, which is
the most sophisticated form of life of which we're aware that that sense-making,
right?
That the idea of making things intelligible is still connected with the
fact that we are living beings because sense-making is, is only possible once
living things come on the scene.
And so that's really, so your, your question about meaning, meaning for Hegel
is essentially connected with life and living activity, living aims, living
purposes, of course, for, for self-conscious beings, we have more complicated
questions than just mere survival and reproduction.
We want, we think about the good life, right?
And again, this Aristotelian idea, we also think about reproduction, but
reproduction is a more encompassing question for us.
It's not just about very basic forms of individual, but about social, what does
it mean to reproduce a form of life or a society across history?
Is it the case that sometimes entire forms of life, you know, and in, in
English, Hegel's term Zittlischkeit is translated as ethical life, which although
not a very literal translation, I think is a very good translation because it
captures the spirit of what Hegel means with the idea of Zittlischkeit.
And so I do think that the, this connection between life and meaning in
a very broad sense that you brought up is, is definitely something that, that
Hegel thinks about very deeply, maybe more deeply than I think any philosopher
that I can think of.
Yeah, especially for his time, because again, Kant hadn't even really used
this term self-consciousness, but before I get carried away in that, this idea of
the speculative identity thesis, this, as you were talking, I was reminded, I
think you said that you're reading the science of logic and maybe graduate
school and you came across an absolute idea that life was like the first, the
first section and you were, it was amazing, right?
Because those words seem so far apart.
When you were reading that you were in a space where logic and life clashed, right?
This idea of the rationalist that you presented at the beginning or the logic,
it almost seems it's something other than life and it's talked about in that
way and you assume it that way.
But I guess I just want to go to that moment of what happened for you there.
Cause maybe it helps unpack this weird dichotomy that you're right.
That was the moment.
And that, you know, they're, they're very memorable moments in one's life where
when you read something where it just floors you and that was certainly one of
them reading this huge, difficult, probably one of the most difficult
books that I've ever, even now that I've ever read, maybe most, one of the
most difficult books ever written.
And also going back to the beginning of our conversation, all of these
myths about Hegel, right?
This hyper rationalist, we know that the science of logic moves us towards
this, this, the absolute idea, which sounds like the most mystical
rationalist thing that you could, you know, ever conceive of.
And exact, that was exactly my reaction.
I was expecting to reach this, this big culmination.
And of course I had no, you know, we'd look at the table of contents.
So, you know, it's coming, but on that first read, when you finally get there,
it is absolutely astonishing.
And also that what he talks about there.
So although he's very clear, he wants to distinguish, he says, yes, this
is what we're talking about here.
He says, this is, we're still in, we're still talking about logic.
We're still talking about thinking and intelligibility.
So let's not, we're not thinking about nature, but nonetheless, the, the, the
content of what he's talking about life, he's talking about corporate reality,
uh, that thinking has to thinking, thinking isn't disembodied, right?
This great, again, a thought that might be very obvious, but, you know, given the
history of philosophy is difficult and controversial and hard to think about,
to conceive that corporate reality thinking always has to take shape in a
distinctive body, that thinking takes place in relation to, uh, takes place
within a living body that is in an environment and in constant metabolic
exchange with an environment in these, this processual character that you, you
were asking about earlier, and that most importantly, thinking is not some,
thinking is not something that an individual does in a void, thinking,
living things are always living things that live with other living things of
their own, of other kinds, but the most hegel thinks that the most significant
relationships, um, are of course the relationships we have with others and
that these, all of this contributes to how we understand thinking and the
powers of cognition and how we make things intelligible and meaningful, how
we make sense of the, how we make sense of the environment as much as how we
make sense of ourselves.
And so it was, you're absolutely right about this moment.
It was, and, and the shock that how could this is video coming to
Hegel as a skeptic, all of these criticisms of Hegel for over now, 200
years, but even if we just stick with the hundred years after Hegel, like, how
could we have, how could we have accused Hegel of this when his whole point was
to say that, yes, he wants, he is a rationalist, he wants to think about
reason in this expansive way, but reason is living, is living activity.
That's what, that's what it is.
Yeah, it's, it reminds me of this idea of, how do you say it?
The whole idea of the speculative identity thesis, that self-consciousness
is the self-consciousness of life, or it is life is constitutive of self-consciousness.
That's kind of radical, but why is that radical in this context?
Yes.
So the thought is that self-consciousness is self-conscious life and that exactly
that, and that life part isn't super, like, we can't just drop that, that
self, that self-consciousness is self-conscious life is very significant.
It's very radical from the perspective.
Again, if you think about the trajectory of modern philosophy and Descartes, and
maybe I'm, you know, every philosopher is unfair.
I'm sure there's, there are better ways to think about Descartes, but we'll
just use Descartes as the bad, as sort of the bad guy.
He opened up something that helped us get here, but there is this, again, that,
that bifurcation, just to link it to what we were talking about, that's
very real and very solid.
And so this Cartesian way of, cause in a way Descartes was also the, that's
what the I think is, right?
I think I exist, or I think I am to associate thinking.
But for Descartes, right, thinking is thinking substance.
And so there is, there are these stark dualisms.
It's absolutely impossible on a Cartesian view to think of self-consciousness
as self-conscious life and-
Sorry, but that is just amazing, isn't it?
It's, it's really, it really is true.
What you just said, that it is, you can't think of self-consciousness as
self-conscious life in that worldview, which, what is it then?
It's, it's very, so, you know, you've really emphasized the danger of these
dualistic ways of thinking.
And I think as, as Kant does a lot, so I don't, I don't want to be unfair to
Kant, but Kant does hang on, that Kant hangs on to this dualism in his
understanding of self-consciousness.
The distinction for, you know, the most important distinction, the most, the
closest to something where we might get like a Cartesian-like dualism in Kant is
the distinction between noumena and phenomena.
And so there are, while I think Kant is a much more sophisticated, right, even in
his dualism, he's much more sophisticated than someone like Descartes, he, it's
still a dualistic picture where we cannot think of self-consciousness as
self-conscious life.
And there are also, Kant has moral, it, there are, right, theoretical, in his
theoretical philosophy, there are reasons for that, but I think the more important
reason for Kant is his moral philosophy, you know, which we, we don't have to get
into, but what is it?
So what does it mean to say that a life is constitutive of self-consciousness?
You know, you've been, you've been making reference to what I talk about in the
book is the speculative identity thesis, which is really just Hegel's technical
way of thinking about this, this idea of the subject object that we've talked
about where life is one of the primary models for the, this, this speculative
identity of the subject and object.
Well, for one thing, cognition, I think, and this is something we really only get
in the logic that to understand cognition is to understand something about these
three fundamental processes of living beings, that understanding powers of
cognition requires that we understand them as embodied.
And so different living bodies will have different powers of cognition.
And again, something that strikes one, especially for today as something obvious,
but I think for a long period of his, of the history of philosophy, we didn't want
to think about human cognition as in any way connected with the powers of, of the
human body.
So there was, again, at the time, something very radical about this.
It's so radical.
I'm sorry, I keep pausing, but it's just, for me, this is a really important thing
that you've brought up in the book and that, that you show in a way that's very
robust because after reading the book, it seems obvious, right, that life is
constitutive of self-consciousness.
But if you're coming out of a philosophical tradition, it's really not
obvious and weirdly, and even now it's kind of, it's, you know, it's gotten,
we still don't want to take the body too seriously.
We still, now we think of mind as like a machine again, a computation, a
computer or something.
So I guess I'm just trying for, for people listening, there's really something
very fascinating that for so much, it took Kant, it took Descartes, it took
these people going through this to even just open it up to where we could imagine
our thoughts, our mind as connected to nature and life.
That's a really revolutionary thing, even though it now is starting to seem a
little bit simple.
We almost had to bifurcate to even get there.
This is right.
But I want to say, so on the, there's a certain sense in which it now seems
obvious to us that minds have to be living, but you mentioned the computational
theory of mind.
This is a very, so actually it's still radical and we're still trying to find
ways of, of understanding the mind that are not, that do not reduce it to a
machine.
You mentioned the work of Varela.
You know, I really admire the work of people like Evan Thompson.
I think Evan Thompson is one contemporary philosopher who's tried to give us ways
of thinking, right.
He talks about Consular Critique.
He talks a lot about Merleau-Ponty.
I think people give the idealist, maybe because they're so difficult, I don't
know, maybe because of, you know, we started by saying just how difficult it
is to read Hegel, also the complicated history of the reception of Hegel.
So I think right now we're, we're not drawing on these really important
resources from German idealism to think about these questions.
Another contemporary philosopher who I also, whose work I really admire is Peter
Godfrey-Smith, who also is now just trying to think about the deep, deep
connections between the life and mind.
And this is not easy to do.
And so even today, I think it's still quite a radical thing to argue against a
computational theory of mind and to insist that minds have to be living.
Yeah, it's great you brought that up because it isn't easy actually
philosophically to draw a line from, from bacteria, I think you mentioned,
and trees and life and nature, which you have to kind of accept all of that once
you start thinking about life and nature to our experience of ourselves and mind
and thought and memory, that's a very hard thing to trace.
So even though it might, when I say it in this big way, obviously life is
constitutive of self-consciousness, it sounds obvious once you really try to do
it philosophically, it's very hard, which is why I think your book is really
important because I do think we can look at Hegel in this way to have for help.
And it's also connected to these themes we've been playing around with in terms
of what Kant was trying to do, we're always like on the seesaw between these
dualisms and I do think in your book, you show another way or Hegel shows another
way, Fitch to Schelling, you can't separate, it's all that time period,
right? Which we haven't talked about those guys yet, but that's all connected.
But I do feel like, and I wonder, I wonder if you also see that as a possible way
of rethinking some of these ruts that we've gotten stuck in a la Evan Thompson's
blind spot, right?
This movement of subject-object that doesn't have to be located in one
of those bifurcations.
Exactly.
It's just, see, it's so interesting because earlier we were talking about
Descartes, but there are these habits of thought, this bifurcating, this separating
of the subjective and the objective.
It comes back in so many different forms.
One thing that I thought about when you were talking earlier in the hard problem
of consciousness, the temporary way of thinking, right?
So everyone thinks, oh, well, no one's Cartesian anymore, but we still have
something called the hard problem of consciousness.
And so the tendency to think in this bifurcated way, the biggest version of it
is the bifurcation of subject and object, right?
If we want to put it in the most general terms.
And I think if there was one plea that I mostly work in the history of philosophy,
but I would love for people to take Hegel seriously or to take Hegel as somebody who
can offer insights into resolving some of these problems.
I think some people have turned to, like in the work of Evan Thompson, turned to
phenomenology, the work of Husserl or Merleau-Ponty.
I actually think the German idealist tradition maybe has more to offer in part
because they thought so much more deeply about this problem of that life and mind
have to be connected in order for us that that is, in a way, the solution to all of
these problems of bifurcation.
I actually think extending the idea of phenomenology, it is phenomenology of
spirit. This is a word that is there.
I actually think we could extend it a bit because there's a lot of overlap already
between phenomenology and the tradition of taking nature seriously, for example.
And what Hegel was trying to do and what you actually express in this book, it's
just, it's hard because we can't think in those either or categories that our
language and our philosophy are really built upon.
Everything's so stuck in that, which I think is why it's so hard to read Hegel
and understand Hegel in a way too.
Not that he figured it out because really a lot of it comes from Fichte and Schelling
and that whole thing. But there's an expression of it there that I do think we're
trying to express better, right?
Yes. And you're touching on something that sounds right, that one reason why is
Hegel's text so difficult, right?
Was he just trying to be obscure?
Was he just trying to be annoying?
Obviously, there are also translation issues, but it's just one reason it's so
difficult is because he's trying to find a language to understand, exactly to, to,
you know, people talk a lot about Hegel's dialectic, you know, Hegel's dialectics
and the dialectical mode of expression or a dialectical method.
One very straightforward reason why Hegel is so difficult is that he was trying to
capture, right, the movement and contradiction and processes of things in a
language, right?
That was true to that.
Dothabend, I think, does it a little better.
It's weird, you know, you don't, I love it in the book, you don't talk about
dialectic till the very end.
It's kind of a little beautiful send off, right?
Because that's the thing everyone associates with Hegel, but, and it is that
this kind of movement, isn't it?
This, what you were just expressing or this, this feeling of things layering and
sublimating and changing and moving.
We don't have a good language for that yet, but in the book, you're starting to
show how we could, right?
It can be robust if we look at it.
Yeah, I hope I, you know, that's what I was trying to convey.
And I don't even, it's not even that I think Hegel did it, you know, definitively
or perfectly, but he really, you know, returning to his texts, I think can, can
help us with a lot of the problems that we still struggle with that, as you put
it, are often connected with this tendency to bifurcate.
And that is, it's Shelley who has the subject, object, object, subject that sort
of, that you tie in very closely to this idea of what we're calling or what the
speculative identity thesis, we could also just say it's almost like the dialectic
movement or this pattern of, that we're talking about in a way too, from a
different, from a form-based angle, maybe.
Yeah, shelling, that's an, I think reading shelling is just, is also very difficult,
but I think one thing I try to say in the book is that some, some people think
that in the early Hegel, shelling was an important influence, but something that
gets dropped, and I try to show that this is not, that shelling is actually more
important in the telling of the story than he's been given credit for.
Yeah, I love it that you bring all those people in, because I really feel it was
almost a spirit or a time where people were trying to do this, try to find some
way to hold these paradoxes and talk about them, bring nature back in, still
connects on a bodily level with the world, but also in a really robustly logical way.
I guess to go back to your journey just a little bit before we end is, so you
discovered that life in the logic and it had, it had one of those moments for you,
which I think a lot of us know are just things are brighter or something.
You can't leave it behind.
How did that proceed on into this, this book?
So it was, you know, these, these, I guess maybe all books that take, they, they
take a long time, they have a long period.
And so when I was a graduate student was when I had that moment, it was in a
seminar, I took a year long seminar on the science of logic taught by the late
and wonderful Richard Bernstein.
And so we had, I had that aha moment.
And then I spent, so the, the, the origins of the book was my dissertation.
And then after I wrote the dissertation, it took me a long time.
I basically rewrote the whole thing.
It was very interesting, hard process of, in a way I had the thought and
dissertations are often like this.
You have the thought, but the execution is not, you know, you're not
happy with the execution.
And so it was sort of, yeah, it took me a long time to, to, to have to, to
write it as a book in the form that, in which it eventually appeared.
Trying to connect it to your purposiveness and your dialectic, not
to be too, too silly, but there's something, I wonder like how it's
changed your way of being or thinking, or if it connected to you because of
some way that you are in the world.
I don't know why it's coming to mind, but in the book, you talk about that
this for Hegel, this, what we've been describing this, this process, dialectic,
speculative, whatever you want to call it, this movement, this pattern that he
noticed, then kind of let him look at nature differently or almost look at
other kinds or species or like start to almost think about what it might be
like to have this purposiveness almost enter into different perspectives.
And I just wonder if that connects in your life at all.
What does this bring up for you?
I mean, it has changed.
It's, it's, it was an aha moment.
It has changed the way that I think about how I think about, but
also how I relate to nature.
I think that can sound so, I don't know.
It can sound cliche, but it's really not, this is actually real, what matters.
It's just hard to talk about.
It completely has to think of the world as alive with a plurality
of forms of life and that, and alive in a more right, robust way.
Not just, we know, of course, when I'm taking off, if I'm on a hike, I
know that there's life all around me, but that all of this life has a
perspective on things and that there are sort of an infinite number of these
worlds.
And so it actually has absolutely changed the way that I think about
the natural world and relate to it.
I think it has a lot of, not just for me personally, I think it's very, this
view of life and living nature as a whole, I think could have a lot of ramifications
for our present way of relating to nature, given our environmental crisis.
I think it's an absolutely, it's a super helpful, again, we need lots and lots of
different ways of thinking about this, but I think this is one very helpful and
important one that could help us rethink our relationship to nature.
Those bifurcations are still there, I guess, that we were talking about at the
beginning, or those divisions, they've changed forms or even accelerated in
terms of what you were saying about the way we think of technology in mind.
Exactly, you've been talking throughout about machines.
Obviously, AI is such a huge question and problem and puzzle for us at the moment.
You mentioned computational theories of mind.
Again, I think there, Hegel can give us a very helpful alternative way of thinking
about these things and that it's been, his thought has been underappreciated in
this regard.
I know he's been a hugely influential philosopher in many ways, but there are
currents of his thought that have been really underappreciated.
It almost seems like we've applied that to philosophy, that either or way of
thinking that you have to choose a side.
And so that's why it's been hard to think of something like this in a robust way
and bring it in across scales to understand.
But I really think that a lot of people are trying to do it from a lot of
different angles, and it doesn't necessarily mean that all the stuff from
computational mind needs to be gone.
If anything, it could, if we could open it up in the way we've been trying to
talk about, all of these things could start to help each other in a way, because
what we're really trying to do, if we could do it, would be very helpful.
If you could really understand how life is continuous with mind, which if we're
just thinking of common sense kind of way, somehow we've gotten to this point
where we have thoughts and feelings and memories as living creatures in a living
planet, and to try to find a robust way to talk about that and trace that out in
ways like you or Evan Thompson or, gosh, a lot of philosophers of the past and
present are trying to do, it does seem like it could be very helpful to these
problems that we have now relative to the environment and technology.
I wonder in your everyday life as a philosopher, if you are able to think
about things, if you still have those moments that you had when you read nature
and logic, because those are other ways we get put into boxes in a sense, we
become professional philosophers and we have this and this and this.
I wonder, is it hard for you to hold all of this?
For sure.
I think teaching is this is what makes teaching so important to the practice,
not just the practice of philosophy, but probably for a lot of researchers, that
this contact with students who are always approaching this with fresh eyes for the
first time, that is, and also with their concerns, right?
Because their concerns are always changing and their world is changing so
fast. And so I think teaching definitely helps with that because you're right.
There can certainly be, we get stuck in our little silos and yeah, professional
life is what it is for everybody, including for academics.
But I think teaching helps with a lot of that.
And I think that meaning, we talked about purpose, purposiveness, and I brought up
meaning, but it does connect to that because we can also feel like what are we
doing? We're studying Hegel and thinking about all these crazy concepts that don't
even make sense to people if you just say, speak it out, if you try to read it out a
paragraph of Hegel. But actually, it really does connect to these bigger themes, I
think. And it's worth the hard work of trying to figure out how to articulate
that. I guess it's just a way of saying thanks for trying to do that, right, as a
teacher, but also in writing the books.
And this is love and philosophy.
So I have to bring up this word love at the end.
Do you see any, I mean, I know Hegel thought about love a lot in his youth and
withholderling, we didn't talk about him with the poets and the life and love was
very big for him.
And I think it still runs through his work.
I was trying to say maybe he put it all into these terms.
But for you, just holding all this together, this perspective, this connection
with nature, Hegel, what comes to mind with that word for you?
I think Hegel had lots of interesting things to say about love.
And in the connection in the early Hegel for him, love and life were deeply, deeply
connected. There was something about this infinite, you know, he used the term
infinite, infinite structure of life and love, right, that life infinitely returns
to itself and love sort of has a similar structure.
You're right that often we think of this as, you know, the early romantic Hegel
when he was, Hegel was very good friends.
Hegel, Hoedelin and Schelling were roommates in the Tübingen Stift.
And of course, so Hegel and Schelling broke off and were no longer friends after
a certain point. But Hegel and Hoedelin remained friends for Hoedelin's two short
life. But I actually think you used this word earlier.
You said that it's not that he abandons these earlier romantic themes, but that
they get infused into this theory and including what he says about the concept.
And I think that word is you're absolutely right.
I don't think that he ever abandons this way of thinking about the connection
between life and love.
There's a great passage in The Science of Logic where he's talking about the
concept of all things, which is the right you might think this is the most abstract
of all things you could possibly talk about.
But he says that the concept is free love and free love before we add that term.
Exactly. Right. And not in the sense that, you know, that we meant it in the 60s and
the 70s. Right.
Free love. The concept is free love.
What a wild thing to say.
But I think we should take him serious.
I think he means it and and that there is a consistency in his thought of thinking
about something about this infinite self-return and also that relationality is
very important that we that even when we're thinking about something like the
concept, it's not enclosed within itself, but always in these it's only in these
relational process of which love is is a particularly powerful manifestation that
we can arrive at something like meaning or purpose or truth.
So I think love is love is a huge theme in Hegel.
It's also a model for how he thinks about recognition, which is another really
important concept in Hegelian philosophy.
So I think Hegel is a great thinker of love.
And do you think this movement, I mean, sometimes we talk about flow or we talk
about there's a kind of when you're present.
Sometimes when I'm reading Hegel, I was trying to express you do feel a kind of
presence and a kind of movement that does something good for the way you.
Can be in the world, so to speak.
I don't know if that, I mean, I'm not trying to sound too, it can happen with a
lot of different writers and philosophy.
It's kind of just something that happens, but I get the feeling maybe he felt that
a bit when he was talking about free love.
I don't know.
Or how would you think this free love?
What, what does he really mean by that?
Well, so in, can I maybe just, when I was preparing to talk with you today, I
pulled up this fragment from, you know, there's this early fragment that Hegel
wrote about love and it's wonderful because it's so connected with how he
thinks about life.
So here's one thing, just, I just read a couple of short things that he says.
He says,
Oh, wow.
That's all the themes we were just talking about in a way that self-consciousness
is life is all these perspectives.
Yeah.
But to associate that love is to see another as living from every point of
view is so right.
So this, to, to move against bifurcation and fixity, right.
To see them, to, to love someone is to see them as fully alive.
He also says love is a sensing of something living, which is also such a, I
think, beautiful and profound thing to say.
So, so yes, I mean, going back, so, okay, now jumping all the way back to the
concept as free love, I think there's a tendency in later criticisms of Hegel to
worry that his rationality, his way of thinking about conceptual thinking is to
fit right, to make things fixed.
You know, Adorno loves to say the identity thinking, this is what Adorno
accuses Hegel of doing with the concept.
So Adorno is a very interesting and astute reader of Hegel in many ways.
So I'm definitely not dismissing Adorno.
I think Adorno is deeply insightful of Hegel and many other things, but I just
think that this idea that the concept fixes is exactly wrong, right?
This is exactly what he doesn't want.
If, if the concept is getting something right, we, uh, we, it's almost like we're
grasping something the way that a lover would grasp something, right?
As fully alive, as he says, and every, from every point of view.
So, yeah, I think that love, although it can seem like once we get to the mature
Hegel, love is a less important theme than it is for the early Hegel, um, I
still think it's actually very important.
I think that's right.
And there would be so much more to say there about the self-consciousness itself.
What, what's really happening when we become aware of ourself as consciousness.
And I mean, that is part of that, trying to see from a different perspective.
And if you try to think about that quote that you, that's beautiful that you just
read about, about love, then there's some, there's some way in which this movement
we've been talking about and how you can use it to maybe look at different
perspectives that does become in a really practical way, um, about love,
self-love, the recognition of nature is a kind of love almost, like recognizing it
as life.
Absolutely.
To see it as living from every point of view.
Yeah.
And this association of love with sensing, the sensing of something living.
Uh, I like what you said about loving or recognizing nature.
I think that's right.
That's kind of the point of, of philosophy and science in a weird way to do it as
robustly as possible.
But that's the kind of the doubling too, that you talk about, but in any case, is
there anything that we haven't talked about that you wanted to bring up?
I already kept you five minutes over.
So, no, I think we've touched on a lot.
This was a really, this was really fun to chat with you about all this.
Yeah, it was.
There's always more.
I think you can never get, you can never get to the bottom, but that's the point
of it, but I really, I really do appreciate it.
Thank you so much for inviting me.
My pleasure.
Have a great day there in Nashville.
You too.
