Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea. Today we are talking about
bioregionalism with Felix de Rozen. And bioregionalism is a philosophy that looks at sustainable
boundaries, thinking of them as organized around more naturally defined areas, which
they call bioregions, instead of the ways we tend to divide politically, for example,
even geographically. So it's a different kind of philosophy of how we're thinking about space,
and it's a lot related to complex systems, which makes a lot of sense because Felix is a landscape
architect and he's also a gardener. He's published books about gardens, very beautiful books,
which I'll link to in the show notes. We talk about how he got into this, his education through
Harvard and a completely different subject, and how he ended up finding his way to the land or
also just to finding a group of people that he understood and that understood him. If you listen
to the last episode with Hannes de Jaeger, we actually talk about these same issues from a more
philosophical perspective and thinking about loving and knowing. We mentioned these ideas of
complex systems, so I thought it's good to go ahead and publish this conversation with Felix,
because we really go into the more natural side of our connections to life and what that means,
but we also talk about it through similar themes to what Hannah and I talked about in terms of
finding the people who understand you and how this can be hard to do. So this gets us into
thinking about what community is, how we might think of it differently, what we might learn from
gardens and gardening in that system, in that regard, because gardens are complex systems,
before we name them that, and people who are working with the land are working with complex
systems, no matter if we call them complex systems or think of them through that literature or not,
because those are just words and ways we've tried to understand what's actually happening in life.
I think it was in the Kevin Kelly episode I talked about planting some flowers and that we had tried
to plant some vegetables, and one of the things we planted were sunflowers, and they grew huge,
I mean they're really huge, taller than the first floor. So I've never seen sunflowers grow so
huge, but they also became very heavy at the top where the bloom is, so they're sort of starting
to fall over, and I thought about that in this conversation because Felix talks about himself
and how as he was growing and learning so much, he was very smart, and he says he got very top heavy,
and I was thinking of that in terms of the sunflowers of how the seemingly most beautiful
part, this bloom, this huge bloom that comes out at the top makes it top heavy, and then it starts
to bend over, and it sort of needs some help. We had to kind of help it stay straight, but it still
looks for the sun, and sometimes it even curves back up and finds the sun. So I don't know, I was
thinking about that in this conversation because Felix talks about growing up between worlds. He's
French and American, and I think a lot of you will understand what that's like when you're growing up
between languages. You can feel like you don't fit in at all. It made me think of this friend of mine,
Jane Sue. I don't know where she is in the world these days, but she was a friend of mine when I
was a kid, and I remember thinking how strange it must be for her because she went home and spoke
one language with her family, and her family didn't actually speak English or not very well.
They were learning, and then she came to school and was only speaking English. I just say that
because there's a lot of us living in a lot of different worlds, and Felix talks about that in
a really interesting way here and about this feeling of alienation that also can come growing
up in suburbia in the United States, which I know very well, this kind of strange feeling where you
don't feel quite connected to anything. You're always in a car or an air-conditioned room or
something, and it can feel very alienating, and as a kid you have no idea that this is happening,
but there's a very sensory state to it, at least that I remember very well, and I think others might
too, and it's interesting to hear Felix talk about that and how he realized that and then sort of
found ways of dealing with it. Something else he says I think that's very, very interesting and
that's come back to me a lot since I've re-listened to this conversation over the past week or two
is he talks about how we don't have to solve the world, it just needs to be tended to. I think
that's a really interesting idea to hold in mind, at least for me, where it seems like you want to
solve problems or make things better somehow when it's caring for them or just these very small
changes and additions and subtractions of life that make all the difference. So this one is about
gardening, landscapes, the way we think of space, systems, how systems thinking helps us hold
contradictions, and finding the people that understand you. They are there somewhere,
so keep looking if you haven't found them yet. If you have, appreciate them because that's what
we're here for. All right, here we go. Hi Felix, thank you for being here today. It's great to see
you. I just thought maybe I'll let you introduce yourself. What would you like for people to know
about you? Hi Andrea, I'm first of all very happy to be here. Thank you for sharing this time for
this invitation and thanks to the readers and listeners for also participating. So my name is
Felix, I am a French human, French-born human raised in the U.S., pretty global citizen
working at the intersection of ecology and systems change, and also a really passionate, curious
explorer of ways of being in right relationship with reality.
An important idea right now. You seem to have a very deep source of knowledge that is with the
natural world, so-called, if we want to try to distinguish it like that. And so I wonder about
that, about your experience of how you've gained knowledge through your relationship with the
natural world, and I wonder if you might talk about that a bit. So first, knowledge, where have
you mostly gotten your knowledge from in life? So starting with knowledge, it's big questions.
One of the more helpful frameworks in my life is understanding that
as a human being, I have a certain distinct set of characteristics, but I'm also part of a wider
fabric of nature. So looking at a tree, or looking at an animal, or looking at a wave,
or looking at the movement of clouds, I see certain patterns that are replicated
in my body, in my emotions, in different ways. And this is nothing new. This is what
animistic and shamanic cultures have in many ways been working with since time immemorial,
and in many ways it's the common shared spirituality of humanity. And
this way of knowing the world also is
present in the monotheistic religions too, just with more layers of
ceremony or of doctrine in between that sometimes confuses things.
So I get my knowledge by understanding that there's a fundamental interconnection between humans
and the living world. We are a fundamental core part of nature, and not separate from it.
And it's obvious, maybe it sounds obvious to say it, but it may not be that obvious,
part of nature and not separate from it. And it's obvious, maybe it sounds obvious to say it,
but it needs to be repeated because we live in a world right now where our dominant culture is
really sending us a lot of messages that humans are really not part of nature. Nature is where we
go out on holidays and have picnics, and then we spend the rest of our lives in cities and in
offices. I'm really interested in sort of where you were as a child and what nature was for you
in terms of how you came in to know yourself or know the world, and how that connected into
what you wanted to study in these systems of education. Yeah, so I grew up in American
suburbia. I was born in France, and I grew up in a French-speaking household in the U.S.,
so I was a little bit schizophrenic because I was speaking French at home and then
would go to school with my American kids, friends, and I was usually the only non-American there.
And we would go back as a family to France every year, so I had also an experience of
really living in between two cultures, and the reality is I never really felt
like I belonged to either. I was always the French kid in the U.S. and the American kid
in France, and so I think from a very early age I did not identify primarily with
the cultures around me. I didn't have that luxury. It would have been beneficial for me in some ways,
to be honest. You really didn't identify with either one? Was it because you were between them
or not totally only in one? It was because I did not see culture that felt really life-affirming
around me on either side of the Atlantic. This relationship with nature, this relationship with
the living world did not come to me easily. I wasn't interested really in a rigorous way
in plants until my late 20s when I went to graduate school. In my early 20s and mid-20s,
I went through a period of really difficult physical health, and that's what started opening
the doors to being in a better relationship with the living world. I was going through a lot of
physical pain and a lot of chronic fatigue, and I had absolutely no resources to deal with it.
I could go to doctors and specialists, but it was totally unhelpful,
and so I had to learn by myself very basic things like how to live healthily, how to
take care of my body, how to eat well, how to understand myself better, and a lot of that
process led me to the greatest source of rest and inspiration, which is really the living world
around us. I'm looking this way because I have a big window to a beautiful landscape here.
Yeah, it just looks like light pouring in. You said this word life-affirming are two words,
I guess. As a kid, I'm guessing you didn't grow up in the middle of a glorious natural
park or something. As a kid, how does that feel? Obviously, you felt it. Not that you would have
said, oh, it's not life-affirming in those words, but what was it you were feeling then
that you were missing? I'll use a philosophical term here. I'd say alienation.
American suburbia is not unique, but it's exported its model in many parts of the world, but it's
very car-focused. It is a very inefficient use of land, and it
is optimizes for the individual. I think the reality is that that has served a really
practical purpose. I don't want to discount the positive aspects of giving people a certain level
of freedom and material well-being, but there's a limit to how much that works.
I think as a kid, I felt like there wasn't a larger vision in place in the culture that
was really in tune with the full complexity of the world in general, but specifically
the region where we were living. People make fun of the U.S. for its strip malls
and these dozens and dozens of miles of concrete-lined boulevards with just
shopping center after shopping center. Unfortunately, there's a lot of truth to that.
It's hard to experience as a kid because they didn't have the language to really understand
why I didn't like it. In your work, you often talk in a very sensual way, and I think working
with gardens, you've written this book, What's the Purpose of a Garden? You've written about
gardens, your landscape, architecture, working in these issues of bioregionalism, which we'll get
to. There's always a sense of sensuality and of connection in what I've seen in your work,
even if it's in the images that you choose. When I hear you talking about the alienation,
it feels like the opposite of that. I also remember from my childhood where you come out
of one box and you get into another one, the car. There's a very different sensuality there
that I remember as a kid. I couldn't have explained, but it does feel like alienation.
What you were describing about your university years too, when you had this sickness, was that
also a kind of alienation? Because you said no one could really help you. Is it similar to that
feeling of almost being separated from that sensual connection?
It was a big part of it, yeah. I mean, there's a lot of nuance and complexity to the story,
but that is a core aspect of it. How did you find... Yeah, go ahead.
Very simply learning, relearning what feels good and what doesn't, and then making decisions to
change the course of my habits. Was that a mental noticing how you feel? Did you have to go to some
meditation or something? Or how did you come into awareness of these things?
Well, first of all, I'll say that it's an ongoing process. It's like a lifelong process.
It was a lot of meditation, some psychedelics and plant medicines, and ultimately
finding community and friendly human beings who are capable of understanding me. And I always,
it sounds so simple and naive to say this, but it's like, it is really rare to... It's important
to find those people because not everyone is capable of really working with you,
understanding you. And it took me a very, very long time to realize that, oh, maybe I just haven't
been hanging out with the right people. I did my undergraduate at Harvard University and I went to
Harvard because at the age of 17, I didn't know what to do other than to just go to what society
told me was the best school around. And it ultimately wasn't the best environment for me
because it's very, not only, but predominantly type A individuals who have a lot of
intellectual resources, but a lot of growth, a lot of needed growth in the emotional realm.
And so the environments that we find ourselves in is so, so important. There's this saying that
you are the sum of the four closest people in your life, right? So I always think about that
when I think about who am I surrounding myself with? What am I surrounding myself with?
Do you think of people as place? I mean, do you separate those? Of course, a person and
the environment is different, but do you think of it as in the sense of what you're surrounding
yourself with being what's going to contribute and orient you in your life? Is it all of that
for you now when you think about a healthy surrounding? Yeah, I think my model is that
humans are part of nature and therefore people are part of place, whether they like it or not.
And, but there's definitely a spectrum, you know, there's the unique qualities of place,
the landscape, the weather, the flora, the fauna, and that inevitably influences culture.
And it doesn't mean that everyone is totally in tune with the unique qualities of place,
but usually there is some influence. And some places have a deeper imprint on the mindset,
the worldview, the spirituality of people. One of the things I really like about
the San Francisco Bay Area where I'm living right now is that there is a really deep appreciation
of place amongst many people here. There's also a complete disregard of place at the same time.
So, you know, you have to pick and choose what you dedicate your energy to.
So when did you start to realize how important these things are, place and the people that
you surround yourself with and nature, these issues, when did that start to become something
that you were consciously prioritizing, thinking about?
Well, I think it happened in steps. I've, I think, always oriented towards
the beauty of the living world. So I've always, you know, liked to visit and spend time
in beautiful places. Of course, visiting beautiful places and living a professional life
and don't always go hand in hand. So I have kind of learned to loosen slightly my grasp,
my controlling tendency of wanting to optimize for place and community and work.
All of those are incredibly important to my well-being and to anyone's well-being. So I
have learned to not be perfectionist about it. And the San Francisco Bay Area is a place that
has been a very good home for my learning over the last eight years now.
I guess I'm trying to understand how you got from that moment at Harvard where you were feeling
what you just described and, yeah, how did you get from there to where you are now?
Yeah. Okay. That makes better. Yeah. Well, okay. Really what happened was, you know,
I studied political science at Harvard. I had a brief career in marketing that didn't last very
long. And 2016 rolled around. So that was eight years ago or nine years ago now. And 2016 was
the year where I really started to dive deeply into or to first dive deeply into the literature
around climate and where at the same time I felt that I needed to take greater responsibility for
my role on this planet. Previously, you know, I always felt a certain set of responsibility,
but it was easy for me to just move around life and take a job here and take a job there and kind
of, you know, enjoy myself and learn a few things. And it was just, there wasn't really a lot of,
I was missing at the time, a deeper, like a framework to channel my energy. And so
I really wanted to go back to school. And I looked at different,
you know, different types of programs. And, you know, ultimately I really just, I went through
the exercise of writing down what are the things that matter the most to me. And they were three
things. They were nature, beauty, and people. And that led me to study landscape architecture.
So I was at UC Berkeley for three years. I got a master of landscape architecture there.
And it was very helpful because landscape architecture is a very unique discipline that
is, on the one hand, highly practical. It is about making a path or a staircase or a fence
or a structure or foods to eat in a way that people can use it. And on the other hand, it's also
deeply philosophical and spiritual and conceptual. And so it really,
it was very good for me because, especially at the time, I was very head in the clouds,
great ideas. You know, I'd read a lot of philosophy. But it was very ungrounded.
Great ideas about how to save the world or something?
Yeah, or like, you know, things that the world, if only they knew this, or if only they understood
this, then, you know, things would be a lot better. And I think there's a certain point
where I realized that my, you know, I was very top heavy. Like my knowledge was here. And I needed
something to root it down in practical reality. And so that's why I oriented myself towards
landscape architecture. To actually build something, make it happen with your hands
is very different than just to have all these grand ideas. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, after
school, after graduating, it was mid pandemic, I worked as a gardener. I worked as a landscape
designer. As a garden designer, mainly for kind of wealthy residents of the Bay Area.
I took on a few design jobs, designing installations. And, you know, ultimately,
I realized that I needed to find some type of mid ground between the
conceptual and the grounded and practical between the system and the systems thinking and place
based thinking. And that's how, you know, I ended up really orienting around the work that I'm doing
now with the BioFi project, which is, you know, an organization which is, you know, one of the
leading voices in bioregionalism and the way that we go about it is by helping communities around the
world develop tools that can welcome money, finance, capital into projects of social and ecological
regeneration. So that's the journey in a nutshell. Yeah. What does bioregionalism,
for those who've never heard of it, this is a idea I'm hearing a lot more often lately. And I imagine
it has very old roots, but this term, is it a new term? Is it an old term? What is it?
Yeah. Well, the caveat is, you know, as Satish Kumar says, you know, every ism creates a schism.
So bioregionalism is a beautiful word that describes both a practical applied philosophy
and also an ecological philosophy that argue for organizing human societies according to the unique
qualities of place. So aligning economic activity and the stewardship of natural assets
and governance, aligning all of those with the natural systems and cultures of place.
And it's called bioregionalism because of the word bioregion. And bioregion is short for
biocultural region. And what does it mean? It means, you know, first of all, there's no one
definition, but it broadly means a bioregion is a region defined by three characteristics,
really physical characteristics like climate and topography, ecological characteristics like soil,
flora, fauna, and cultural characteristics like art and language. So a bioregion is
in contrast to say a political or administrative boundary. And the reason why
I find bioregionalism very interesting is because places have unique characteristics.
Places, landscapes are the foundation of our lives, the foundation of our culture,
the foundation of our economies, the foundation of the food we eat, of our energy, everything that
we do, everything that we wear comes from the land and the waters and the air, right? And
I've gravitated towards this applied practical philosophy because
we are living in a moment right now where we don't really have a choice but to
reorganize ourselves pretty radically according to what the earth can provide
as opposed to what we are capable of extracting from the earth.
You said nature, beauty, people. Did you just write it down? That's what you cared about at
that time or something? Just make a note of it? And then did that just immediately make you think
about landscape in the way that you just described? It actually made me think more
initially. I was thinking more about art, about art practice. That was where I was
orienting a little bit more in my earlier days. So I was visiting a lot of sculpture parks
and looking at how art could interact with nature. But I found myself
more and more interested in looking at systems, looking at how the relationship between economy,
ecology, culture, politics, and spirituality, they're all deeply interlinked. And
Donald M. Meadows, the brilliant American systems thinker, I think she's American,
she has this essay about the different leverage points within a system. And she says that the
most powerful leverage point ultimately is worldview. Worldview is at the heart
of our models of understanding reality, the tools that we use on a day-to-day basis.
And so I think I have tried to, in addition, as part of my practical work,
there has been a very strong element of storytelling and of changing the stories
and worldviews. So they go together, right? The practical and the worldview. And this was really
a core message in the book that I published three, four years ago, which was looking at
gardens as these very practical applied places and practices, and also seeing what were the embedded
worldviews in them. We talk about values in the book, and I think you sort of divide it up. Is it
wonder, design, habitat, and things like that? Because all these elements that you've been
describing are definitely in that book as a complex system, even the art. And I guess that
was on purpose to incorporate all of that, because there's also these stunning pictures of gardens,
and very different kinds of gardens from rock gardens. The complex system theme
is there at many layers. So was that a kind of conscious choice that you wanted to do a book
like that? Absolutely. Well, I mean, the goal was really how do we stop thinking of
the garden as this little piece of nature that exists in our front yard or our backyard,
and instead think of it as a way of being that is in fact everywhere, regardless of where we look.
You know, the garden as this kind of white picket fence in the front and backyard in many ways
is the problem. Yeah, it's like the lawn or something. These things we just assume are
categories that exist that we don't change. Yeah, and there's some very strong
political reasons for why that is the image that we have of the garden.
There's this one thinker that I really like, Vanessa Andriotti, has this exercise where she asks
people, draw me corn, draw me a piece of corn. And everyone draws a yellow corn with these green
stalks. Whereas in reality, most of the corn in the world, traditional corn is not yellow,
it's multicolored, it's blue, it's green, it's white, it's red. And so we have, I think,
a very normative, culturally conditioned understanding of what gardens are and nature
are. And the book was really an attempt to really kind of ignite some other ways of thinking,
specifically around, you know, non-Western ways of appreciating
gardens and nature, looking at Indigenous cultures, but also
looking at artists and how they have been thinking about using materials in interesting ways.
And also, you know, looking at places that are not in the core center of
conventional discussions. You know, in the book, I look at some of the gardens built by homeless
people in Oakland. Yeah, it's, in a way, what you're sort of describing as a cognitive shift.
And it also seems to relate, I don't know, to the one that you were going through when you wanted
to go back to school and you were thinking about nature, beauty, people. Did you develop a different
way of seeing what almost feels like you took a step back and understood, saw the world differently
or saw your inner relations in a different way? Was that around the same time you started to think
about complex systems or had that already been part of your life? I guess I'm just wondering if
that was going in parallel, that you were also beginning to see your place and what community
meant to you in a different way at the same time that you were also literally starting sort of a
new career that you would present, such as in that book, in that sort of complex view, you know,
that vision. Yeah, I'm not sure how to answer that. I'll try. I think that I
was really trying to find my place in this world and then specifically in the professional
like in the professional world, like where, you know, I was recently out of school. It's like I
need to work. What do I do? How do I leverage these design skills, this practical understanding
of the world with also the fact that it's very frustrating to work on a site when you know that
the entire system around the site, you cannot do anything about it. And ultimately, it's the system
that's impacting the site. So, you know, if you're a landscape architect, you generally, not always,
but you're given very clear site boundaries. And for me, that was just incredibly frustrating
because I didn't want to just make one little place pretty. Because that's also, you know,
the danger of a discipline like landscape architecture is that a lot of resources,
a lot of energy are put into making one place look really nice. But then there's this whole
shadow side where what allows that is, you know, extraction and outside of the site. And so I
started just, I think, taking myself a bit more seriously and understanding that I did have
a desire to think in systems. It just took me a long time to find the right people and communities
to people in communities that really could welcome that type of perspective.
It seems like something we really need right now is to be able to find a way into those kinds of
communities. I mean, as I hear you talk, you know, you were holding a lot of different things. So,
different cultures from your childhood and all these other things. You had the sickness, you had,
obviously, you were kind of excelling if you were doing so well in academics. But at the same time,
you seem to have still felt some alienation. So, I think a lot of these things are themes that
people feel right now. Maybe we always feel, but especially right now. And as you found in your
life, the answer does come when you can find community where you can explore these things
together in an authentic way. In a way, I would maybe even bring up love a bit here because
in a way where you can help each other hold all of those things. And I think a lot of us have found
ways to do this through complex systems thinking and through nature. And you're bringing those
together. We're at a moment now where we need these kinds of skills. Do you see how this
journey that you've been on, have you maybe even in spite of yourself learned a practice that you
might now see as very important? Is it helpful in these times? Of course, I know it's an ongoing
process, but does that make any sense? Is a particular practice helpful or
the practice of political science? Being able to see the world through the lens of the complex
system and being able to understand the inner relation of what you're thinking about and
orienting towards and nature and community. Well, I think it's absolutely
critical to have a systems understanding of the world. Yes, that doesn't mean that everyone
should do that. I think it's a very helpful tool. Not everyone, there's also nothing wrong with
just being a gardener or having a more, I really believe that it's not about the what, it's more
about the how that we're doing. A lot of times people ask like, well, what can I do to make the
world a better place? And it's just like, well, what can you not do? You have a capacity to impact
within what you're already doing, whether that's being in an office or being an artist
or being in government. I think what systems thinking brings that is particularly helpful
is a certain realism. Our challenges as a civilization right now are actually very,
very complex. Systems thinking allows us to recognize that complexity so that we're not
naive about our responses. Systems thinking also allows us to hold contradiction because
it allows us to hold contradiction and to not have simple stories that we use as psychological
crutches that in fact don't lead to an honest relationship with reality. I'm a really big
advocate in what Donna Haraway calls staying with the trouble, which is essentially another way of
saying that we have to learn how to be with uncertainty, with difficulty, with challenges,
and we have to learn to love them. And a large part of the problem of the world today is that
first of all, I think that we think of solutions. We think the world has to be solved.
I don't think that's a helpful framework. I think the world has to be tended to,
but there's a certain violence to actually wanting to solve very complex problems.
Yeah. Yeah, I guess that's what I was trying to get at a bit too because yes, not everyone needs
to be calling themselves a systems thinker or studying complex systems or whatever. These are
just words we put on a lot of ongoing actions, but I think a gardener is already working with
what we're calling complex systems. I mean, that's so many layers of living ongoing life. They
probably understand it better than people who've just studied complex systems. So it might even be
it's another path into being able to hold the paradox or hold these contradictions, which
seems to be a theme in a lot of people's lives right now that's helping them, to be able to
take that step back and be able to hold what seem impossible or seem irreconcilable, I guess.
Is bioregionalism, how do I connect it to that, to that idea of, because right now it does seem
hard to hold all of this. We might have on the one hand, tariffs, like blocking out all of this
ongoing interconnected stuff. And at the same time, we do have this push to be in our region and
connected to the place where we are. And there can just be a lot of messages that we're trying
to hold that can seem contradictory. And I wonder in your work with bioregionalism and with
polyculture, if you've seen this, all these differences that you're having to hold,
if you found new ways of holding them, especially these very extreme dichotomies, for example,
in the United States of left and right or us and them and whatever way one might put it.
Well, I think that I'm going to try and do my best to answer that question because it's
there's a lot there. One way of thinking about bioregionalism is really as a social process
of bringing the inhabitants, the citizens of a landscape, of a bioregion, of a territory,
of a watershed, bringing them together and asking, how do we build a common vision for this place?
To ask that question is not just a playful exercise, although it should be a playful exercise.
It's deeply existential. Not asking that question means relying on systems that are destroying the
systems that are destroying the planet and us along with it. So in that social process,
we confront all the messiness and contradictions of human beings.
We confront business interests that have a certain set of incentives with the interests of governments
and municipal authorities, which confronts with the interests of homeowners,
families, artists, scientists, academics, white-collar workers, blue-collar workers.
There's a lot there and they need in a way to develop a coherent vision.
And a lot of the work that needs to be done in the process of bioregioning is really
creating a participatory process where people feel invited to engage with a messy situation.
And few people want to do that, right? Because we've been sold a model of politics where the
way that we make that we have agencies by voting once every four or five years.
That's absurd when you think about it. It's a delegation of our responsibility
instead of an assumption of agency. And so I consider bioregioning, bioregionalism as
a way to rekindle the fire of agency, to rekindle the desire to work with
messy complex systems that have been getting messier and more complex because
they are not in our hands. Which is why people go hungry in the US now when a supermarket
relying on global supply chains doesn't have chicken and eggs in stock because of some
you know, influenza happening on the other side of the world. We're incredibly fragile.
It's such a fragile system and we don't really realize it because we're putting so much resources
into upkeeping it. And so we really need to like, we really need to wake up to that. The
problem is that everything, all the signs, all the cues right now are to just, you know, keep on
going. I hope that sort of gets at what you're asking. Yeah, it does. And I just also was hoping
to get at, I don't know what question to ask exactly, but the left, right, up, down kind of
perspective shift that you've had. So in your work with bioregionalism and these other things we've
been talking about, how have you found, what ways have you found to actually bring people together
towards regenerative actions that can actually make a difference to some of these problems?
Yeah, well, I think the most helpful way is to focus and believe in
a shared set of human desires and wants that are more powerful than our differences. And I
know it sounds a little cliche, but I do think it's really true that if you look at
the political spectrum, you know, the left, right distinction,
that model seems increasingly out of date. And for example, you know, progress, you know,
the political and cultural left usually believes in social welfare, community well-being,
progress, ecology, and a state to really, a state to support that. Whereas the right, you know,
believes usually in a more traditional set of values, more, less, more of a rural focus.
And so, you know, there are, if you look at these distinctions, there are actually a lot of
common points that actually bioregionalism gets to the heart of. Bioregionalism, for example,
you know, really calls for a relocalization of our economies and our governance systems,
so that it's the people in a place that start to really, you know, start to really
make decisions about what's beneficial for them in that place.
This is where left and right actually find incredible synergies, where the desire for
progress and ecological stewardship of the left meet the desire for local identity,
for tradition of the right, where the left's desire for sustainability meets the right's
desire for relocalization. And so, instead of left and right, it's much more helpful to think about
bottom and up. Bottom being me and up being we. And when you think about it that way,
there are people on the right who want we just as much as people on the left. There's nuance to
that, of course, but I think this model is helpful. And one of the really exciting projects I'm working
on right now is to take the principles of bioregionalism as articulated through the
organization that I work with, the BioFi project, to literally rewrite that language into the
language of conservative America, so that we can start publishing materials that can bring
conservatives into alliance with us. Because the enemy is no longer them,
like we're not enemies. I don't like the word enemy, but if there's an enemy now, it's really
oligarchy. And so, there's inevitably going to be, and this applies for Europe as well and across
the world, there's going to be increasing amounts of dissatisfaction on people who
formerly identified as being on the right with the way that politics are going. And there's
really a lot of really interesting initiatives happening all across the world, and particularly
in the US, around post-partisan politics, which is really what bioregionalism is about. It's like,
okay, let's get over the tragedy and let's start working together because we don't have a choice
anymore. That's beautiful. In your work, have you seen that this can also go across typical
national lines? That these communities can find each other internationally rather than only?
Absolutely. I mean, some of the bioregional projects that my organization works with
are international work across international lines. Just to give you two examples, one
is called the Amazon Sacred Headwaters Alliance, and that's an alliance of
many, many indigenous tribes that are across the borders between Peru and Ecuador.
And then another one is the Cascadia Bioregion, which stretches from California to Canada all the
way to Alaska. So people are working across national boundaries. That really does feel like
the future, not thinking left, right, or even this country, that country, but more in these layers of
what you described as up and down, but as we're all nested together in a way. And I would add also,
it's not about replacing government, like the existing institutions of government. It's more
about adding another layer that can hopefully work. We have to be in relationship with
government, so we're not creating a totally parallel system. So we do work with different
types of municipal authorities and different types of official government institutions.
I imagine your training in design helps you there because you learn how to work with what
already is to reorient it in certain ways. Last question, because I know you need to go,
is I have to bring up the word love, and I wonder if that's too hard to bring into this conversation
of bioregionalism, or if you see a connection to your own motivation or to the motivation you see
around you. Yeah, I mean, we could have a whole conversation just about that.
I deeply believe that we human beings are, you know, we are creatures and animals of the earth.
And what do I mean by that? I mean that we have, for millions of years, evolved in
proximity to living landscapes. We are, you know, our organs, our minds, our bodies are all shaped
in relationship to gravity, to flora and fauna, to shifting weather patterns. So our relationship
with the earth is ancient, and you can't really, I think if you take a human being
and you put them in an urban concrete jungle, there is something missing there.
So I think there's a role for cities. Bioregionalism is not just a rural process,
it's actually it's about integrating rurality and urban life. But a human being that is,
I think, divorced from other forms of life, more than human forms of life,
I think is fundamentally alienated. And so love is really our recognition, in this context,
love is our recognition of our deep, deep interdependence with the earth.
The earth is our mother, you know, it is where we come from. And we have long lived
thinking that we can just take and in a way live on its surface, but we are not
on the surface of the earth, we are in the earth, right? And, you know, the earth also extends,
you know, the atmosphere extends, I don't know how far up, it extends pretty far up, and we are,
and we are really in it. And I think bioregionalism is largely, it's beyond being
like a social and political and ecological philosophy. It's also a recognition that
we come from place and we go back to place. Yeah.
That's beautiful. And we always are that place too. It's strange, alienation is such a difficult
thing that we've all felt in different ways. And it's even more tragic because it's just
that we haven't understood that connection or been able to relax into it or trust it or
something like that. Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. And I would say, you know,
I don't, I'm very careful about not fetishizing or romanticizing indigenous cultures.
But anyone who has spent time with, significant time with indigenous cultures realizes that,
you know, I'm generalizing here that they have a much longer relationship with mother earth
than we do. We, and I say we, I'm talking about myself and people from kind of the
the urban west industrial civilization. We are only a few generations removed from that.
So it's actually very much alive in us if we, it's evolutionarily programmed in us. So it comes back,
I think very quickly and bioregionalism in this sense, you know, is nothing new. We have been
bioregioning since we've been human beings in the sense that we have been learning how to be in
place. It has just come up as a term recently, starting in the 70s, but now with kind of a
renewed emphasis because of the polycrisis and the times we're living in. It has come up with
renewed emphasis because we realize that we need to, that we are envisioners of this planet. And so
we need to find and create ways of recreating social, economic, political systems in line with
that. That just reminds me of the way we started with getting out of one box and into the
other box in the car and how that's, from what you just described with the indigenous kind of
way of being in the world, that's still part of us. Maybe this is some way that we
can understand that those kind of systems actually do have a direct effect on
how, you know, what's possible for us, how we feel, what we want and how we build the future,
I guess. Yeah, I really like there's a term that's been helpful that a friend of mine introduced me
to, which is ADD, which stands for Agency Deficit Disorder. And it's a way of speaking
about how one of the biggest struggles we have today is in the lack of a sense of agency.
And we have many, we have, we need to create support systems for each other. We need to
signal to each other that we can work together and we need to do so at scale. I think
that type of signaling, the stories we share are, and the aesthetics also of how we share that
are really an important thing to pay attention to today. Does that give you hope when you see that?
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think we have all the resources and all the capacity to change
things. We just need to actually believe that we can. Wonderful. Well, you and your colleagues
are showing ways we can do it. So how do we connect with you? How do people find out more?
I am, so the organization I work with is called the BioFi Project. So there's our website,
biofi.earth and that's the main way. Yeah, I have my own personal artistic design website,
which is polycultura.com. That is interesting and fun to explore as well.
Well, it's been wonderful to talk to you and I really appreciate everything you've said today.
I think you made some really resonant points there that will be helpful. So thank you and
thanks for the work you do and good luck. Thank you, Andrea. I feel like we could keep on talking
for a long time and I hope this is not the last conversation. Yeah, I think we were just getting
warmed up to be honest, but that's the time we had for today. But let's just hit pause for now and
come back another time. All right. Thank you. I really appreciate it. All right. Be well.
