I was sitting in drama class once, probably, I was probably 11, 11 or 12, and a question was
if all of you apart from one aspect was subtracted away, what would you choose to keep?
Something like that. That was the something of the meaning of the question.
And I immediately felt voice. I'll keep voice.
There's something about the meaning of presence and the affirmation of presence in the world.
That was what was fundamentally there. If all else were to be stripped away, then my expressive
capacity, in a sense the dignity, the uniqueness of that, the self, the soul, whatever the me is,
I am, I'm here. At the end of a talk I gave once, I said, I believe, something like the
essence of integrity is sharing space, not holding space, something like that.
Because of course, you're offering something profoundly valuable. Ultimately, you're offering
a truth of where your edges are, of what your dreams are, of what you care about, what you're
seeing. The generativity of relationship, real generativity of relationship, requires that genuine
skin in the game risk. That has to involve sharing space, which involves something tremendously
radical and actually involves the kind of thing that the great religions and great symbolic
ordering structures of civilization are offering in a way that is capable of mediating aspects of
evolution, including technology, for instance. What is it to think our time and create in our
time in a way that welcomes in some of those evolving aspects of reality? What is leadership
in that context? Holding space is critical, but then also sharing space seems important too,
and the risk involved there is tremendous. In that moment where nervous energy or anxiety before
going out on stage or taking on a task is the alchemical transformation of that into the,
hey, well, this is it, this is life, this is an opportunity that can be alchemized into energy,
a certain acceptance in it. And so to take that on then, to affirm the occasion to,
one could see that as the necessity of putting on a mask. We're really getting to know each other
and we're open to the slips and the glitches in the matrix and the deeper contexts that
is more than just whatever the immediate small talk is or the deeper dynamics underlying actually
what's orienting the value in exchange we might be recognizing in any context. And we can start to
get to know each other and appreciate more of a depth of sharing space together. And we can
appreciate more of the depth in the space that is being held by another in that process. There's a
way in that sense of playing with the masks we have and noticing and tuning to the underlying
or permeating self that is energizing and orienting the integrity of our relating throughout them.
But why are you attending to it? It's because you really care about it. Why am I doing anything at
all? I cannot not be in relationship with love and the cultivation of its momentary forms in the
world. For me, I think about love in terms of ultimately in terms of loving transformation
again as a dynamic. I find the word very powerful because it seems to enable that sense of both
holding and letting go. Forrest Landry, who's a philosopher, who's obviously makes, he's been on
the podcast many times and I appreciate him very much. He has an expression that is love is that
which enables choice inside out as it participates in the relational field, presencing and bringing
to voice the transmutation of perception into expression as a generative relational activity.
That relationship is where we cultivate the trust. Then I think there might be a few things,
fundamental things, which are being neglected. I disagree foundationally with what you're doing.
How well comes that, right? Okay. Or even if there's a sense that that might be present
and even if there's a sense that that might resonate from some aspects of soul or knowing
we might have about what constitute the fabric of our belonging together in nature as beings,
then that seems to be felt. My sense is that that is terrifying to some kinds of authority
at different phases of the maturation process to be charitable and they don't want any of that.
So what are you going to do? How are you going to treat that situation?
It's just so unbelievably clear that we need each other.
Hello everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. I'm Andrea Hyatt and today's episode is one of
those long, intense, and generative, if you stay with it, conversations with Tim Adelin,
who is the founder of The Voicecraft Project and who is also a philosopher. This one really touches
on some important themes for me, which are very hard to talk about, which is why it's so long and
intense. Even the title, Holding, if you've listened to me at all, you've heard me talk about holding
paradox and Tim really challenged me, not on purpose, but he started talking about sharing
and I started thinking about what's the difference between holding and sharing.
He was talking about it in terms of space, so the whole idea of holding paradox is really about
entering into the space beyond polarization, being that space in a sense, and I started thinking
what's the difference between that and sharing. I also started thinking about groups and the ways
some of this that you will hear in this episode will seem really emotional and philosophical and
wonderful to some of you. Others, it might seem very strange and esoteric, the way we talk and
the way we let the conversation come in almost without any plan. Sometimes there's a lot of
just pausing and letting the conversation come and if you're not used to that, it could feel
really strange or even off-putting. Others who listen to this podcast find the more
normal sort of interview process off-putting because they're just sick of everything being
planned and everything sounding like a hook. Anyway, what I was going to say is it made me
think about when I was younger and I moved a lot and I noticed something strange. Every time I moved,
I would walk into these new groups and there would be completely different references that people
just expected that I understood. I kind of would have to pretend or sort of just observe until I
really could understand what was going on. Sometimes what they were doing would feel awkward or annoying
and I'm sure could have been the same if I acted the way I had been acting in whatever
city I had been living in by those references. And there was this kind of friction to it which
was really interesting in a sense, like made me think about life and about myself, but also
was frustrating. I couldn't name it and it took me a long time to realize what was happening,
that I was encountering this whole different constellation of communicative habits and patterns.
It wasn't that the people themselves were somehow really different from all the other people I had
known in the different places I'd lived. It was just that they'd come into this world together
in a sense and they'd shared references and they had a way of being together and a way of living in
this world that most of them had been in their whole lives. And so they didn't question it and
it was just their normality. But of course I'd been in another situation which had a different
normality. So there was a kind of resistance or friction or meaning making going on there that
I noticed as a kid, because you know you have to if you're the outsider, coming into a world where
everybody assumes the inside. And I know a lot of you understand that feeling in different ways than
I do and in your own ways, but over the past decade I've really thought about that in different ways.
I thought about this idea of the thought collective which I first heard from Lynn Margulis who was
quoting Fleck. I'll put all that in the show notes, the references. But this idea of a thought
collective has given me a little bit of a way to scaffold what I'm talking about here. I've really
noticed over the past five years or so that there are a lot of thought collectives happening. I mean
you could think of podcasts and YouTube and these different ways that we all are meeting one another
as thought collectives. And some of them overlap and some of them don't. And some of them can feel
very strange. A lot of them that maybe started seemingly at the fringes eight years ago, nine
years ago, have now become part of mainstream everything. I mean from the highest offices in
the world there's some kind of influence there. So something strange is happening with the way
we're collecting around our thinking and as our thinking. And I'm not going to pretend to understand
it, but the reason I'm rambling on about this is Tim Adelin has been part of one of those groups.
He's actually been part of a lot of thought collectives, but he's created this thing called
voicecraft which is really dedicated to the voice as a craft. And how can we cultivate wiser thought
collectives? I mean that's a little bit, that's not a word Tim uses, but how can we cultivate
these groups that are sort of wiser or able to communicate more authentically? And how can we do
that without it becoming itself somehow insular? And this is really hard to do and also a very
important thing to be trying to do from a place of care right now. And Tim really is coming from a
place of care, which doesn't mean he's some perfect person who's not concerned about all the normal
things of life, which is what we talk about here. That's why I'm bringing it up, because we talk
about the tensions of all of this, of trying to be authentic and follow your bliss towards creating
something you think will be helpful for the world and how there's a lot of tension in that and a lot
of competing interests. And that's where this idea of holding and sharing comes in and what it means
to hold space versus what it means to share space and how this plays out and everything from our
most intimate conversations to these public dialogues that we're now sharing online,
which then become food for algorithms, which then give people new conversation as if it's somehow
coming new to them, but it's actually coming from all these conversations that so many of our LLMs
are now being trained on or training themselves on as they look through the web. So the idea of
thought collectives and how we might cultivate a more kaleidoscopic or constellation thinking
view as we enter into them, I feel like that's so important. Just the way we notice that there are
these different collectives, even when you come to these conversations on love and philosophy,
some of them are probably really strange for you. But if you come to it knowing that it's maybe
going to be strange and feel a little bit weird and let it without rejecting it, what happens?
I don't know, does something good happen? Hopefully sometimes it does. I've found that it does, that
we don't have to immediately assimilate and agree with everything we hear. We can also observe it as
kind of like a different school, to put it in my childhood when I went to a different school and
I observed it. So how do we come to recognize that and recognize the maps and the masks that we wear,
that we use? Tim and I talk about that. We also talk about cookies. Yes, the kind of cookies that
come when you go to a website and they track or leave the path so that you can more easily
come the next time, let's say it like that. What an interesting idea to think of in our technology,
but also in all these conversations we're having. The cookies that we're carrying and that we're
allowing and that we're deleting too. And third, something that surprised me in this clarity of
the conversation, which is also very esoteric but also not, is this idea of the large language
models that they might be teaching us something, which I find very important, which is that we're
not our language and we're not our thoughts. That's something I've tried to articulate in
a lot of different ways and I tried to articulate it here with Tim too. And he sort of re-articulated
it back to me at the end of the conversation in a way that was much better than the way I had tried
to articulate it. So that was a really big gift. I'm really thankful for that. It was very helpful.
I do think we all need to think about what a large language model LLM really is and what AI
really is and what this mimicking of our representational forms might really be showing
us. Because it's not mimicking us, it's mimicking the ways we've represented each other to one
another. And that's a real blurry confusion right now. We need to get clear on that or I need to
get clear on how to express what I see there. So some of this conversation is about that too
and about integrity, about speaking honestly, about being flawed human beings, about needing
to make money, about do we need to make money? What is money? About play. Playing, it's a beautiful
word. And in this context, we even think of it in terms of theater, a play or being a player in the
theater. The many different ways that this is also part of our life these days or how to become an
authentic actor. And somewhere in this two-hour journey, Tim also articulates this idea of
meaning. Meaning is happening and you're part of it, I think is what he says. So what a pleasure
to have this conversation and what a pleasure to have been asked into conversation with Tim and
to be taking part in some of his voice craft gatherings, which there's probably one going
to be published somewhere that we had recently. And it's a beautiful entry into the constellations
that we are. And I hope you listen to it and listen to other voice craft episodes. Look at
Tim's work and just think about these ideas, what we're really trying to do. It's funny,
but I started thinking about two poems. One was the Of Many Worlds in This World by Margaret
Cavendish, which I won't read to you or anything right now, but just that title. Of Many Worlds
in This World. I think I just want to say the title. And then the other poem I was thinking of
was by Raymond Carver and it's called Two Worlds. And that one I can probably recite to you,
although I might get it wrong. But actually, let me just look it up. Let's see. So the other poem
was Two is Two Worlds. I want to expand that. So I want to think of it as multiple worlds, but
we often enter into the multiplicity of the kaleidoscope or the constellation through two.
It takes two to know one, which means there's always at least three. So here's a poem by Raymond
Carver called Two Worlds. In air heavy with odor of crocuses, sensual smell of crocuses,
I watch a lemon sun disappear, a sea change blue to olive black. I watch lightning leap from Asia
as sleeping, my love stirs and breathes and sleeps again. Part of this world and yet part of that.
Hello, Tim. Thanks for joining me on Love and Philosophy today. Today, tonight, I'm not sure
what time it is there. Yeah, it's what time is it? 7 or 2 in the evening. It's a pleasure to
be with you and meet you, Andrea. I thought first it might be interesting to think about this word
voice craft. I love that word. And I know there's a lot of connection there to your work. But I
wonder if we could start with your voice and maybe what that word means to you or how you even came
into start thinking about what that word has meant and has become as a project and as a community.
Yeah, awesome. Thank you. You know, what comes to mind is similar to some of the reflections I
was having about the meaning of love and what it is to share anything at all about love or show up
in the way of love in public communication. Because as you asked me that question, a number of
stories and memories came into my mind in terms of the genesis of let's just take the word voice,
for instance, and what that has meant to me and where that came from. And I think to myself,
well, there's another like deep, like deep myth just here for the algorithm, you know,
here it is, another one. And, you know, and maybe that's just one of the things that one gives
over to in today's age. But I was sitting in drama class once, probably I was probably 11,
11 or 12. And a question was, if all of you apart from one aspect was subtracted away,
what would you choose to keep? Something like that. It was the something of the meaning of
the question. And I immediately felt voice. I'll keep voice. And that always stuck with me,
that memory. I suppose when I think of voice, I think very broadly about expression as such,
what it is to participate in communication, which is in many respects what it is to
participate in life, in reality. And what it means to cultivate that, what it means to
share that, of course, what it means to receive the world, to be present on the channel,
to hear another, but also what it means to give of yourself, what it means to
belong to and contribute to the context of belonging and the question of one's life and
all of these things, as creativity. All these things come up to me, come up for me in the
meaning of voice. And then, of course, we can particularize that in the context of
conversation or philosophy. But at the heart of it for me is the meaning of expression as such,
which can come through in, of course, so many different forms.
when you said voice, when you were 11, do you think you only meant it in the way of being able
to communicate and speak to people bodily? I know it's hard to go back to your... I can't even
believe you said that when you were 11. But I'm also thinking of you in the context of you said
you were in an acting class or something. So the sense of performance, or performance is a weird
word, but wanting to connect with people in a particular way, which is still part of your life,
was it already there? Were you tapping into that with that feeling of voice or
what does that bring up? Yeah, but there's something about the
meaning of presence and the affirmation of presence in the world. That was what was
fundamentally there. And I suppose that's also wrapped up in terms of how I was relating to it
then in the form of identity. If all else were to be stripped away, then my expressive capacity,
in a sense, the dignity, the uniqueness of that, the self, the soul, you know,
whatever the me is, I'm here. And so in a sense, it is a profound affirmation of
the belonging we are in life, but of course, can often lose or feel as though we are disconnected
from or feel as though is under threat. Or of course, when we express, we can be received
poorly or find there's nowhere to share. And so of course, we don't always necessarily feel like
we belong and we can recognize many aspects of our culture, which are disenabling of
cultivating a enriched kind of belonging in the world. The performance piece,
I'm very lucky in that for the first sort of nine years of my life, I experienced a tremendous
amount of love and felt through that, as though I was worthy of being. And in a sense, that is,
the aspiration toward becoming in life and the reality of becoming in life, that education and
maturation is and growing up all of that is, I felt empowered to be on that journey. And
there's a sense in which there is a kind of performance in a bringing to form of that.
So yeah, drama for me just at high school was an opportunity to express
what I felt I was unable to express at that point in my life. And I came to recognize
quite quickly as I left high school, went into university, that the actual reality of drama,
acting that whole world was a far less, for me anyway, effective enabling way to go about
actually cultivating expression. I wasn't so much interested in creating characters or
performing in a manner that was divorced from
my journey of understanding or really connecting with people.
It was just something, it was one of my interests and it was an opportunity to
step outside of the usual overtones of expression at school.
It's wonderful what you said about feeling like you were safe, or I don't think you said the word
safe, but feeling like you could be yourself and express yourself and because you were loved, that
you were held in a way as what I was thinking of. I think because I had this conversation with some
researchers and one conversation that was published recently about play and how we hold the space for
each other, where we feel safe enough to kind of become in the way that you were just talking
about, and it's a form of play which is interesting with the play on theater and plays
and performance, but also I was thinking about craft and the voice craft, I mean your podcast's
voice craft or your project, and that crafting, the way you described it made me think about
another word that comes up a lot in your work and that's transformation or the transformative.
I'm sort of thinking you were already finding a space where you could
transform. You said in theater you could try to be the people that you felt like you
couldn't be or something, so that's really an interesting space for me to think about in terms
of transformation. Do you think even back then or even now that is that a thread that you see kind
of moving through these spaces we're already talking about childhood and out? Yeah, yeah,
definitely. I mean, yeah, it is curious. I attended an event yesterday which I didn't really want to
go along to. It was an event for let's say entrepreneurs and business owners and in the
panel discussion the invited guest was a branding expert and they were sharing very effective advice
for sure and they're very successful at doing a particular kind of
narrow thing which I do think is ultimately
corrosive in a very deep way.
And one of the pieces of advice on the question of authenticity and how can I cultivate an authentic
persona or express authentically online make 90 posts one a day show up on the channels. How can I
on the channels? How can I be authentic? Someone asked this question and very quickly the answer
back spoke to a notion of authenticity which I think rightly recognizes that we are and appear
and take on different roles for each other at different times and in different contexts
in mothers, fathers, sons, daughters, friends, lovers, opponents, so many other kinds of
roles and moments and of course great friends bring different things out of us. We can be more
humorous in this context or more serious in this one and navigate some philosophical terrain in this
one and so okay we authenticity doesn't mean some absolutely consistent symmetric thing
in all possible contexts over time
but part of the sentiment shared was lacking something about
still what it means to show up with integrity across all of these different roles.
The question of what it is to show up with integrity and I say integrity as a core part
of the meaning of authenticity in this case and I guess speaking about that would be interesting.
That's part of what comes up and it's an ongoing question. What is it to share voice to craft
voice in a public context, in a private context? What is it to take on a role or play a certain
kind of part for the sake of opening a space for dialogue or for some endeavor at opening
a cultural clearing or to support the becoming of another's voice, playing the role of interviewer
or questioner or dialogical partner? Why shift the roles we're playing?
In what way, what kinds of transmission, what kinds of exchange, what broader patterns,
deeper patterns of participation can we tune into and cultivate and make together,
attend to in the making of together as the field between us which also constitutes part of that
integrity which is in fact what I am and can be.
Some of that is perhaps quite convoluted but this brings things toward some very ongoing
inquiries for me and maybe I'll stop there and I'd love to obviously continue to
try and clarify what could be meant here but I think it's very important.
It is, it opens up so many exciting possibilities because well the voice craft isn't necessarily
one voice and even that voice craft could be a kind of stance or tool or what's the right word,
orientation and that could be manipulative or that could be as you were saying authentic and
we talk here often about how to hold contradictions or the way things are always contradictions and
you kind of have to hold the space around them rather than choose one or the other or something
or the idea of being and becoming or needful freedom where as you were talking about the
branding for example that's a very very difficult contradictory space to be in in a way that we've
been describing where as I was looking at your work I mean you say often that you don't say it
like this but I get the feeling you want to hold the space and when you said that your early life
started in love I kind of got the feeling oh he wants to kind of hold the space for people to
find their voice or make voices or create voices together because it's a lot of dialogue.
It's not often about one person's voice it's the voice that emerges through a conversation
you know that's the kind of craft too in your work that's interesting right that that feels
like there's so much integrity in that and in wanting to hold the space and help people become
or just be and also like create new voices that that emerge when we come together that's
really exciting and then of course you're also human and you're trying to survive and like you
know it's it's a business and why does that feel like something I shouldn't say right now like that
that we shouldn't talk about in the context of all that other stuff yeah holding that together it
feels really rich and hard in this moment yeah I mean there's so much there there's so much there
I already sense that there's so many conversations to unfold all of that so I won't try too hard to
respond to it all and just feel where is first of all thank you so much for sharing what you
just shared I feel that you are very genuine in your in the perception you are sharing of what
you see in voice craft and it's awesome to hear there was a time I said at the end of a talk I
gave once at a psychedelic festival it was the second psychedelic philosophy talk I gave
and at the end of it or at the end of my part I said I believe
something like the essence of integrity is sharing space not holding space something like that
yeah and I said those words in a flow of expression that was very much on the pulse of its own
inquiry this wasn't something I had formalized in that way before but of course what is at stake
in that expression is an ongoing life project of relation so of course the thoughts and all the
rest of it are always flowing within me and that was a three years or so ago now I think
and I said that and in the process of saying that invited a close friend and collaborator
of mine Cam who's been on many of the podcasts up and he brought the event home and he spoke
very beautifully and I was quite emotional as I did it I found the talk quite difficult
in parts I think I spent at least a few minutes in silence and I edited some of that out of the
video but not all you definitely get the sense of it I just sat there really dwelling in
in in a sense there's a kind of performance of dwelling in the silence but
the silence is a lot more powerful than any performance of the silence I can give you know
what I mean like sometimes when you can't find the words and you are without words there's no
you're kind of beyond performance at that point you know and that's all good and I was deeply
nourishing there was quite a few reasons why I was in that way at that particular
festival I was expressing a tremendous amount of frustration and it's a returning point of
frustration I continue to experience and I've metabolized in different ways about
just how challenging it is to create contexts and participate in society participate in structures
of power across different interests market interests the context of business politics
identity religion all the things all the things and we can break it down in technical ways these
different conditionings and constraints on voice what it is to participate in philosophy
what it is in a sense to cultivate trust and intimacy with respect to love with respect to
building and co-navigating in a manner we might feel to be loving I was particularly frustrated
with the lack in what I was perceiving as
leadership contexts in our time in that moment
and I was also
so remarking about the difference between holding space and sharing space and I
certainly think holding space is something to aspire towards and cultivate the capacity to do
in a sense in holding space we are supporting the possibility for parts or aspects which may be in
some kind of
difference some kind of potential discordance or chaotic relation with each other perhaps within
someone else to have the space to find their connection to maybe express in a way that
meets another and could potentially be quite generative but might from the perspective of
leadership risk the membranes or openness to experience of some of the others who might be
there in that space which is being held and so having someone or people who are capable
of holding space that can help to manage and condition and tone and shape some of that energy
that's exchanged we can say okay well we want to get the ship from this island to that island
we can keep it on somewhat of an even keel in order to do so and there's a place for that mode
for sure but then well what about the people who are holding that space hey where are their limits
what are their boundaries just what are they permitting and what are they not right are they
gods so it seems like seems to me that belonging is a continually at least in part it's it's an
evolving thing as well what is it to genuinely welcome the participation which is making with
and creating that and revivifying it and all of that that has to be that has to involve sharing
space which involves something tremendously radical and is actually involves the kind of
thing that well in effect the great religions and great symbolic ordering structures of
civilization are offering some answers to what the ultimate containing symbols or structures
for mediating exchange ought to be we know as well that we like to challenge some of those
or might not always feel that those are being kept as well as they should or perhaps have not
been formulated in a way that is capable of mediating aspects of evolution including
technology for instance and so well what is it to think our time and create in our time in a way
that welcomes in some of those evolving aspects of reality what is leadership in that context
holding space is critical but then also sharing space seems important too and the risk involved
there is tremendous so i think a lot about those things that's what i'll say some of say and
response i love that that you challenged this holding a bit because that's a word i use a lot
and there's a lot of ways to think about holding it can be embracing it can be a more controlling
kind of way i'm holding the space or i'm making this happen but i think it also has to do with
the way we understand self in the way we're assuming a self already that's somehow separate
from everything around us like you in that room i'm thinking about in that silence is silence can
be so vulnerable and you really realize how you are that room in a sense if someone wants to make
fun of you in that moment it's gonna change whatever that feeling is or if someone i don't
know in some in some weird way everyone in the space however they're feeling in that moment is
the holding you know even though someone had to kind of rent that room or invite you or whatever
which is also kind of holding so when you were talking i was thinking holding and sharing aren't
opposites but they're different they're they're almost it's almost like the awareness or something
becomes the lens or the kaleidoscopic kind of switching there of of how we're thinking of it
and importantly when we use those words we're all maybe in a different lens which is why it might be
even more important to bring up the word sharing just so that we have that other you know foot to
kind of balance on so i appreciate that that's really important and another thing that came up
when you were talking was i realized how we have to show up in so many different spaces these days
i find it confusing i don't know if you do just to go back to that discomfort with the branding or
discomfort with holding a space in the sense that you're responsible right you've created voice
craft it's a community and it's co-creating itself but at the same time there's there is a holding to
it that's a responsibility of caring for it and how do you care for it in the right way with while
being authentic in within a space that's kind of telling you that that event you went to which
probably isn't bad in itself it's giving people a way to do things to to create but you know there's
so much of that now and it's like you feel like you have to make make it happen right if you're
if you're responsible for a space so when you were talking i was thinking about these different media
platforms which i see you on right we show up in different ways if we're on sub stack or we're on
linkedin or we're on youtube like everyone's in some spaces makes more sense than in others and
we can all kind of tell we're a little more awkward in in this space than that one and
it's interesting isn't that we we're all going through this but we almost do it silently or
something as if it's we take it for granted that we're supposed to show up in all these different
ways and i'm kind of rambling on about what came to mind when you were thinking but
how does that strike you in in that context of of holding sharing and also that vulnerability
and that silence that you that you shared that can feel really potent and also far away when
we're in a space like social media space where we're holding you know our project yeah well
certainly i think the holding and sharing are complementary and um you know we probably have a
like a tremendous lack of capacity to hold space well so it's not like you know even the message
of cultivate you know your capacity to hold space i mean we need way more of of that capacity for
sure yeah being the space i mean it brings to mind sort of receptivity i suppose to further
clarify the distinction if we think about education and the importance of learning
obviously i do find that zack stein is a fantastic communicator of educational philosophy
so i'll just name him for anyone who's not familiar with his work if they're
interested in this topic but in thinking about education the teacher who well their teacher if
they are in zack's terms that you know have teacherly authority in part it's because they
actually have knowledge or skill set that is worth transmitting and if i translate that to some of
the language we've used in this conversation and certainly i use in the context of belonging then
i think about the kinds of learning which can help us contribute to the context of belonging
in which we participate in well obviously that's necessary basic examples might look like well if
we're unable to teach younger people how to look after the nuclear reactors then we might have some
problems in a few decades time as being one you know basic example maybe we'll just teach the
machines okay well let's leave that avenue just for a second but then there's the education
and the myth but also the openness of being to support the orientation to transgress
that's not the same thing as learning what's been done previously
but it will have to become the case that the son or the daughter will eventually need to tend to
the environment or new phenomena and the mother and the father may not be there or may not be
adequate to that challenge for any number of reasons likewise we face different conundrums
as a culture as evolution continues and so what is it to transgress the norm
there are different contexts that explore and cultivate let's say character and trust
in those spaces which we could potentially think about as you know transmembranic i don't
neutral or novel where there is no authority necessarily which has the complete map to
identify what needs to take place and doesn't even necessarily have the direction
for what's worthwhile certainly doesn't have the keys to realizing the most beautiful
possibilities you know so partly you could sort of point to the domain and affectivity of things
like the tantra in that realm this is not something that i am in any way a teacher of but i know that
in the east this is essentially the kind of language that points to in relation to sutra
points to that sort of farm a particular imminent kind of transformational unmapped activity
beyond the established rule set of the society necessarily or ordinary time for interaction
you think about also things like liminality and as well you know the the deep you know what it is
to enter deep creative philosophical exchange thinking about both being open to the sacred
but also to engage in the conceptual mediation with difference these can be profoundly
risky and unstabilizing and dissolutive
activities which are nevertheless necessary for a reintegration into a
a more whole or remade whole i like thinking in terms of whole making certainly a dynamic
process rather than wow we've finally figured it all out that's not where i'm coming from
and so that's where the the the sharing is located it's that mutual participation in an
unmapped encounter real contact with life and um yeah i'm losing well maybe i'll just bring
the expression to a close there are the business parts yeah and the importance of holding and all
of that and uh yeah i don't want to that's a thing i don't want to downplay any of that the
reality is in so many contexts i participate in of course i'm i'm showing up in a very
in in a mode that is very much taking responsibility for holding space it's never
held as a kind of front and center hold hold you know it's never kind of like it's it's just part
of my it's much more i'd say if i am well and i would say this aspirationally uh then it you
know it would animate from the axis of my being and um part of that you know part of the endeavor
is to cultivate the kind of relationships that can appreciate and perceive and are sensitive to and
can support you when you yourself are limited so it's not about including hiding where my own
limits might be but in fact to share that i am navigating a particular kind of limit and so
invite and not only invite but sometimes call out for and maybe you don't even have the words to
call out for aid sometimes you know but the field can be there and others can be there so
you know it's it's it's just so unbelievably clear that we need each other you know and so
they're totally complementary you know yes this autopoiesis sympoiesis autonomy
bringing forth the world while the world brings you forth it all has to do with what from what
position we're looking at it but it's all dynamic and ongoing we're always changing each other and
we're also always calibrating where those membranes are in a way it's interesting when
you were just talking i thought oh well maybe there's a role for this disruption in that
sense of jiggling the membrane you know like uh and by that i mean you said you didn't really
want to go to this event you know and um this branding event and then there was this kind of
maybe i misunderstand so that's why i bring it up but i had i heard this kind of tone of
it's not really the kind of thing that turns you on you know and yet you kind of went it's almost
like an obligation which is an interesting energy to act out of but i was and and that seems oh
that's negative and oh yeah we have to do these things but then maybe that's actually a kind of
a disruption because it is interesting to have to face that stuff and look at your own reaction
to it and notice how the membrane is going to react i don't know if that makes any sense or
if i'm if i'm actually putting something there that wasn't there when you said it or how does
that strike you yeah i mean it's very perceptive it's you know one thing which does come to mind
is obviously i'm beginning to share uh parts or aspects of the context of my life and um
you know we and i will respond and we can continue to look through this particular setting
to illuminate different patterns for me it's uh you know quite a minor instance and um
and there would be a lot of context to share to situate at a level of friendship why i was there
and what i was doing but i think you're yeah quite perceptive about it yeah i did go out of a sense
of obligation obligation to show up with open energy despite having a pretty strong and
evidenced you know belief of what i was going to find as a vibe of course not all the things i
could possibly find an interaction with people plenty of openness to possibility there but of
course we do have limited time and energy and um there are other things we could be doing
i was there primarily just like i would say all of the other people because the subtext of that
context is this place can help you make money this place can help you make that's actually the
foundation reason for being here together all of our language of community
is subordinate to that if we're a community our common unity is that we want to make money
and um how far that can be followed as a as an orientation to
cultivate an enrich community is a totally different question and i uh i did in fact as i
stood up at the end to ask a question once the event had ended i wasn't chosen to ask a question
unfortunately but as i was standing there i was approached by a woman who
you know asked me who i was and what i was doing i said i'm i'm a philosopher and that's it usually
an invitation for people to open up you know in ways they weren't expecting and so she started
speaking to me about her relation with christianity and then her husband's work and you know we had a
meaningful interaction who knows what will come of that and so that's great that is what it is
but the the thing is in lots of these contexts and i i guess i'll just share this to add some
an important dynamic to that's really influential on our possibility to
open space for deeper exchange and deeper relating with the patterns of our time and
cultivating the kind of connections which want to also be part of a an understanding process that
can support us to build and create and interact in society and as and with nature in a way that is
wiser than just following the ordinary patterns set out for us which may not be as wise as we
might hope to do that does of course require energy and time and capacity and all of that
and there is a way in which genuinely opening up to relationship and opening up and participating
in understanding is very right for parasitization parasitization predation
because of course you're offering something profoundly valuable you know ultimately you're
offering a truth of where your edges are of what your dreams are of
what you care about what you're seeing and um you know many other things besides all of which
can be in some ways
is received and taken and applied in a manner which doesn't necessarily return
energetically to the cultivation of that context of relationship
so just what does one give of oneself to contexts that may be interacting primarily
in a zero-sum competitive way with the sense that if i don't find a boat for myself
then i'm not gonna make it so i'm gonna not worry so much if my activity of trying to make it
pushes you down that little bit that's the dangerous sort of iteration that can happen
because we are so porous and we can the more we are around certain ideas we do start to sort of
take them on i mean that's just kind of what happened so there's always this strange dance of
trying to stay authentic or or or having trust and and being in touch with the things we were
talking about at the beginning and then also that the way that you can sort of start iterating
towards the competitive or whatever but when you were talking about there was like a lot of
m's coming through i mean money meaning but also in i think it was in maybe the a recent video or
something that we shared of that you shared with me you said you were talking about maps and um
masks and was it maps as masks or map masks as maps or something i don't know why that's coming
up in this context but that's interesting too to think of the mask and the map and the way we can
perform or you know find the craft in these things and yeah yeah that was awesome i shared that video
with you i mean this is uh always yeah it's fun to revisit poetic expression you know from several
years ago i uh and so what i'm about to say is not coming from a place of uh formalized philosophy
but yeah i mean it is interesting isn't it i mean the connection between masks and maps
you know one thing that comes to mind in the context of of love as we are here in the context
of love and philosophy is the you know if i wear on my face you know consciously and less
consciously you could think about makeup as an example of sort of the conscious modulation right
but also you know shaving and also the efforts we might put into our physical health and our
expression and all the rest of it even the sense of confidence one might want to project
and actually the adoption of confidence as such you know in that moment where nervous energy
or anxiety before going out on stage or taking on a task is the alchemical transformation of that
into the hey well this is it like this is life this is an opportunity that can be alchemized
into energy and a certain acceptance in in it
and so to take that on then to affirm the occasion to
you know one could see that as as the necessity of putting on a mask and you can think about it in
terms of personas and the necessity of how the psyche presents itself as at that public persona
level and of course you know if there's artfulness and depth and we're really getting to know each
other and we're open to the slips and the glitches in the matrix and the deeper context that is more
than just whatever the immediate small talk is or the deeper dynamics underlying actually what's
orienting the value in exchange we might be recognizing in any context and we can start to
get to know each other and appreciate more of a depth of sharing space together and we can
appreciate more of the depth in the space that is being held by another in that process and so
there's a way in that sense of playing with the masks we have and noticing and tuning to the
underlying or permeating self that is energizing and orienting the integrity of
art relating throughout them and in a sense of maps the connection could be there well of course
the persona and the mask of that is an invitation to a certain kind of interaction that we can
mutually hold together so we can make it through whatever this thing is you know a transaction a
cashier and entering not that i've entered any ballrooms recently but you know maybe you
meet the person who's opening the door for you and i tip my hat to you you know what i mean and
in we go right with a with a wink right so somehow i just had a great vision of you
sort of in a movie an old movie going into a ballroom it was very fitting actually especially
with the theater idea i could totally see it but you talk about territory a lot and um there's
well it's funny i asked you i wanted to ask you about love you know relative to your work because
and you sort of said something really interesting about i mean before this conversation in an email
about how you don't you notice that you don't really talk about love directly or in the
foreground i think might have been how you put it and yet you had this wonderful way of saying
it's kind of like the cookie or something that you know if you founded it would sort of unlock
everything even though it's not spoken and i find that really interesting also this word value i
wanted to ask you about because almost every i mean i'm exaggerating probably but it comes up
it's not that you talk about it directly it feels also like a bit of a cookie in the background but
the word itself does come in every now and then in a conversation or or maybe i just heard it i
don't know but it's like what it seems important so those two things are on my mind yeah yeah i
mean it over the years i might also have used the word quality a lot more than value you know
goodness beauty these sorts of things meaning at a different time are you saying you might
have used those same words to point to a similar yes important yes i mean affirmation basically
you know but you know so maybe there's the sacred not to say all these words are exact synonyms
but in many instances they could function as isomorphs you know it's it's funny because
it's um there's almost an absurdity in naming value or meaning or significance as such
um right um because you know here we are very much performing in the sense of leaving out
something valuable or or else what are we what are we doing and uh you know so one of the things
which has been on different things i've you know cards i've printed out or on subtitles or titles
in videos i've created is something like meaning is i think um the first thing i wrote on the
voicecraft website back in 2016 or 2017 when i was making it something like there is meaning
and you're involved you know better better copy than that now right but all manner of ways right
to try and give you there's meaning is and yet as is so often the case and many people of course
are speaking about the overindulgence in following the dictates of quantity over the
cultivation and appreciation of of quality tyson yoncaporta who's an indigenous thinker who's
based in melbourne he makes a nice distinction here many others have similar distinctions between
increase and growth growth is more to do with quantity and scale is increase is to do with
the quality of connections within a context so in that sense enriching rather than just um seeking
to stack quantities of that which in principle could be converted to wealth all the while we
may have been neglecting or maybe hollowing out the actual quality and relational integrity
which is the deeper enabler maker of of wealth right so yeah oftentimes it's so so let's take
love you know and especially in the context of sharing publicly what is more affective
affectively in inducing of affectivity than love spirituality
ultimately the sacred significance oh someone's speaking on that yeah someone's speaking on that
well if you feel or for whatever reason sense rightly or you know accurately or not that someone
is saying something about that that's interesting well well you'd be really interested like
like if love is in question then by definition you are probably profoundly interested and i mean
that in the sense of imminently in one's life not just as a point of discourse but if the question
of love is in the air if the question of love if love as a possibility as a reality as a as a living
necessity like as part of what is connecting us is in question then you're going to be pretty
affectively engaged and by necessity somewhat open how could one engage in the question
the living the cultivation of love in a way that was entirely closed right just
totally dispassionately okay maybe there's unconscious process going on but well that's
unconscious process and either you're it's so uninteresting you're going to completely tune
out and you're no longer engaging whenever that channel of communication is or you're still there
attending to it and you're just sort of that bit more split from yourself but why are you attending
to it because you really care about it it's just you're dissociating about why that is
is why am i doing anything at all i want to i am i cannot not be in relationship with love and the
cultivation of its momentary forms in the world for me i think about love in terms of ultimately
in terms of loving transformation again as a dynamic and i find the word very powerful
because it seems to enable that sense of both holding and letting go
you know forrest landry who's a philosopher who's obviously makes he's been on the podcast many
times and i appreciate him very much he has an expression that is love is that which enables
choice and uh you know before i met forest and started um reading his work i he actually uh
created the world's first um weed vaporizer and uh some of my mates bought it sorry what is a
vaporizer oh like a like a vaporizer okay yeah yeah just put the herb in there and he made that
i think that was released in like 2009 2010 the magic flight light box i feel like that's the
natural state walking around new york these days or many a city right feels like a vaporizer but
anyway yeah that's great i didn't probably probably not just a vapor probably a whole bunch of other
things all manner of fumes yeah and so anyway and there's something that comes through in that
phrase which is very important which is similar to these other dynamics i'm sharing there's a
certain there's a certain an affirmation of openness to potentiality that is beyond one's
capacity to contain in an image derived from a separate
uh self in a sense that no one perspective can speak on behalf of the totality can enclose
reality you know you can think about idolatry and these sorts of things in similar kinds of ways
so the holding and letting go but in the context of the digital to speak to love right to invite
is for me this is about participating in relationship this is really about understanding
what it is to live and die well and to and to serve and to transgress what it means for some
to serve so you know it's uh it's
it's an openness to relation and possibility that
in a sense is not
is not demanding anything and on the other hand
is it cannot but make a call to everything
and um
i've just always been and continue to be unbelievably skeptical about the way that
that people who pronounce on some people who pronounce on love and intimacy and leadership
of people of new cultures of old cultures
how they show up to relationship and how they meet that context of transmission
and um and and i think woven throughout all of my expression is a continued modulation of
like proximity you know in the sense of
of well
i prefer to meet someone in the question
and to and to participate in the in the mutual cultivation
of what expresses as love not to draw in to
the center my expression of love right like the hearing about that intimacy
yeah is it are you more comfortable in these liminal edge work
becoming sort of spaces do you think are the does that feel more you're not not not in your
natural state but when you're saying that i wonder about who who you're skeptical of or what the
skeptical ness is here's what it felt like when you're talking that there's a kind of pulling
back and and and creating the identity and like sort of assuming some kind of uh
some kind of uh self or brand i don't know these words we've been talking about but these
this kind of way in which um we all have roles but are you skeptical when someone starts to believe
their own role or something and they don't go into that liminal edge worky risky conversational
space or yeah yeah no i i really appreciate what you're saying uh i felt and i feel that i can't
answer a clear yes to that just because it's so important that the the aspect of me which does
really care about formalization without making without putting that on a pedestal and actually
like really happy it is not leading is nevertheless so important that
i feel more comfortable meeting a response to that liminally let's say am i more comfortable
in those spaces i mean or trust them more or i don't know if it's comfort ah yes yes when it
comes to uh so super super interesting here so in like a lot of this conversation has already
been that um but this in particular is very feels very risky like there's something about
this exact moment and the way i could respond here which brings into question whether or not
i am sufficiently understanding the medium in which we're participating
and whether in that potential lack of understanding i'm actually doing a disservice
to the the deeper dedication so but
uh in saying this what what that means is that that is also in my experience and to my you know
thesis will be actually beginning now to tune people out of staying with attending to the tension
i'm bringing to question so what's naturally coming up for me in order to stay kind of in
presence and in integrity with you is i am beginning to layer and push away even even here
but at the same time in doing that i'm still i'm still showing up right in there right so why
because there's so much in our world that's totally fucked like it's totally fucked
in in terms of the integrity of voice and the and um
and there are people who take different strategic responses to that as a conundrum
and uh i watched you know and or which i enjoyed i always liked star wars as a kid
anyway in season one i believe one of the main characters what was his name luthen
he shared that his
his sacrifice he was the the predominant protagonist leader of the
the nascent rebel intelligence resistance against the empire
and his primary sacrifice as he named it was that he had been he had accepted
that his role was to use the tools of the enemy
now he was involved obviously in assassinating people and if he was concerned that there might
be a leak in his intelligence network he would do whatever was necessary to plug that leak
and there's something about that
something about that engaging the tools of the enemy that's very interesting
part of that part of that tool set in in our context seems to be
using words and truth in quotation marks to just get what you want
to get the short-term outcome that you want according to the strategy you might have or
maybe if you're more of a chaos agent who's not necessarily got much strategy going on then
whatever the immediacy is that you want to orient the other towards
gary stevenson sort of a left-wing economist makes this reflection about the financial elites he was
often in participation with they were really just showing up to just they would say whatever to get
what they want and they weren't really attached to the truth value the integrity of their words
attached to the truth value the integrity of their words
and so to tie this in
when we speak publicly
about
matters of the how we navigate our perception or how we
develop or cultivate or sense the integrity and others that's
what can be gamed in response to that becomes quite interesting one of the
one of the things which are a collaborator of mine for a number of years
is would often say to me he had participated in many different
very large very large online networks when these were more popular during covid
headed up by fairly major influences he had a lot of experience witnessing how people could
enter the space and learn the language game but also the sensibility of the game
and convince a whole bunch of people that they were very effective or maybe even righteous
in their navigation and orientation in that domain gain a certain kind of status and leadership and
credibility as a result and then oftentimes destroy to his perception anyway destroy the
context in effect what has always been core to the orientation in voice craft is looking at
trying to understand what constitutes the mode of engagement in the highest dimensional sense
deepest dimensional sense so not just at the level of the language game obviously
what constitutes that mode of engagement which can protect the integrity of communication
when we are in a space that is not in fact held
and that almost by its very nature to the degree it's attractive or interesting
or engaging or in any way you know attentionally attractive for various kinds of people
is going to attract people who might be interested in that for
its power and its possibility and its proximity to whatever else
and so what is it to engage then with sociopathic psychopathic impulse people who
who or who might otherwise be just a little bit more twisted in
their own
self-relation to love and how that shows up in their actions or something like this
that could be where that that last part could be worded way way way better technically
um and so
so it's a wild it's a wild wild conundrum because i mean there's so many things which we could say
are at the heart of voice craft in that regard but one of one of the you know one of the calls to
hey attend to this problem space and often talk about this with og rose and he speaks about this
about this you know unbelievable philosopher og rose speak about you know pluralism and
the challenge of speaking and engaging with the other in that context
and you know this doesn't have to be and isn't primarily a matter of
highfalutin philosophy but in so many countries in the west in the world today we have
an unsettled diversity of culture identity
um often with different perceptions
at one level of what is perceived as most valuable or most necessary for them
but how do you mediate that how do you relate in context where you know there is real question
and disagreement and tension and maybe lack of language all these types of things
i'm kind of giving an example here in a concrete sense which hopefully is you know way more down
to earth if we imagine like what potentiates violence between peoples or classes or ethnicities
or identity groups before it takes to the streets in the motion of violence itself
where there might still be openness for conversation or when there is enough energy
spent that we can pull back a bit and when does that moment come to then
re-engage and with some openness to cultivating relation
yeah that also points to this dynamic unknown of real encounter and
what is it to cultivate trust in that context what is it to build genuine intimacy in that context
what is it to lead well what is it to have the genuinely the humility to follow as well
those are sort of given twos and like one extreme over here and then the other extreme over here
and uh i'll stop there i could say i've said a lot there i could i want to say
i want to continue to orbit around what this is you know i'm having a computational kind of explosion
of possible threads that i want to i mean there's there's so much in there let me just say a few
things that i remember because a lot of things are coming up one thing was that you brought up
this like we're almost like or i heard at the beginning that we're sort of feeding the algorithm
in a way or maybe i'm reading it through my own thoughts but because recently i never thought
much about i mean it's been hard for me to be public and share things that was hard and
doing it was a practice right and only recently i've started realizing that we're all
you know everything we talk about and say is literally kind of going into training
llms and all this other stuff and it feels weird in a way that i think kind of touches on what you
were getting at in a different context and then the other thing uh was when you're talking i was
remembering this thing maybe 10 years ago where it was like don't waste a good crisis never waste a
good crisis that was a kind of a theme and it felt kind of revolutionary like oh wow we can
alchemize the crisis into something beautiful and help one another it felt like that in the time
and now it feels like we've started just creating millions of crisis so we can alchemize them and
it's similar to that feeling of the llm uh speed at which we can no longer comprehend
what we're creating kind of there's some link between those things that came up as you were
as you were talking and then yeah i'll just stay stop right for there there right now and see what
okay yeah i would that was great i mean i i'm super i would be interested to listen to you continue
all the different things that are coming through there but i'm happy to respond as well but if you
if you have anything more you'd like to say i'm more than well i'll say the next one was also
thinking about how your conversations and voice craft at least at some point i mean you know i
haven't listened to every single thing so i can't talk about it like i as if i understand your whole
what like eight years now of it um but it seems like you invite the same people often and you
continue conversations and so that also feels like a kind of trust that you're building or that you
there's something going on there that feels both uh it speaks to what you're saying there in a sense
of answering it but also when i think of it through that manipulative framework that's now
suddenly everywhere of the llm thing it it also makes me a little i don't know it almost
hurts me a little bit i don't know maybe that's being maudlin uh that that i'll just leave it
like that and also another thing that was coming was i was thinking about um how we we are heard
and we are talking with i mean we're right now talking across the world and uh this is like
normal now we just do this and and who knows who hears it i mean i have no idea how all these people
who look at my channel i don't know where it comes from i'm completely i can't figure it out at all
what's going on and people and and you know that everything's getting interpreted in different ways
and you can't control that and we're all speaking out of particular language references that sometimes
might mean completely the opposite in another context and if you start to really think about
that it can be paralyzing too um and and the only answer i can really find is trying so hard to be
a little bit naive in the sense of always at that edge that we were talking about of
i'm just trying really hard to present how how this is coming right now uh but at the same time
of course you you you know you're learning and cultivating and all of this so again it's that
holding this sharing holding becoming making uh space so those were the thoughts that were
coming up most yeah yeah yeah awesome i just mad mad respect and appreciation for
all of that and uh
uh why people in
great you know death why people in different degrees of quantity listen to this or that
is something of a mystery because one of the things which um has characterized my experience
and i suppose in quantitative terms like this is of course not true but you know sometimes
i would say that you know i've made more friendships than i have audiences like or
number of audience and obviously there's like a massive limitation to how many relations you
can be open to and of course relating relating with the reality of scale and network effects and
structure in that regard is very very critical to the overall philosophical endeavor of understanding
cultivation of culture and participation in our time and power and all of this
is but my experience is is that i really know fairly well and hopefully more and more well
a good number of people who listen to the podcasts i create and of course who participate in the
voicecraft network you know so many of the people who return on the podcast are members of the
voicecraft network but who are also you know creators in other networks and in their own
projects not all of them but some of them you know notably people like og rose and cadet last
who are both members of voicecraft are outrageously generative philosophical agents in the world
totally irrespective of any participation in voicecraft but so there are a number of people
who aren't you know members in quotation marks who are part of the relational field and who are
part of you know cultivating i hope trustful relations with myself and and maybe a few others
in the context to return again and again and i would say that it's always an interest of mine
that i sense whether or not there is openness and possibility to return in conversation
and it generally feels like a failure if someone doesn't want to which isn't to say that people
should want to of course but if someone doesn't want to speak to you again well that's obviously
a very that's very interesting i'm not saying it is a failure in and of itself
but for part of what voicecraft is it has been wanting to hold open the possibility to deepen
and participate in and to clarify understanding and be in response to changes in the world and
really does hold to the knowing that we need each other now part of the
lack in what i've managed to realize so far is a reliable recurrence of interactions between guests
who might have
really strong differences of identity or opinion
as influences there has been an interest to be able to do that to be able to but there's just
a lot that goes into that and of course a tremendous amount of plausible deniability
for not responding to invitations for and then various ways people might not be interested to
show up to these sorts of things so yeah that that responds to some of it um in that to link
in this theme of in a sense that the the sadness or the the cost the pain of
having to adjust to a world in which artificial intelligence is becoming so unbelievably
capable at mimicking fundamentally
how we look what we sound like our sentence structures well
surely this is just the absolute death knell of trusting public communication
but across what medium and what actually is what does it really mean what really is it
to participate in communication what are the deeper mediums of exchange that we
you know craft voice on and receive each other now i do believe that voice craft is pointing
towards and is at the very least in dedication to the kind of
just in the last few days i've been speaking about it in terms of technology so i'm going to say that
but i'll say it's very much in dedication to the kind of
technology which is inherently anti-fragile to just that kind of mimicking
and just that kind of parasitization of the comments fundamentally of the deepest comments there is
which is
which is the impression that other self and other make in the
second person field of relationality as such so stupid that's so stupid philosophical
words yeah you could specify at different levels of analysis you know life love so
yeah what is that technology what is that inherent capacity we might want to
point to it with language like
i would say that it's an inherent i would say that it's an inherent
lineage gift of humanity
in a sense like part of what constitutes an essential aspect of what constitutes
our capacity to remake and tend to the integrity of the commons and communication as such is a
lineage birthright as manifest in the dignity of all of us but it is in continued need of
cultivation and is itself part it seems from my perspective part of an evolving change process and
and so the question as regards the mediation and strengthening and recovery and innovation
and you know technical development of what it means to
protect the potential for trust is like remains you know you know an open question and also a
technical question for sure like by definition it's not just technology it's like you know
some of those other elements i was naming in relation to the technical skill of let's say craft
have to do with the
the there is an impossibility of naming there's an impulse is an impossibility of naming
creativity as such there's an and in in effect we can all only show it in our in the endeavors
which are also in a in a sense kind of unknown to ourselves and then we can kind of turn around
and go all witness and go oh that was quite beautiful that was creative you know or i felt
you really move something in me in there or that question really afforded me an incredible
opportunity that unlocked some free energy you know free energy as i think really interesting
to think about in relation here but anyway i could go on and continue to try to try and clarify there
but there's i don't believe that artificial intelligence as we're presently seeing it
manifest can stand in for what is most sacred in life
life but i also think by and large we are really struggling as a culture to
step forward with the sustained courage and coherence of effort to
to nourish the conditions of possibility and the spaces for actually cultivating our capacity to
to appreciate and share in and create in relation with in orbit with in touch with the sacred
on the pulse you know when the chips are down
and but then some of the people i respect most what they hold to when they're really pushed you
know elder les spencer here not that you have to really push him to get there although it would be
very kind to push him he wouldn't take kindly to a push he is strong in the conviction that
people under conditions of stress
can like spontaneously you know realize a great adaptivity and can become very functional in
context so
the only other thing i'll say i know there's just you know many other things that could be said is
that that's part of my perception and part of why i think some of the voice craft conversations
can be so esoteric is you know one of the things which seems to
to characterize
why aspects of our society and you know techno economic power order are so insidious is that
it is so
so capable so it's its capacity is to be able to
keep you satiated energetically just enough to keep you just engaged in
cadet last another excellent philosopher being put puts this well um sort of stuck in
autoerotic loops you know the bliss points of food but also the dynamics of you know and attention
and addiction with screens and whatever else so capable of the system is so effective at
um mediating addiction something like that
keeping people on a certain kind of life support that our energy is
drained and our skillfulness relating is drained so that is my that is one of my concerns it's like
how atrophied and drained are we becoming such that
in under conditions of you know chaos or great immediate complexity we might be too hollowed out
to respond well that is and the stacking of power in the sense of sensocratic
techno feudal sense is so wild um i don't know like about about any of that but um
but yeah that that's definitely that's definitely one of my one of my big concerns um is and that
seems to be one of the plays i would say not necessarily ascribing that to specific agents
but just in terms of the identity of the system um you can give people just enough to keep hanging
on while they become progressively weaker and more alienated and uh and that is that's the
great question i think one of the great questions for people living and building and wanting to be
adaptive response is is that question of orientation towards let's say
um critical activity you know if one recognizes that their current patterns are sort of killing
them killing them softly killing them slowly then at some point with the energy that still remains
um needs to be put towards and hopefully an adaptive new form and there might be like a
certain energetic requirement that's necessary to make that transition and um it would be fun i would
say to cultivate more conversation about that but there are big there are quite a few barriers in
the way of being able to have that conversation i would say you know indy johar who i really
respect he said to me in person you know that the time for conversations uh is over you know
you just need to build you know something like this and he's being a bit hyperbolic i think
um certainly in terms of how i think we've been understanding communication or conversation in
this context in a sense it's always present yeah i would say yeah the the time for conversation is
only is only becoming more relevant and um i suppose you know i uh when you were sharing
your orientation and you know your maybe wonder but also i think there was a sense of gratitude
in there and um also a sense of responsibility in how your conversations have been received
that just made me very happy i felt very happy in receiving that and
and i was just feeling like yeah you're a legend well done that that was my
orientation because there's no you know i've heard how you've you know how you've
how you've shared in relation to what you've perceived in my work and my efforts and um
yeah it's very
very very discerning and uh and caring and so that's awesome that
there are people so many people listening so yeah mad respect for that
that's all i don't even know what to say about that but i the care is there and that
i'm thankful for if nothing else because i have no idea like where that comes from either but
there's so many things in there but what you're saying there that conversation and building and
caring and um it's something i think about so much all those themes especially with right now
where we we've brought up language a lot here and i think there's something about maybe even the
youtube medium and all these conversations and that is a kind of building i think a lot of people
mostly learn now from these kinds of formats and there's a precariousness in there too but there's
also like what if we really can have a different sense of awareness about what what language is
and what images are and what representations are and not think of them in the way we do
now i mean two things were coming to mind when you're talking about all that one
seeing this kind of buzz about how now you can download your voice and and your image and then
you can kind of create podcasts or whatever of yourself that's not really you i don't know
about if you can do that with image i don't haven't heard anyone doing that but you can with your voice
and how that strikes me is a little bit hard to figure out how i feel about that um you want to
know something crazy if i interrupt for a moment yeah you don't i wish i didn't know this i want
to know yes but actually uh i wish i didn't but uh one apparently one of the most powerful
voice ai software thingos that's been made open source guess what it's called
it's called voicecraft oh no seriously wow well that's uh what are you gonna probably
probably more people if you had taken let's say the four month period around when it was launched
probably more people signed up to my mailing list on the voicecraft website yeah i was about to say
you're probably gonna put that yeah well thinking it was that then not now anyone who's primarily
interested in using uh you know that technology to mimic voice i can almost guarantee you is not
going to be maybe one in like a thousand just makes this mad like dialectical pivot and
completely changes the whole orientation towards life but i don't think many it's funny oh that's
really funny i didn't know that but the the thing is there's a way in which this can be so scary
and crazy and all of this and there's another way in which maybe we're actually going to learn
something really transformative here for example i'm thinking about some terrible things that
happen because of technology for example in like 2016 or something when some i'm not going to go
into politics here but like one group in one country was creating some propaganda-ish kind of
videos against another group and it just because the algorithm on this particular social media
platform was just built to maximize attention and because it got your attention it just kind of went
crazy and it caused a lot of destruction and death and pain actually i mean it was definitely very
connected to it and the reason that happened was a kind of lack of awareness that it could happen
in a sense like if if we all kind of understood on a different level that process maybe i mean
in an embodied presence in the kind of way that i think you're expressing we need the conversational
bodily really here sense if we start interacting with technology in a way where we know what it's
doing i mean it's almost hard to talk about because then you do go to a different level of
of how you're using it so it's almost like we could kind of move through this point this vortex
it could almost be what we need in order to understand this is language that's being
that's representational that doesn't nothing we say and no video ever is alive or human in the
sense of able to fully encompass the source from which it's represented you know like that's a
really really hard thing to understand i think philosophically incredibly hard it's so hard to
even articulate because the language is built on you know so you get so meta here but in a way i
could almost see this as a vortex where we're going to find that language if we
which is why these kinds of conversations and the kind of voice craft work that you're doing
and that other people are doing these communities right that feels more important than we might
really understand right now if we can really keep it towards that liminal space of trying very hard
to find that language and you know and move through that vortex i don't know if that makes
much sense to you but yeah yeah i i think what you articulated was really excellent
i'm reminded you asked me earlier in the conversation if i feel more comfortable in
those spaces i would say like
no like i would say yeah comfort i would say like ah it's difficult maybe maybe maybe i do
i don't know i certainly don't you know sometimes i'm received by people
and they think uh you know why can't you just say what you mean
or can you just be a little clearer or more like determinant
i don't walk around having all my interactions like this right i i love
i love the opportunity to share some words with my football team right before we go into
a battle do you know what i mean zero percent ambiguity
but still drawing on an integrity of philosophy there's times and places
and places
i would say that in good company one of the most enriching beautiful creative
spaces to be in is that is a liminal space but it's continually sourcing from
um something that's actually deeply rooted and so the liminality is
you know it's like it's you know you you you move it and you breathe it through
you're being present to it it's almost as if you're trying to get out of it or something
it's not that you're just floating around in a passive liminal space you know there's a kind of
tension that you're embracing that's keeping you present there yeah yeah exactly i i don't relate
to my own capacity or interest in the liminal in a perverted way i don't think i have a perverted
relation with the liminal that's good to hear yeah but let's have got to be real careful that
you can actually say something like that when you go and say something like that
doubtless i'm twisted up somewhere in and among it all but on that regard no because
it's actually the way to
to there is no
there is no there is no joy from relating with the liminal if one isn't
and actually profoundly willing to what word am i going to use there what i'm going to be
one word was going to be die
but another way to voice that is to just be is to stand for something is to stand for something
and commit one's skin in the game
and the generativity of relationship real generativity of relationship requires that
genuine skin in the game risk
and so it's awesome to get to know people who you are both engaged in let's say liminal
conversations with in the in the real way because you are cultivating a sense of what the other
person is really for even in the context of navigating questions for which no one has
the answer of let's say what exactly to do or how history will unfold so that would be you could
look at that as one of the paradoxes in a sense and and so therefore it's
often the misperceptions around things being too liminal or not
straight and clear and
and concrete enough come from
very challenging very difficult to presence
contradictions and
sort of
dissociations
in our relation between our thinking process and our feeling process or our minds and our hearts
and and our capacity to see that in others so if at all it's just all the mind you just up there
with mind where are you rooted or grounded where are you coming from well there would be a million
there would be a million ways to language in any in any particular sense just in what ways
our projections might be misperceiving someone with respect to that but that's something which
has been a tremendous and ongoing learning and surprise began as a surprise for me
and has become something i've become a lot more used to was the way in which
like really knowing how i can be received with real
care and trust in speaking from the heart let's say by some who i then cultivate relations over years
with in that spirit and then others who can be so strong in their authority of naming
you're not speaking from your heart or you're not connected with your heart right now right
there's something very very interesting about that when that happens and i've you know
you know i've heard those intimations at the beginning of the journey from you know people
like gabo mate even who resonates the signature of like world historical grief
is like the ultimate archetype of someone who you would trust right in his elderly sense of
there's of you know interesting stories around that and other and many others too
i you know i respect right so it's very curious how these sorts of what what comes into play
why am i saying all of this in part is just what's coming up but also there's a thread back in to
respond to the really excellent articulation you gave of
of how technology with the capacity to mimic so remarkably that the is kind of like highest
quality mimicry on tap could be enabling of the reflection that it is not just the what that is
said and not even just the how that it performs or the way that is performing but actually the
inside out as it participates in the relational field presencing and bringing to voice the
transmutation of perception into expression as a generative relational activity that in that
relationship is where we cultivate the trust but what's in between our cultivating relationship
what kind of constraints and modulators and unexamined elements within ourselves but also
in the systems which condition our interaction are actually functioning to enable or disenable
some of that context part of what is going on there are often dynamics of the kind of like
systemic and like mediation social systemic mediation of status and authority and power
as kind of habituated momentums of various institutions and roles some of which are valuable
and in need of taking very seriously and protecting in a sense
but often also laced with dynamics which are deeply disenabling of the actual cultivation
of the commons of relationship and conversation that we might actually be wanting to develop as
a culture and so that that so you know practical questions which come out of that are
if i am invited onto a stage or to someone's house or onto a platform or i attend some event
like one the other day where there's part of me which is like look if what we're interested
in here maybe is the cultivation of real wealth the kind of wealth that will support
you know our building and our tending to the gardens that our children could meet and play
in together and learn in together with each other and their children could over the decades to come
then i think there might be a few things fundamental things which are being neglected
in the very orientation toward gathering people that you are evidencing here in your event
i disagree foundationally with what you're doing how well comes that right okay well even if there's
a sense that that might be present and even if there's a sense that that might resonate from
some aspects of of soul or knowing we might have about what constitutes the fabric of our belonging
together in nature as beings then that seems to be felt like her my sense is that that is terrifying
to you some kinds of authority at different phases of the maturation process to be charitable
and they don't want any of that so what are you going to do how are you going to treat that
situation many things to say about that obviously that's been an ongoing relation so i'll stop there
there's but that point about the technology yeah i think i kind of responded to that i think
that's a super interesting idea i think that that is a very optimistic take on it
take on it and i think that you know wielded by genuine you know magicians there is
something very promising in what you said uh and we're probably going to find out regardless
and we're probably going to find out without it being uh you know handled by the kind of
magicians we would like that's what becomes of that i don't know we can also get in there and
and and change it i think it's a possibility it's definitely a possibility that we understand that
we're not i mean i think part of this is tied i mean in my own work which we don't have time to
go into this whole thread but just thinking about and you too as a philosopher we think about mind
and cognition and what it is and a lot of it has been kind of associated with language and a computer
in our head that's symbolic and that's been really helpful for a lot of change growth awareness and
maybe part of this going through the vortex is changing that too because we're not in our head
and we're not our language and so on and part of the reason we see this power in the llm is
because it's language and it's almost impossible for us to dissociate language from life in the
sense of the lived experience that we understand as life but that would be a whole other conversation
but i do think we can pull those threads apart and we have to and it's really hard and if we do
it's this something when you've been talking that comes up a lot for me is the idea of us as
multiplicities of beings i mean that we literally are multiple beings here but we also are multiple
beings in multiple spaces and i feel like that's connected and i know you've had you know i think
you've had some conversations about that i know you've thought about that and and that's part of
all this too and that's part of being able to maybe find the flexibility to you know shift
shift this dance this in a different direction and another thing that's come up just to kind of start
to wind this one this conversation down for now is in your conversations and today too you've well
before i say this first i want to say thank you for some of the gifts you gave me where you just
said really beautiful things and i'm not sure i accepted it with like exactly the right grace
because i find it hard to know how to accept those but i really do accept them and i feel them and
thank you but now i want to say in your work when i listen to your conversations i don't know how to
put it into language but there there feels like especially because you do with more than one
person that sense of what you talked about is the silence and the beginning story or the vulnerable
space of not being beyond words and you know just to relate this to language that feels really
important to me and i want to say that i recognize it in your your work and some thing i had thought
maybe i would ask you about is how that feels to be or if that's changed something in your life
being in that kind of presence with like four men or something you know over and over again i mean
to me there's something incredibly beautiful about that doesn't have to be men but there's something
about that that feels important to all we've been talking about and that's transformative in a way
that we started with at the beginning and i just want to bring that up and like let it be here
and see if it brings anything up to kind of end this because i also want to ask you if you have
any experiences of love or anything like that that you want to share before we close this
conversation for now those those are the things on my mind so you can take it wherever you want
with that but yeah wow awesome thank you andrean that's really beautiful
yeah i definitely am profoundly grateful for how many opportunities i have
to participate in long periods of silence again you know with others in the gestating and the
creative opening a creative receptive silence those are incredible silences and again i actually
remember in a drama class when i was 12 or 13 different activities you can do where you have
20 people in a group or 15 or whatever it is and you've got a count to 100 and you don't know who's
going to say what so one person can say one and then you don't know who's going to say two next
but if two people speak at the same time you have to start at the beginning so when am i going to
speak and tuning into that and i used to really love that i used to find that really interesting
i never used to think about that why i found it interesting but the attunement to that
is one of the key things that is shared as a let's say a guideline toward practice
and i've gone again often in the voice craft context i
usually downplay the practice element in favor of the praxis with an x like that skin in the
game real thing you know because that's i was gonna ask you about praxis actually yeah yeah and look
i mean there are there are a few people who regularly participate in the in the voice
craft context and if they listen to this you know i'm going to include their names and i
often make this joke i'm going to continue to make it until it really becomes not funny probably
at different times but both kyle lawrence and again cam duffy are both like if you were having
one of those games where it was like not games but you know you really went into the silence to
see who was going to speak they just might never talk do you know what i mean so like i'm surrounded
by people who like really let the silence really let the silence speak you know and then i'm
somewhere in the middle right which is like i'm actually i'm holding the space a little bit here
we are here to engage a little bit after all i might you know might step in there and invite
something out and that's crucial too is that there are lots of people who step into the space
and more people i would say who are too afraid or who might not feel worthy or something to step
into the space we could have a whole conversation about that just the various resistances people
feel it's very interesting because um maybe maybe we do maybe we feel the strongest resistance to
stepping into contexts where we actually will be met well you know that's almost more terrifying
it's to actually be actually be received well but that speaks to what i was just trying to
express to you too that it you know like when someone tells you something that is a compliment
or expresses care you know sometimes it can be hard to yeah absolutely be there well we're all
very attuned to our own lack you know particularly the people you most want to know i would say
which is the other paradox you know but um yeah even when i said that to you i
and it was like a couple times in this conversation where i felt like well part of
the invitation is here is you know love and philosophy so the invitation is for me in a sense
to risk a little bit i don't usually my experience in general podcasting particularly appearing on
other podcasts is often quite negative only in the sense that i know my disposition is to
give quite a lot of myself and recognize that what i'm giving can be received in many different
ways and that that is part of the process and in instances where the question is how complementary
or what in that sense of appreciation i am to share to another and in that context of love
of and we should rightly be skeptical of people you know you've got phrases like love bombing
right this type of thing where people are using praise and love in quotation marks as a tool of
manipulation consciously or less consciously and you know deepening and clarifying that is
is a core angle into some of what i was trying to communicate earlier
around why love is somewhat backgrounded in many of the conversations
you know and partly because as well how how you know voice craft as an endeavor
and what i'd put to you as well is part of the endeavor and if i can say responsibility
on the edge of this wave of cultivating networks of genuine participation in philosophy and thinking
and understanding together is that as much as there is a profound value and og rose will often
stress this as well a profound value in the conversations you can overhear others having
and in that sense there's a you know you don't have to engage and you're still receiving
something where the engagement is present and you get to experience that and that's valuable
maybe it orients how you might show up in your life in other ways that for me what is critical
is that there are
genuine efforts being made to relate with the
structure as well as the let's just let's just go with structure to relate with the real structure
of relationship that one who is broadcasting is in fact making or participating with
to pronounce on plenty of the stuff that we've covered and some of the things i've shared
said you know well how how are you showing up in the context of really building relationships
and building structures to support those relationships in life there's a place for broadcast
but the the paradigm beyond that like how to move beyond the trappings of the
zero-sum attentionalism personal branding creators and consumers as weaponizing people's
identities into blocks of passive metabolizers of garbage and active tools of culture war
moving beyond that into actual participation it's just
just different ballgame you know different ballgame and it's just not that
i i am much more interested in the people who
i can actually be in conversation with than i am in the how interesting can your
thinking be if you're not really engaging in conversation that's the thing it's like
there's been there's a lot of there's been a lot of fantastic thinkers you know there's some real
big dogs who have got a lot of valuable things to say you know we can be living in conversation
with each other now that's where the that's where the real intrigue and possibility is you know
to really engage with each other so what supports that what yeah quality of relating but also how
can we understand and think through and then you know from a business perspective obviously
you mentioned that we haven't gone into that much you know cadet last is thinking about a lot of
that we've had conversations they're different things you know but um yeah i would have lots
to say on that it's it's very very challenging it's very it's very challenging
so i'll stop myself from going too much into that particular vortex um
was there was there anything else i just just
what's it like to be in those silences
um yeah i mean it's it's awesome and when
transitioning that into the local context in the public context where there's new people showing
up you know to events of let's say 40 or 50 that's one of the first things which is prone to go
and um
and that's an interesting thing to begin that process over and over without
without making it performative
again many many different things i could say that i'm hosting an event for a different organization
where i'm going to actively go in with the orientation to do less of that
with less of that invitation to silence partly because of the different authorship authority
i'll have in that context because of the necessity of kind of mediating the sort of expectations for
what constitutes you know normative appropriate social behavior
but it's also a context in which i think i can build a bit of a bridge there as well
so that's part of the effort is to sort of cultivate a network of networks where
we can enjoy more of the silence together well i was just only going to say just in closing that
um i'm if you're open to it just really looking forward to you being one of the people who over
the years is a returning voice in the voice craft context it would be an absolute honor and um
you've got so much to contribute to conversation that's absolutely clear so um i'm really
enthusiastic about that yeah me too i i think we just started the conversation so it's exciting
to see how where it goes i'm glad we i'm glad that we somehow our our orbits came into a similar
constellation it's always yes kind of wonderful when that happens i reached out to you just for
the record to show i don't know yeah i think you reached out to me because i commented or something
on one of your posts so right it's it's this dialectic anyway thank you so much hey there'd
be so many things that but they would all be openings more conversation i don't have any
messages for people i hope that those who have listened to this feel it was valuable
so thanks for listening everybody thanks for making it all the way to the end and thanks also
for your support i really just want to take a minute to thank you the people who do support
this i really really really want to thank you and i just want you to know i really really
appreciate you and for anyone else who might want to support it it would be great if you join
the sub stack it's 57 a year or the youtube which is like 12 a year there's join buttons
in both those places or you can just give there are links where you can just give whatever you
might want to give or you can just sign up for the newsletter that's also helpful
really it really is helpful i would really appreciate it and thanks a lot just for listening
and now for the mary cavendish poem called of many worlds in this world just like as in a nest
of boxes round degrees of sizes in each box are found so in this world may many others be thinner
and less and less still by degree although they are not subject to our sense a world may be no
bigger than two pence nature is curious and such works may shape which are dull senses easily
escape for creatures small as atoms may there be if everyone a creature's figure bear if atoms for
a world can make then see what several worlds might in an earring be for millions of those
atoms may be in the head of one small little single pin and if thus small then ladies may
well wear a world of worlds as pendants in each ear
