reverse the symbolic weightings of key terms. Take a negative and turn it into a positive.
So you've got to let them lead the dance. You've got to learn how to get in step,
get in sync with the rhythm of their moves. If not, then you're violating a fundamental
ethical principle of hermeneutic justice and patience and generosity. Give the writer his
or her say. Learn to dance with them. Learn how to get his steps. Not even bring or disagree,
is you've got to give them their say. Open yourself up to them. So this was a central
concern. And King said, look, I'm not talking about erotic love, I'm talking about agape.
So part of it is getting worked out. What do we mean by love? So let's talk this through.
We call it dialogue. Listening. Asking questions prior to rendering final judgments. Being open
to the possibility of changing oneself. Well, you said something. Yeah, but I mean, but I thought
you meant, no, no, that's not what I mean. Oh, but I thought, I understand you thought, but here's
what. Oh, I misspoke. Oh, I misheard. Okay, well, let's try it again. That process is crucial
to having a stable, viable computer. What do we mean? In some sense, we call it democracy.
Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. Today is a really special episode. Also a very
challenging episode for many different reasons. It is with Lucius Outlaw, and he is going to tell
you about his journey from growing up in a segregated small town in Mississippi to becoming
a philosophy professor. A very well-respected one who knows everyone. He's been in the same room
with everyone from Eric Fromm to Martin Luther King Jr. to many of the leaders of today,
as you'll hear in this conversation. And we're also talking about one of my favorite philosophers,
who is W. E. B. Du Bois, who came up with this phrasing double consciousness, which you've
probably heard me talk about in other episodes. For example, with Mina Salami, we talked about
double consciousness and extending that into thinking about it through the ecological world.
We also talk about Hegel, someone you hear me talk about a lot here, and the idea of holding
paradox, of course. But this doubling, this idea of the third space or stepping to the third way
in order to see the two sides that have seemed oppositional. Hegel might be discussed as doing
this through synthesis or the dialectic, and Du Bois is talking about these two kind of irreconcilable,
seemingly irreconcilable, notions of self that one often experiences. The self of your first
person phenomenological experience, and then the way you're perceived by those around you.
It's a kind of two-ness, an inward two-ness, which is also part of your social relation
because of however the society around you is defining you. There's a lot of links to that,
to Hegel of course, but also to other writers I love like Emerson. And Du Bois was also studying
at Humboldt in Berlin for a little while, which is where I did my degrees too. So there's a lot
of connections here, and even more so, one reason I really wanted to talk with Lucius, not only just
because I wanted him to tell a story, which is really what this is, because it's very interesting.
You know, there's also Nikki Giovanni makes an appearance, but also because he brought
phenomenology together with Du Bois, which is something. I mean, I think Du Bois was already
doing phenomenology, and he had studied it in Germany. He knew about it, but in Lucius
Altwell's work, he discusses this directly, and phenomenology that we could do a whole episode
on that. In fact, someone asked me to do a research diary, and I will, but just for purposes here,
it's when you study consciousness or our experience of consciousness from the first
person point of view, from the point of view of how you experience it. So you're really looking
at the structure of that ongoing dynamical experience that you're having, or that one is
having, and taking that seriously. There's these names, which like Hursl, Edmund Hursl,
or Sartre, or Merleau-Ponty is very important. The person I work with in Heidelberg, Thomas Fuchs,
we did a nice talk together. He's coming out of that tradition in Germany, and also with
like Carl Jaspers was at the Universität Heidelberg, which is where I am. So there's
all these connections, which you don't need to care about, but what's important for this discussion
is that Lucius brought together Dubois and phenomenology, and he did that through the
work of Alfred Schutz. He did this all the way back in his dissertation, which we talk about here,
and Alfred Schutz was a phenomenologist who also brought some different threads together,
because he brought the work of Edmund Hursl together with the work of Max Weber, or Max Weber,
you might know the name, and this connects to other ideas like sense-making, participatory
sense-making, relational philosophy, process philosophy. A lot of these are different turns
of the kaleidoscope towards trying to understand how we are part of one ongoing process. We also
have individual experiences. Those are co-created by everything that we're interacting with, by what
we call our social environment or our ecological world, and how do we understand this? That it's
just going on all the time. We're separate, but we're also never separate. You probably remember
some of these themes from discussions with Ezekiel DiPaolo, and Merco, and Hannity Yeager, and
Rebecca Todd, Shea Welch, Elena Kufari, Evan Thomson, for sure. In different ways, a lot of
these philosophers and neuroscientists and thinkers have been trying to understand this,
how we are first person. We are having individual experience, coming into awareness of it,
and also doing that in a social, relational, ecological process. Lucius, in this discussion,
discusses it from the angle of W.E.B. Du Bois and the experience that he had when he wrote
The Souls of Black Folk, for example, which he wrote in 1903, by the way, where he was already
reading all of this phenomenology, but also Emerson and Hegel and the phenomenology of spirit.
I find this phenomenology of double consciousness just so helpful, and I really hope that more of
us can think about it in our academic work and write about it and read Du Bois and also read
philosophers like Lucius Outlaw and his writing. We don't want to lose those narratives and that
perspective, and it also opens up other worlds for us if we can sit with it and try to understand it
as part of the life world that we're hoping to be able to expand enough to fill into to understand
is connected to all of us. So all that said, and that's a bit clumsy because you know I just talk
when I turn on the mic for these intros because that's just this podcast, but this is also just
a difficult conversation because of where we are right now in terms of how we are able to talk
about these kinds of subjects, and I guess this is going to go low down in the algorithm. That's
what usually happens lately when I talk about something that's difficult, but I don't care
because it needs to be talked about. It's hard also because his internet kept going out. I think
we talked for three hours and there were huge pauses and so much trouble with the audio,
and we actually had this conversation a year ago and it's taking me that long just to be able to
get through it and actually get it into a presentable enough audio form that I can
put it online and that you can actually listen to it. So this has just been, you know, quite
the challenge in so many different ways. Also as you'll hear, just the subjects are really tough.
If you feel like you're ready, please do listen. If you don't, that's okay. I do hope you'll go
look at W. E. B. Du Bois in double consciousness though. Think about the philosophy of that,
and especially in relation to something like dialectic and Hegel and other threads of
phenomenology. All of that we talk about here, and Lucia said some really interesting things
about Hegel for example. Think about that word double consciousness, this doubling that is
actually not a doubling at all if we can begin to understand thinking and consciousness in a more
kaleidoscopic way. That's a word I use a lot, or as a constellation, and this whole research
channel is documenting people who are trying to do that from different directions and different
ways. And this is another one, a very important one I think, to bring in W. E. B. Du Bois again,
double consciousness, the work of the philosopher Lucius Outlaw who you will hear discuss here,
you will hear him discuss his work here, how that relates to Hercel, Merleau-Ponty, and Hegel.
I'll try to do some separate videos on all these different topics for those who are coming to a
new. Don't worry if you've never heard any of these words, I mean this is just a little tiny
corner of the universe, there are many others, but the things we're trying to understand here
are, and that all of these people I've mentioned are trying to understand, are how we are individuals
and part of the world at the same time, and what that means, and what consciousness is, and how we
can live it more fully, more sensually, and perhaps even begin to open up new worlds for one another.
Of love, I hope, and of care, which is where this conversation goes in the end, connecting to Martin
Luther King Jr. and that whole spirit of love that I feel we really need right now. It's still here,
don't be afraid to feel it, and notice it, and live out of it. It's really needed, and it's really
part of us, and it's really a wonderful way to live when you can live from love. So it's not always
easy, but it's worth the persistence. Thanks for being here. Hello Lou, good morning, so good to see
you. Thank you for having me. Thank you for being here. So there's so much about your work I want to
talk about as I was just telling you, but I think to start, let's start in Mississippi in 1944.
So I was born and grew up in a small town in Mississippi, which is sort of East Central
Mississippi. It's about 16 miles south of Tupelo, Mississippi, 120 miles slightly northeast of the
capital of Jackson, Mississippi, in an area called the Golden Triangle. There's a state institution
there, Mississippi State University, which was segregated at the time I was growing up. The first
new girl knowingly admitted was in summer of around 1965, was actually one of my best friends
and classmates who integrated Mississippi State University in the summer. I was an only child.
My mother said she prayed and made a promise to God, and if he gave her a child, she'd give it
back to him. So as a consequence, I spent more time in the law, grew up in churches, and I
don't have to spend the rest of my life thanks to my mother, which led to her making it that
I was in a lot of churches for most of my life. My mother did day work mostly in the homes of
white families cleaning as a maid, and my father was the janitor of a large white Baptist church,
First Baptist Church. We were members of Second Baptist Church, which was what we call the color
Negro Church in Stavrio. As I was growing up, of course, you've got to be trained early on in
the rules, the laws, the unwritten law, norms, and protocols of hierarchical racial segregation,
order around Negroes and white people, etc., superior art and inferior art, and all of that.
So you grow up in that context, and for a great deal of role of everyday life in a sort of
segregated world, interestingly, you might think that a racially segregated society has really
very sharp boundaries, physical boundaries between black folk and what we now say black folk,
colored people, etc. I was born on one side of town on one street, and we moved when I was
four years old. It was on West Main Street, which is the West End Main Street in Stavrio.
If you would leave my house and go downtown, there would be a block of West Main, which would
intersect with Long Street. On the other side of Long Street, that was a boulevard with a divider
in the middle, one way up and one way down. That was a block long. That block was all white homes,
but when you got past that block, you would go down a hill, another block. One half of that block
to the right, there were white homes. The other half of that block were colored homes, and the
next block on the right side of that block was the back of the White Methodist Church. On the
left side of that block, the colored Methodist Church and a couple of Negro businesses. Then
you were in the next block. There were all these businesses downtown, but if you turned left into
that block, it was the beginning of a whole colored neighborhood. My point is, the proximity of
white people together was you could walk across one street, you're in a white neighborhood,
across another street, you're in a colored neighborhood. If I went to Long Street and
turned around, all those houses to the next one were white homes. If I turned left, all those
houses were colored homes. There were divisions by streets, etc. It could be as subtle as
one house here is white, the next house is colored. It was kind of interesting, but as I grew up and
was going to school, one of the striking things there is, okay, why are there different churches?
There's one God, everybody chose about, okay, right. My father's working in this white church.
I was working at that same church, cleaning the building where there's a nursery school, etc.
By the time I was older and in high school, having discussions with my father about this,
he would often say the church where he worked was pretty much filled on sons. He took that
as a kind of measure of the commitment to these white people, etc. He said, you know,
rural girls need to go to church, you know, the kind of white people go to church, etc.
And I said, oh, well, they fill up the church on a Sunday, but they're going to call me nigger
on Monday. So I don't see why that's doing much good. The church is saying, I'm still going to
be called by many of them on Monday. So who is this never convinced? Yeah. And, of course,
that began to trouble him because when I was in high school, he was like,
your father's going to get you in trouble. I got in trouble in school for challenging
the principal about something. And the principal got really upset and sent me out of the office
and called my father over to the school. The assistant principal was a cuddle of my father.
They called me down to the office. The issue had been when James Merida integrated the University
of Mississippi was a big deal. There were federal groups brought in and it happened over a weekend
and actually studying back to where some white students in Spongfield were protesting that,
imagine that we didn't miss it. So they were marching through town, neighborhood protesting.
And my mother and I had been driving my mother to a church function. It was coming back and
we ran into them. And at first I couldn't figure out why is there a parade on Sunday on the
highway? She was like, get out of here, turn around, quick, turn around. So we had to take
a gift from them home and got home and sign off. But they were protesting. Well, the next day in
school, one of my classmates was the principal's granddaughter. So she was arguing that, you know,
they shouldn't have been going to the schools. Negroes need to stay in their place. And mine was
my data-based access to the state school. We shouldn't have, you know, so much right
to go to any state school. So she got really upset. Went downstairs to the principal's office,
your grandfather, and told the man father what I'd said. But we're sitting in this classroom.
The principal comes over, into the comm to that, calling us and says,
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Lorden, your class, the SSTs have come to the office. And she looked at me,
she's like, ah, Lucius, why can't you just keep going? I got to go down to the office with the
principal and the principal was giving me a hard time with my father. Just not having him, you know,
I simply would not back down. And actually, there was a maternal uncle who was the principal of the
elementary school at that time, who lived with us on weekdays and would go home to the country on
weekends. He was the principal of the middle school, so he stayed with us during weekdays,
but he was serving as president. He went home to the country on weekends. So I'm like, I'm
not alone. He and my father and my mother were sort of in the living room, dealing with this
explosive issue. I just wasn't having it, you know. And so my problem was like, you know,
your mouse is going to get you in trouble. So he started to fear, you know, I was going to get
into trouble. He was always advising me to look at these political matters alone. They would
work that out. You shouldn't be pushing it alone. So I just was never convinced about that strategy,
though I sort of followed it in one sense. That is, I didn't deliberately go around protesting,
doing things, but I was sort of a rebel in my own mind. And I just never accept that those terms
were appropriate or should be accepted. That's interesting. You were already philosophizing
in a way. But it's interesting too, because what you said sounds like was the common, I mean,
like it was just looking at things the way they are. But your dad and mom, I gather, were worried
that if you said like something like that in the wrong context, you would be in a lot of danger.
So it was kind of a protective thing, right? Not that the people didn't agree with you necessarily,
but... Or do I misunderstand? No, that's fine. And remember, I am what they call, I'm a member
of the Emmett Till generation. So when Emmett Till was killed, supposedly for being first quarter
white woman, and conditioned my life wherever in the day. Parents looked at you and didn't want
that to happen to you. So there was probably a huge amount of how do we protect our son in this world
that's not fair at all. Yeah. So that was part of it. One of the significant things that happened
one day, I saw that with downtown on Main Street, and we were walking west of Main Street together,
there was an older white man on the sidewalk, walking east, he was walking directly towards...
He walked up to my father and then moved over boy and let a white woman pass.
And my father never raised his voice. He just looked at him directly and said,
I am not a boy. You are not dismissing me in front of my son.
And the white man just thought of blowing his eyes and then stepped around my father and what all.
And my father never said anything to me about that encounter. He never said a word to me about it.
And I witnessed it all. We never discussed it. I never, ever forgot it. And I came to understand
something about the nature of the man that my father was. I mean, he wasn't going to get
involved in protests. He didn't want me to be involved in protests. He was trying to figure
out what words you might say. For him, it was going to all get worked out in time. He had
a brother, for example, there were other black people who left and went north because they thought
life was going to be better in the north. He had a brother who had done. And his name was,
I don't think there's anything special about the north. It's going to really get worked out in the
south better than the way in the north. And for him, he was a gradualist, right? And he didn't
believe in confrontation and stuff like that. In the meantime, he had the relative memory.
I mean, several things. One is he was clear to himself about who he was and he was not going to
be disrespected. He accommodated certain kinds of things, but he was not going to accommodate
disrespect. But he wasn't going to be involved in protests. So it was an interesting
prejudice about how he negotiated the entire situation. I mean, he said to me once, he said,
you know something, what you've got to learn to do is you've got to learn to handle people with
love. You've got to learn to persuade them to do what you want to do.
And I watched him on a number of occasions do that. I mean, there was a way in which
he were shopping for something, like a new television. A white person, but he knew really
well. He says, I've got to have a new TV. He's like, okay. He says, well, I can only pay so much
for the TV. And he's like, well, Lucius, I'm sorry. Yeah. I lost you again. Lucius, I'm saying.
Lucius, that's the last thing I heard about the TV.
The gentleman would say, well, you know, Lucius, I'm sorry. This is what it's cost me. I probably
was just quietly saying, yeah, I understand, but I can only pay some. And he would sit there
and continue this back and forth if it took two hours. And eventually the white man would say,
all right, Lucius, yes, you can have it for that price.
For the press cut.
Well, thank you very much. And then they had a raise for the delivery. I mean, he would
get what he needed, but he would simply continue softly to negotiate. I'm sorry,
I can't do that. I need a loan. My son is going to college. I've got to have this mortgage. I've
got a second mortgage. I've got to have this loan. Well, no, I can't pay that much. Now here's what
I can pay. And he would get the terms that he could meet. And that was part of the way in which
he worked. And he was very highly respected. The other thing was he learned, and I'd learned through
him and Harrison, that not all white people are the same. The distinctions that I grew up
with was they're good white people and they're bad white people. You need to know which ones are the
good white people because they can make a distance between life and death, which ones are bad,
you should avoid. We would say now, well, who are the white people that are really racist? Who are
the white people that are less racist? Who are some of them that are not really racist, et cetera?
You have to learn those distinctions about people and develop relations and et cetera with them.
And that was something that I learned growing up. But again, the whole thing didn't make sense. So
I went off to college, majored in philosophy and religion because I was really going to go
to the ministry with myself. So I have more year, finally reached the conclusion of religion
stops for making assess with me. And I'm not doing the God day anymore, which made a real
break with my mother. I was about to say about your mom was not happy. Oh, she happy is not the
word. She was distraught. I had written her a letter back and I got one that was letters from
her sort of dear. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. You know, sort of, you know, metaphorically still
staying matters. What are you doing? Why don't I send you to a place with eight years and blah,
blah, blah, blah. I go home that at the end of that academic year and one evening, I noticed
these things when she gets to go out. There's nothing to do at night. You know, she does not
have no clubs. Yeah, my father didn't go out drinking or anything like that. And it's not
Wednesday. So it's not a prayer meeting at church. So where is she going? She gets dressed and there's
a knock at the door. She goes to the door and opens it. My father's working in the yard and she
opens the door. It's our minister. She sort of steps out and says, there he is. I'm sitting in
the living room watching television. The minister comes in and she leaves. And I was thinking to
myself, OK, this is what this is about. But he's not going to win this argument. So the minister
comes in and we talk. I don't remember anything about what we talked about. I don't remember
anything from the conversation. The only memory I have is my mother returns. The minister gets up
and starts to leave. He gets to the door and he says, he's putting on his hat and he says to my
mom on her way out the door, there's nothing wrong with the boy. Leave him alone. And he walks out
the door. Now, there's a whole bunch in the background about my relationship with this
minister and all of that in my life, blah, blah, blah. But, you know, I had made up my mind and
then, you know, my mother was still distorted. And one time I finally said to her, I said, look,
God and I have made a deal. He doesn't mess with me. I don't mess with him.
I literally stayed away from home for about two years. I said to her, look, I'm going to live my
life on my own terms. I'm not going to live my life on the basis of a deal you made with God.
You don't make deals with me. I'm going to live them on my terms. You can't pray me in the helmet.
You can make the deal, but I'm not going to live that deal. This is my life. Now, this time I'm
studying philosophy. I'd had a course in extra standards. It was interesting. You're reading
literature about freedom and et cetera, talking with classmates about this. And there was actually
a classmate who said, you don't have to do this religious stuff if you don't want to. And I'm
like, I can. I have things. No, you don't. You can choose. And I sort of had a breakdown of
grounds like, yeah, you're right. I can't do this anymore. I'm not doing this. I hate it in any way.
I'm not doing this pre-kings stuff. I can't do this. I'm just not going to live my life.
I'm living it on my own terms, period. Really not easy thing to come to. I mean, all of us
trying to what our parents want for us, it can be hard to go against it. But this is really hard
because your mom sounds like from the beginning, almost your health in her mind and your kind of,
it was almost like she was worried if you didn't do what she'd promised God, then
like she would fear for you or something.
Oh, wow.
So there's a whole bunch of stuff built into this seventh son business to deal with. The seventh son,
a gift from God. Yeah, okay. But I'm not going to play the God game anymore. I'm out. I'm taking
myself out of there. And so it was years later and she was working at a local two-year college.
I was invited down to give a talk. So my wife and I and our baby,
firstborn son and her first grandchild, we go down and I give this talk and we're back in her
apartment later. And we just sort of lounge around in the apartment. She said to me, she said,
you know, after listening to you tonight, I realized there's a lot of different ways you
could minister out there. And I said, yeah. And by this time I had dealt. While I was at
Fest my first year, one of the things that was happening in Nashville was that the nonviolent
direct action, steady end movement was still very much underway. Now my parents,
so Martin Luther King Jr. came to the campus to speak one Sunday. I'm at Nashville at Fest
University. Du Bois went very famously. Yeah, Du Bois went there. Myself, well,
I'm living in Du Bois Hall. King comes to speak and the jail is packed. I go here,
Martin Luther King Jr. There's demonstrations going on every day. People are marching downtown,
sitting on it, et cetera. My parents said, don't get involved in this. It could be dangerous for
you. It could be dangerous for us. If people run out back here, we can lose our jobs, et cetera,
et cetera. This was early 60s, around 60. I went to Fest in 1960. So this is a 63,
64 year. So there was one day that classmates, people in my dorm who were going out demonstrating,
they get arrested. The university would call and raise money, get them out on bail. They'd come
back taking showers, singing freedom songs and going right back out on the street. And one day
I was watching as they were marching off and I couldn't go. And I was just sort of standing
and crying. And I just said, okay, if I can't be in the street now, I can figure out how to devote
my life to supporting this and being a part of this in a different way. That's very powerful.
You said you could do it another way. That connects very well with what your mom ended up
eventually seeing too and the way you think about teaching. And that was that moment, right?
Yeah, because there was kind of a coalescence of a couple of realizations. So I'm living on this
campus where a lot of faculty live. This is an interracial faculty, international faculty.
It was a place where a number of persons who were European and Jewish and escaping the Holocaust
came to the United States in 2015. So my professor of German was a person who was escaping from the
Holocaust. There were people from India on the faculty, from the Caribbean, from Africa, from
Europe, white Americans, African Americans, people living on the campus, et cetera, et cetera.
So it was this really interesting little oasis of integration in a racially segregated city and state,
but it was a private institution. So we could do things that a state-based,
historically black institution couldn't do. So it was this really interesting place. And again,
when I looked at how faculty who taught there but also lived on the campus, I came to be like,
this isn't just a job. This is a way of life. And I was really intrigued by the intellectual
life stuff, which is why I started paying attention more to academic philosophy, because I just found
the intellectual very tricky, and I was trying to figure out how to make sense out of stuff. So I
was like, oh, maybe these are people who make sense out of things. I'm not stubborn in philosophy
thing, but I also want to become a college or university professor. And so it was like, okay,
then here's a way in which I can take up this endeavor of speaking justice and et cetera,
and I can do it perhaps as a teacher. And so that became my life commitment by the time I was
sophomore heading into junior year. This is where I'm going.
That's beautiful, because it reminds me of your time at Haverford, where you were living that
life in a way, but we'll get to that. But I took you away from, you were about to say about Martin
Luther King, and I really want to hear about that. So this is this time period at Fisk,
and he came to speak. Yeah. So he spoke in gym on a Sunday night,
and it's a pet place. I go back to my dorm, I'm sitting around with friends, we're probably
talking about. He's this historic figure already, because this is 1960s, early 1960s. So someone
started yelling out on the hallway, Prey Lucius, at the time there was like one phone on each
hallway, a pay telephone. So someone started yelling, Prey Lucius, the phone was ringing,
somebody go and answer the phone. And so I say, Prey Lucius, the phone for you is your mother.
Okay, so I go take the phone. It's my mother, who has heard by way of one of the very powerful radio
stations in Nashville or somewhere else, that Martin Luther King Jr. has been in Nashville
at Fisk University. She was calling, don't you get involved in this? So that was one of the
complicated factors, you know, that, okay, I will not do what they say, but I will make a commitment
to figure out how to do this differently and better, and that's what got me started down this
road. And of course, at some point, I don't remember what year, you know, I read early
stages of early chapters of, you know, The Souls of Black Folk is one of the texts that
anchors my dissertation. By Du Bois. So were your parents, did they talk about Du Bois?
That happened while I was in college. The whole time I was in high school, you know, I knew
nothing about Du Bois in high school. There was nothing that, things that was happening,
like my mother was very active in church things, and so she would do certain things like,
for example, one of the popular things, songs that we would sing at church meetings,
you know, stuff was krumboi. And so my mother would use that song, church dramatization,
as how it was a coded message that slaves would use to say, hey, come back here, we're going to
be over here in the secret place. So that was a little active, much stuff going on in my school.
I didn't learn the Negro National Anthem in school. I basically learned it as my wife,
we'd be taking a road trip, we'd teach our sons the song, and that's how I came to learn the song,
where she learned it in school. We didn't learn it in school. I mean, the principal just didn't
allow that kind of stuff to go on in our schools. And so it was a very complicated and interesting
place. So this was a very pivotal impactful place for me. I mean, it set me off on a course
of life. I mean, it was a very demanding place, academic, right? For example, I had a classmate
who'd gone to boarding schools in New England. They had no cover people, would they?
The boarding schools. His father was a multimillionaire. I didn't know that
when we grew up, a millionaire. So here's his kid. Father's a millionaire. He'd gone to boarding
schools in New England. He'd had a sister graduated from Frisco. His father, I think,
may even have been on the board of trustees or something like that. So a very wealthy family.
After our first semester of our first year, the beginning of the second semester,
we're speculating that you hear about stolen toys. What do you mean? He's not here anymore,
is it? What do you mean he's not here anymore? He's like, he punched out. Punched out was the
expression where he's failed. So he's been expelled. What? Well, father's a millionaire.
He went to boarding school. His sister's a graduate, and they have expelled him for
academic forthcoming. Okay, my father's a janitor. Never went to college. My mother's
a maid. Never went to college. We are not wealthy. So the only way I'm going to stay at best is I'm
going to get my work done. Got it. So I busted my bird. I mean, for four years between Monday and
Thursday, I probably never went to bed before 1 or 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. I mean,
I studied so hard because they would put you out for academic reasons. No apologies, no questions,
no matter who your mother was, who your father was. You didn't perform. The joke among students
was if you didn't perform up to par academically, the university would give you a comic book,
a banana, and a one-way bus ticket home. So it was a very demanding place academically,
but intellectually very stemmering, right? Very powerful teachers back in Hawaii. And so I just
got an M in academic intellectual life. I became a participant in an honors program,
but it was either more intensive and demanding. And I was in classes with students,
particularly women, who were just so smart and I ended up having to develop a whole new
appreciation for women pretty and sexually attractive. If that's the only way you approach
them, there was something to laugh in your face. And they were like, you've got to be kidding.
You know, rather than, what are you reading lately? So it was a really, really interesting
environment to be in. And so there was a whole kind of, that became for me a kind of,
competitiveness is not the right word, but there were peers and upper-class persons,
women and men. I mean, the four years I was at FIST, the four years when I was president of
the student government. I mean, you know, so when I was back on the faculty, he was like, oh,
we've got a female student government. The first time I'm like, no, no, no, no, no,
that's not the first time. Two to four years I was here, the student women were president of the
school. Lots of women, part of their reputation. The first time I heard of this was from a young
guy who was studying an American Baptist seminary. And I was talking about where I wanted to go to
school. And I was thinking about going to our historic black institution, Tennessee A&I State
University of Nashville. And he said, well, you can't study philosophy, but you can do it at this
place called FIST. And I was like, oh, and he says, and by the way, they have the most beautiful
black women in the world. My first day on the cap was, I saw exactly what it meant. And I,
I mean, and my first week there when upper-class women came in, I went to the dining center to
have dinner was always on Sunday at midday. And I was sitting in there and all these upper-class
women started walking in. That time there was a dress code. So on Sundays you had to dress up
and go to dinner. You couldn't wear jeans and shorts or whatever as the female on Sundays that
wasn't allowed. And I was sitting there and these women were walking into the dining center. I
couldn't eat. I had never went to anything like that.
This sounds like such a rich time. And also like within a really rich social and political time,
it's interesting thinking about what you said about your dad, about that story you told of
him having this kind of poise and this, this way of, of being strong and committed. And at the same
time, I mean, when did you start to be able to step back and take perspective in that, in that
way? I'm still trying to figure out how you even got to FIST. You just kind of said it a little
bit, but you already wanted to study philosophy, but you were going to go for religion too. So you
were already kind of combining those. But part of my commitment was I was not
going to go to a Negro school in Mississippi. That was out for me. I simply wasn't going to do
that. I wanted out of Mississippi. Okay. And my father says he had recommended Morehouse,
but Morehouse was called male. He said, I rejected it because I had said, I don't remember this. He
said, I said, I'm not going to any school that doesn't have girls in it. When I get to FIST,
there was just this enormously powerful place. There was this residential community, teachers
who cared and teachers who were really demanding. I mean, the institution was really demanding and
they made no apologies on it. I mean, there was an opportunity since that FIST was producing a
tablet in 10. I had an experience where my junior year, I spent a semester away on exchange at
Dartmouth College. While I was there, I lived in the fraternity house. Another interesting part
of that story. And near the end of my time there, one day several other guys in the fraternity in
the house came to me and said, hey, you don't have to go back to FIST. We've talked to the dean.
You can get a scholarship to stay in Dartmouth. I'm like, you've done what? They're like, yeah,
go to the dean. So I go to the dean. He says, yeah, if you want to stay, there's a scholarship
for you. What? About a year ago, I got an email message from a person who said, hi, Lucius,
you may not remember me. You all called me Gus when we were at Dartmouth together.
I was one of the people who went to the dean to ask the dean to get you a scholarship to stay
in Dartmouth. That email was from Senator Angus King of Maine.
Well, what a life you've had. I mean, we haven't even gotten into it yet, but all the people you
ended up sort of encountering as you got scholarships to different places, the Moten Center and so on
and so forth. But FISC is important because for people who don't like, so this is the 60s,
everything is changing, talking about consciousness and all this, but you were kind of skeptical. At
least when I'm reading your work, it sounds like you were doing really well in school. I think you
ended up becoming the president of the student government and stuff, but you were doing really
well. But you weren't fully taking part in all of these things because of your parents, but also
it sounded like you were still trying to figure out how you felt about all this kind of incredible
change that was happening. So I come back from Dartmouth after the end of the term in the first
semester. So I get back at the start of the second semester at FISC in the student union one day and
the dean of students, a man is coming in and I go to him and of course knew him well. He knew me
for a whole bunch of reasons. But anyway, I said to him, Dean, I need to talk to you. He was with
another school official who was head of financial aid. I was on financial aid, so I knew him well
too. So I said, Dean, I need to talk to you. He was like, yes, Mr. Outlaw. We're standing in the
student union building. And I said, I need to talk to you because I'm thinking of transferring
to Dartmouth. The dean immediately turned and walked away from me and walked out of the building.
Didn't say a word, just turned immediately and walked away. And the other official said,
Lucius, he's not going to talk to you. You better go to his office. So I quickly walked out,
followed the dean, we go over to his, and he urges me into his office and he sat down, he closes
the door and he sat down and he tells me what I remember is something like the following. He
looks at me and he says, young man, we have been watching you. We have expectations. What is he
talking about? We've been watching you. We have expectations. And he goes on to sort of say,
in a sense, there's a way in which I have already been distinguished by him and other people as,
okay, keep our eyes on him. We have expectations for you. And he talks to me about this, something
I never knew. I had no idea about any of this. None whatsoever. And he talked to me about that
and then eventually reached in his desk, took out a full arm, slated across the destiny that I could
use to withdraw from Fisk. Conversation was over. I took the form and left his office.
You're waiting for Fisk.
What was that? What happened in your experience? Because we were talking about the Talented Tenth,
we were talking about everything that's happening, this moment on the street where you realize you
want to do something. Was all that kind of coming together in a different way after that?
I mean, I spent a lot of time at Dartmouth and I really liked it, but one thing about Dartmouth
was all male. And so I just found it such an off-putting experience. I mean, I just was not
going to play the chorus. And so I just found the whole situation at Dartmouth unappealing.
So I actually pulled back to Fisk from Dartmouth, a handful of guys from Dartmouth who were white
and they hung out for a week. And we drove onto the campus, there was a woman walking
from one building to another who was a friend. We didn't date, but we were good friends.
Stunningly stunningly beautiful. I simply said it to the guys, hey Gavin, you see her?
That's why I'm back. But I did think about trying this, but then after the conversation with the
Dean, it was like, no, I'm not leaving. So that was in the spring, start of the
winter of 1960. That summer, I spent seven weeks with some other students from Fisk in a special
program in Scandinavia where we were in Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. And it was while we were in
Denmark, Jay's marriage was on a walk against fear in Mississippi where he was shot. And when at the
end of that march, when other people joined in and they marched to Greenville, Mississippi,
where Stoke-La-Comme got up and gave the speech, we said, well, we need just more black power.
Well, we're in Denmark. I don't know what the hell black power meant. There was one guy in a group
from Toulouse, another HBCU, who the whole six weeks we were traveling, we got to be friends,
he was reading this one book that I'd never heard of called The Wretched of the Earth.
And he said, you gotta read this book. But when this whole black power thing broke in the news,
international news all over, and we'd wake up in the morning saying, okay, who's going to go
into the local news and get a copy of the Internationalist New York Times so we can
figure out what the hell's going on in the United States? And this guy was a member of SNCC.
So he ended up on Danish television explaining what black power meant and explaining to us what
black power meant. So by the time we were back at Fisk in the fall of 1960, which is my senior year,
the black power thing has broken. And so we're getting people coming to the campus like
Stokely Carmichael, Kathleen Cleaver. There was an annual spring arts festival. And so
one of the people at Fisk was John Oliver Killings, a very prominent black writer who taught writing,
but he had to bring in all these people. Anybody given by who was a black intellectual writer,
the young people, Gwendolyn Brooks, Lorone Bennett, you name them, they were coming to Fisk.
And they would have these seminars and stuff, and these exhibitions and whatever. And you were
expected to go to them. And so for a week or more, this was happening. And I go to this talk by
Burrell. And I'm sitting there, and I'm like, when that was over, I waited and went up to an
entrepreneur and said, you know, I came to Fisk as a colored man, but I'm going to leave as a
black. So this is in the spring of 1967. So the whole black power thing is happening. It is
impacting Ken. You may know of a black poet, it's a woman named Nika Giovanni. Nika Giovanni was a
classmate. And Nika and a bunch of students were petitioning to have a chapter of SNCC on campus.
The administration didn't want a SNCC chapter. I'm president of student government. The student
handbook says any new student organization has to be chartered by students. The problem was,
nobody knew what it meant to charter a new student organization because it hadn't happened during
our time at Fisk, and there were no guidelines. So then the president said, we'll give you guidelines.
He and some board members wrote up guidelines and called me to a meeting and said, here are your
guidelines. And the first was, your organization must have a stable national leadership. Well,
Stokely kind of like it was president of SNCC. They weren't going to regard Stokely as a stable,
like, oh no, I'm not going to discuss. I had gotten elected. When I was running for president,
I was classed as the radical because I had called for a student strike. And what was the issues of
the strike? Longer hours in the library, better food in the dining center, and longer weekend
hours for the girls. And I had come from Dartmouth where the radical thing for me was student power,
because this was part of what was happening with the anti-war movement, the black power movement,
it was all centered around student power. So that was my issue was, I became president. I got elected
calling for student power, right? So when this issue about the SNCC chat came up, the SNCC people
were politically miles ahead of me. I was committed to student power. They were actually for all the
kinds of power. And so we were having this intense battle. So they were pressing me for some things.
The administration is pressing me, containing that in another way. So student government is
in the middle. So I'm in the middle between these two pressure points, right? So one night we're
having this meeting and the people from SNCC come in and beat us to death. They call us lapids of
the white trustees, just all kinds of derogatory stuff. And I'm just worn out. I'm trying to get
them to chill because I know the administration is trying to set them up so they couldn't have a
chaplain. I'm trying to say, look, you've got to give us some space to figure this out because
they're trying to set you guys up, but I'm not going to go with it. But you've got to give us a
break until we figure out how we can do this real well. So one night at the long, risk-created meeting,
we leave. I walk out of the meeting room of standing in the hallway, Nick and Giovanni,
who's been in there calling us everything but a child of God, walks up to me, kisses me on the
cheek and says, leave him alone. It's okay. And walks away. Then I was just standing there like,
what the hell just happened? Because I thought it was all personal. And all she was saying was,
it's not personal. It's political. We love you. And I saw her years later, and actually I got to
introduce her at this, about a year or two ago, she was back to give a Ghibli day address. And
they asked me to introduce her. And I began by saying, it was the strangest kiss I ever had.
So now you can have an understanding of what the dissertation was about.
Well, actually, before we get to that, because you mentioned, friends, Fanon already, and you
mentioned language. Those are two important things. And this change, like you yourself are thinking
you're going to become black in this way of language. But we haven't talked really about
the problematic that you use there is Du Bois, who we have talked about, but this idea of double
consciousness. So were you reading Du Bois at this time? I read The Souls of Black Folk while
impressed. Du Bois is a major figure at best. I had a copy of The Souls of Black Folk and I had
read it. And I don't remember being particularly moved by it in any particular sense at the time.
But by the time I get to graduate school, so I'm in Boston from 60s to 70s. Well, Boston is a major
academic center in the United States. When I was in graduate school, there was something calculated
to be like a quarter of a million students in a 25 mile radius of downtown Boston. So there were
lots of political things happening. And of course, my first year, I'm there in the fall of 67,
in the spring of 68. I'm in a seminar with all graduate students and professors talking about
how we do teaching and other kinds of stuff as graduate fellows. There's a break in a seminar,
there was a white woman who was a year or two ahead of me comes rushing in and said,
hey, Lou, did you hear us? Did I hear what? About Dr. King. Now, what about Dr. King? She said,
he was killed. Well, I was the only white person in the graduate program. And when she said that to
me, the only reaction I had was, I've got to get out of here. So I just got up and walked out. I
didn't say anything then about it. I just left. I made my way back to the central block, lived
across the street from the Prudential Center. And I was just lost. I left, I go back to
where my apartment was down near the Prudential building. I just go walking along the streets,
people are crying, there's rioting, there's sirens. And I can't see her out with the makeup
on. They killed Martin Luther King Jr. And so this is a pretty turbulent period. So my roommate in
the apartment was actually one of my roommates and best friends from Christ. He was at Harvard
Law School studying. And this was the friend doing the conversation with us. You don't really have
to do this religious preaching thing if you don't know. He was really influential and stuff. So
anyway, he had a bad bedroom with a one that overlooked the Prudential building, which at the
time was the tallest building in Boston. It was in the front bed. So I'm in there reading for a
seminar on satras being and nothingness. And my roommate started saying, no, roommate, roommate,
come here, come here, right quick, right quick. So I go running back to this bedroom and he points
out to Prudential, but he says, let's go burn down the prune. I said, roommate, you can't burn down
the Prudential. It's made of concrete to steel. He says, that's not the point. Let's go burn down
the prune. I'm like, what the hell is wrong with this guy? And he is a black guy from, you know,
Heartstrings, Arkansas, studying law at law school. Let's go burn down the Prudential. And I'm here
thinking, how do I explain to my parents that I'm in Boston getting a PhD, but I've been arrested
because I had a can of gasoline and matches heading over to a concrete steel building because I'm
going to burn the damn thing down, which can't burn. This makes no sense. He kept saying, you
don't understand. You don't understand. Let's go burn down the prune. And I'm like, no, roommate,
I don't know. What the hell is wrong with you? And he finally said, he's in Harvard. He's in Harvard
law. He's got this first background. He's studying law and they are making clear to him at Harvard,
we're not interested in questions of social justice, period. We're not interested. Your job
is to learn to think like a lawyer, brief the case, tell us what the law says. He can go somewhere
else. He's really frustrating. So he's like, we need to go do something. Let's go down. I understand
your frustration. But trying to burn down the Prudential building, which can't burn, I hate
a way to do it. I'm not doing that. And he's like, you just don't feel like it. And so I had to go
figure out, well, what am I going to do? I ended up joining an interracial organization, working on
stuff. I became editor of that newsletter. I had to sign out list of what I was doing. And then it
was like, okay, what am I going to do in a dissertation? And I chose this problematic
that had to do with the call for black power. And I had been reading for now that chapter on the
Negro and language. And I sort of hit a bonus problem. What is the call for black consciousness
all about? And for me, it became perhaps here is a means by which to resolve this double consciousness,
that gift of language from Negro to black, the embracing of what had been a derogatory term
as a positive, and talking about black consciousness and self-consciousness.
In order to do that, you'd have to resolve what had been a negative duality,
separation between oneself and being black. You have to get past her. So the dissertation project
became my way of contending with all of that intellectually and setting myself a trajectory.
And when I posed it to the chair of the department, he just sort of looked at it and said,
you're going to be on your own. They were accommodating me in an interesting way. It was
like, basically, let's not mess with you. It was like, okay, you're going to be on your own. And
that was I found a professor who said, yeah, I'll supervise your dissertation. He had no
reading in any of it. I had discovered now for just walking in a bookstore,
I saw a title called Phenomenology of the Social World. I was like, whoa, what the hell is this?
And I bought it. What you were allowed to do in the graduate program was design reading courses
on your own. So I just set up, I designed my own reading course around reading shows. Even when I
left them with the Nashville to teach at first, I would order my books from this bookstore called
Mandrake because they have all these titles from all around the world in particular, and all this
stuff from Phenomenology of the Social World. The whole Northwestern University had the whole series
in Phenomenology of the Social World. Kay had a series of them. So I happened to see these books,
and so I started buying these books by Schutz. And I just designed a reading program, and this
professor agreed to advise who became my dissertation advisor, but he knew nothing about any of it.
He was learning with me, and he later on started teaching Schutz along this path.
I started reading Schutz, and then, for example, one of the other resources that came along was
Joachim and me. And so the whole notion of how you socialize children, et cetera,
wanted to try to figure out how to bring together into a coherent project,
and became the dissertation. Well, you had already, you mentioned German before,
that you had some German classes. And I think I remember reading somewhere that you had a
really good teacher in Hegel, and I remember also that you got turned on to Marcuse and the
Frankfurt School at some point, because I think someone dragged you to a lecture,
and you didn't even know what you were going to, and it was Marcuse. Maybe that was at Boston
College, too. Yeah, that was at BC. The first day I got to Boston College, another graduate student,
Coach Tai, had to paint the whole persona stuff. I was introducing him. He took me over to
the Eagleton College's cafeteria stuff to meet some other graduate students who were actually
in my cohort, some of these two other white guys. Now, one of the white guys had graduated
from Vanderbilt University in Nashville. I didn't know him. He was from Little Rock, Arkansas,
white. He was dating a Black woman at Fisk, whom I knew. I had just tried to date her,
and she said, I'm already seeing somebody else. And then she said, you're going to
Boston College. My boyfriend is going, make sure you meet him. I'm like, okay. Did I get
that at first date? That was him. Then there was another white guy who had long hair and a beard.
At Boston College at the time was male-only school, in the School of Nursing, or the School of
Education, but not in the College of Arts and Sciences. All the young men in the College of
Arts and Sciences had to wear coats and ties to schools. I walked up to this camper
in the summer. I've been on a button-down short-sleeve shirt. I'm the camera,
because I'm in the photography. When I see all these young white boys running around in coats
and ties, I'm like, what the hell is this? I'm going to be ... I've known the wrong campers,
because this is nothing like I had imagined being. So to get to the ... It's not why I meet these two
white guys, the one with the long hair. He's from going to school in California. He was from Oregon.
He's dating a woman whose family is from South America, and he's looking on stroke with his
beard, and he's like, this is such a weird damn place. I'm like, yeah. We are good friends to
this day. The three of us, all of us got married within a year or so. We became a very, very tight
group of people, et cetera. A good first meeting, then, like you. A guy from Oregon picked up on
school in California near San Francisco. So I think he wondered, hey, I'm going to hear this
lecture down at BC. He's like, I'm going to go to this room, this standing room only, and this
old guy comes up to the podium and start giving this lecture. It was riveting. I'm like, who
is that? How is this? He's like, it's Herbert MacLeod, right? I'm in a seminar on Heidel with
Jean Temenio from Louvre, and what he did, we had the barely translation of the cardiology,
and he would have us, one of us read a paragraph or so, and then he would explicate it. He had
a German edition, he had a French edition, and he would explicate paragraph by paragraph by
paragraph by character. That was the seminar. Yeah. So you learned that kind of movement. I
bring it up for a reason, because I feel like in your dissertation and the doubling, double
consciousness, the way you bring phenomenon, I'm interested in your understanding of this
dialectical pattern or whatever, too, and how that might have been important in your thinking,
because also with the Frankfurt School, because Marcuse was your intro into that, but you
ended up, we can talk about it later another time, but that Frankfurt School group even
meeting Habermas, and there's a lot of this pattern of this dialectical kind of reconciliation,
I guess, is what I'm wondering about. You kind of started learning that maybe in that Hegel class?
Oh, the Hegel class was very, very influential. I mean, I tell people, if you read Hegel,
you may not read with Hegel, but you would not be able to think in a way you did before you read
Hegel. If you really begin to understand, if you can, I used to say to students,
reading Marcuse or reading Hegel, it's like learning to dance or to make love with a partner for the
first time. It's really kind of awkward at first, because your bodies are not coordinated. It's
like when you kiss somebody for the first time, it's awkward. You don't know who's going to
spin the head which way, your bow nose is. But after you dance with somebody with a partner
for a long time, you begin to know the body moves, their rhythm, how they coordinate their rhythm
with your rhythms, et cetera, et cetera. And I said, to me, learning to understand,
unlike Hegel, it's like learning to dance with a partner. You got to learn the rhythm of his
thinking. How does he structure his sentences? How does he organize a paragraph? What's the
rhythm of the logic in what he's saying? And once you get it, to me, it's really easy reading.
I mean, once you understand the rhythm of the logic and how it folds.
I mean, I've always thought the same about Hegel, that you're almost learning more of a
new kind of movement or calibration. Or you talk a lot about praxis and practice and action and
thought. And there is something about, if you can read Hegel from a certain way, you learn a new
thought movement. It's not necessarily about what he says. I totally don't agree with all this
junk he talks about in terms of history. But it's more the movement that you learn this movement,
right? Which I'd also sense in other writers, not just Hegel. And I think it's in your dissertation
too. You're doing something of that movement. But yeah, I'm so glad you said that, because
I think that's a really important distinction that I don't really ever hear made.
Yeah. I mean, and I try to tell the students, every writer has a rhythm. So I always say to
students, your press responsibility is always to give the writer his or her say, not to judge them,
but to give. You've got to let them lead the dance. You've got to learn how to get in step,
get in sync with the rhythm of their moves. If not, then you're violating a fundamental
ethical principle of hermeneutic justice and patience and generosity. Give the writer his
or her say. Learn to dance with them. Learn how to get his text. It's not agreeing or disagreeing.
It's you've got to give them their say. Open yourself up to them. Now, if they can persuade
you to dance, now you could really love dancing saying, but I don't want to marry you. I enjoy
dancing with you. I go to sleep with you every night. One time, I don't need to do this again,
you know, appreciate you for the person that you are. And once I began to get that rhythm,
and I had this conversation with Tominio when I was taking the Hegel seminar, because I'm trying
to understand the U.S., how can Hegel help me understand the U.S. I mean, now, I mean,
I was going to focus on analytics as well, so we've got all this stuff going on, analyzing
sentences. No, this makes no sense. I need another strategy. So I'm reading Hegel and
trying to understand how can it help me understand my situation, the U.S., et cetera, the life I've
had. I'm trying to continue with this race stuff. And so I have a one-on-one with Tominio, and we
start talking. He says, yes, you know, the United States has a lot of negativity, but there's no
real appreciation for negation. And it helped me to appreciate Hegel in a particularly good
kind of way. Then when I start reading Marcuse, in particular, as you read in one of his texts,
there's an introduction to one of the texts called A Note on Dialect. It's certainly an interesting
way of accounting for dialectical thinking and logic within the context of Hegel.
And he has this whole thing about that if you read Hegel,
he odds you're just shot through with historic grounding and implications. It's not just
speculative abstract stuff. So that was helpful. All of those are sort of resources that I'm trying
to draw upon and put to work in a particular way. One of the other really significant
happenings while I was in graduate school is this person comes to campus to speak,
being given by a man named Harold Cruz. Harold Cruz published this book called The Crisis of
the Negro Intellectual. Now, there were two kind of similar moments for me in graduate school. One,
I went to a bookstore in Cambridge one night browsing, and I see on the stand a journal
called The Black Scholar. And I was just stunned by those two words being together in a way I had
never seen before. Scholar and black. And put those two things together. Now, remember, I'm
still working through this whole black consciousness thing. Cruz gives this talk
based on his book The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual. I read the book and there's
a deep critique going on about Negro intellectuals. Well, already in the black power book,
it has a distinction between being Negro and being black. One is negative and one is positive.
So I'm reading through this and saying by Cruz, there's a whole tradition of
Negro people being intellectually applied in different kinds of ways,
of why that is problematic, but you need to be taken a different kind of way.
Oh, wow. There's a whole new agenda. There's this new journal called The Black Scholar. Well,
and in fact, one of the founders of that journal, I just got to notice, died a couple of days ago,
Nathan Hare. So there's a whole, he's the head of the first black studies program in California.
I mean, all these influences are happening at this fertile time in my life. And now I've got a whole
new notion of what it might mean to be an intellectual. I couldn't get with the notion
of a scholar. I was planning on being a college teacher. I wasn't thinking about scholarship,
but I see a possibility in this notion of being an intellectual, which fits with me,
because I like the intellectual stuff. What might it mean to be an intellectual who is blind,
committed to social justice, and having to make conditions better for black folk and
white folk in the United States, and have an international strict process. And Wastoff,
and Vietnam, and Afghanistan, all this thing. How might I bring all of this together?
And so it just became that kind of project of, I think there's a way I can bring this all together.
Yeah, it was like a, you call it a kind of hermeneutics of the transformation of
consciousness, or at least that's how I'm thinking of it, and that's why it came to me.
So I think we have to pause for just a second though, because this will be probably a little
bit wrong, and you can correct me, but here's kind of how I'm thinking of all this, to try to
thread these things together. I know a lot of listeners will know some of this and not other
parts, like Hegel maybe, or not this. So okay, we were talking about your consciousness situated,
nested in time period, and there were many kinds of ways we could have thought about your
consciousness. But in a way, we've been talking about a transformation of consciousness in a
sense. And then we were also talking about the philosophical part of that. And we talked about
this feeling of this kind of dialectic of things doubling, like double consciousness in Du Bois,
or when we think of Marcuse and Hegel, this dialectical movement that two seeming opposites
are kind of recognizing one another, and in so doing, opening a different path so that
it wasn't really opposites, but there's some kind of movement there, or patterning that's a doubling
in a similar way to Du Bois, in terms of setting something against itself, or having to,
and maybe the way you did as a child, looking across the street, and there's a white church,
and there's a black church, and it doesn't make a lot of sense, and there's a kind of doubling
there, or the way Du Bois talks about it, of the black experience, where you have no choice
but to realize that, where the white people don't have to really realize that. So there's all these
themes that I see as connected, and I guess what I'm trying to get at now is you were just talking
about Negro and black, and that too has a history. There's a time when those words are in this
dynamical process of changing, and you're kind of noticing that changing, and it's tied to the
transformation, and this becomes part of your dissertation, but I think for people who don't,
because you could start at different points in history, and those words are going to mean
different things, and they're going to be for the people using them meaning different things,
but as you show in your dissertation, this is part of this reconciliation process that's going on,
and maybe even part of how we're going to continue resolving a lot of things that bother us, but
before we can really look at that, can you help people understand these two words?
They weren't necessarily always opposites, right, or were they, or what was going on there?
I'm a little worried people won't really understand, or maybe I don't even really
understand how that was when you saw Black Scholar. Yeah, I don't know, like what was that movement?
I think of it this way. So as a kid growing up, if you really wanted to assault another kid
verbally, one of the ways was to call them Black, because all the connotations were really
very negative. Dirty, thinky, inferior, you name it. And remember, when we're reading Du Bois,
it's the souls of Black folk installed in Mississippi, so Black was always a negative
connotation. So part of the work of a lot of the young folk on SNCC and in what became
the Black Consciousness Movement drawing off of their readings of Phenol, the Negro in language,
et cetera, et cetera, was, as one scholar later called it, was to reverse the symbolic weightings
of key terms. Take a negative and turn it into a positive. So think of how we now might orient
ourselves to the term queer. It used to be an act, but people took it, reinvested it with meaning,
and gave it a new positive significance rather than an invidious significance.
And so that's what began to happen with what was called the Black Consciousness
News. Take the term Black, and instead of taking it as a weapon or taking of it as a negative,
rather, I'm Black and I'm proud. That fifth in the language of self-reference was psychologically
very wrenching. It took a lot of time, effort, and work to go from a negative to a positive with
these key terms. And that's why I was focusing on it by saying there's an awful lot happening
in going from Negro to Black. It will give us an entree into some larger cultural political happenings
in the life of Black people. And so much is about language, and I'm in some ways working
on that still now, but I'm dealing with Ralph Ellison and reading Kenneth Burke and
language and a whole bunch of other stuff going on right now. But that was the insight, that was
the enterprise that I was committing myself to, but it also led me further into Franklin School
and down to Critical Socialism. There is me, and at some point, pretty much exhausting
my time working at well. So I said, okay, Habermas, I've had enough. Let me go for queer health.
This is really, really important, I think, and I want to try to talk about it a little bit, because
like you were saying, this is a whole lot of work. We're only talking a couple hours here, but all
this change of the stance or being able to turn the positive into a negative, it's a kind of
internal, it requires something like the person, many people, like nested, the individuals, but also
these groups, becoming aware, first of all, of the situation in terms of, I guess, what we would say
Du Bois is talking about with the double consciousness. So you're already aware of it.
If you're the person who's being, I guess, if you're in a particular context, then you have to be
aware that you're being seen in a certain way, but then you kind of become aware, as you did in a way,
that this doesn't make sense, and then you begin to, it's almost like an Aikido or a Tai Chi or
some kind of, in the same way we were talking about with the Hegelian movement, you're noticing that
energy, becoming present to it, and then you're taking it as your own, in a sense, or like owning
it, and in so doing, changing this whole dynamic between whoever was using that term in a negative
way. So this long process of what we were talking about with consciousness, right, I think there's
like consciousness raising is this kind of phrase that you use sometimes, or transforming
consciousness. In a way, do you see this kind of praxis of becoming aware of something that's
happening and, I guess, owning that, and then redefining that, and not always consciously,
but sometimes consciously? Is that part of all this?
Fair. I mean, one thing we have to talk about, so I went to Harvard for the night,
and in 1930 to visit for a year. I moved away 21 years later. Now,
accepting an invitation to go to Harvard for a year was a very, very, very wrenching experience,
a very difficult experience, because I had been committed to working in HBCUs. I wanted to be in
historical backgrounds. I wanted to be in the cell, et cetera, et cetera. So now, for a whole bunch
of reasons, I'd leave first. I'd go to Morgan State, another historical background. I wasn't
working with a family as a state institution, so I didn't want to go into this predominantly
white institution. Well, I'd been interviewed at other predominantly white institutions and didn't.
I think you'd even been offered, you could stay at Boston College, and you'd said no,
because it goes back to that moment on the street of that was the part you were going to play at
that time. And so now I've got this opportunity to go there, and I'm really torn. So I go talk to one
of my friends at Morgan State, who's still my current friend to this day, and I start telling him
how agonizing about this possibility. I'm turning my back on my people. He looks at me and he says,
no, you're not. He says, we know who you are. You're going to be fine. Go to Harvard. We know who
you are. You're going to be fine. It's okay. And I was like, God, he just sort of took this rock
and killed him. What a gift. Yeah. I go to Harvard, and then I come to another realization.
Okay. If all of us who are involved in eschemic and in Black studies, we've been critical of the
way literature has been canonized and the histories have been written, how racism is played in the
writing of histories, the building of disciplines, and all of this, I condone this realization well.
So I'm at Harvard. And to this realization, if all of our critiques of the way in which
canons, histories have been constructed under the auspices of white racial supremacy and all of that,
what correctives to that, part of that corrective has got to mean that successive generation of
white children are going to be taught in ways different from the way in which they've been taught.
So admittedly, I was guilt-ridden about going, and that was when I came to the realization,
well, wait a minute, white young people in college need me as much as some Black students
need me. Because if we're going to disrupt the cross-generational perpetuation of white supremacy,
one of the ways we are going to do it is by educating new generations of young white people.
So there's important work for me to do here. And so I spent the next 40 years working in redemptive
white institutions. And one of the essays I wrote for a particular volume, the title of it is
the Rehabilitation of Whiteness Question Mark. So in the rest of it, a prominent sort of movement
at one point called the abolition of whiteness, led by a black,
Levi-Conversing, a white, Levi-Conversing of the United States, cruel Risman-Igan,
the way we saw the racial problem is getting rid of the notion of whiteness,
the abolition of whiteness. Now, I find that a deeply problematic notion for all kinds of reasons.
But simply put, if rightful could take the notion of blackness and rehabilitate it from a negative
to a positive, why would that conclude that the same thing can't be done with the notion of
whiteness? There's nothing inherent in the notion of whiteness that requires white supremacy or
invidious notions of either whiteness or blackness. It's a term. We give the terms a meaning.
So what would we have whiteness mean? That's really up to all of us.
And so when I reflect upon how black folk rework the meaning of blackness,
I say white folk can rework the meaning of whiteness, have it come to mean something
completely different from white supremacy in Oregon. There's nothing inherent in the
notion of whiteness. So I invite whiteness, well, tell me how to do it. No, no, no, no,
that's not my job. It's not my job to tell you what whiteness should mean for you. That's your
word. I didn't have you tell me what whiteness has to mean for me. I can work that out.
Inviting you, I will support you taking up the really hard work against the brain of centuries
of wanting out a new notion of whiteness that has nothing to do with white supremacy and racism.
Nothing. Now, I don't find that strange at all since I've known white folk who were not
committed to notions of white supremacy or racism. So there's nothing serious about it.
There have always been white folk who thought of themselves different.
Well, it comes to me from, in your thesis, you talk about in the dissertation or in other writings,
you discuss this, that we need to understand this, the double consciousness is like this
transformation of consciousness, this self-consciousness of black folks, I think you say,
and this consciousness raising and all of this. It starts, you basically, I feel like we all need
to understand that, white or black or whoever, right? And that maybe is part of what you're
saying now about, I wonder if this pattern that you described, because in the dissertation,
it's pretty much a way to reconfigure these praxis of social cultural meaning and praxis,
right? The life world. We don't have a lot of time to talk about the phenomenology,
but it's really, you're really talking about lived experience, a transformation of lived experience,
which is coming about through symbols. So you can't really ever symbolize fully this world,
but language, with language, we can have this third space where we can externally represent
and discuss all of this process. And through reconfigurations there, like the one that you
describe with the actual language, what happens there, it's a shift of power and of meaning.
It's a reconfiguring meaning and it's reconfiguring practice. And it's reconfiguring
it for all parts because it's the process. And I feel like that can be nested, right,
into what you're saying with other groups of people and people who haven't had to engage in
it in the way that black folks have, in the way that Du Bois was writing about with the
double consciousness. That's a specific experience of black people in America,
but I feel like the pattern of it is what you're describing in the dissertation a bit and also
what other groups could do. And of course as group, it's always we're representing something
that's an ongoing process and has many different ways of being looked at. But I guess what I feel
like I'm trying to get at is that we all can learn from this double consciousness in a way that could
help reconfigure meanings and practices of our shared life world in ways that I think you're
getting at in terms of what whiteness needs to be concerned with. Does that make sense at all?
Sure. So part of what I'm having to prepare for now, a couple of weeks ago a person who came,
a very historic figure, had the good fortune of becoming good friends with my wife and becoming
a major influence in my life, a man named the Reverend James Morris Lawson Jr. Does that name
ring a bell? Describe from your perspective. He died a couple of weeks ago. A huge person who
taught direct action civil disobedience to John Morris and Diane Nash and a whole bunch of very
young people in Nashville in the late 50s. So he had been at Vanderbilt, he got expelled. Anyway,
I was involved in bringing him back to Nashville as a distinguished visiting professor for several
years when I was an associate professor. So we could be good friends. Well, he died a couple of
weeks ago, but he had specified instructions for his field service that I'd be interested in
for marks and his field service. So I will be doing that in LA on July 6th. But one of the things
that I am trying to figure out how to work into this is a conception that I've come to. I had a
conversation once, I called him and said, I'm trying to figure out what it means to try to be
involved in the situation in the Middle East involving Israelis and Palestinians, right? How
might a movement of the kind you with the significant hand in Nashville or in the country
and in Memphis and LA and other places, how might that take place? So we talked a bit about it.
So one of the things I came upon, and I shared with a couple of folks,
three advisees in the same class who were philosophy majors, and they were good friends.
One of them was an African American woman, one was a Jewish woman, one was a Palestinian.
Good friends, and I'm their advise. They were very special. I always said to them,
you are my vision for the possibilities of the future.
So recently I was talking to the Palestinian woman and the African American woman,
their experiences, the tensions and the relationships involved. I had been
thinking about this, and I said to the Palestinian woman that as for my generation,
part of the battle took place, if you will, on the terrain of language. The transformation of
black from a negative to a positive. So for me, there's part of the battle for the future
of a just situation in the Middle East. It's also going to have to be on the terrain of battle,
and what I'm getting at is over an expression of a vision for what can happen in that region.
So did feminists, so did queer, lesbian, bisexual, trans, gay, et cetera. People had to invest all of
that with new positive means. So now we have Pride Week. We speak of queer studies in universities
when it used to be an effort, and the battle on the terrain of language, that is a way of being
able to envision and give expression to new visions by which we can order our lives and move forward.
To get that is part of what I think has to be done in that region of the world, and to me,
part of what I will be offering in that region, the Reverend was one of the greatest gifts
ever to the history of this country. Because here's a person, I said, if you look at the United
States, Captain An-11, they declared a war. If you look at what happens in Israel after October,
they declared a war. And in both cases, the nations felt themselves just in her. If you look at what
happened to African people and their descendants, millions of people were enslaved, millions died,
millions were oppressed, et cetera. However, it has never been the case, and black people have
taken that as a justification for declaring war on white people. I find that utterly amazing.
Instead, you have a movement grounded in love. That, to me, is utterly astounding,
and I think that's a tremendous gift to the United States.
I've read where you talk about, you know, there are no real categories, but we need to make
categories. So in the same way that there's this map territory thing, in a way. So you have this
ongoing life-world process where there's actually no distinctions. Everything is alive and changing
all the time and changing each other. But when it comes, like language already, we are making
distinctions. And language is the place where you're going to change that process, in a sense,
even though the language itself is never fully representing that process. It's representing it,
but it's not the territory. It's a map of the territory. But I hear you saying,
actually, the way we change the maps changes the territory. So it matters how we change the map.
It matters how we change the language. And what you're just saying is powerful too, but I think
also it matters from what perspective the agency is being given. Like, depending on where you're
using those words or where you're listening to what you just said about them, they're going to
be interpreted in a different way because the map isn't the territory, right? So your meaning behind
that, the way you actually mean it, might be being interpreted a completely different way
if someone's using a different map, so to speak. And same that happened, I think, a lot with the
struggles we've been talking about in You Know Better Than Me, where your dad knew how to use
the language to get what he wanted, in a sense, because he had to learn that. That's a different
perspective than the white person who didn't get any of that. So I guess what I'm trying to say is,
doesn't it get really complicated in terms of that there's so many different ways of using the
same symbols, such that sometimes we think we're talking about the same thing or expressing the
same thing and we're not, or that someone might hear what you just said and hear it from actually
through a completely different map than the one you mean it by? Isn't that a complication too?
And how does that get worked out?
By making a commitment to working it out rather than shooting it,
in the following simple kind of way. I hear what you're saying. What do you mean?
Here's what I thought you meant, is that what you mean. You play it back and I say,
no, that is what I said. It's not what I meant or intended. So let's talk this through.
We call it dialogue, right? Now, a dialogue in order to be effective and have the potential
possessions, there's got to be ethical structure. There's got to be some norms that structure
dialogue. My fundamental respect for the participants in the dialogue, listening,
asking questions prior to rendering final judgments, being open to the possibility of
changing oneself. Well, you said something. Yeah, but I thought you meant, no, no, that's not what
I meant. Oh, but I thought, I understand you thought, but here's what. Oh, I misspoke. Oh,
I misspoke. Okay, well, let's try it again, right? That process is crucial to having a stable,
viable community. Well, what do we mean? Sometimes we call it democracy, but there's a whole bunch
of philosophical anthropology, politics, ethics, et cetera, that has to undergo democratic praxis.
It has to. You want to have it. And one has to be committed to, one has to give up on the
same kind of epistemological commitments. Namely, truth is going to come from a very other method
I have worked out that guarantees we successful acquisition of truth. And I've got the right
methods of doing it. So what is going to be truthful and best for all of us is what's going
to come out of ideological engagement with what the issues are, what the desires and wishes are
that we work out between and amongst ourselves in a way that serves all of us as well as we can,
given what we're working with. And then we're going to continue to work at that.
Continue to work at that. And each of us has to be prepared. Now, the other thing is,
there's another whole discussion we have in there. So much of what I've been given over to
over the last couple of decades, growing out of focusing up on the notion of race,
and this has to do very much with Du Bois, is to work out for my own understanding
what was Du Bois' sense of human evolution.
I am convinced he was an evolutionist, that his notion about raciality, racial groupings
was not a recessionist notion, that he was an evolutionist. If I stand with looking at
our human species, there is no way I know how to make sense of the evolutionary history
of the West Sapiens without having an account of groupings.
It reminds me of the way you talk about symbols and language in the dissertation.
This theme kind of continues on where there's a distinction to be made between the language
and the symbol area, the map, I would call it, and the territory, which is the process,
the ongoing dynamic, ever-changing, all of it. Where, of course, there's no categories,
there's no real such thing as a species because it's all always changing and moving.
All these terms we use, of course, in that life world or process, it's all dynamic and always
changing. However, to be alive, to communicate, to have anything like a language or symbols or
science or philosophy, we do use categories. We do need categories.
Yeah. I mean, part of what I'm drawn to know that I'm convinced about is that our species
is first and foremost a social species. No group has all of that knowledge resource to solve
all of the problems that come up in this world.
One of the things you need is new information. How do you solve certain kinds of problems? If
you survey the world to see how people who differently have come up with similar problems
and figured out how to resolve their problems, you enhance the well-being of all. Take away that
diversity, take away that adaptability. All you need is a new problem for which we don't have
a ready answer, and the game is going to be over. You eliminate the adaptiveness, game over.
So the openness and learning, the being able to encounter the new and the different,
to run the assessment without having to say, you're not like me, therefore I've got to condemn you,
rather than saying, oh, what's that new dish you created? Can I taste it? Oh, wow, what's
this? What are its properties? How might this be helpful, et cetera? Those are the keys to the
viability of our species. That's the insight that I think that Du Bois grasps really, really well.
Yeah, well said. Do you think that double consciousness is part of it? Is that an old
term, or can we keep using that doubling to better understand this process?
What he described as double consciousness was a problematic state, so he wasn't recommending
gobbling. It was a particular kind of situation. What he was opting for was a resolution of
what had become a troubling split. I feel like that's what I was trying to get at with this
dialectic or this pattern, that the reality isn't that troubling split, but somehow through this
recognition that we've seen it wrongly or that we've seen it differently than
another path opens up. It doesn't mean we need that, but maybe there's other ways in which we can
get to a place of transformation by noticing that we've doubled, I guess, or that we're seeing
that we have this double consciousness of, that others have it even. I feel like this theme applies
to a lot of either or situations that end up becoming incredibly destructive and painful for
different groups. It's not the same as the Black American experience and the way that Dubois
describes it, but you brought up the queer experience, for example. I think there's a
double consciousness there. Maybe there's a way in which this pattern we can notice is happening
in a lot of different places in different ways, not to say that it's all exactly the same way,
but I guess that's more what I mean. Right. Part of what I'm trying to learn to
appreciate and I've been writing and teaching to appreciate is how do we contend with
that which differs? Part of what I'm trying to work through is an appreciation form,
if you will, the evolutionary throwing up of difference and diversity, and how in some ways
that is a key to adaptive success if understood and taken up in appropriate kinds of ways.
Exactly. Just as you show in your dissertation in that sense of it looks like a negative,
but if you take it in a different way and make it a positive, it's almost like right now we think
difference strikes us as something bad or that we need to be afraid of or that we need to resolve,
when instead it's like a portal into a transformation, to put it in kind of terms,
a transformation of consciousness that ends up affecting both sides. It's a different way
of thinking about all of that that I feel like the world really needs right now.
Part of it is to let go of the fears that motivate us to try to mobilize resources
to eliminate differences and establish what we take to be the safety of homogeneity.
And I'm trying, there are dangers in homogeneity, that homogeneity needs to be tempered
by new information that is heterogeneity,
that homogeneity can easily lead to stasis and render us, individual or group of people,
or some living being, render them maladaptive. Because the homogeneity is built upon a certain
amount of information, but that information can easily become maladaptive in a dynamic world.
Our universe is not a frozen stasis. It's dynamic. There is no homogeneity. If there was,
we wouldn't be here in another way to say it.
How do we continue? How do we take up differences for growth and transformation?
Maybe noticing the patterns and appreciating the patterns without thinking they have to be
corresponding to some specific substance in some specific thing. That's that map territory
thing. But also, I have to bring up this word love here, because this is love and philosophy,
and we're talking about all of this. I don't know about love and Du Bois, but I think what
we're trying to describe right now is a kind of, it does put you into a place of love. I mean,
you've been with your wife, you said 50 years, I think, and you were talking about...
Yeah, 54 on the way to 55.
Okay. So you must know something about seeing things from a different position or... Yeah,
I don't know. Okay, if I bring up that word love, how do you see that in this process
that we're talking about? I mean, think about it. So this was a central concern
for Martin Luther King, the movement for revolution, et cetera. And King said, look,
I'm not talking about erotic love, I'm talking about agape love. So part of it is getting
worked out, what do we be by love? And part of it in that movement was there was a care
for the rescue of white people from their racism, as well as for the rescue
of Negro people from the racism of white people. That both things needed to happen.
That you needed to be caring for the well-being of white people beyond racism, as you could for
black people in rescuing them from racism. That everybody needed to be loved. That love was going
to be key to helping everybody. I'm caring for the day we go below. And that means for me, it means
I have to reject a position articulated by Malcolm X, who said, by enemies necessary.
My position is, there are some means I will not accept.
Like your dad on the sidewalk. That's right. That is, if I say by enemies necessary, well,
I'm not going to accept it. I don't think I am justified in using enemies to achieve my end.
That I need not have any regard for those against whom I struggle. I don't accept.
It doesn't seem like love. It doesn't seem like we can fit love onto that.
No, there's no way to fit love into there. I mean, I signed the very notion of advocating
by enemies necessary, morally reprehensible. I think one of the most reprehensible ethical
things that Malcolm actually ever said. I think it's morally reprehensible
to advocate by enemies necessary. Any means? We've got plenty of evidence in human history
of atrocities. But if you're going to endorse that, there's no distinction about atrocities
versus humane struggle, where you're committed to preserving the humanity of people who
consume your struggle. I think it has to do with, yeah, when we feel we only have one choice or
the other. It's that thing too, where there's never that. I just found it absolutely astounding
that I have come upon no history of a principled commitment on a part of black folk to wage war on
white people. I just found utterly astounding. What about Marcus Garvey and this kind of-
Garvey was separation. Garvey was separation. Garvey goes, the plan means Garvey has planned
people coming to him because we agree on the same thing. We need to be separated from each other.
He thinks we don't need to be together. We can't live together. Let's just go to separate places
and live. Y'all will be us. He wasn't calling for war on white people. Again, that's the thing.
Here's another example for me. Think of an enslaved black woman working on a plantation
where she's preparing food for the slave-owning family and feeding them. Now, one of her options
might be, I could end this by poisoning the whole white family. She doesn't. She could say,
this is a cross-generational project. They will the slaves to other people. They've got a baby.
Instead, she nurtures the baby sometimes, lets the baby struggle from her own nipples to sustain the
baby. Why? I just find that utterly mind-blowing. Yeah. I think it's love. I think it's some
connection to the reality. That's right. My maternal grandmother said to me,
for more than one occasion, son, the only way you can keep somebody in the ditch is that you've got
to get in the ditch with them. Don't get in the ditch with the white man. They would laugh at
certain things about white folk. They never propose hatred on white people. Never. I just find that
period that runs across the entire history of African peoples in the Western world, to me,
it's just mind-blowing. I think it's such an extraordinarily powerful lesson and gift.
It makes me think of Eric Frohm a little bit in Love, who I know you talked to and knew, actually.
We didn't even get into that story, but that's a kind of love that a lot of us,
much of the world is still trying to learn. I think in those stories that you just told,
shows that it's actually here. It's been here, even in the most painful of times,
people have had that, so it's real, right? I'm saying, to me, that is why a person like
Reverend Lawlaki, there are others, is one of the most profound gifts to the United States.
And my thing is, compare him to a son of a lawyer. They both have deep religious convictions. They
draw on them for different ends and different meanings. And those differences make a difference.
One led to enormous destruction. And responding to a son of a lawyer by a declaration of war
and going to war, got us what? Got us what? Okay, Hamas commits atrocities. Okay,
go to war. Okay, so now you kill a bunch of people.
We put those patterns into the world, the ones we are using, so it's just
perpetuating it somehow, I guess. But how do people take a step, how do we, I mean,
to just bring it full circle, to try to kind of end, how do we, what's your advice or what's
your feeling or kind of last thoughts just for this conversation, thoughts about how to,
for those who haven't, how do we develop that stance or that orientation or the one of love
that we're talking about now or the one of taking a step back, like you said, and saying,
do I know what you mean? And is it, what's your feeling? What have you seen that is a good way for
trying to learn that or help teach that as you've been doing?
Well, I mean, one of the laws that helped me to understand, for example,
the commitment to nonviolence, not a commitment to passivity. It's not a passiveness. It's an
active, engaging install, tempered by certain principles having to do with love and nonviolence
and recognition of humanity of other people. And that takes a tremendous kind of understanding
or a kind of patience regarding human development and change and be willing to be patient and work
through things in particular kinds of ways that is without violence. You know, he told a story
once about how when he was doing a national movie, they had been on a demonstration,
he was walking back to the church from which they had set out to do the demonstration.
He got separated from the groups. He was confronted by a group of young white guys who were
antagonistic to the margin, et cetera. And so these white guys and one of them in a motorcycle
jacket walked up and spit in his face. So he asked the guy who was spitting his face and said,
do you have a handkerchief? The white kid said, yeah. He says, may I borrow it?
The white kid gave him the handkerchief. So he wiped the spit on his face and said,
so you're wearing a motorcycle jacket. Do you have a motorcycle? He said,
yeah. But he says, I ride a motorcycle too. So then they had a conversation of motorcycles.
That's beautiful. He just switched the contact.
He handed the kid back the handkerchief to him and walked on to the church.
That's beautiful. That's a kind of example of what you describe too in terms of the language or the
making the positive and negative or switching the power or definition of the word or the energy of
the situation. It's almost like a literal example of that. Yeah. But in that situation,
what are you committed to? If you think that having someone spit in your face is the worst
of NVIDIA's actions toward you that justifies your response to violence.
But that's not his original. For him, that is nothing. He never cried. The story of his life
was when he was a kid, his mother sent him to the store. He went to the store. Coming back home,
he's walking along on the sidewalk. There was a car with some young white boys parked in it.
As he got beside the car, one of the boys in the car called him a nigger.
So he walked over to the car and slapped the center of it. So when he got home, he told his
mother what happened and that he had slapped the kid. His mother looked at him and asked,
and what good did that do, Jimmy? So he had to walk away and start thinking,
what good did that do? But he now had to confront this question of
what kinds of actions begat what kinds of actions. And that set him on a road to thinking about
violence and non-violence. His father was a minister. He's in the church reading the
teachings of Jesus. He goes to India to study the teachings. But he refused to be inducted into the
Korean War. He's put in federal prison. It turns out he goes to India as a missionary to study the
teachings of John. So he gets set off on this road of what good is violence and where he begins to
think about how do we, what he says, how do we break the cycle of violence? What can we do to
break the cycle? So if somebody spits in my face, they slipped. They feel justified and hit me back.
So now we've got this thing to be a dialectic of back and forth, but there's, what's the resolution?
Death of one of the others? Or do you say there's a different reaction that calls for a reaction
that in fact lays the groundwork for a resolution that embraces the whole rather than denigration
or death? Is that of how might we engage in the world in such a way that we break the cycle of
violence? Well, then you got to put forward an understanding of people that you don't engage in.
I'm trying to figure out how to talk and follow, you know, the path I've been on, inspired by him
and become such a very close friend of his. And I'm still blown away by the way in which he came
to regard me as such a pro-feminist. We spent a lot of time together when he was selected to anybody
over the course of three years. We became very close and the family knows that. And we did. He
writes down at my death there's a serious, absolute, you know, hummer. Wow. Wow. That's a
real strong, strong moment in meaning, of meaning. Maybe you can, if you could share with like,
where we could find out more about him and your, you know, this, I mean, it would be so I could
share it with everyone who doesn't know him. One of the things I worked on, helped to facilitate
is that all of his papers are now in the archives at Vanderbilt University. And they are all
digitized. You can access people through the Vanderbilt University libraries. Okay, I'll look
for it. Vanderbilt, about EDU, and the libraries, and the James Lawson papers. Also to establish
at Vanderbilt is the James Morris Lawson Institute for the Research and Study of Nonviolent Social
Movements. There's a whole story about how that came to be and working to bring that about, so.
That's wonderful. Even though I've been reading so much of your stuff, I didn't know about that
yet. So it opens up a whole new, whole new thing. So thank you. And I am sorry for your loss. However,
I do feel like that was obviously something has been given to the world through this that will
continue to be given. And, you know, we didn't even get into, I mean, we didn't even talk about
so much, Africana philosophy and all kinds of things from your career. But at least we, I think
we got really deep into this feeling of love, actually, was what it ended up coming to. But
of philosophy, why it's important. And maybe another occasion, but I thank you for
allowing me just to be part with you and talk about all this for your podcast. Thank you.
Means a lot, really. Thank you for sharing your time and thank you for all that you've
given in the world and done. And thanks for, you know, standing on the sidewalk that day and
having that thought and following through on it of becoming a teacher and a writer. It means
something and it will continue to mean something. I know you already know that, but, you know,
it's good to hear again. Thank you, Audrey. You take care. Thanks. Keep in touch.
