Hey everyone, it's Andrea.
Today is October 17th.
This is my diary for today.
I've been thinking about the night sky.
I've been looking at the night sky,
thinking of the night sky.
And when I was a kid,
I used to go lay in the middle of our yard or garden
or whatever you wanna call it,
like grassy area around our house
and look at the stars at night
because one of my teachers,
Dr. Lynch, wherever you are,
in fifth grade told me to go lay in the grass
and look at the stars and imagine them.
Imagine myself on a round object, which was the earth,
and then imagine all of them as round.
And then try to imagine this constellation
of this little me on this giant earth,
which was then just a little dot in this night sky
with all these other stars.
So maybe tonight go look at the sky if you can,
if you can find somewhere to see the stars
or one day turn your eyes to the stars
and you won't just see random points of light probably.
You might start to see patterns.
That's constellations like the Big Dipper
or Cassiopeia or Orion,
or you can make up your own.
We all naturally start to connect the stars,
like drawing lines between them,
creating means of understanding what we're looking at,
meaning, creating meaning, I guess,
from this relationship of all these beautiful points of light
which are remarkably not connected actually
in any sort of way like that,
even though they do make patterns for us,
but they're actually separated by vast distances,
at least for us, light years, empty space.
Some of them maybe aren't even burning anymore.
We just still see them.
So they're separated by vast distances,
light years of empty space,
but we see them as holes, as figures,
as stories across the cosmos.
I mean, think of how many people over all of human life
or life in general for people have looked up at the sky
and made stories out of these beautiful lights.
And that's sort of where we begin in a way.
It's what I've been trying to think of
through this constellation thinking.
That sense I had with my back against the earth
and feeling how small I was
and also how immense and amazing the universe was
as I looked about the stars,
realizing I was part of it,
holding that tension of being so small
and yet part of something so amazing
has really stayed with me since I was a kid
and now I'm getting old.
But I still think of this image a lot
and it helps me to get out of linear ways of thinking.
It's a pretty metaphor,
but it's actually more than that too.
It's a shift in how we can understand reality,
thought, our place in the world.
And Western philosophy's been very wonderful
and I love Western philosophy,
but we often end up thinking in terms of isolated objects
or separate things that are sort of like billiard balls
bumping into each other or here is the mind
and there is a world out there or here are facts,
here are values and everything is sort of separated
and supposed to be in its place.
Out of that, we've started to develop
all kinds of ways of defining ourselves
and thinking we're part of these different groups
and separated and there's a lot of truth in that of course.
There's a lot of ways we overlap
and share worlds with people.
But I'm trying to invite us to think a little bit differently
with this idea of constellation thinking
to maybe recognize we're individuals at the same time
that we have our back on the earth,
which is around, semi-around,
object in this constellation of other stars and planets
and that's really mysterious and we don't understand that
and there's all the space between it.
And yet at the same time, how amazing that we're all
part of that, we're all on the same earth.
And I think that's an act of perception
that connects us towards meaning.
If we let it, it's a little bit scary, but it's not mystic.
It's not mystical or it can be mystical,
but it doesn't have to be.
It's actually just, if you really notice
the amazing ability of lived experience
that we can actually understand that we're in this world
and that this world appears in a certain way
and that we don't understand it.
I think you begin to open up to understanding
what it might be like to think in a consolatory way,
which just means catching yourself
when you're judging yourself or when you're judging others
and maybe noticing that you're judging it
in this kind of either or way.
It's either right or it's wrong.
It's good or it's bad.
It's that person is whatever, looking good today
or they didn't take care of themselves.
And the reality of our life is that we are all,
for example, just trying our best every day
to look as good as we can, I guess,
or eat as healthy as we can, give as much as we can,
work as hard as we can.
Everyone's in a different place
and it's not always an easy place for any of us,
wherever we are.
And when we try to judge each other,
especially when we try to judge ourselves
through either or or linear ways of thinking,
then it's like we're turned around,
faced towards the earth.
We're not able to fill the earth on our back
and we're not looking at this constellation
that is us in a way.
We're a lot of different people
and we're a lot of different people
in a lot of different situations.
And everyone we encounter is as well
and they're all trying their best
or at least we can imagine it that way from the beginning.
And try to imagine all the things
that have gone into their constellation of who they are,
all the different ways they've come to be who they are.
There's a tradition in philosophy
that I talk about a lot called phenomenology
and that's this lived experience, which I keep bringing up.
Phenomenologists ask us to sort of return
to our lived experience, to just your experience right now.
You are not your thoughts, first of all, your presence.
If you're just that for a moment,
the constellation starts to open
because you're not trapped in your thoughts.
You're not trapped in judgment, which is always either or.
There's a philosopher named Maurice Merleau-Ponty
who wrote about this with perception
and he didn't describe a mind
as like receiving data from the world.
He described it as always immersed in a meaningful world.
So it's engaged, it's embodied, it's present.
And that's how it's developing its ideas of itself.
But you can also sort of relax into that
and realize that you are that sensuality
and that a door is door-like,
not because you measured it
and you put it in your mental database.
It's a door because you know what it means
to grasp the handle and open it and walk through it.
Portals are like that too in other areas of life.
We don't need to always understand what it is.
I can feel the power of the stars
when I lay on the ground at night
without actually really fully understanding at all
what is happening or what is going on there.
I was in Iceland recently and we saw the Northern Lights
and I still don't really understand what was going on there
even though I watched videos about how it happens
in solar light and all of this.
But the feeling it gives me just when I'm sensing it
and not judging it opens something for me.
And it doesn't need to be explained
and it doesn't need to be termed
as anything unexplainable either.
And I guess what I'm trying to do by introducing this
is to think about care, this word care, love.
I talk about love a lot,
but care is also a word that philosophically
and in a lot of different literature
carries a lot of weight and meaning.
And it's also a word that holds paradox
or that tries to kind of get towards this idea
of beyond dichotomy, letting the dichotomies be what they are,
looking at the space around it, starting to notice,
oh, there's another planet over there
and another over there.
And what you thought was just two
is actually a constellation.
And care is a little bit like that.
There's this philosopher, Martin Heidegger
in the phenomenological tradition
and his idea of care, even in German,
it means a word that can mean something like anxiety
or something like, yeah, it's concern,
I guess is the better word.
Concern and care are sort of the same.
It means care, but it also means worry
or even burden can mean burden a little bit,
which I think we all understand if you care for something,
it can be work.
It's not always wonderful and easy,
but there's also this sense of it being meaningful
when you are able to care for something.
And it can help us to care for something
if we relax into our bodies
and understand this different way of thinking,
what I'm calling this constellation.
If we realize we're one little speck on the earth
looking at the stars and also at the same time
that we're part of that amazing mystery, whatever that is,
once we just let ourselves be that and relax into that,
maybe we can start to understand
how to care in a different way,
in a way that doesn't try to say it's not hard
and anxious and concerning,
but also in a way that still is committed
to tending to the garden or watering the plants,
whatever needs to be done to try to help it thrive.
Now, you don't have everything in your control.
It's fragile.
You have to acknowledge that fragility and that temporality,
but care holds the attachment
and the possibility of letting go.
It holds the absence and the presence,
and it's a state of noticing.
It's that state that I remember as a kid
of noticing that I fill the earth behind me
in this dark night and I see these stars
and I'm part of this.
It's just noticing that.
That's a kind of step into care,
because then you also notice maybe you've been talking
in a way that's judgmental.
Even if you care, maybe you've been acting out of a mindset
that sees the world as either or,
that you have to fight,
that you have to spark some kind of controversy
in order to be seen,
that you have to demand,
that you have to say things
that will make another person angry
just to get them to come back to you and notice you,
or vice versa.
A lot of us do it the other way.
We say what will make people happy,
so we don't have to be seen.
We go along with the world without causing much friction,
or at least we don't acknowledge the friction
that we feel.
So yeah, both of those are reality,
and how do we hold them both?
How do we be part of the constellation,
the little speck on the earth,
and an individual with agency that's aware and noticing?
Because that little act of noticing
is actually an act of agency, of power.
The real sort of power to really notice and realize
what we're part of is very powerful.
So constellation thinking sort of takes these insights
and tries to look at them in more depth,
how we're embedded in our relationship,
how meaning might emerge through those relations,
through the way that we've noticed what we're part of,
so to speak.
And care becomes the practice of this noticing,
of the living, of the dying,
of the changing of patterns, noticing it,
and as part of it,
not to control it necessarily,
but to at least start to fill into its dance
and its rhythms in a way that we can maintain it.
We can care for it, even if we can't fully control it.
We can care for ourselves.
We can maintain ourselves in the best way possible.
We can find a way to be in this difficult, challenging world
and this beautiful, amazing, mysterious world
while acknowledging both, well, not even both.
You see, that's also kind of this dichotomous way
of thinking, but while acknowledging
that there's a whole multiplicity of ways
of being in that world and being as that world.
And so let's think of the night sky again
and ways that people find their way through the world
and literally move through the world.
And constellations of stars,
the stars have been one way that a lot of people do that.
It's been a way we find our way, the way we,
it's like a map.
It's been a map for a lot of ancient civilizations.
You can tell where you are by the stars
and you can tell the time of the year,
which is also a way of telling where you are by the stars.
But we also have had this creative aspect
where we see Orion, the hunter,
or we see Inu in the dark spaces between the stars.
So it's not even only about the stars.
Some Aboriginal cultures have this beautiful way
of looking at the dark spaces between the stars.
And it's in that darkness that you find your way.
So it's the same sky, different patterns,
different meanings, and that space between
is actually what's the consistent holding.
I think that's actually very beautiful too
and says something really crucial
about our participation in this.
And when we see the constellations,
we can also see, even those can become ways of seeing
what isn't the constellation,
which is itself another sort of constellation.
So we allow it to change
and we realize there's a space holding it.
This reminds me of the garden notion again
of care as a way of practicing this holding of the paradox,
not trying to solve one side by the other,
because you have to be present
and you have to remain open to what's becoming.
And you can't judge yourself,
identify yourself as any negative thought
or any positive thought really.
You're just the presence of your noticing
and you attend to that and you notice the relationships
that are part of you and that you are part of.
And you also understand that it's temporary,
it's shifting, it's changing.
Even though the space holding it
is always going to be the space that is holding it.
So we're not isolated individuals,
but we're nodes in a constellation of relationships
and care isn't some kind of optional thing.
It's actually, it's what holds all that.
It is that space.
It's that overall ontological relation,
or at least that's how we look at it.
But really it's beyond all those words.
When we choose to tend to it or when we can't
because we're just overwhelmed,
all of that is the shape of our actual everyday sky,
so to speak.
And the crisis that we face,
the fragmentation that some people are feeling,
the mental health issues,
these are real.
And all I'm saying is that maybe we can find another way
of relaxing into that reality
so as to be able to hold it for one another
a little bit better or to help each other hold it
without judging it,
without trying to solve it at least for a minute.
Because of course we do wanna help each other.
We do wanna make this a better world for each other
as we experience it.
But part of that is realizing we're experiencing it,
just recognizing, noticing that lived experience.
And not just as individuals,
but as all these different constellations of relationships,
your family or your friends,
or even just the books you read
and the people that you're,
the videos you're watching,
or the people you meet out on the street,
those are incredibly important encounters in terms of care
if you can relax into this constellatory understanding
of yourself being one part of it.
And you don't have to go along with old scripts
telling you how to act,
or you don't have to listen to the thoughts in your head
that are, seem so much to be you, but they're not.
They're scripts that you've learned
and that you've been repeating.
And you are the body, the lived experience, the noticing.
So this means that recognizing
you're not like one little star burning,
you're not alone.
Nothing is in isolation.
We can't be in isolation.
We are all constellations of relationships.
That doesn't mean they're easy
or that we even feel like we're part of them.
Sometimes all these relationships are holding us
and we don't even feel them
because we've had hard life
or because it's just hard to feel them,
but they're there and they're important.
And by those relationships, I really mean
even the people you think of as strangers,
every interaction you're having is an important one
when it comes to the possibilities of care
and transformation.
So when you feel stuck or maybe when what's needed
is to break out of your old patterns,
the first thing to do maybe is to notice the constellation,
to lay on the ground with your face pointed
towards all that you are part of,
but that you don't understand,
feeling the ground behind you,
but also letting yourself sort of float there
on this amazing planet
that's part of this larger constellation of planets
in the sky.
So the question isn't really about right or wrong
in those moments.
It's not about judging yourself or anyone else
or it's not, there's that way you can kind of let go
of the anxiety and the tending to for just a moment
and just be, and that may help you with the care,
with the tending and the concern that is part of life.
When you get up, we can't all just lay there
looking at constellations all the time.
But once we are aware there's a constellation,
as we go about our day, maybe we can keep that in mind.
Sort of like I have as a, I'm an adult,
I'm a woman now, but as a kid,
I had that feeling thanks to my teacher
and it stayed with me and it's actually helped me
get a little bit of perspective
to remember I'm not my thoughts,
to remember I'm smaller than I might feel at times
and I'm part of something larger
than I might feel at times.
Something is holding me.
I like to think of it as love and care
and I like to also understand
that that's not an easy thing to be held by
or to be part of because it's holding us
but it's infusing us as well.
So the question isn't whether we are gonna see
these patterns in the constellations.
We're always gonna find patterns
and the patterns I see in the stars
might be different from yours
and over time, many different people
all around the world have seen different things
in those constellations in the same way
that we see different things in the constellations
of relationships around us
but we've also had a lot of similarity
and overlap and resonance together
in the ways that we've beheld the stars
and been the stars and the patterns that we've noticed
and in that relaxing into feeling ourselves
as in relation to everything around us,
not as separate from it.
It's hard to do and it's hard to really understand
but it's worth feeling it.
You don't have to understand it.
Just feel yourself as part of a larger constellation
sometimes if you can,
even if it's just looking at the stars above you
and not being your thoughts for a moment,
not even being anything
that you've defined yourself as with words or images,
just being present and noticing that sky
and then thinking about in your daily life
what are you taking care of?
What are you concerned about?
What are you caring for?
And how is it caring for you?
The plants in the garden are also giving us food,
the trees, the sunlight, all of this is giving to us too
and often in our relationships, that's true too.
Again, even if it's just the person at the grocery store
or someone walking down the street,
they can give you a smile or they can move out of the way
or they can help you with moving a box
or they can just generally try to be in a space
that's not judging you
and those are huge gifts that open up further ways
for us to be constellations together.
So there's the darkness between the stars
which is beautiful and rich and just as important
as the light of the stars
and I guess the question is just,
how can you realize yourself as that constellation
and begin to think about it a little bit in daily life
that you are a constellation of the things
that you're relating with
and what would you like to be relating with?
Maybe you wanna go read a poem.
Maybe you wanna find a tree that's beautiful.
Maybe you wanna look at some leaves
as it's becoming autumn now and the colors and the shapes.
I mean, all these things are relations
and they're all making you the constellation that you are
as you move through your day.
They are your thinking,
the things you are surrounding yourself with
and the patterns that you are repeating
in your own languages, minds, thoughts
but also that you're reading or that you're grasping with
or at all of that's becoming part of the constellation.
So what kind of constellation would you like to have?
And maybe start bringing some of those stars
into your world.
Maybe it's instead of watching a certain kind of video
that's not making you feel good,
you think of something that would,
even if it's a cartoon from your childhood
or maybe it's a poem or a song
that your grandmother read to you
or maybe it's just going for a walk with your dog
or start to imagine these lived experiences
as the regularities that you are interacting with
as part of a constellation, if you can.
And if that doesn't make any sense at all,
that's okay too.
Just look at the sky and feel the power of it
and I hope that you also feel cared for
by something in the world that is larger than you.
I know it's not always easy to feel it
but you are cared for because you're here
and you're alive.
Even if you're doing the caring for yourself,
that's a big, beautiful action that you've been doing
for however long you've been doing it.
It's an act of care that you're caring for yourself
and a lot of potential is held in that
and a lot of possibility.
If you've been able to do it this far, which you have,
you can keep doing it and you can find better ways
to care for yourself and a lot of the time
that comes through caring for others.
Don't be hard on yourself if you can't access
that feeling all the time.
But a couple minutes a day at first,
care for something else or find something
that makes you feel like you're part of something bigger.
I always come back to poetry
and I know some people think poetry is silly
but poetry can also be a good song, an uplifting song,
a song that gives you some feeling of being part
of something bigger than yourself.
But I'd love to hear what ways you found
to feel part of a constellation to understand the smallness
and the largeness of life and of your life,
of our lives here nested together.
All right, so that's my diary for today
and I hope that you're doing well out there.
Thanks for everything you're trying to do
and thanks for putting up with this crazy world
that we're in and trying to care.
If you're just doing that, you're doing a lot.
All right, be well.
