How much is your agency, and how much is the will of other entities in tyranny?
Or is that even how you see this scene?
Hello everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
Today is a conversation with Michael Garfield.
It's a little bit like a Song Exploder episode, except it's also a fractal Rubik's Cube, which is something Michael brings up here, and I think it describes this episode and also Michael in a really interesting way.
If you know Michael, you might know him from Santa Fe Institute and the Complexity podcast that he hosted there. If you've never heard of that, don't worry.
Maybe you've heard of Future Fossils podcast, which is a very different podcast.
He can talk about holding the paradox. Michael really does it. He can talk about fine art. He can talk about music. He can talk about mysticism at the very furthest edges, and he can also talk about really hard science.
That's why Michael is here, because I find him a wonderful example of holding contradictions and exploring space beyond what people think of as oppositional.
But he's also here because I really love his song called Big Machine, which you're hearing play throughout this episode a bit.
I hope you'll link and listen to it, because this whole conversation is really unpacking this song and the lyrics, but also through Michael's own journey, which is a very special journey.
There really is no one like Michael Garfield, and don't worry if you don't understand half the things in this episode, because Michael's read just about every book on the planet.
He's one of the people, I think, who loves books most in the world. We ultimately get to this place where the Big Machine is not about the machine at all.
It's about all these connections and fractal relations that so entranced Michael and that are part of the world and that are actually about love. So we do get to that word.
I really think Michael brought complexity to a lot of people. He definitely turned a lot of people on to the Santa Fe Institute, and they're doing amazing work there, and I hope you'll have a look at what they're up to.
You've probably heard me talk about complexity, but just a really short definition is just that it's studying the way systems interact or looking at all these things that we look at in science through the lens of systems,
instead of what we might have been looking at it through before, more atomized, for example, or something like that.
And of course, a million people will say that's a crazy definition, because there's all different ways of thinking about it.
So I'll just link to some notes and videos and things where you can discover complexity if you want to.
But just for now, just think of it as the study of systems. It's enough to think of before we go into this fractal Rubik's Cube that we're about to enter.
But if you don't care about any of that at all, you will also like this episode.
For example, if you like Robert Anton Wilson, if you like Ken Wilber, if you like that side of the world, which tends to be thought of as the opposite of something like Santa Fe Institute or more hard science,
you'll also like this because those names come up within the first five minutes, because Michael's like that. He used to be also working with Ken Wilber.
So he really has worked with lots of people who might consider themselves on very different sides of whatever academic, mystic, scientific spectrum you might have encountered.
So for that reason, it can be hard at times to take it all in with Michael, and it can also be wonderfully exhilarating.
He's also a musician, obviously, and he's also a very big fan of William Irwin Thompson, who is someone you may have heard me discuss because he started Lindisfarne.
And I'm interested in Lindisfarne, but we don't really talk about that here.
We mentioned Bill Thompson a few times.
Mostly, this is just a conversation about the big machine, and I'll just let you listen to understand what that means and how it ends up being about love.
Thanks for being here and thanks, Michael, for everything.
You're living in New Mexico.
You have all the beautiful colors that I associate with my time in New Mexico.
Yeah, I painted my closet.
It's a good color. Two beautiful, like two of my favorite colors, that green and that blue.
Anyway, hi, Michael. Thanks for being on Love and Philosophy.
Hi, Andrea.
I want to talk about Big Machine. I love this song. I'm so glad to listen to it, you know, because you can just kind of skip through these things.
And the substack actually listen to it. It's really good.
And maybe you can tell me what that song is, how it came to be, because you also mentioned this quote about wealth, wealth of information, poverty of attention.
And I want to tie all that in. But first, like the song, what is it for people who haven't heard it yet?
Yeah. OK, so there's that scene in Saving Private Ryan where they're all they've stormed the beach of Normandy.
And they're all talking about what they were before the war, you know, and Tom Hanks, I was a school teacher before it became the job into which history swept me to talk about big ideas and help people wrap their heads around the emergence of what comes after modern civilization.
I was a musician, or at least that's that's I was really committed.
I told my grandmother when I was like 21, I thought that I had even odds on becoming a paleontologist or a rock star.
Yeah. And it kind of was that way for a while.
It was like I was doing dinosaur work and I was, you know, playing at one point.
I think I just checked and I have I don't have that many shows under my belt, but it's like over 500 concerts.
The reason I laughed is because one of the questions I wanted to ask you is, did you only dream of dinosaurs when you were a kid or did you also dream of being a famous?
I didn't start playing guitar until I was 14.
My stepfather is an extremely capable blues guitarist who played in these like local legend, like black blues bands in Kansas City.
And I just thought he was hot, hot, hot stuff.
And, you know, got a guitar and asked him to teach me to play it.
But then, like, very quickly, I realized the songs I was writing is sort of what to what we were talking about before we started rolling, which is that connected to the ideas I'm having now, which is, you know, in an age where bosses are asking you to train the AI, maybe the most valuable thing you can be to the economy is something that can't be scaled, something that's like singular.
And, you know, Steven Johnson talks about the revenge of the humanities and lots and lots of people are thinking about, you know, what it's going to look like when if, you know, as they say, you'll have a country full of geniuses in a server farm.
Okay, well, you and I have already lived through something like this.
We've lived through the superstar Hollywood effect of being able to access anybody's art or music or ideas online.
And so you're no no one can be a big fish in a small pond anymore like everyone is everyone who is competing for attention or, you know, opportunity on the internet is competing against the best people in the world.
And so like that kind of thinking of like be totally distinct, like be, you know, if somebody else is doing it, just don't, you know, find like pivot that came to me very early as a guitarist, because I was really interested in a particular kind of jazz inflected songwriting and
fingerstyle stuff. And then I was a freshman in college and John Mayer's first major album came out and I was like, onward, not doing that anymore.
And then like it kept happening. It kept being that that way of like as soon as I saw someone, as soon as I was compared to someone by someone else, they're like, Oh, you remind me of such and such.
I was like, I'm out, you know, like that that has become a piece of my backstory. Now, what's the next thing? What's the thing I don't see people doing? That means as my buddy from the dorms, Stephen Phipps used to say, no man is an island, but some are very long
peninsulas. And so I got this, you know, kind of carved out my own thing. And, you know, just incidentally, born on the same day as David Bowie and Elvis Presley and Stephen Hawking and Kim Jong-un.
Oh my gosh. They were all born on the same day. And that's your birthday?
Yeah, R. Kelly and Jenny Lewis. And so you like you think about all of those people, what do they all have in common? It's like, well, they're all one of a kind. And sometimes-
Don't be the best, be the only. I said it before we got on the Kevin Kelly thing, but sounds like you already had that in mind early on. My goodness. That actually explains a lot somehow.
So the song anyway, you know, this kind of tension of reconciling each person as a singular event. And then the fact that all of us are enmeshed in this planet spanning thing. You know, I got to say the first time I ever saw your show was the conversation that you had with Ian McGilchrist.
And I was really touched by that conversation. And, you know, I love him generally and his thinking. And so for people listening, like this thing about the big machine is about, well, you can see all of this activity.
The way, like the common way to see it now of, you know, supply chains and fifth generation information warfare and the, you know, the attention economy and it's enmeshed with- it's like I've written about this as, you know, living in the belly of the beast.
As, you know, that the surveillance capitalism, which I don't think is even an adequate name to describe, you know, the Tim Morton hyperobject of what this is. It's very easy for us to see it as a machine because it's made out of things that we are used to seeing as machines, at least in part.
And it is a time in which all of us, you know, generally speaking, society is very deeply conditioned to regard the world as object rather than subject, you know, to see things as an it.
You know, I was talking with you about how I used to work with Ken Wilbur and like that whole notion of, well, you know, you can take a first person, second person or third person position on anything. You can regard anything as, you know, from the, like an individual or a collective kind of frame.
And so I put the sort of paranoid, Lovecraftian part upfront in that song of, you know, like, how long can you go without looking at your phone?
But it's like, at the same time, like asking this question of what maybe the only reason that we we feel miserable right now is because we know like we know intellectually that we are all connected inside of this planet spanning post post biological in the sense that like it's forcing us to redefine what life even is so that it can include, you know, the inorganic.
Yeah, you know, this, you know, the plant what William Irwin Thompson called planet ization or planetary culture is, you know, when the the modern distinction between industry and ecology breaks down.
And so, like, there's that, you know, I just like telling a story in a kind of a particular way where, you know, you, you meet people in the anxiety and the paranoia of where they are most likely to be.
And then, like, the, the synthetic reconciliatory gesture is, but look at this, you know, and so, like, I, I'll just say that, like, related to that.
Back in 2010, I had a trip where I felt this extraordinary shame because the last, which was like two years before I felt like I had received the message to to take on a regular meditative practice.
It was like, you know, the storm is coming, you know, the world is only getting crazier. Start learning to center yourself in all of that. And I had, you know, my life had been nuts and I hadn't done it.
So like coming up and like the challenges of, you know, encountering a moment of ego death and then feeling like, you know, that you're, you're at the, you know, you're at the scales of judgment.
And you failed, you know, like you're not, you're not, you don't feel worthy of this sort of excess of cosmic love because I hadn't listened, you know, like I take this stuff seriously.
I, you know, it's like, oh, if, if you receive a message, you know, you should do that. But I hadn't, I received an image in that experience that I think speaks to the kind of approach I've taken to philosophy and the aesthetic of that's like evident in that particular song.
And much of my work in general, which was like, I saw this image of this fractal Rubik's cube kind of thing. It was all black, you know, like Mecca.
It blows my mind to try to imagine a fractal Rubik's cube.
It's like each phase. I mean, there's a specific fractal that's like this where it's like, you know, they, I forget the name of it.
Like each square is a different fractal? Is that how it works?
Each square is nine squares and then each of those is nine squares and each of those. And it was all black and it's ominous.
And then the whole thing rotated in the, in the fourth dimension, which rotated it in the three visible dimensions, but each face flipped.
And there was a, there was a backside that was white and it was basically just showing me like a geometrical proof for the always all readiness of our redemption.
That like, no matter how bad things get, there is always another dimension from which that sin or whatever is recontextualized and understood as like a perfect part of a deeper understanding.
And so, you know, that's, that's the, I love that moment of metanoia.
You know, I'm in the middle of teaching this course right now and in at some point in the course I'm going to whip out Ontario Ali's book.
Yes. Angel tech, which is about the, the eight circuit model, you know, Robert Anton Wilson has this.
Yeah. And at any rate, this is, this is about personal and transpersonal development and how they've got this, you know, at the level between the personal and the transpersonal is what they call chapel perilous, which is where you realize that everything is
connected, but it terrifies you because you are still the small you.
And so that's the kind of fairy man I'm trying to be with this song and with other stuff is like getting people from the bad trip of chapel perilous to the everything is okay.
The redemption is always there. How did you just, you just said it in a really beautiful way. Everything's already.
Yeah, it's always already. It's like the, you know, kind of like the Buddhist language for, you know, you don't become enlightened, you know, you are always already.
And there's a, I've got a big row of books here. I'm, that's like all the books I'm doing for my course.
But yeah, the other one just started last night, right? Yeah. How was it?
Yeah, it's like too late for me. I signed up, but it was like 2 30 in the morning or something. Oh my God. Yeah, no, we, I was worried because like something like 100 something people signed up because we had opened the session to the public, but then it ended up just being mostly the people who had paid for the course.
So I was like, okay. But yeah, so like one of the things, another one of the things that we're talking about and that we just held a book club for on humans on the loop is Federico Campagna's prophetic culture.
And this is a book about this, about, you know, the, the intersection of time, of time and the world with infinity or not infinity eternity, right? With the ineffable transcendent real and, you know, the, the efforts of prophets to reconcile those or to bring some kind of meaningful understanding about the
you know, that which exceeds our capacity for linguistic description into history. And, you know, he says, I've been writing about this a lot. He, he talks about apocalypse versus apocrystasis, which I had not heard before, but it's this sort of theological distinction.
I've been writing about this a lot. He, he talks about apocalypse versus apocrystasis, which I had not heard before, but it's this sort of theological distinction about the like apocalypse is what Bill Thompson taught me to think of as misplaced concreteness.
It's like putting the moment of judgment, which is actually in a kind of vertical dimension of time into history, you know, that creation and destruction and all these things are there in as the universe recreates itself in, in every moment.
But like apocrystasis is about everything being saved already that like that, you know, that we keep postponing judgment day because the world requires tension in order to exist.
But yeah, this, this sense of like, even the devil is saved. It kind of, you know, liberates us from having to worry about like theodicy and like concerns of like, well, why does, you know, why, why God, why?
There's a difference. Yeah, there's a difference between everything already being there and redemption being there and it actually being experienced, I guess, too, though. So that's kind of, you know, I mean, in different forms could be all possible, could be multiple worlds, could be there, but you don't notice it the same way you go for a walk and there's things there you just don't notice.
I think everything you just said actually connects to what I was trying, wanted to think about a little bit with you. This idea of that quote, it's a Simon, Herbert Simon, I don't, I'm terrible with accents, quote about...
Herbert Simon.
Simon, there you go. See? I always try too hard with the language, it's true. So the Herbert Simon quote, it's wealth of information. I can't remember the quote, maybe you do, but it's like a derf of something and then...
It's a very popular quote.
I didn't know about it. So it's from a longer passage, he says, in an information rich world, the wealth of information means a darth of something else, a scarcity of whatever it is that information consumes.
What information consumes is rather obvious, it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance of information sources that might consume it.
1971!
Amazing. I really wonder about this quote and about you, because you take in so much information, and you have been doing for a long time, and yet you also have quite a lot of attention.
And I mean, this gets into a lot of things I'd like to actually ask you about, but have you, I mean, how do you think about that in your own life? I know, I want to get to the song, because it's different when we start really thinking about the technology and the internet.
And I think you wrote that like you were checking your phone in some grocery store, even though you knew you couldn't get signal.
I think we all know that. But just before we get to the technology part, just in general, have you always, I mean, even when you were a kid, been so, such as so able to take in so much information and do, you know, constantly sort of shuffle it through yourself and your life and still be attentive?
Or did you learn that?
You know, I'm probably on the spectrum.
You know, it's not something that I think too much about, like trying to diagnose this, but I do care very much about what in the AI world they call the long context window, right?
Like, I really appreciate being able to pick up a conversation precisely where we left off after weeks, or, you know, there's a, you know, like Herman Hesse's glass bead game.
You know, this idea that in the distant future, monks are engaged in meaning making through this, you know, the formation of semantic networks between, you know, different cultural objects.
You know, so I think that, yeah, I've always, I've always had a fairly acute memory.
You know, like I remember in, it's not like idetic, but I remember in middle school, like scaring a girl I had a crush on because like I had accidentally seen her phone number and like knew her phone number.
I was like, well, I guess that, you know, I guess I better just nip that one in the bud.
Yeah, that's exactly what I mean. You seem to really get the details in a way that would seem like you would get a bandwidth problem in terms of how much you take in.
But there's very few people that I've encountered who've taken in so much information. I guess there's a difference between information and encoding.
You know, you said your songs are like encoding mechanisms. However, we want to put it, you know, just for all the work that you've done with all the different podcasts and how different they are and how hard these ideas are.
It just seems like so much information, such a wealth of information that you should have a poverty of attention, but you don't seem to.
Well, thank you. I mean, I definitely do feel the bandwidth issue, you know, I think, you know, the reason that I am so interested in this idea of like what is it that we are living through like what characterizes something that seems very obvious to be a major
evolutionary transition. You know, you and I were talking about my old boss, David Krakauer, before we got on the call. And, you know, the paper that originally got me interested in complexity science.
I did not know that he had actually collaborated on this work until 13 years later when I like, you know, wandered through the wilderness of art and music and futurism and all this stuff for a while and finally found myself back or like at the Santa Fe Institute, you know, working in communications for them.
And at one point I remember asking David like, Hey, have you heard of this this paper on the evolution of syntactic language? And he's like, I co authored that paper. I was like, Oh, of course, like I'm a babe in the woods, you know, it's like, and you get that, that feeling being around.
And, you know, that's, that's actually what I love about interacting with older people is like, Hey, have you heard about Woodstock? I was there, you know, but so he and Martin Noack and Josh Plotkin and Vincent Jansen wrote a series of papers right around the turn of the millennium on this.
On like a bottleneck that they were formalizing mathematically and they were looking specifically at, you know, what, how might we describe going from humans speak in single word utterances to human speak in complete sentences.
But I just remembered reading this this paper and how they were saying that that transition must have been like pressured into being by you, you can't at some point you can't remember more words.
You know, and like as your community becomes richer and richer in its interiority, you know, as like, it's, you know, the things that can be thought, and that must be thought in order to keep everyone cohesive enough to survive together as a group gets big enough that you, you just can't keep coming up with these enormous words.
And so, you know, you would have like, sort of proto sentences where it's like, you would create a new word just by sticking stuff together, but then you end up with these enormous like German.
Yeah, German. Exactly. It's like, German is one of you can see this kind of dynamic going on. But then at some point, it's like, well, you know, you could, you could remember a whole lot more words if they were shorter.
And you could remember a whole lot more words, or you could communicate a lot more things if you found simple rules for putting words together so that you could open up this huge recombinant possibility space.
And I remember reading this paper in the senior year of my biology program at the University of Kansas in animal communication seminar.
And just deciding like on the spot that this is the thing that I need to study because they, what they were saying about language seemed like it was also saying something really important about all of these other moments in the history of the cosmos, where suddenly
something is, there's a qualitative shift, like something is there that was not there, you know, the origin of life, the, you know, the evolution of bacteria to complex cells to multicellular organisms, etc.
And, you know, the closure of metabolic loops where it's like it used to be fungi and plants just living together on the ground, like the fungi were not eating the plants or feeding them.
But then like they developed a syntax that that, you know, created this created forests like there. There were like groups of trees, but there weren't forests until we had mycorrhizal affiliations, you know, and so like all of this stuff started clicking together.
And it was like, well, you can't study that as a paleontologist. So I was very conflicted for a while because I was going through my own information scaling crisis where it's like the identity that I had that I had had for my entire life was I was going to grow up and work with it.
I would work with it, Robert Bacher, my childhood mentor in Wyoming, I would become a professor, I would, you know, I would lecture during the year, I would do fieldwork, you know, I would illustrate my own books the way that he did with his.
Like I knew exactly what I was doing with my life and I had never any question otherwise. And then suddenly it's like there's something so rich and so big and so interesting that I couldn't not think about it.
But to embrace it meant relativizing the entire person I believed myself to be, you know, it's like, well, now, if I were to just become a paleontologist, I would always feel like I was leaving the majority of myself on the table like that.
I couldn't live with this huge remainder.
Was that music? Sorry, but is that?
Oh, no, just like the, well, no, it's like I was still doing the, just like dinosaur science.
Yeah, I know, but what was it that you couldn't hold everything together? Like, well, what was the shift?
Well, I mean, yeah, you know, getting more and more into music at the same time, but that that particular thing was I need to understand evolution, not just like study dinosaurs.
So it wasn't just this structure of like the Jurassic Park sort of storyline, you suddenly realize there's so much more you're going to have to take in. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, that like, well, you know, you can't answer questions about the deep patterns of the evolution of new levels of order and how, you know, the inner worlds of living things are part of that.
Because I was also starting to read Ken Wilber's work at the same time and thinking about, well, there's got to be a way to articulate this mutual irreducibility and complementarity of interiors and exteriors.
That has to mean something for answering questions about the evolution of language and society.
And, you know, like I was like, there is a theory of intelligence, you know, because it's like now you will find more scientists that are comfortable talking about teleology in evolution.
But it's an emergent telos. It's like the direction of evolution is not the same thing that it was when people were talking about that in the 19th century.
It's not that humans are at the top of this thing and then we're going to create something that's, you know, like smarter than us like all of this like sort of, you know, the rhetoric of like God making and in AI is very antiquated in the sense that they are still maintaining that, you know, there's a, there's a direction toward more.
In the cosmos to smarter and it's like, well, there is, but it is an emergent pattern. Anyway, so like the, you know, these questions about like, there's like a few, there's a few questions, the origins of life, because if at the time, one of the prestigious evolutionary biologists
at my school was Ed Wiley, who had written this book on evolution and entropy. And I was like, well, you know, he's thinking about this relationship between, you know, the like the reduction of local disorder and the production of global disorder.
And, you know, he's closer than anyone I know to being able to answer some questions for me about where the order comes from and like, you know, what evolution must have looked like before we had what we think of as like cellular life.
And I asked him about this and he's like, well, there couldn't be any evolution before DNA.
And I was like, wait a minute. No, that can't be true because there's like, I was just at the beginning of my sort of early, early efforts to get into like a transdisciplinary review of the literature.
And there were people that were doing these, you know, self-organization in inorganic chemical systems and, you know, questions about like even in quantum physics, there's a, you know, there, there are hints of like natural selection.
You know, this is a question of like, well, what collapses the wave function? It's like, well, it interacts. And just as an aside, Julian Goh, who is a buddy I met through the O'Shaughnessy Ventures program, he has been working on it.
He's been working on it. This big idea, another musician and writer who's working on this huge cosmic idea building on Lee Smolin's work and about how the universe itself is a unit of selection and that our universe has evolved.
The conditions that are suitable for life in the universe as we know it are the product of a selection process of universes that create black holes, create more universes and universes that don't, don't.
And so you have even there, you have a gradient, you know, you have a direction, but it's emergent from, you know, the the interactions of all of these properties. I just wasn't satisfied with that. Anyway, yeah.
But you weren't satisfied because because here's how it sounds to me. This sounds like a really great example of what I was trying to get in your mind, the way that you can open boxes and threads in all directions from everything, you know.
So I'm when you were a kid, did you suddenly have a moment or not a kid, I guess a teenager, I don't know. Did you have this moment where you you kind of had that you were talking about you had this path, you're going to do this, this, this.
And then, like, did suddenly all these boxes start opening and you're like, Okay, now I have to know about evolution, and I have to know about the language and I have to know about all this and someone told you, well, that doesn't fit in this narrative.
So you had to give up the narrative or what was the dissonance for you?
I asked four different respected professors of mine.
How am I going to take this on as a graduate student, because I had never any doubt that I was going to just go through the, you know, that I would, you know, like the PhD, that's the path.
One of them said,
like basically, like, in as many words said, academia is a medieval guild system.
And if you can't get your the thing you want to research to fit in one of those boxes, then you're not gonna hack it.
It was, it was a very disappointed statement.
I mean, the people that were telling me this were brilliant and expansive thinkers, but they were talking about their own frustrations with, you know, the disciplinary silos of the institution.
And, you know, a lot of them made it even more kind of blunt, you know, in telling me that it's not just that you'll have a hard time asking these questions, but that, you know, no graduate advisor will take you on because they want you working on a piece of their thing.
You know, and if, if, if you're working on something more ambitious than they are, then they will consider you, you know, taking you on is actually actively inhibiting their plan to secure power in this incredibly competitive environment.
And then, and then they were, I mean, and I got to say, like things have changed somewhat.
This was 20 years ago.
You wanted to study complexity at a time when that wasn't possible.
I hit up SFI and I said, how do I do this?
And they said, we don't have a grad program.
Sorry, kid.
You're on your own.
And they were probably pretty small back then too, right?
I mean, now everybody knows who they are, but I mean, yeah, I guess what I'm saying is that wasn't exactly a time when people were coming to professors wanting to study complexity so often.
Or that even that word was something people knew about a lot, but you're coming at it naturally in a way.
They were, you know, it's funny because like, I didn't, I wasn't at SFI when this was the case, but you know, for the first 30 years or so that they existed, people thought it was bullshit.
You know, like they, I, one of the professors I spoke to in, you know, and said, I want to study how life becomes more complex and how that's related to the, you know, the apparent increasing complexity of the structures of cognition and like the inner life world of things.
And I mean, and again, it's not that simple.
Like, I'm not saying like, you know, everything gets smarter.
It's, it's not like that. It's that new regulatory layers arise through these processes of like the reconciliation of these attentional problems in some sense.
And the, within those new systems, like Jeff West at SFI, you know, talks about the city and how like the bigger a city is, the more kinds of economic activity it can support, you know, which means, you know, kind of, it's not really a paradox, but it's like, it's easy to be, it's easier to find your way and like find your scene in a city.
If you're, you know, if you're like really smart, but also easier to find your scene if, you know, I mean, it's like, and we shouldn't even talk about smart and dumb because it's like, you know, there's the, the, I'm starting to sound like David Krakauer, but like the, there's like so many different kinds of intelligence, but for any given distribution.
But it's almost like you're saying you don't want to be aware of so many options. Sometimes that's to your benefit in certain cases or something like that.
So it's like if you happen to be, like there's, there's fewer kinds, there's, there are fewer like social and economic functions in a smaller group of people, which means that like if you are, well, it's like there, there isn't, there isn't, there's less noise to hide in.
Like, you know, cities are famous for like being able to just like become anonymous, you know, and, and, you know, the privacy of these spaces where it's like in a small town, if you do something really stupid, everyone knows immediately, you know, and it matters more.
And this is, this is like an island biogeography thing. Beneficial or deleterious mutations in smaller populations have a much larger effect because they're happening in organisms that constitute a relatively larger fraction of those populations.
So, but like on the mainland, you're in a, like the British invasion, right? I always thought that this was interesting as like, you know, in music you see this, that the islands are these like reservoirs of innovation that like so many of my favorite bands have come out of the UK or Iceland or Australia, but it's like these, it's because like there's, anyway, so
I'm on a tangent, but I asked one of the professors about, you know, wanting to study complexity.
And he just said, he looked at me with this like exhaustion, and he just like, will you just tell me what complexity even is? Like, do you know? Does anyone know?
And I was like, well, I mean, and that was it. It was like, after that, I was working as a scientific illustrator at the Natural History Museum, and my boss, the former curator of herpetology, Linda Trube, said to me, you know, I do think there's an option for you, which is that you could take an interdisciplinary fellowship, but it would mean putting a panel of people together.
That all work in different domains and don't understand each other and kind of actively dislike each other, and you're going to have to be the one to communicate for them.
And I was like, I'm 21, like I'm a student, like I'm trying to find people I can learn from about this, not have to like sit there dealing with the snark and backbiting of, you know, like I'm a child of divorce.
Like, I don't want to be in the middle of all of that, but of course, but that's where it is.
You know, it's in the middle.
But that does relate to this bandwidth thing and the attention and even what you're kind of bringing up about the music and the islands, because there's something about having a parameterized space where you can get more complex and kind of create something new and cool out of what seems kind of limited.
But so and then also, but it sounds like the bandwidth wasn't necessarily a problem for you at that time, but it was for everyone else.
Like you seem to have a lot of things you wanted to ask about, deal with, figure out, but nobody else could really hold all those things at once.
Is that was that the feeling you had?
Was it just kind of you were like too overwhelming or something?
It was overwhelming for me.
I mean, OK, it was for you.
I mean, it was because I didn't, you know, I'm speaking now from the position of having picked up 20 years of reading and insight and conversation about this stuff.
You know, I had a very rough idea of what I thought was going on.
But I didn't know where to look for it.
And so that that's actually, you know, when we talk about like one of the differences now compared to then is if you don't have the language for something, how do you even look for it on the Internet?
Or back then, like just literal, just like libraries, right?
But it's like this question of like, well, OK, so like years later, working at SFI, I realized how much of the research I was looking for had already been done by them.
But it was it was buried in very inscrutable papers that I would not have even thought to look for in trying to answer these questions.
Like, you know, papers about economics or statistical physics or, you know, and it's like, how do you like the information scaling problem there is something that actually AI is like starting to solve right now, which is being able to recognize structural
similarities between different domains and identify like, you know, AI assisted science now is so interesting because it's basically doing at scale.
What my pattern seeking, you know, follow your intuition, kind of right brain mode ended up having to do is just like, notice, you know, the coastlines of South America and Africa and ask if they ever fit together.
Yeah, but I guess for me, it's kind of fascinating that you were already doing complexity and then you ended up sort of teaching complexity is how I think about it in a way, because you sort of synthesize all the stuff and give it to everyone.
You've basically like, in my opinion, I think you've taught a lot of people what complexity is in a weird way.
So you were trying to answer that question.
And then in a strange way, you've now taught a lot of people.
I mean, and now it's a trending kind of thing.
I wonder how that feels for you.
I mean, I'm not.
I showed up very late to that game.
And I think I appreciate you telling me that I've played some sort of role in helping popularize intuitions about the behavior of complex systems.
At the same time, you know, it was, I was constantly reminded at SFI that I am not actually doing the research like I'm not formalizing quantitative models, you know, I'm not running simulations, I'm not choosing which hypotheses to pursue.
But I eventually did get to a point where I was like, but I can help the scientists identify hypotheses that are worth pursuing.
Because the thing that I was doing as the host of their show and all of that, I think had more value in some sense to an organization that had grown over the years and was, you know, now scattered across the world and, you know, people that rarely saw each other in person and rarely spoke.
And so like SFI, I think, was, you know, going through one of these, these moments of fragmented attention and, you know, trying to clamber up the slope of the exponential production of new information.
And, you know, I think this is why like Brian, you know, when in 1995, I think this was talking with Kevin said that the 21st century would be defined by curation as an art form, you know, because like everybody, everybody's in a network like everyone's in the position to translate.
No one's in the middle. Like there is this idea about, you know, between this centrality in social networks, which is like, you know, the more connections you have, the more central you are.
But that's not true in a simple way. You know, everyone is on the edge of an indefinite number of things.
And so all of us have this to get all the way back to, you know, the early comments on, you know, each of us being a singular entity with, you know, totally distinct histories and so on.
Like the deeper you go into your unique context, the more you realize that you are the only person in the world who can broker certain kinds of relationships where you are.
And that there's, there's this tension between the, you know, the way that society has taught most of us to think about, again, like jobs, you know, like jobs are at a layer of abstraction.
You know, the even like identity, like I was saying earlier, like even thinking I know who I am is an abstraction. And the more that I attend to the living context, the more like if I really want to pursue the inquiry of, you know,
pursue the inquiry of who I am, that, you know, it follows the same sort of structure. Like one of the big, huge people in my life that I found while I was wandering the desert between academic and academic phase was Richard Doyle of Penn State.
And Doyle's book, he's in the stack, is in the stack. I mean, he's got several, but this is the one I found first, Darwin's Pharmacy. Oh, yeah.
I highly recommend him for your show. He's such a sweet, wonderful, brilliant, humorous, heartful person. And he had written this book that was basically, you know, putting together the pattern that I saw as a student about how information theory and evolutionary
biology and consciousness and all of this stuff fit together.
It must have felt really good to find that.
Yeah, I mean, it was, and it, you know, it had not occurred to me at the time that that would also include psychedelics, because like that's the missing piece of the evolution of syntactic language paper was like, well, what exactly drove this sort of super production of salience in early human societies?
That demanded an evolution of language, like, okay, part of it must have just been simply scaling like more people.
But like, at the same time, scale, like the scaling of societies depends on greater coordination. So like you can't actually, you know, like these things are in a complex relationship.
And so Doyle makes the case that language comes out of us trying to explain the like these experiences that people were having, you know, whatever it was, like the, you know, psychedelic mushrooms or plants.
And, you know, he said like the thing that characterizes what he calls the ecodelic experience is that it makes you write about it.
It makes you talk about it.
Doesn't even mean psychedelics, but also that kind of an experience, that kind of life transformation feeling.
You want to talk about it.
Share it.
Exactly. That, you know, you have a profound, meaningful experience of some kind.
And it's in our nature to be, you know, to try and be like, oh my God, how do I even put this into words?
You know, and so, you know, he, he, and that's, I mean, in a way, like finding complex system science was that kind of psychedelic experience for me.
It was that like, I don't have the language for this.
Like, I see it. I understand it.
But then like, how do I communicate it?
And, and, you know, Doyle's work and other people, you know, have convinced me that there is the unspeakable, you know, like that there are there, there is knowledge that cannot be spoken.
But at the same time, there is this perfect correlation that, you know, I work as if, you know, the mind and matter are two perspectives on something else for which there are not great words in English.
And so you would expect a perfect, like, like reciprocal relationship where, if you can, if you can experience something, then there is a way to describe it, even if it's not, you know, or like you would see, or maybe it's not that you can talk about it in language, but that there is a way to describe it.
Or like you would see, or maybe it's not that you can talk about it in language, but that there is a material correlate to those experiences.
Or you can recreate the pattern in some way, even with music or something.
You can sort of, it's a pattern that you can show through a different medium or not even show.
I mean, I hate all these, we always talk about vision, but that another person can sense through a different medium.
It's the pattern, right?
You can, you can give that to someone in a song, a book.
You know, these things make us want to create, I think, and relate.
As you're talking about all this, I'm thinking about how, because you said, yeah, you weren't doing the research, and that's important.
The researchers are important, yes.
But at the same time, as you said, you were looking for all this and hungry for it for a reason I think matters in the way that what you were just talking about matters, because we're having these experiences and we want to share them, and that's like part of some bigger thing for life in general.
But, and you couldn't find it.
So what you did with the podcast, and I wonder, was it your idea to do podcasts or did they ask you to do the podcast?
I know you had to go through all kind of vetting and stuff, but using your kind of talent or your, I don't think anyone else would have done it that way, right?
So maybe you weren't the only doing podcasting at that time, but you were definitely, you know, doing it in a way others wouldn't.
So you could do what I was talking about at the beginning, like take in that wealth of information and still put the attention on it in a way that could communicate it
and sort of, you know, create those third spaces that you were just describing for others so they could find them.
I'm not trying to put you on a pedestal.
I just like I really think that's kind of what was happening in a way that feels like important to note here.
And I wonder if it relates to what you're saying at all.
Yeah, I mean, I told them in the job interview that I thought the obvious next thing for them to do was to start a show.
And when was that, sorry, because not everyone does a podcast, but that was not the case.
Well, I had been running Future Fossils at that point already for several years.
And that made me something of a reputational risk, I think, because it meant I already had an audience and a brand, and that I was willing to talk about things that the institution was not willing to take seriously.
Almost the way you were talking about your professors didn't take them seriously.
I see that as a kind of a beautiful thing that they sort of embraced that and in so doing it flipped. I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, so, so yeah, you know, 2018 I came to them and I was like,
if you're going to hire me for social media, like one of the things about this media environment is that it's inherently conversational, you know, like to the point that I was saying earlier about like everyone's in the middle.
It's not, it's, you know, like, that organization is literally on top of a hill, you know, sort of, you know, trickling stuff down to the city, but they was like but that's, but that has changed.
And, you know, social media is not a propaganda machine when it's being used in the way that really honors its affordances as distinct from that which has come before.
And also, like podcasts are not.
I mean, lots of people are going to disagree with me about this, because, you know, something has been appropriated, you know, the, the heat of the, you know, the new and possible with podcasting.
You know, very quickly people like decided that it was, you know, very highly produced that, you know, it was going to be, you know, the narrative format, you know, like the things that people are calling a podcast now that category is huge.
And a lot of the excellent audio programming that exists in, quote unquote, podcast form now is actually more like audio book or documentary or radio, radio plays, radio plays, you know, and these are different things like, you know, so like, what I saw as really vital in podcasting as a medium was
the way that it takes the, like, for instance, you know, as if I is sort of internally known for having tea every day at 3pm and everyone on site gathers in the kitchen and just chats each other up.
And that's when I say that, like, this is, you know, that they were facing a sort of attention problem that, you know, that's not happening.
You know, it's like remote work is sort of like this people don't meet around the water cooler.
So how do you how do you create this internal culture.
And then like the thing that why that kind of internal culture matters because you know after SFI went on to work at an AI startup at the Mozilla internet ecosystem for a while, and was doing some innovation research for them.
Looking at the structures and processes of legendary organizations like Bell Labs or Xerox PARC, you know, the sort of Silicon Valley canon of badasses ARPA.
And we threw SFI and Pixar in there also because I was like, I want, you know, we're not just doing, but at any rate, like, you know, Pixar actually was an interesting outlier in that.
But the point of that is just that like, you know, you're bringing the water cooler, but you're making it virtual. Is that your idea?
But like, why does the water cooler matter is because it's not just about connecting people.
It's about their being.
So like if I talk about like the podcast as a book versus the podcast as generative discussion.
One of them is like the crystallization of knowledge forms.
And the other is the alchemization of knowledge forms of like the high, high temperature search is what they, you know, or
Is that what David calls you? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Simulated annealing high temperature search like noise, like deliberate injection of noise into a, you know, an intelligent systems in order to enhance the creativity, which incidentally is also what, you know, psychedelics are for the brain.
Digital technologies are for human society.
What I thought, you know, I, you know, as if I was for science.
And, you know, so like there are these moments where it's like, okay, we shouldn't be brainstorming. We're like about to ship like we're like there, we've made the thing, you know, and there's like that.
Now is the time for that left brain sort of instrumental optimization kind of function.
But we live in a world where the, you know, as McGill Chris talks about, right, the successes of that efficiency, like the successes of the economics of scale have given us a regime, what Zygmunt Bauman called liquid modernity.
You know, where it's like, we live in a world of just like constant self transformation, where like disruption has become like how much your people believe your company is going to disrupt things determines how much your company is worth.
You know, and so in that space.
It's very hard, like the balance has shifted from, like, this is a stable regime, where we know the rules and just play the game, you know, because I think, like, I don't know if this has been your experience but like, it has certainly been my experience and that
of many people I know that, you know, when they talk to their parents or grandparents, it seems like they were living in a different universe strategically, you know, that it was like, figure out the game and play the game.
And now we're living in a world where it's like the new, it's the game changes all the time, you know, like the something comes in. Incidentally, like one of my favorite games of all time is this game flux.
I talked about it when I was on Kevin Kelly's cool tools show the reason I love flux is because I feel like as a card game it's like a lesson in this, you know, when Brian Arthur talks about Taoist philosophy and economics and crossing the river stone by stone you know the improv of complex
systems thinking that like flux is this game where every new card you play changes the rules of the game for everyone else.
You know how many cards you can play or draw or what the winning conditions are.
And it's not to say that. So it's like, so you to in order to play that game. You learn that it's not like that strategy stops mattering. It's that strategy becomes a small like part of a larger consideration.
That's like the meta strategy of flux, which is that if you want to win the game, you're playing what is effectively like an evolutionary algorithm of how like what increasing the likelihood that I will randomly be able to draw and play the cards that would
guarantee my winning.
And so that's, it's about, it's a, it's like, it's like a way of holding yourself or something. Yeah, yeah, but but but this winning doesn't really work anymore either I don't think because like luck production, and then there's no winning though either.
There's no, that's just it. I mean, being seen by the machine to go back to your song. Yeah, seems to be winning but that's not winning, because you need to be seen by the machine over and over and over and over.
So there's this weird tension in what you're saying where I agree with you, like, everything's become more uncertain, being able to handle the uncertainty, which might be why we all want to be schooled in complexity is better. I'll show that again.
So yeah, so that's the, the finite and infinite games. And then, you know, also in Campanhas prophetic culture.
Right. Yeah, yeah, I want to let you finish your thing but I do have a response. Well I'm just, I was just saying like yeah there's more uncertainty so complexity helps us handle that and that within itself has kind of become a way of doing business and strategizing
especially in particular communities. But on the other side of that as you were talking I was thinking about AI and the machine the big machine and, and that's so linear and so coding based where you have to be everything there's no uncertainty you can't have uncertainty, and we're
trying to give ourselves over to that kind of LLM way of thinking. So there's a tension there that's feels very strange. You've probably seen podcasts change but how podcasting has become almost like the medium of education for a lot of people these days so you type
in, and then you get educated by the podcasts that come up. And that's due to the uncertainty of the conversational, the conversation like let what's going to happen if it's not in that book form that you were describing I think that's maybe the kind of podcasting you're
talking about but then you so you have that uncertainty and then you kind of linear allies it into the code so that people can have it and that's an interesting tension that's being held to but yeah well okay so like first of all.
Yeah, there is this weird parasocial dimension to podcasting that that and that was in that was like very explicit in, you know, back when I called my show future fossils and I probably will eventually change it back but like, you know, the whole point was
like, you know, this is a trace fossil of a living dialogue. Like and by the time you hear it. It's already in a museum, you know, and at the same time.
I've never really gotten that I always thought it was like future you know dinosaurs of tomorrow or something. Oh man. Well, there was also the, you know, very, very preoccupied with this idea of sensitivity to future events like the conversations I had with
And, you know, his work on precognition, and what changes, even if you don't believe that such a thing is possible like what changes, if you live in a way where you are reflecting on your present from an imagined future like if you, you know, like the seven
Or, you know, like the psychology is full of this support that people do better in life when they are in some sort of dialogue with their future selves, you know, and and so that was part of it too which was like the, you know, the presence of the future in the room.
Now, is a kind of time reversed fossil. Yeah, I got that part of what will be. Yeah, but that's what's great about it.
But, but this thing about games. Okay, so like flux. Yeah, you can win and lose the game, but the fact that the arbitrariness of it, like you can think you have a winning strategy and then suddenly everything changes.
And somebody wins on accident, which happens all the time in that game and uncertainty thing too. Yeah, so it's like that, like I, the, the reason I play that game is because it is so full of surprise that it's intrinsically fun it's like it's not.
It's not, it's not like, I mean, like I said like there is some
Spread of like being able to do better, but nobody would hold flux tournaments, unless it was like a like an ironic joke, like, you know, and so this is where
You know, like James P cars, finite and infinite games, you know, and he talks about on the back of the book, the rules of a finite game may not change the rules of an infinite game must change.
Because the point of an infinite point is to keep the game going for as long as you can, you know that, and he says, you know, society with its limited prestige resource.
Limited prestige resource, you know, like status is inherently limited possibly probably even more fundamentally limited than attention, because you can cultivate attention, but like you're not taking someone else's attention when you do.
I don't know about that. I mean, I'm thinking of CT Noyan and this idea of gamification. Have you ever talked to him?
Twice. I love it. Okay, I'm sure you have. Yeah. So, you know, there's that too. Isn't there this cultivating the game so as to take your attention or taking the attention is just like the point of the game.
Well, there's Twitter. Yeah, the attention economy piece of it is a whole different thing. I mean, like meditation, you know, like my own the cultivation of my own interiority.
I'd have to really think about it to try and come up with a way in which that takes someone else's consciousness. Yeah, like because that attention attention I'm talking about is already kind of like abstracted right but it is that machine thing that's in the song and which I feel like is becoming very blurred with with consciousness in a and I don't mean that machines are becoming conscious I just mean we're kind of giving ourselves over to that linear thing.
Even like you in the store. When you said, I think it was kind of prompted you to write the song that you kept looking at your phone for who knows what reason even though there was no signal or whatever. What is that to attention wise.
I mean that, yeah, I mean that's, you know, I take that as
an invitation to
notice the ways in which I'm not actually paying attention.
You know that like that and this is the one of the major street like threads of inquiry for humans on the loop, which is like, you know, when are you being a robot.
You know, it's like it there isn't this clean line, you know, because again like you're talking about no uncertainty, and like fundamental uncertainty, and it's like, well, I, I see, you know, these things are like on a, like a kind of a Mobius strip where if you pursue
Your own agency as a thesis to its utmost extreme eventually you're going to bump into something over which you have no control. And if you try to define the deterministic behavior of the cosmos, which seems for whatever reason to constantly be associated with trying to control that behavior.
Then eventually you get to the point that they, you know, they got with quantum mechanics where you're like, we're bumping up against fundamental randomness, or our own epistemic limits, hard limits, or, or like maybe they're like quantum particles are actually choosing these things which we can't like I, you know, we can't accept that they're, you know, like, Einstein, God doesn't roll dice, like, but, but, but, but these things, you know,
Turn into one another at the extremes. And so like that was, you know, when Zygmunt Bauman was writing about liquid modernity, it was like, yeah, the modern world holds this fundamental tension between striving for total control and striving for total transformation.
And you can't have both, you know, like that. And so what what you, you get is neither isn't like neither total control nor total transformation.
Because these are just ideas.
And you end up with something that like Danny Hillis and Neri Oxman at MIT both, you know, in 2016 described as the age of entanglement, you know, where, like I was saying earlier about Bill Thompson, and, and, you know, the, the remix of ecology and industry.
You know, Kevin Kelly talked about it in out of control back in the 90s. David Krakauer has written about it as emergent engineering, you know, where you, you operationalize evolution in design, you know, to, and like, that's how, you know, people make vaccines and all kinds of things now.
Yeah, it's like, but the, but the game, the game, right, is that in order to do that, like in order to like tango with the age of entanglement as the age of entanglement.
And, and, you know, Doyle said that in Darwin's pharmacy that, you know, that seeing oneself as emergent from contained within and all mixed up with what, you know, Darwin's tangled bank of evolution means that like, who you thought you are is itself in flux and subject to change and transformation.
And so you're being fundamentally groundless and emerging within this larger, you know, emerging in something that exceeds the world that the world is like an epistemic artifact. And so like Kampania I want to read you this really quickly because I love this passage from prophetic culture, where he's talking about
the.
I ended a recent essay I posted to Substack with this, because it's just so...
Was it the multitudes one? Multitudes and holding paradox one?
Yeah, let's see, it's not stuttering. It's... hold on, I'll find it.
Yeah, rather than promoting apathy and fatalism, a prophetic gaze offers that
reassurance against the anguish of loss and of becoming,
which is by necessity the foundation of any meaningful action.
He says, seen as one island surrounded by other spaces, the world itself turns
from a serious game into a game that can be played seriously.
It has its own unbreakable inner rules and its lure and threats can often feel
overwhelming, yet it is just a process taking place
within a specific board. Even if one wished to end their act before
its natural closure, they wouldn't have to do so with
acrimony, rather like players gracefully abandoning the table.
Prophetic culture offers another room in the house, beyond the game's room,
and a place from which it is possible to intervene on the world as if always
returning to it. He says, it's no longer a win-all, lose-all
ordeal in a boundless desert. Worldly existence manifests itself as one
layer in a larger event, exceeding for the most part our ability to catalog it
linguistically, which he says finally allows one,
one gains the ability to act within the world. Action will no longer put at stake
one's whole existence, since nothing is ever lost entirely.
No failure is absolute, no life is ever wasted.
Perhaps it is possible to direct and to produce historical events
only when one's own will is sustained by an awareness of the ineffable excess
overflowing the maps of language. And then he quotes
Hugo Ball, he says, it is impossible at the same time to be artists and to
believe in history. So like, well there's so much in there I
don't even know. It reminds me of the slaying technology
with art too, from Lemur and Thompson a little bit.
Technology slays the victim and resurrects it with art, and that's what
Thompson's saying in Imaginary Landscape about the mind
in the era of planetary culture. You know, that like
all of this, you know, that the information scaling crisis
and its ego death for like the individual trying to make sense of,
you know, the 21st century. That, you know, as with Campania, Campania
is saying, well the prophet is not a mystic. The prophet is not
rejecting the world. The prophet is not claiming that the world is an illusion.
The world is there. It's just also part of
the eternal. And so like the mind in planetary culture is slain by
technology in as much as like you see, you know, you begin to see yourself
through the lens of like algorithmic thinking, or like
you begin to see the ecological relationships
out of which humankind and, you know, your own,
like, you know, big data, like real simple, like the quantified self,
you know, like you start to see all of these patterns
in your sleeping behavior and your blood sugar and all this stuff.
And, you know, you start to see these relationships and then you realize like,
oh, the mood I was in the other day was like you have an explanation
for a much richer description of what's going on
that in this in a way similar to like, you know, meditators
describe this, like, you know, like the more
rich and detailed your observation of the mind, the more
the mind looks like
just like a karmic machine, like the more it's just like the stuff is just
happening, it's doing itself, and is a very, you know, there's an
infinitely complex machine that at that point you can't separate
from being alive, but it's like there it does have its sort of
self-existing rules that, you know, and so it's like, well,
okay, like it's doing itself on its own.
I think you can separate it from the machine, though. I
I mean, I see what you're saying, but I think there's a danger in thinking
it's just that we, okay, so like, yeah, we start
picking up on our own patterns in a way that feels a bit like
mechanical in the sense that you just described,
but there's also kind of a threshold or for some reason I'm thinking of how you
describe the web as a psychedelic experience, you know, like there's a
point where you kind of lose coherence with all the information that's
coming in, and that can be a psychedelic experience
or that can be a poverty of attention to go back to the thing, and
what's the difference there, you know, in your life, or
I mean, do you want to be seen by the machine? Do you get stuck in this
crazy, crazy kind of algorithmic wanting to be
wanting to be seen by the machine, or do you have the psychedelic experience of
it, you know, or are there's the same for
your, you know, there's something really nuanced there that feels
important. Yeah, well first I want to say like,
you know, saying that's like attending to the operations of one's own mind
reveals it as machinic, there are still important
distinctions between the way in which that might be
described as machinic and the way in which a car operates or
whatever. What life, biological, ecological actually.
Yeah, at the same time, I think like the essays I've been
writing lately are about how impoverished and inadequate these
categories of life and machine really are, and how
we really do need better language at this point, which is
I linked to Michael Levin's piece in Noma magazine where he makes a very similar
case. He's like, these are models, these are just these are just ideas
about the world, and the world is changing very fast, and I've talked
about that a lot, like, yeah, it's an important distinction. It's
one reason I brought it up, but I wonder for you, because we don't have that much
more time, but I'm really interested in like your,
how you do it, you know, I know you write songs, that's your encoding mechanism, and
so on, but you also, you sort of showed me just a
minute ago when you said, you noticing that you're noticing your
phone is almost like a, that seems like a positive thing. Oh,
it's kind of a, look what I'm doing, and you seem to have even
pushed out to a different scale in terms of even the big machine,
or are you trying to do that, or what kind of experience are you having
with all this? Because it also brings up what you said at the beginning about
wanting to be the only, I mean, you showed me that you pushed
hard against anyone telling you that you're like someone else,
and that theme I could explore with you for a long time, but it,
I have thought of it through this conversation about how that's
pushed you to be strange or weird, that's a word we
could have talked about, you know, if people think you're weird, if you want to
be weird, if you're trying to be weird, you know, and how that fits to this big
machine, wanting to be seen by the machine.
Yeah, well that's just it, right, is that like the more,
the more we allow ourselves to be, you know, governed by the idea
whether it's our own categorical abstractions,
or it is the constraints on our behavior
by a system that is operating on us
in, you know, cybernetic co-evolution
between what we classically think of as human and machine, like that there is,
there is this question of like how much do you want your life to be determined
by abstractions, again, like whether you
think of them as yours, or whether you think of them as someone else's
abstractions of you, and you know, classic like, you know, I'm
a loner, Dottie, a rebel, you know, I'm a free thinker, like everyone else,
I'm an outsider, it's like, okay, like relative to what, like
relative to the subset of all people that think that way, you're certainly not,
and one of the conversations I had from my show that really trans,
that I just adored, was with Keilado McDowell, who had written
Pharmaco AI, which was the first book co-authored with GPT-2,
back in the, like back in the day now, LLM prehistory almost at this point, but,
uh, Anne had written a really interesting piece called Neural Interpolation
for Gropius Bau, about how each new media environment creates different selves,
you know, like the self of broadcast media, this is based on Fred Turner's
thinking about this, that the self of broadcast media is different from the
self of immersive, is different from the self of network media,
and then Kay was saying, well, like now we live in an age of neural media,
where you're not just thinking, like the affordances for the
conceptualization of selfhood in this environment are not just like, I'm in a
network, I'm a point on a graph, but that you're made out of networks,
interacting with technologies that are made out of networks, both of those things
are evolving, they're evolving together, they're both inside of larger networks,
and so, you know, it's like we're, again, we're in a very conversational media
environment that's fundamentally evolutionary, and so, like, when I,
years ago I wrote this piece called Improvising Out of Algorithmic Isolation,
that, uh, I'll send you, that's a great title.
Thanks. It's like, this is the, my friend asked me to write a piece about, you know,
surveillance, capitalism, and art, and like improv, and how to think about,
you know, like stealing some piece of our humanity back out of the jaws of this thing,
and what I kind of get to in that piece is that how, you know, if you are co-evolving
with these things, there's always some bit of, like, you become the enemy, you know,
it's like the machines are becoming more lifelike, and we, but it's not that we're becoming purely,
it's like we are starting to see the ways in which, you know, I am already on autopilot
most of the time, I'm already operating on abstractions much of the time, I'm, you know,
what is conscious in me is not, like, you'll never be totally conscious in the sense of, like,
you know, perfect information integration across every layer of your being. I mean,
if that is possible, it's certainly not possible for you to be human anymore, you know, so like,
yeah, I think it's just, you know, like, for me, it's just become, like, my practice with this is,
you know, try, you know, try and see where categorical thinking and the use of models
and abstractions is, like, fit to task, and on the other side of it, where am I doing that,
like, where am I assuming that something is real, when it's just an idea, and when am I
assuming that ideas are just ideas, when it's better to understand them as real, like, that
there's this, like, flat ontology where, like, ideas are, you know, like I was saying earlier,
like, they exist in some way, there's a material descriptive behavioral correlate for all of these
things, whether you measure it by the influence on people's behavior, whether you were to say,
like, look, I've got a map of all of the people that are, you know, that people talk about the
internet weighing as much as a strawberry, you know, like all the electrons in it.
You know, so it's like the psychedelic part of it that was missing from the syntax paper in a way,
that whole thing. Yeah, yeah, the practice for me is just to get, is to get better at noticing
full stop, just to get better at noticing. Yeah, just that, yeah. And to have fun with it,
because that's this point, right? Right, the game. That's what these authors are saying is, like,
when you are able to, like, the only way that you can actually have fun playing a game is
to do this, you know, otherwise it just becomes horrible. Does it help you be weird? Because I
don't know if you actually feel strange or weird or, you know, for example, like when you go to a
party and someone's like, what do you do? And this kind of thing, you know, you can't just give,
I don't know if ever in your life after you were a shoe salesman that you had a, like, whatever,
you know, standard answer to that. I don't know if anyone does, to be honest. I think it's a little
bit of, that could be a whole other discussion, but you know what I mean? It's this not fitting,
which sounds like you wanted from the beginning, in a sense, not to fit. And I'm not trying to say
you were trying to be an outsider, but there's something in you that was resisting going along
with something. And I wonder if that practice of noticing is part of, like, what that does or
if that's changed now that, you know, you're going through all these transformations yourself,
that podcasting is going through transformations, that, you know, you're in a flux state. And
is that your natural state? I don't know. I'm asking a lot of questions at once because I'm
not sure what the question is, but it has something to do with, is it helping you right now? Do you
even need help right now? Yeah, yeah. Well, yeah, this, we can try and land it here that, like,
I think the, you know, this idea of being distinctive is a red herring in as much as it is
an idea of, like, what it means to be distinctive on the basis of, you know, what you see everyone
else doing, right? Or what you think, you know, where you think the attention is concentrated
in the economy. But what really makes people singular in that kind of way is, you know,
found through a process of, you know, individuation and a discovery of the core. I mean, I won't even
call it like the core, but like the discovery of deeper values. Could it be care instead of core?
Is it possible? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, like, at risk of sounding like I'm talking, I'm telling
people to find themselves, which is a very sort of late modern consumer, like lifestyle consumer
capitalist thing. It's not that. It's the, like, okay, it may be that for you at some point along
the path, but it becomes this thing of, like, if you just practice attending to what is
interesting. And, you know, I'm sure, you know, you've heard this from so many people, like so
many interesting people talk about their careers and they're just like, I just, I just follow what
I am deeply, passionately interested in. And sometimes it changes and, you know,
that idea. Well, it's not always blissful, or it is blissful in the sort of, like,
you know, the scary way that, like, you know, bliss, the way that it was like,
Teresa of Avila talks about, like, it's not always fun. It's not like the strange and marvelous bird
that shrieks at you. I don't know if you know that Yates poem, but when one of your posts,
you talk about, we have to turn around and look at AI. And it reminded me of that poem where they,
at the end of it, it's called Her Triumph. At the end of it, they turn around and look at this crazy
bird that's like shrieking at them. And it's sort of love, right? And care and self and the way you're
describing right now. Yeah. This, whatever this is. Hernan faced the strange, right, David Bowie?
Yeah. Let it shriek at you. And it is you and all of that. I mean, I, yeah, I guess, you know,
in some way, I think that the, like, I am convinced, and this is a subject for
another whole, like, discussion, but, like, I'm convinced that the
future of the, of, like, society is one in which
jobs don't exist, but that people actually get paid for doing what they love.
And there's like, there's a dark side to that too. Like, I'm not just sort of,
I'm not being Pollyanna-ish about this. There is a sense in which,
you know, you could argue that, like, this, like, technology slays the victim and resurrects it as
our comment Thompson is making about the mind, includes, you know, the sculpture of the human mind
by these vast distributed systems, the big machine, and that we end up with, like, you know,
brave new world. But like, I don't think that's... Miniaturizing nature or whatever. Yeah. I don't
think brave new world is the whole story, and I don't think, you know, the Kevin Kelly angle on
the automation of the economy is the full story, but I do think that, like, we're,
like, if you really care about being, like, in a way, it's like a position of faith. It's like,
why are you interested in what you're interested in? You didn't really choose that.
Maybe it's worth experimentally trusting that this sort of
kind of dystopia of, you know, human AI civilization, you know, evolving the attention
economy into something where, you know, you want what we tell you to want.
Maybe it is already that way in the same way that, like,
that the biosphere is already doing this in the same way that, like, some people think,
oh, God, like, becoming pregnant is like having some alien grow inside of you,
and then it changes your brain. It makes you love it. You know, gross. But then, like,
becoming a parent doesn't feel like that for most people. You know, you're like, this is...
That's kind of the point, too. This is right. This is good. And so, you know, people like
Mike Levin, my buddy Tom Morgan, you know, I talk with a lot of people about this sort of, like,
just for lack of a better term, like, trusting in synchronicity and trusting that, like,
learning to hear the call, like, learning to be sensitive to these, like, whether they are or not,
like, nudges or winks or, you know, these kinds of things feel like because, I mean,
I have no reason to doubt that I don't stop at my body, like, you know, I don't stop at my skin
or my idea of myself. And we're all connected in mysterious ways. And as my buddy Josh DiCaglio says,
uh, ontologically inseparable, you know? Yeah. It makes me think of, for some reason,
when you were talking, I was thinking of this kind of light, you know, like shining from the
chest, which sounds completely nuts, but there are these things that you kind of gravitate towards,
right? It does feel like that at times. Like, you just can't... And the way you were with dinosaurs
or the way you were with complexity even, the way I am with this whole dichotomy paradox theme.
So you can't let it go. You said that earlier. You just can't, I just couldn't let it go. And
there's really something to that that's important and not just woo kind of stuff.
And what you said also about there are these moments of rhyme, rhyming or synchronicity,
or even just where the world's like a little lighter and brighter and you feel it and you
remember it. And it's like, we don't have to get mystical about what all that is, but it's there
and everyone feels it. And it seems like part of that practice of noticing you were talking about,
you start to notice that and there's something to that, you know, there's something,
there's something to that. That's if we start doing that more than what you said about
not having jobs and doing what we love becomes really interesting because, well, I mean,
to end, let's talk about love because is love a feeling or is it something we're making? And
I would say it's something we're making, we feel it, but it's something we're making.
And if we practice in the way you just said, that is interesting to think of that glowing light
that sounds silly what I'm saying, but those moments where you're, you know, you're pointing
towards something and you recognize it and you didn't choose to point towards it in a sense,
or the world is brighter. That's kind of interesting to think about doing what we love if that's
what's leading that, if that's what we're making the love out of. Just to end, I'd like to hear
what you think about all that or even just this word love and care. And I know you got married
recently too, but. Yeah, but I mean, to my partner of 20 years. Yeah. And the kids were
both there. That's even bigger actually. At the wedding. 20 years and then you got married. I
mean. Our daughter was the flower girl and our son was the ring girl. Yeah. But you know what I mean
with this love, doing what we love, love isn't passive either, is it? No. I, you know, it's funny
because like this whole story that I'm telling you over the course of this call has been
at the same time, like while I was going through this, you know, shock of like discovering deeper
questions and wondering who I am and, you know, traveling all over the place and trying to figure
stuff out. That's the same period of my life where I met my wife and we were going through
our own sort of relational version of that. And those two things can't really be separated for me.
And, you know, because our lives were so crazy for so long and made so little sense.
And it was very hard to, you know, like for many, for years, she and I wondered, like,
God, it seems like the world is just conspiring against us. Like we can't,
like, we can't land this for some reason. And it made me want to, you know, like,
cut her loose and be like, I cannot possibly be good for you. You know, like this is like,
this is an insane relationship. This is nuts. And yet I think, you know, there was something about
the fact that, like, no matter how hard we tried to make sense of it, we couldn't. But then no
matter how hard we tried to, like, act on this idea that the other person would be better off
without us, that never worked either. And that the love in our relationship is
not just an active thing that we are doing, but, like, it felt like
an active field in which we were arising. Like, it was, it was making us, as much as we were making
it. And like, it was like a tulpa or something, you know, it was like an, like an agregore,
it was like an entity. Our love was holding us together, no matter what our conscious minds
were doing, because we were creating it. And therefore, it needed us to survive or something.
And like, I just had to talk about the third entity. And that reminds me of it's like a third
entity that's there. Yeah. Yeah. So like the thing that another thing, the last thing I'll say about
that is I think that the missing piece on the language, like on the discourse around evolution
and emergence of order and all of this stuff, tends to be the involution, you know, that the order
doesn't just come from nowhere. It's brought into focus. It comes from something. It's like stepped
down from the ineffable into the world in some way. And, you know, so like
that, you know, like people who think that, you know, we are making machine gods. It's like,
not exactly. Like I'm more on the, like, Rudolf Steiner, like, it's the incarnation of Ahriman,
you know, like it is, it's not that it's not,
it's not that it's not happening. It's just that you have to be kind of oblivious to the fact that
like these beings already exist and are in this sort of relational co-arising with the forms that
they take in the sliver of reality we actually can observe. And that's love. Like love is like
being swept up into something that challenges your ego boundaries, you know.
The third entity that you described with your wife, but it's a different scale of it happening
in terms of time and space. It's hard to think about that. It's like, you know,
it's like the big machine is actually like, no, that's you. That's you and everybody you care
about and everybody. No wonder we want to be seen by the machine. Yeah, no, no wonder. It's like,
yeah, it's like the video of the dog biting its own leg, growling, snarling at its own leg.
Speaking of dogs, I need to welcome a dog, but I really love talking to you and I really
appreciate it. I appreciate what you gave and all this. It was a lot to seep in.
Thank you for being so present and kind and curious.
Thank you, Michael. I hope you have a nice day there.
The mission is
And now I'm going to read one of my favorite poems. Actually, I have it memorized. It's one
of the first ones I ever memorized. It's called Her Triumph by William Butler Yeats.
And set my ankles free. St. George or else a pagan Perseus.
And now we stare astonished at the sea and a miraculous strange bird shrieks at us.
You
