These words popped into my head, this civilization is finished.
I was pretty shocked by this, what felt like a kind of awful revelation.
It kind of stopped me, literally stopped me in my tracks.
Whatever does not kill me makes me stronger.
It confirmed my sense of a certain kind of fragility in what we assume in society.
What one is always seeking to attain in philosophy is freedom from ideological
preconceptions, from thought traps, from assumptions that make an asset of you
and me, and some of those thought patterns are exactly the things which
divide us from other people.
Philosophers getting stuck in thinking of ourselves as separate from other people.
When we really manage to free ourselves from those kinds of philosophical
entrapments, we find ourselves in a web of intense pair and
interrelationality with other people.
Although I've gone through a lot of suffering, as have some of the other
people we've named, Wittgenstein being a famous example, it's interesting that
Wittgenstein, his last words were, tell them I've had a wonderful life.
And luckily I'm not at that point in my life yet, but I feel somewhat similarly.
The argument that I've made in recent years is that all of these difficult
emotions are in fact inflections of love.
That we, for example, are angry because what we love is threatened.
In being honest, as a lifelong project, there's nothing better that can happen
to one than finding one's life's purpose.
And what I actually believe is that the epochal crisis we're moving into
provides an enormous opportunity for all sorts of people to find true meaning
again, and true community in their lives.
The disasters that are coming, the epidemic of difficult emotions that
are coming, the attempt to avoid despair is a profound mistake.
Many people are going to be tempted to despair in the years to come because
of the immense difficulty of our situation.
And what I say to those people is don't try to avoid it, to work with it.
These are exactly the things that give us a chance, that give us some real hope.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is Andrea.
Today, I'm talking with Rupert Reed, who's a philosopher in public
intellectual and much more.
You've maybe heard of him for all kinds of different reasons, depending where
you live, depending what you're interested in.
Today, we're going to talk about crisis.
We're going to talk about Wittgenstein.
We're going to talk about liberation.
We're going to talk about love.
I came to Rupert Reed's work because of Wittgenstein, but also because of this
idea of through-topia, which you might've heard mentioned here before relative to
writing through dystopia and utopia towards through-topia.
I'll put that episode in the show notes.
But the reason I wanted to have Rupert on this time was because I came across his
book about paradoxes and Wittgenstein.
And I wanted to talk to him about it, but also because in his own life, he holds a
lot of different worlds, as you'll hear.
I won't try and summarize it all here because we have a very good discussion
about it, but it's really about how we hold these seeming contradictions or even,
for example, this very conversation and all of the things that Rupert is involved in.
There'll be some people who will hear certain words and find them difficult,
while others will find them very inspiring.
And the same is actually true about Wittgenstein and the ways that
his philosophy is interpreted.
For example, there's a book called The New Wittgenstein, which Rupert Reed edited.
And I remember coming across and reading quite often when I worked at the
bookshop in New York and it sees Wittgenstein through the lens of thinking
of philosophy as being possibly therapeutic.
I encourage you to look at the book, read some of the essays, Stanley
Cavell and Hilary Putnam and others.
But there's this older idea and philosophy of understanding that philosophy
can do something therapeutic if we look at it as a practice.
Pierre Hedot has been mentioned on the podcast recently, and I'll write about
that on the sub stack eventually soon.
But this idea of philosophy as a way of life.
And I think right now I find it rather comforting to think of philosophy in
this way as something that can help us disrupt thought patterns and also deal
with disruptive thought patterns, learn how to get some space around them to
look at them.
And also there's this underlying theme through this conversation of crisis and
of love as a form of action, love as action, not a form of action.
But this comes up often too on the podcast that people discuss how love
isn't a feeling for them so much as an action, that love is an action in the
world, and that's an important idea right now.
In this conversation, you'll hear us talk about his teachers, Joanne
Amazien, Thich Nhat Hanh, and also his Quakerism.
And you also hear him talking about being part of the starting
extinction rebellion.
You'll also hear him talk about being a scholar of Wittgenstein.
All these worlds are the world of Rupert Reed, and he's got a lot of pushback
for trying to hold all those worlds.
And I really wanted to understand how he's done it and how it feels, and also
just talk to him about some of his philosophical writing relative to these
ideas and paradox and to Wittgenstein and to just the successive internalization
that we might be at risk of as people who do read a lot of philosophy or
neuroscience or whatever, one can get stuck in the head.
And for a long time, I sort of almost had this fantasy of Wittgenstein as
being trying very hard to get out of his own head, to realize his embodied
love as action in the world, whether it was fleeing his money or going to
teach and or building houses, or he did a lot of different things too.
He also held a lot of seeming dichotomies in the space of his own life.
And Rupert is doing that too.
And that's what we talk about here.
And I hope it brings something loving into your life somewhere, somehow.
It helps you hold whatever it is you need to hold right now.
My voice is almost gone, but we are here.
And we are creating the future together and we can do that.
Everything we do, every action really does matter.
And let's try to stay focused on just the moment, the everyday action, being
grateful and realizing how much power and beauty and connection is potent in
that moment and in learning and loving.
All right.
Hello, Rupert.
It's so nice to meet you.
Thank you for being on Love and Philosophy.
Hi, Andrea.
Good to be here.
There's a lot I want to unpack.
You've done so many things and this is a broad audience.
But to start, I was wondering if you remember the first crisis that
you came to in your life, maybe, it doesn't have to be the first one, of course,
but when you think back, do you remember any sort of crisis that you had in your life?
I would offer two things.
Firstly, when I was very young, we had quite a crisis in the UK.
So this isn't really a crisis in my life, but it's something that made a mark on me.
We had the so-called three-day week in the early 1970s, during which time
there were quite serious power cuts.
So one of my earliest memories is sitting around a dinner table with, or
breakfast table even, but probably dinner, with candles because there was no power.
Because there was no power, no electric power.
And that was, looking back on it, that was very interesting.
It kind of confirmed my sense of a certain kind of fragility in what we assume in
society and that we shouldn't assume that our civilization is nearly as stable as
we usually, most of us, even now, still assume.
And that connects with things I've been doing recently.
In terms of a personal crisis, my youth was relatively problem-free
compared to many people's.
I had a very happy childhood and a happy family.
And it was only later really that I came into what I would call true personal crises.
So in my thirties, I had a serious, long episode of anxiety and depression.
And that taught me an enormous amount.
And quite a lot of my philosophy and my writing about art and my spiritual
teaching comes really in a way from that period in my life, which was immensely
painful, but I tried to treat it in the way that Nietzsche teaches, whatever
does not kill me makes me stronger.
Is that when you discovered philosophy?
Where were you by then?
No.
So I did philosophy as an undergraduate at Bayville College, Oxford University.
And that was absolutely amazing and brilliant.
And I fell in love with philosophy and did a philosophy PhD at Rutgers.
And that was the, obviously led into my academic career, which has been
most of my professional and adult life.
Although increasingly in recent years, it's given way to other things.
Yeah.
So I used to work at a bookshop in New York called St.
Mark's Books.
I don't know if you've ever heard of it.
I know it.
I used to, but I did my PhD.
I was at Rutgers University.
Yeah, I spent a lot of time in New York and that was, I think that was probably
my favorite bookshop, so I used to work there.
I used to work there when I was in school.
It's gone now, unfortunately, but yeah, I worked there up as long as I could.
But the point is, it's very strange, but as I was looking at your work, I was
reading your Wittgenstein, which I hope we can talk about, but I suddenly came
across the book, the new Wittgenstein.
It's kind of got this, it's a picture of him and it's kind of gold.
And I used to pick this book up all the time in that bookshop and read it.
Nice.
Yeah.
But I hadn't associated it.
It was literally just kind of finally kind of came back around.
Yeah, that was a successful academic book project in the sense that it became, as
much as academic books do, it became a kind of minor bestseller and helped lead a
kind of revolution in thinking about who Wittgenstein is and what his philosophy
was.
We argue in that book that his philosophy was fundamentally therapeutic, if you
will, throughout his career, throughout his life, including in his early work.
And that therefore the common talk of there being two different Wittgensteins or
two different Wittgensteinian philosophies is much overstated.
So speaking of therapy, speaking of philosophy, one of your books you write
about Wittgenstein, it's like liberatory philosophy, I think.
And I guess I want to see how this connects.
So you'd already studied philosophy when you had the crisis that you had, or?
Yes.
And had you already been working on this thinking of philosophy therapeutically or?
Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I just wonder if when you had that crisis, if it was in fact of help, you
brought amnesia, but I can see, I guess I'm kind of getting towards, I can see how
what you're doing now is informed by a lot of philosophical points earlier in your
life, but I, I wonder about for you kind of, you know, in your private self, if
you were thinking about these kinds of things early on or, yeah, in terms of
crisis, right, because it's still about crisis within a different nested level.
Yeah, yeah.
So I would say two things on that.
The first is that, yes, I have found philosophy sometimes very personally
helpful across the years, especially in this period of crisis that I mentioned
earlier, and it's long aftermath.
I have found philosophy, philosophy is like Nietzsche's useful, but also
the Stoics have been important to me.
These days I'm a big fan of Stoicism and in my final days teaching at the
University of East Anglia, teaching philosophy there, I would teach the Stoics.
And also Wittgenstein himself in his, in his therapeutic philosophizing and in
his more or less religious and spiritual attitude to the work that he did, his
intensely ethical attitude to the enterprise of philosophy and the enterprise of life.
And the second thing I would say is that as you've correctly picked up on my book,
Wittgenstein's Liberatory Philosophy, which was my final work in academic
philosophy, and I regard it as my Magnum modus, as definitely my most important
book, at least among the books that I've done that were written by me, as opposed
to edited books.
In that book, Wittgenstein's Liberatory Philosophy, I go one step further than
this idea of philosophy as therapy and talk about philosophy as liberation.
And part of that exercise is drawing on Wittgenstein to suggest a different idea
of liberation and freedom from the idea that we usually have.
So I argue that Wittgenstein's philosophy is really that what one is always seeking
to attain in philosophy is freedom from ideological preconceptions, from thought
traps, from assumptions that make an ass out of you and me.
And I argue that when you understand liberation in this way, firstly, it
coheres with the spiritual enterprise and the enterprise of seeking to free oneself
from entrapment by thought patterns that hold one captive, as occurs over and over
again in, for instance, anxiety and depression.
And secondly, and crucially, that part of this redefining therefore of freedom is
that you don't think of freedom anymore in anything like the way that Isaiah
Berlin famously thought about it when he said that freedom is basically negative
freedom, i.e. freedom from other people.
Instead, on the contrary, you think that freedom is and liberation are
indissoluble from other people.
So I coined this slogan in Wittgenstein's Liberatory Philosophy,
autonomy is relationality, that the kind of autonomy that Wittgenstein seeks is
autonomy from thought patterns that trap you.
And some of those thought patterns are exactly the things which
divide us from other people.
I argue that this is what's at the heart, for example, of his famous anti-private
language considerations, that what those are really about is about philosophers
getting stuck in thinking of ourselves as separate from other people, and that
when we really manage to free ourselves from those kinds of philosophical
entrapments, we find ourselves in a web of intense pair and interrelationality
with other people.
We don't, for example, speculate about whether other people have minds or not.
On the contrary, we move immediately to regard other people as part of our
concern and not just other people either, by the way, other beings at large.
So yeah, my philosophy, my final philosophy, if you will, the final
version of it, as expressed in that book, is intensely about the way that
philosophy, if you do it right, if you do it in the spirit of Wittgenstein et al.,
is actually a doorway to care and love for other people rather than anything
that gets in the way of such love and care.
Yeah, I think that's very beautiful.
And I guess that's why I wonder about the crisis you were going through.
And also, I mean, I also feel kind of close to Wittgenstein, or I always have.
I mean, obviously when I was at the bookshop, I'm picking up that book and
reading it, and there's this strange kind of paradox, which connects also to other
work you've done talking about Wittgenstein, of this solitary sadness or
this being sort of trapped, right?
I think in that book, you talk about how the freedom is finding the right word.
And also when you're introducing that book, you're talking about this feeling
that we all know if we've ever tried to really do a writing project or think
really deeply, where it's just so hard in a way, and so liberating and so wonderful.
But it's really writing that weird razor edge of almost too much to handle.
And I think of Wittgenstein in this way often, as if he was, maybe I'm romanticizing
it, and you brought up Nietzsche too, but you're so alive and so desperate to get
out of these patterns you're in or find another way of looking at them.
So I'm bringing all of this up because I wonder if in writing that book, because
it became a transitional moment for you, right?
I wonder what was happening there, if I'm reading too much into it, or if it really
was this kind of the tide going out and you really having to look at things
deeply and deal with them in this way that's solitary, but then you find the
love in the community.
Yes, yes.
Gosh, I guess one thing I'd start with is that, yes, so this was my last
academic book, my last work of philosophy as such, and partly it was so because I
felt, right, I've really done the work I needed to do in philosophy as such, in
academic philosophy, and it's time to move on, and partly that coincided with
the increasing urgent, emergent aspect of my life to do with wrestling with the
huge civilizational crisis, including crucially the ecological crisis that we
find ourselves in and finding that now more imperative, but that makes it sound
a bit too much either or because, you know, the work that I do now leading the
Climate Majority Project, which I'm sure we'll come to later, that work still
involves a lot of what they call thought leadership.
It involves a lot of deep thought about, for example, the nature of social
movements, the possibility of fundamental transformational change.
And these things are not actually alien to philosophical thought patterns.
And moreover, if anyone is strong enough to read all the way to the end of
victimized laboratory philosophy, you'll find that in the final chapters, I kind
of bring out a dimension of this already there.
So I argue there, as I mentioned briefly earlier, I argue there that when one
understands autonomy correctly, it is the same thing as relationality, that
the kind of freedom that we are looking for is a freedom from, for example, the
kinds of assumptions that are keeping us stuck in a civilization, which is, as my
former friend and colleague, only former, because he's dead, David Graeber, as
famously said, a predicament that we seem to be stuck in a certain mode of social
organization, unable to understand other modes of social organization.
And this stuckness is killing us.
We need to overcome assumptions such as the idea of progress and such as the
idea that we are in any meaningful sense, cut off from other people, that we should
try to assume liberation from them or from other beings or from nature.
And I come to all of these things by the end of that book.
And these things are things that I'm trying to realize now, but continuing
to use thought as I do so in the life that I'm weaving now.
And you ask, you know, how do I connect that back to crisis?
And there's many ways, again, I could do that.
I would mention briefly a couple.
One is that, as I said, my beliefs and my experience is that a fundamental
dimension of anxiety and depression is being stuck in certain thought patterns,
which in a way, which is quite similar to the ways that we get philosophically
stuck in those thought patterns.
And arguably, Wittgenstein himself was pursuing this kind of theme in the first
half of the Philosophical Investigations, which is what my book is about.
So there's a whole kind of sequence of sort of parallels here, right?
It's the situation that somebody is in when they're in a
psychopathological situation.
It's a situation a civilization is in when it's in, broadly speaking,
psychopathological situation, when one's society is stuck and thick.
And the way in which philosophy can give one clues as to how to get out of these
situations, although it can't, as it were, do the work for you.
And this is one caution I would give, by the way, if anyone's listening is thinking,
oh, I've got anxiety and depression and maybe philosophy can help me get out of it.
Yeah, maybe it can.
But you do have to be quite careful because another thing that you can do if
you're not really careful with philosophy is get endlessly stuck in more and more
thought that just kind of spins around, which is often itself a characteristic of
being stuck in a psycho situation.
So that's what you don't want to do.
You have to find the break, the pathway into action.
And well, speaking of myself, I've managed to find that pathway, I would say,
quite effectively in recent years, which has been a great blessing.
Yes, indeed.
And I want to get to this because there's these nested levels of it, of trying to
change thought pattern or notice thought pattern, that sometimes it sounds like
even when you're talking or when I was talking that it's all in the individual
head or something like this, you talk about that a lot about it's not, and
actually those patterns are in the community or maybe in Wittgenstein's
family or in that kind of world he was in.
Yes, in Wittgenstein's Vienna, for example, to use the title of the famous book.
Exactly.
So how do you see that?
The way that we can awaken to perhaps almost a practice of noticing
patterns and thinking through them, but also for him, maybe it was through
going into kind of be a school teacher or putting himself in these
environments, different environments.
I know we want to talk about nature and that you connected with nature,
but how did you get out of your own individual thoughts and notice
the thoughts around you, I guess?
Wow.
That is a huge question.
There are many parts of the answer.
Yeah, one part of the answer is nature.
Another part is spiritual practice.
I'm a member of the Religious Society of Friends, the Quakers.
I'm also a Buddhist practitioner.
I'm a former student of Thich Nhat Hanh and of Joanna Macy's.
And Quakerism and Buddhism, they come from opposite sides of the world, but
something that they profoundly have in common in Buddhism, at any rate in its
most crucial forms in my view, is that you might say they are fundamentally
practice-based religions or spiritualities or philosophies.
So in Quakerism, for instance, there is no creed and in Buddhism, one
might say something like, if you don't take part in Buddhist meditation, or
if you don't naturalize that kind of meditative attitude or practice into
your life, then it's kind of silly to say that you're a Buddhist, you're
not a Buddhist by virtue of believing in the truth of certain propositions.
For me, when I had my personal crisis, Quakerism became more important to me.
And it was then that I actually went deeply into Buddhism and ended up
spending time at Plum Village in France, for example, with Thich Nhat Hanh and
his colleagues in Chan Con and so forth.
So I'm giving that as a kind of example, because I think it's quite an important
example, not just because it's been important to me personally, but because
one of the problems with our civilization is that it has tended to lose grip on
the importance of religious and spiritual practice of some kind or another, right?
I'm not saying everyone has to become a Quaker or a Buddhist.
I'm saying that in wisdom traditions, as these get embodied in practices, as
for example, in Buddhism, there is something very precious and profound,
which I believe is a crucial resource to getting us out if we can get out of the
absolutely terrible bind that we are stuck into.
And one of my future projects, which is influenced by philosophy, but also
influenced by the work I've been doing in the world and influenced very much by my
spiritual and religious experience and by my attempts now to be a spiritual teacher,
one of my key future projects is a book that I've got a lot of material for on
eco-spirituality, and I believe that eco-spirituality is sort of nature
connected orientation to the world, which has a broadly spiritual dimension.
I believe that eco-spirituality is almost certain to be a rising trend in the very
difficult period of our life as a species that we are moving into.
While it's simple, really, people are going to seek something to take a refuge
in these difficult times and refuge, a word that is very important to Buddhism.
I think a lot of that refuge will be taken in nature and going beyond that, I
think a lot of it will be taken in nature-based religious practice or spirituality.
Yes.
I'm so glad you brought both of those names up, Thich Nhat Hanh and also Joanna
Macy, because that's where I wanted to go with you is I wonder, did you seek them out?
I mean, because when you look back, when I'm looking at your life, I didn't
mention earlier, but I think you were with Stanley Cavell, maybe, with the philosophy.
And I remember in that book, there was Hillary Putnam and others.
And then that world is one very particular kind of world.
And then I was also reading, I always say his name wrong, Thich Nhat Hanh and Joanna
Macy, and that's love, right?
He's writing so much about love and then she's writing about the difficult
emotions based in love, and I don't see these as different.
I mean, philosophy, of course, has the word love in it, but it's, did you go seek
them out?
Were you missing something?
Did it all come together?
Was, were you already completely in the Quaker kind of feeling?
Cause that's another thing I've, that's a really powerful tradition I've noticed
and people that I know that are part of it.
Yeah.
So in terms of Wittgenstein, I've had, I've had many great Wittgensteinian
teachers.
The most important of all for me has been Cora Diamond and it was her who oriented
me towards, towards what became the new Wittgenstein, towards the resolute, so
called resolute reading of Wittgenstein's work, which you find across all of my
philosophical work of the last 25 years or so.
And that has more of a possible bearing than some might think on where, if you
will, I've, I've ended up because Cora, for example, she writes quite a bit
actually about love and about its manifestation in life, in literature, in
philosophy or its absence in philosophy.
So that's one starting point in terms of why I got into Buddhism in such a
serious way as I did.
As I say, that was very much coming initially from my own personal crisis.
And that led me onto a journey of taking Zen especially much more seriously than
I had done previously and getting to know much more about it and practicing it a
lot more.
That led me eventually to Palm Village and Thich Nhat Hanh and it also led me to
write some stuff about Zen and philosophy and in particular about Zen and Wittgenstein,
which people can find out there if they want.
In terms of Joanna Macy, that's an interesting little story.
So I have a great colleague, his name is Andrew Boswell.
He has been a friend for many years and is a sort of collaborator now in the
Climate Majority Project.
And he and I have done quite a lot of Buddhist stuff together too, and Green
Party stuff together as well.
Anyway, he urged me to listen to these lectures by Joanna Macy called
World as Lover, World as Self.
I was very busy, it was just an incredible title, isn't it?
World as Lover, World as Self.
And I instantly recognized the power of the title.
By the time I was pretty busy with my important philosophical writing and with
my important political work.
So for ages, I didn't listen to it and he kept nagging me to listen to it and he
said, she's coming, she's coming to England.
Please, you know, have a listen because I want you to go and study with her, with
me.
And so finally, I did listen.
As soon as I did, I was like, oh my God, you know, I'd not have heard this before.
And so I signed up and went on this course where Macy studied with Joanna.
And this work became, as you noted, very important to me and is a big, big
influence on a lot of my writing and my actions over the last, especially decade
or so, and Joanna has become a really important mentor to me.
So that's kind of the story there.
And yeah, for me, a really crucial aspect here is the way that Joanna Macy
really gives us, I think, a full embodied understanding of the importance of the
difficult emotions.
So shame, anger, grief, anxiety.
And the argument that I've made in recent years is that all of these difficult
emotions are in fact inflections of love, that we, for example, are angry because
what we love is threatened, that we are afraid because what we love is threatened
and what we most value and those we most value, including ourselves, are at risk.
That's so rich that I almost feel like it's the soil or something and you're
showing everything sort of growing out of it.
I want to pause just a second because that's really important moment there
where your friend's trying to get you to go see her and you're stuck in your
philosophy because I've been there and I see it a lot in colleagues who are
philosophically inclined, especially towards more analytic, right, where you
just think you have to do this very serious work.
And it's even one reason I call this love and philosophy because people find
it very uncomfortable often to talk about love as philosophers, as a
people.
Yeah, it turned out he was pushing an open door, but he had to push a
little more before I fell into it.
And what became the most important part of that of all for me was going deep
into the understanding, the embodied understanding and the philosophical
understanding of grief, which I think is the most neglected difficult emotion
still of them all and the way that grief is love in the sense of grief is the
terrible rip that we feel when something or someone that we love is removed from
the world and I've argued that the way to understand this is that our very
world is therefore has a rip in it and that is what grief is.
Yeah, it does feel like that.
And as you're talking, I'm remembering Joanna Macy's tearing up or something.
She's so present with it, right?
There's a embodied feeling you get of we can sit with this and that reminds me
things you say about truth.
Just sit with the truth, look at the truth.
This is hard and it's even messy for me to try to understand how I want to talk
to you about it, but it's so important.
Even someone like Wichenside or Nietzsche or these philosophers, I feel
they're also trying to do that or find that space.
So, and I wonder, do you feel that's part of the healing?
That's kind of a weird word too, but these aren't disconnected from
other areas of life either, right?
Love itself, I always thought as a kid, it's very hard to feel so much love for
my parents or for whoever, because you can't do anything about it.
You really just have to sit there with it.
Right, you mean you can't do anything about it in the sense of you
can't say you can't help it.
You can't change, make things good for them or you can't not love them.
But there is, of course, stuff you can do about that, which is why I've argued
for many years that we think about love wrongly if we think of it as a feeling.
Love ultimately devolves into what we do.
And I've argued slightly controversially that love is a kind of activity or action.
But actually, I think this is a very helpful perspective and alternative to
this kind of excessively internalised version of the emotions, which tends to
grip us in our individualistic civilisation, where we're imagining
ourselves cut off from each other, which takes us back to my argument about why
that's the wrong way to think of ourselves based again in Wittgenstein's thinking.
So yeah, for me, love, if you will, is a kind of work.
And I think that that connects helpfully with the way in which people
sometimes talk about grief work, people like Joanna.
It also connects, I think, with what rationally I accepted for a long time,
but until I think relatively recently hadn't fully actually realised or
actualised in my life and my work, which is the importance of inner work, as it's called.
So for many years, I would say, and I heard others say in agridism, that when
it comes to, say, activism or politics, inner work is really crucial.
If you just kind of engage in campaigning and behaviour change and so
forth, that isn't enough.
It needs to connect with stuff that you're doing within yourself, usually
along with other people, by the way, not just typically by yourself,
sequestered away somewhere.
But it wasn't until maybe, well, the last decade at the most that I really
pain to find more effective ways of embodying that truth, that inner work
is a crucial dimension, that you can't actually separate the inner work
from the outer work ultimately.
By inner work, do you mean thinking through your own patterns?
Yeah, thinking through your own patterns, meditating on yourself, on what's important,
working to process and handle things that you find difficult, dealing with
traumas, et cetera.
Unless we do these kinds of things, we can't actually be fully effective in the world.
And it's an ongoing process.
It's not like you just, you sort of get yourself sorted with a therapist and
then you can just go to it.
It's an ongoing practice.
Yeah, and that's that therapeutic and liberatory thing.
I'm sorry to stop you, but this does connect to what I was trying to get at.
And also that it's not easy, right?
So you're so right, what you just pointed out, that love is an action.
But as a kid or when you're a teenager, you don't quite know how to, you feel
overwhelmed by emotions, but also just by that you want to participate in the world.
Or you want to, sometimes it was just that I want to show this.
I don't know how to, to do something with the love, like that's going to be worthy
of it, so to speak, right?
So that's interesting too, how you learn how to even notice it.
That also gets to the vision sign and the other things we've talked about.
Of course, a lot of stuff you've written about, but how you come to notice those
patterns and I guess it is community-based.
And again, this does nest up to all these other challenges we're facing, but I
don't know, what does that bring up for you?
Yeah, well, very good.
I agree.
I would say a couple of things.
Firstly, to try to illustrate a bit more what I mean by talking about the way that
this handling of these difficult emotions is crucial, the way that inner work is
unavoidable, one of our key campaigns in the Climate Majority Project is called
the Climate Courage Campaign.
And what that involves is the idea that what we must do in relation to telling
the truth, the difficult truth, as it inevitably is around the climates and
nature crisis and so forth, is help provide people with resources to handle
that difficult truth.
You can't just kind of dump the truth on somebody and walk away, right?
You have to help them with that.
But the inner work has to be done and it is typically shared in a word.
So for example, what the Climate Courage Campaign is saying is when kids get
taught about the climate crisis in schools, they need to be resourced
psychologically to deal with the content of that teaching.
And that speaks to the way in which in the Climate Majority Project, we see the
work of transformative change as really very holistic.
It's about the importance and the centrality of truth.
It's about handling that difficult, often difficult truth together.
Also the wonderful truth needs to be handled too.
It's about effective pathways to action together, which are to some extent
tailored to individual people, but also bring it together.
And it's about collective awareness of all of these things and collective
awareness that this kind of movement, this kind of what I describe as a kind
of neutral movement together, a kind of wave even of action, once we start to
actually face up to the difficult reality, once we start to feel the emotions
that inevitably occur, then those emotions move us and that's built into
the idea of emotion, actually, if one understands it adequately, which is
another reason why thinking of emotions just as feelings is inadequate.
Those emotions move us towards other people, towards action, towards what is
needful and what we say in the Climate Majority Project is you've got to have
all these four things together, the truth, the handling of the truth, the
pathways to action on that basis and the collective awareness of all of this and
of all of this as being an inevitable process and the only questions being
whether that process will be wise enough and wide enough and deep enough
and smart enough and swift enough.
And so that's one thing I would say.
The other is kind of connecting this back to what we've been talking about
in relation to philosophy and truth is that yes, as you imply, I think that
one can find roots for this in the philosophy of Wittgenstein and also
in the philosophy of Nietzsche and Foucault.
Some people take Nietzsche and Foucault to be philosophers who weren't really
at the end of the day that much on the side of truth, but were rather sort
of unmasking truth itself, among other things, as a kind of a strategy
or something like that.
I think that's a misunderstanding of both Nietzsche and Foucault and
have written accordingly.
I think if you look at where Foucault got to in his final years and of course,
you know, he died tragically young, really.
He was the same age as I am now when he died.
What Foucault was trying to do, Michel Foucault in those final years, was to
actually take seriously the importance of truth in a way that other intellectuals
such as Bachelet-Halvelle and many others have made prominent and the way
in which we have to do, well, inner work, basically, if we are to, and that's
what the history of sexuality is about, if we are to get anywhere with that truth.
In the case of going right back to Nietzsche, I argue that Nietzsche did
not, as people have sometimes said, he did think of himself as a sort of
mask of truth or the will to truth, et cetera, from the outside.
He saw himself actually as an exponent of it from the inside.
And I think that what Nietzsche and Foucault and Wittgenstein all have in common
is an absolute passion for truth, without which I think it's impossible
really to be a proper philosopher at all.
So when we talk about philosophy as the love of wisdom, I think part of that
is inevitably the love of truth.
And this is an absolutely vital characteristic for our time, right?
Truth and truthfulness are under very real threat in our world from dangerous
politicians, from people who are hungry to make money in various ways, through
conspiracy nonsense, through fomenting antagonism on so-called social media.
We need to counterpose that by doubling down on truthfulness and authenticity.
And in their different ways, I think it's a capacity to do that, which is given to
us by the best philosophers very much, including Wittgenstein, by people like
Joanna Macy, and that's what I'm seeking to realize in my work.
And that's integral to the practice of the Climate Regeneration Project.
One way of seeing it is that we are trying to bring what was palpably present
in movements like Extinction Rebellion or Fridays for Future, the school climate
strikes, the absolute emphasis there on truthfulness and being willing to
manifest the difficult emotions that arise in relation to it.
We're seeking to bring that in the Climate Majority Project to a much wider audience.
What is it about truth that's so hard?
We haven't talked much about language and it is, of course, a part of Wittgenstein
and your work, but a lot of this truth gets caught up in language or logic or those
kinds of things, but what I hear you talking about is the kind of truth where
you're present, you're embodied, you're just trying to see things the way they are.
Not even just see, but sense the world as it is.
And that's the hard thing.
The language games are almost easier because you're playing them.
But this kind of truth that I think you mean is, it's different.
Also next to that, all these people that you named aren't exactly people that
we think of as having what's a joyful life or something like this.
That could be a completely wrong characterization too, but I love all of
them too, but they seem to have suffered a lot, right?
Right.
So one thing I would say is that yes, this is not easy.
Why?
Well, because truth is and truthfulness sees a constant hard task masters, right?
And being honest is a lifelong project, including being honest with oneself, being
honest in relation to the climate situation and our civilizational crisis,
which is now unavoidable for anyone who is a serious, I would say human being,
certainly a serious intellectual, is really, really hard.
Like how do we, what's the project exactly of being honest with our
children about this, for example?
That is incredibly hard because what you don't want to do is, like I said earlier,
that you don't want to throw anyone, especially a child, into a kind of
vulnerability where they're not protected and supported in relation to
dealing with something which is difficult.
So there's a genuinely challenging path that one has to walk there.
But my claim, our claim, is that it is a path that one nevertheless has
to find a way to walk.
My experience with students, for instance, at university is that they
have been grateful to me whenever I've taken difficult steps in the direction
of being more truthful than I was previously being.
The first time I gave a talk, which was at my own university, which was fully
upfront about the extent of the crisis that we're in.
When you were writing The Civilization is Over or The Civilization is Infinite.
The Civilization is Infinite, yeah, it was in that exact period, exactly.
Yeah.
All right, maybe I'll take a step back and tell you that story probably.
So it starts really in 2015 with me walking down the street in the city
where I then lived, Norwich, and here in Norfolk in England, and looking at the
state of the gardens, so gardens which had obviously had weed killer applied
to them, gardens that had been paid over, gardens with an abandoned bridge
or whatever in them, and these words popped into my head.
This civilization is finished.
I was pretty shocked by this, what felt like a kind of awful revelation.
It kind of literally stopped me in my tracks for a while.
I pondered on it and then did what any self-respecting intellectual
philosophy would do, I started writing about it.
I wrote a bit and shared it with one of two trusted friends and colleagues and
said, look, I'm writing this, it's rather different from anything I've written before.
I'm worried about it because I think A, it might demoralize people and B, I might
get attacked for saying it, what do you think?
And everything on one of them got back to me and said, this looks to me like
probably the most important thing you've ever written, keep going.
Was this after the Wittgenstein book?
So this is, we're now in 2016.
This is the period, the work that goes towards Wittgenstein's
liberatory philosophy is underway, but it's some time before that book.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
If you said something that people wanted to have had articulated, was that
the feeling that you got when you wrote it?
Exactly, and that's what I found.
The first thing I did with it is I published it anonymously, pseudonymously,
which I'd never done before, to sort of gauge reaction, and reaction
was positive and resonant.
Then I started very kind of tentatively in a rather scared state, giving talks
with titles like The Civilization is Finished, and the resonance was really strong.
Then, and this is where I got to a few minutes ago, then in 2017 for the first
time, I gave a talk along these lines to my students, i.e. to a load of students
at the University of East Anglia, and that felt kind of especially difficult
because these were 18 year olds, right?
So, you know, on that difficult kind of cusp of, if you will, full adulthood.
And I really didn't know how it was going to go down and felt
quite kind of doubtful about it.
But the responses I got were students coming up to me afterwards and saying
things like, this feels like the first time that any adult or anyone in
authority has ever really leveled with me, and it feels good.
So, you know, this was the way that the response was not what I'd expected.
It seemed like I wasn't demoralizing people, and nor, except with
certain exceptions, was I getting attacked.
I was mostly creating resonance.
People had a kind of reaction of feeling relief, actually.
We can finally kind of talk about it.
We can find an Arthelius, an Amphibian, this relates to everything we were
talking about 10 or 15 minutes ago.
That was then, that carried on into 2018.
I then came across the people who were getting busy with setting up
Extinction Rebellion and was very impressed with what they were trying to do
because they was basically saying the same thing as what I was saying, the
same, we're headed on a path that could even result in extinction.
But they had a plan of what to do about it, namely to do what they called rebelling.
And so I got involved and helped launch Extinction Rebellion in the UK and then
spread around the world, and in 2019, we had some actual success with our
truthfulness, with our emotional disclosure and resonance and disrupting
this as usual, Extinction Rebellion and my friend and colleague, young
colleague Chris Thunberg and others, of course, many, many others had some
success in breaking through the wall of denial really around climate.
And that was, that was a crucial moment.
That moment hadn't been followed up on in the way that it should have been.
But that's what I'm still trying to do is do that, do that following up.
Now, one thing I want to just get to, which I haven't got to yet, Andrea,
which you asked me is, yeah, but does this make for a difficult life?
Is one unhappy as a result?
If one spends quite a lot of one's time, for example, looking at the hard
climate reality and the reality of the polycrisis at large, the terrible
artificial intelligence situation, et cetera, et cetera, does this make one
miserable because that's what a lot of people assume is going to happen to
one if one goes down that path.
And my answer is no, it's certainly true to say that my life even now is by no
means easy and I continue to undergo various kinds of sufferings, including
those that come from looking with an open eye at the crisis.
But although I've gone through a lot of suffering as have some of the other
people we've named, Wittgenstein being a famous example, it's interesting
that Wittgenstein, his last words were, tell them I've had a wonderful life
to his disciples who were around his beds.
And luckily I'm not at that point in my life yet, but I feel somewhat similarly.
I mean, the last, you know, I had a wonderful time being an academic,
but the last several years of my life with Extinction Rebellion and sort of
applying my academic work towards movement building and becoming an organic
intellectual and becoming a bit of a spiritual teacher and now leading the
climate majority project, I am having the time of my life.
I've found my life's purpose.
There's nothing better that can happen to one than finding one's life's purpose.
And what I actually believe is that the epochal crisis we're moving into
provides an enormous opportunity for all sorts of people to find true meaning
again and true community in their lives, the very things that so many of us are
lacking and one dimension of that is that by anyone who's listened this far
into this podcast will hopefully have realised that actually there is no
incompatibility between facing difficult truths, feeling difficult emotions,
suffering in various ways and having absolutely the time of one's life.
And that's one of my, one of the central messages, if you will, of my work over
the last decade and the practice that I'm trying to embody is that that's
basically, that's exactly what we need to do.
We need to go into the difficult places and what we start to find there,
precisely there is our salvation or at least a very, very strong, compelling
and often as one experiences it, wonderful way forward.
I'm so glad you said that.
I often have this thing I say, which is hold the paradox or be the paradox
or open the space for the paradox and I do feel like that's what you're doing.
But before we get to that exactly, there's a few kinds of things there.
First that, that moment when you had the idea of the civilization is finished.
Did you think about just turning away from it and not doing it?
Was it a, because to me it sounds like not to be too spiritual.
I mean, if this is about holding all dichotomies, but it sounds like that
was a kind of the moment of something opened and are you going to follow it?
And when I hear you now saying you've never been happier, even though this is
hard, you found this way to ride the wave or hold the paradox, but I just
wonder about that moment.
Did you almost say no to it?
Or was it?
Simply.
No, you've exactly understood.
I was very, I was tempted, right?
And part of the temptation to not listen to it or do anything about it was these
quite, you know, rational seeming fears.
And it's not as if they're substance-less.
But well, in particular, what I didn't want right was to demoralize allies,
young people, people that I respect.
And I was also afraid of, I was afraid of being attacked.
I had been attacked worse than I ever had been before over this last decade.
But to be honest, that becomes increasingly a water off one's back.
When, for example, when I, something quite good that I've managed to help
engineer in terms of my, the time I spend on social media emission is that when I
get kind of very nasty, negative comments on social media now, most of the time, it
literally doesn't bother me at all.
It just does not affect me at all.
I simply ignore or move instantly to block that person.
There, there is no negative impact.
Is that because you know where you are and why you're doing it?
And are you clear about those things?
Is that part of it?
Yeah, I think it's because I'm on a very fundamental level, confident that
I'm doing what I need to do.
I found my purpose that I'm with many others, roughly speaking, on the side of
the angels, but it's also to do with having worked through some issues around
not just kind of lack of confidence, but uncertainty about whether I was really
kind of entitled to make these kinds of ambitious and difficult and risky claims.
By the way, one important dimension for those of you who haven't encountered my
this civilization has finished stuff before.
One important dimension that I do need to bring out briefly is that I do
emphasize the word this here.
So it's not, this is not saying, for example, this is certain that
everything is going to collapse.
What it's saying is it's certain that this civilization is going to come to an
end, either through collapse or through transformation.
The path beyond looking more and more like collapse is the most likely route
tragically for that transformation to occur, but I hold open the window of
possibility that we could transform in a way that does not involve collapse.
One other thing, I'm totally with you, Andrea, on the importance of
paradox, and this is absolutely fundamental to my work, too.
It's fundamental to a lot of what I've done in philosophy.
It's fundamental to my spiritual teaching and it's fundamental to the way that I live.
We have to be able and willing to hold all sorts of paradoxes, especially in the
time that we are living in.
Otherwise, it's just important, it's just impossible to keep going forward.
So yeah, I love that theme in what you were saying a minute ago.
Earlier, you said when we were talking about love, that's not just a feeling,
it's an action.
So relative to what we were just talking about, that's interesting.
I want to hear a little bit more about, because you had a kind of feeling, you're
walking down the street and you've got this idea and it's wanting you to follow
it, and then you have to, of course, act.
It becomes an action.
Practice, just to link back to this idea of practice and liberating liberation.
Yeah.
So I try to do what you say to take, if something feels like a strong, what we
call in Koikaism, a strong leading.
I try to follow it and to not give into the kind of small-minded voices that
would encourage me not to.
And this, I think, has to do with a wrestling with, and in a certain
sense, overcoming anxiety.
Anxiety is often fundamentally about being more willing to listen to those
small-minded voices and not take those kinds of risks that one needs to take
if one is going to really, as Nietzsche famously remarks, become who one is,
become who you are.
I want to connect that to love too.
And also just to say for people listening, because I know a lot of people,
this is really a hard thing still, you know, to not feel anxious or to not
be in a pile of-
Not feeling anxious, right?
It's about not enabling the anxiety to control you.
So the way I see it with anxiety, if you feel it, it's crucial to feel it and not
tend to suppress it and to be present with it and to know that there is
something deeper than it and that it is itself a refracted form, as I was
describing earlier, of love.
A lot of anxiety is a refracted, distorted form of love for oneself, which
is a very just form of love, provided it doesn't get in the way of love
for other people.
Yeah.
And I think that's a very important thing, if people can sit with that,
because just noticing that you're anxious, first of all, it can be a big
step, and then understanding there's probably some connection to love there,
if you can sit with it.
The lifetime process, as you pointed out.
Again, yeah.
I try also to take leadings from my dreams.
I'm very fortunate to have an incredibly rich dream life.
It can be really-
Have you always had that?
Yes, although it's become stronger, actually, as I've got older, and I try
to really listen to my dreams, and I've written things about things that
I've learned from my dreams, philosophical things, for example,
that have come out of my dreams.
I've published on that, and that's another kind of ongoing practice,
which I think is relevant to what you're asking.
Yeah, yeah.
It's definitely connected.
It would probably be a whole other conversation.
It makes me think of Jung and all of this stuff.
But for now, we haven't really unpacked Extinction Rebellion and gotten
into where you are now, because this is also a whole turning and paradox
holding process, almost, violence isn't the right word, but when you had that
statement come in, that this civilization is finished, it's almost shocking.
And Extinction Rebellion and just the words themselves, there's this quality
about it that is kind of, I don't know how to get into this, but somehow waking
us up or jarring us so that we don't have to be radical or something.
I mean, to get to where you are now, but that moment where you had that feeling
and others were having it too is very interesting, and then you sort of all
met up with this Extinction Rebellion.
Just for people who don't know what it is really, and they maybe
just have heard words about it, this was early on, 2018, and it really was
trying to be something very, how would you say, I don't know about loving,
but yeah.
Well, no, I think very definitely loving.
I'll give one concrete example.
Perhaps we can put a clip in the show notes of a time on Telly where I took
on the criticism from a Conservative government minister of Extinction Rebellion,
and he sort of leant across the table and wagged his finger at me and said,
you want everyone to feel guilty about their flying or eating or whatever.
You're essentially trying to lay guilt on people.
And I responded by saying, well, sorry, I don't think you've actually
understood what Extinction Rebellion is all about.
Yes, Extinction Rebellion is about waking people up to the
awful situation we're in, but yes, therefore it's sometimes about being
disruptive, absolutely, definitely disruptive of existing assumptions.
It's sometimes, you know, disruptive in a practical way, but Extinction
Rebellion was not about seeking to be unpleasant to people or calling
them out or anything like that.
We actually had a practice, a motto, if you will, of no naming,
shaming, and blaming, and far from saying, oh, you bad people ought to
feel guilty for your carbon profligacy, we instead said, look, we've got a
real problem here, it's more than a problem, it's a predicament, it's
society-wide, it's civilizational-wide.
We need to face into it together.
We need to figure out together what to do about it.
And I would say that was love in action.
The reason why I eventually in 2020 moved on from Extinction Rebellion is
a lot to do with coming to realize, as a lot of other people in Extinction
Rebellion came to realize, that you can't carry on disrupting and seeking
to wake people up in this kind of way forever.
It starts to get old after a while and it starts to produce kind of polarizing
responses, which become a problem in their own right.
So that's part of, partly why I and others started talking about the need
for what we called then a new moderate flank in climate action, a really
encompassing way of bringing, well, everyone eventually, but certainly
many, many people building up to a majority, bringing those together to try
to find a way forward that we can all gather behind, which ultimately is going
to be essential if we actually are going to survive and find a way to transform
this civilization into something better, something that can last.
So a crucial kind of icon for this change is that Extinction Rebellion,
yes, it was loving and was based in love, but it was polarizing
inevitably in a lot of its methods and approaches, because that's the way it
tried to force a conversation and succeeded in forcing a conversation.
And ultimately what we need to have is something which instead is depolarizing.
And that is the ambition of the form that the new moderate flank project has taken,
which is now embodied in this idea of assembling a climate majority.
And that's why the organization that I just called the Climate Majority Project
and absolutely essential to our DNA is depolarization across society at large,
in social media, in the way we campaign and talk, and in the way that
we discuss with others.
So for example, I quite often debate with labor or conservative politicians
or politicians even from the hard right in this country, people like Nigel Farage.
But when I do so, on the one hand, I do not back away at all, not one bit from the
truth, and I engage where appropriate in emotional disclosure and resonance.
But on the other hand, what I don't do is the kind of denunciation and kind of
calling out and anger, anger, anger, which sometimes has too often been the way
that climate activism or other kinds of activism or indeed politics at large has
proceeded.
Do you find that is a matter of your embodied sort of presence in a way, not to
get carried away in your thoughts or your anger when you're in those situations
because...
Absolutely.
Yeah, is that the difference?
Totally.
It would not have been possible for me to have this kind of poise.
And people often say, God, I don't know how you do it, Rupert.
You know, how do you stay calm when you're talking with somebody like this
famous, unpleasant, posh, ultra-rich, hard-right-wing conservative politician
who we have here called Jacob Rees-Mogg, for example.
How do you stay calm when you're talking with him?
It wouldn't be possible without having done a lot of this inner work that we
spoke about earlier.
Yeah, even when I was reading the Wittgenstein, this discipline of writing
and thinking through, and of course also the meditative side of both of those seem
like they would be helpful.
But I wonder if you ever get the feeling from them even, or from the audiences
that there's a kind of relief in the way that the students felt that somebody's
doing that or that somebody's holding the space like that or saying something
truthful, but without the anger behind it or...
Yeah, well, that's interesting you asked that.
I've got some evidence in relation to that question.
I know that sometimes these folks that I've interacted in this way with have
been very put out by it, because it doesn't enable them to do what they want
to do, which is to have...
And you're breaking the scripts, right?
You're breaking the times.
But other times I've had feedback that actually they have really appreciated it.
So that's, for example, how things went, I think, with my conversation with
Nigel Farage, who is not one of my favorite people.
But we were able to have a genuine and very civil conversation.
And the feedback I got was that he actually appreciated that because, you
know, quite often if he speaks with someone who is superficially like me, he
just gets shouted at.
And yeah, at the end of the day, we have to move on beyond
shouting at each other.
Yeah.
And we also become the people that others see us as unless we're really strong
enough to kind of change his habits.
So it's kind of interesting too, how we can kind of shift each other's ability
to see ourselves differently if we see each other differently in the situations.
I do wonder if you think that depolarization is always the answer, or if,
again, we're kind of holding the paradox of where sometimes polarization can be
held as polarization and looked at and not always bad.
I mean, when I think of Extinction Rebellion or even this statement of your
book, the civilization is finished.
I mean, there's something polarizing about that in a different way.
And I'm in a practice-based way, or what do you think?
Well, I totally believe in there being contexts where
provocation is essential.
And absolutely what we need is various kinds of awakening.
And sometimes the way to do that is to be very direct with people, is to seek
to get them to focus on things that they don't really want to focus on.
Wittgenstein once said something on the lines of, I don't want you to believe
what I tell you to believe, what I want you to do is to do something that
you very much don't want to do.
Now, that sort of reminds me of your parenting book too, and this idea that,
I mean, do you think of it that in a way that there are certain things that we
can become aware enough of that we can do some, I mean, you've written about
parenting the planet or sort of, you can probably unpack it better than me, but
do you see how this, do you see this as connected in this kind of maturity in a way?
Yeah, we need a project of maturity in the kind of way that Foucault and many
others have spoken about the people coming after the Frankfurt School and so forth.
It's incredibly difficult.
There are many features of our civilization that seem very immature.
We need at the same time, I mean, the basic idea in the Parents for a Future
book is it starts with the idea of, look, let's start from some kind of simple,
basic, unarguable premises that many, many people would buy into.
This is always the strongest kind of philosophical argument.
You can come up with something, no one would disagree with this, right?
But look, if you agree with this, then it eventually proves that, which
you would be surprised by.
So the argument of the book is if you start from the assumption that you
simply love your own children, which is what pretty much everybody says, and I
believe them, they do, then it turns out the conclusion is that you are logically
compelled to engage with others in very serious action to save together our
future now and deeply into the future of this entire planet.
And that's a surprising conclusion from Simply I Love My Own Children, but I
show in the book how this is a compelling argument and a compelling way to go.
So coming back to the question from a minute ago, sometimes I say things that
are very provocative and that people find difficult, but I hope to do it in a
way and certainly in a spirit that is not objectionable, and I hope obviously
to do it in a good cause.
And what I strongly believe is that while there are occasions when even being
quite polarizing is the right thing to do, I'm totally convinced that what we
did in 2019 with Extinction Rebellion and what Greta was doing at that time and
so forth was actually the right thing to do.
And while I continue to believe that there are occasions absolutely where
nonviolent direct action is justified, what I also think is that an awful lot
of people are unlikely ever to take part in nonviolent direct action, and we
absolutely have to find compelling ways of bringing together huge numbers of
people if we are going to have any hope of having a future and of our kids having
a future, and that we need to do that in a way which doesn't also just create,
doesn't just create a violent or whatever counter reaction from those who feel
threatened by what we're trying to do.
That's the, that's the project.
That's the ambition.
That's the finding new paths or telling new stories or the through topias,
something else you've written about that we've talked about on this show
already, but I guess I wonder how you do that, how you, because it seems like it's
either to go extreme or even when we were talking about parenting, this can very
easily sort of go into, oh, well, they think they know better and they think
they're more mature and there's a kind of, everyone feels a little bit better
than those who they are parenting or something.
How do you find the balance with these things of, because we need each other as
groups, but communities can also get kind of carried away, you know, in a kind
of alias Kennedy sort of way too.
So how do you, how have you found a way to keep a balance there or not to get
carried away by those group thoughts?
Yeah, sure.
Well, so you mentioned my concept of through topia and this is the idea that,
that we're heading towards dystopia fast and that the traditional opposite of
dystopia, which is utopia, is unfortunately no longer available to us.
Maybe it never was, but it certainly isn't now.
Utopian ambitions now are merely wish fulfillment fantasies.
But what if we try to create a way through what is coming at us, which is
going to be very hard, a way through of coming, a way through what is coming at
us that is as good as possible and that's a through topia, it's a thoroughly
kind of process oriented way of thinking about how we co-create a future together.
And it comes, it's a lot influenced by Ursula Le Guin's work.
And if I try to imagine a through topian future, a key dimension of it is genuine
intergenerational solidarity.
So we need to be, we need to respect our elders more and, and find a way of taking
seriously the wisdom and importance of all people in a way that is in indigenous
cultures and peasant societies is, is guaranteed, but is often absent in our
society.
We need to find a way of taking our children much, much more seriously.
That's what the school climate strikers were urging them to, urging us to do.
And they said to us, save our world.
That is what is central to my ambition in the, the Parents for a Future book.
And we need to combine all of these things together and find meaningful
ways of making them real.
So one little example of a missed opportunity here in relation to the
Covid crisis, a key dimension of that crisis was young people made sacrifices
so that many fewer older people died than would have died if the young people
hadn't made their sacrifices.
Well, intergenerational solidarity would mean that the older people really
repaid that sacrifice.
So what does that mean?
Well, what it means, it's not hard to guess, is that old people now need to take
absolutely seriously their responsibility to the young to help them to have a
future.
And that means getting absolutely serious on the climate crisis and all the other
crises that, that face us.
You know, what should have happened after Covid is the old people of the world
basically should have got together and said, thank you for saving our lives.
We are now going to, for example, give loads of our money, quite a lot of old
people have a lot more money than young people, give loads of our money to the
cause of our having a future, nature-wise, climate-wise, et cetera.
That hasn't happened, but it can still happen.
Something along those lines can still happen.
We badly need genuine intergenerational solidarity and those who are older, who
have power or expertise or wisdom or money or other resources, they need, you
need, if that's you listening right now, to apply that in a powerful way to what
our young people need, what the future needs, because, well, if you don't, they
won't have a future, it's as simple as that.
Is that what you're doing with the climate majority?
Offering, helping people find ways to do that?
Yeah, absolutely.
That's what the climate majority is all about.
It's also what through topianism kind of is all about really.
I guess it comes down in a way to thinking of self a bit differently too.
And yeah, and that kind of brings us back to the...
Yeah.
Yeah.
And she has those three levels, which I'm not remembering now, system change,
consciousness is the third one, right?
And I don't remember, but...
Well, I think the key dimension of what she offers here is the thought that if
you're thinking of yourself as an individual that's held apart from the
natural world, you're not really thinking of yourself, that yourself correctly
viewed is thoroughly interrelated, exhibits what Thich Nhat Hanh calls into being.
And what I do in Parents for a Future is sort of brewing out the way that that
also extends fully into the future.
If we think of ourselves as only alive here and now, we're in that sense
making a kind of big mistake.
So, Fulton famously said, the past isn't dead, it isn't even past.
So we might say something similar about the future.
You don't cease to exist when you die, because among other things that you live
on in your ideas and your influences and your genetic descendants and so forth.
And what the future is in a certain sense, therefore, is your love manifested
and rolling down through the generations.
Or alternatively, it isn't.
If you don't succeed in manifesting that love, if you don't succeed in contributing
to any projects which are going to outlast you, and that's a way in which we
need to parent the future together.
And it's another way of seeing this absolutely ineradical responsibility
that we all have to do our best in this time of extreme crisis to ensure
that there is a future.
Yeah.
I don't think we can get away from, even if we all at some point are putting
forth into the future in the way you just said, just because that's what we're doing.
So there's some relief, I think, and some real motivation in what you said
about, or what a lot of people are, you and many others are, we're trying to
understand this, what I call an ecological orientation.
There's something wonderful about understanding you're not stuck in your
head and your body and you are, there is a different self, but I think it does
have to do with that responsibility, right?
What you say at the market today to someone could change the course of their
life, you'll never know, but we're doing it all the time to each other.
And if you're doing it from a space of love, it's super powerful, right?
Even if you can't see it.
I totally agree.
And that's one reason, by the way, that another of my future book projects is a
book I'm hoping to publish on counterfactual history, which I think is
really important, imagining how the past could have been different if certain
quite small things in some cases have happened or not happened, because when
we get clear on the way that the past didn't have to be the way it was, that
can really help us to see how the future is to some significant extent an open
book, doesn't mean that absolutely anything is possible, it's too late for
various things, you know, we've left it too late for various things that we
should have done vis-a-vis climate and nature and much more, but it does mean
that there is still an enormous breadth of possibility for what could come to
pass after us and through us.
And that sense of agency and possibility is enormously exciting.
So what this is partly about is about people finding their power, which
inevitably means finding their power together and realising, as you say, Andrea,
that much of our power will go beyond what we ever know and therefore their
responsibility is continual.
I just look at my own life and I know there's little things people have said
who I never saw those people again that I think about, or teachers I always hear
about, there was some teacher, but in any case, I love that idea that you are going
to write about counterfactuals because I think that fits very well with that
practice that we started with of learning how to notice patterns and change them,
which is also part of the utopia, which is also part of a lot of these other
things we've been talking about.
So that feels like a beautiful way of expressing it and I can't wait.
So the last question, we didn't get into it a whole lot here, but a lot of people
feel it and you write about it a lot of this, and we talked about Joanna Macy,
these difficult emotions, the crisis, which we started with, there's a crisis
for everything now, there's a polycrisis, a metacrisis, everything crisis, and it's
real and it can feel so overwhelming and there's a lot of difficult stuff there
and we didn't really get into it, but I wonder, do you still think we can be
motivated by love and the way that we've brought out here without all those
difficult emotions or have you come to a point where you really do sort of hold
all that together?
Because sometimes I feel like we're striving for a dot a through topia, but a
utopia and where we're just going to not have those difficult emotions, but is it
more about the practice of self that we were talking about where you hold the
space of all that differently and so everything sort of changes or how do you
see that?
Yeah, so interesting, I think it's possible that after an hour and a quarter
we finally found something we disagree with each other on a bit.
Yeah, I guess my view is that there is no coherent way of
imagining the future without imagining a strong role for those difficult
emotions and yeah, sure, it's possible, there are contexts where there can be
love present and love enacted without those difficult emotions being present,
but I would say it's pretty unusual and I would say that it is perhaps
tragically inevitable that in the future a lot of the way that we express our
love, which means express ourselves, is going to be through the medium, at least
initially, of shame and guilt, anger, fear, depression, despair, you know, I've
written even about these things, people sometimes say, well, there's obviously
nothing good about depression, nothing good about despair, I don't even agree
with that, I think that these emotions too have their place and have their
moment and that they too are ultimately forms of love and that the attempt to
avoid despair is a profound mistake.
Many people are going to be tempted to despair in the years to come because of
the immense difficulty of our situation, which is going to get worse and what I
say to those people is don't try to avoid it, to work with it, I mean, it's
for a good reason that Joanna, in her early years, called the work that she
did despair work, we can work with our despair, we're scared of our despair,
we're scared of these difficult emotions and part of what I'm saying is we don't
need to be scared of them, we can befriend them more, we can use them more,
we can find a way through them, they maintain, they embody a tremendous energy
and all of that energy in my view and I've argued this in detail, all of that
energy comes back to love, that despair and depression are forms of love
refracted through a glass very, very darkly and when we stop being so afraid
of depression and despair, they start to lose their grip on us and they start to
become available, so part of my excitement for the years ahead and I am excited
even though I'm immensely trepidatious about how difficult and often horrible
it's going to be and how it's going to kill some of us, including possibly
obviously myself, that can't be ruled out, part of my excitement is that I think we
can go all the way with these things, the disasters that are coming, I write about
this in my book, Why Climate Breakdown Matters, the disasters that are coming,
the epidemic of difficult emotions that are coming, these are exactly the things
that give us a chance, that give us some real hope and none of them have the power
in and of themselves to overwhelm us, they only have that power if we let them
and we can actually find a way that instead puts them to the best possible use
which is expressing the love that we are.
Beautiful.
Unfortunately, I think we don't quite disagree but because I think what I was
trying to point out is that it can be fetishized or something, the depression,
the sadness, I mean, just coming as a kid, you know, or even like in
especially teenagers, perhaps, it opens you up, right?
It cracks you open and you want more of that and you said it, like at the
beginning of the conversation, you have to be careful that you don't go too much
into the thinking and get too caught in it, so I guess I was trying to bring that
in, this balance of holding it, the nuance I think that I read in your work that the
way you try to kind of be in this space is being optimistic and seeing things
clearly and feeling things that are hard, but looking for people, finding ways to
get out of that, it's an ongoing practice in action, right?
Like what you brought up about the love, it's not just the feeling.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, yeah, sorry, you're right, we end up agreeing once again.
Well, it's just been so wonderful to talk to you and to read you and your work
and I wonder, is there anything before we go that you want to be sure is said?
Maybe I'll just reiterate that although I've suffered a lot and I still suffer a
lot and I am absolutely confident that there's going to be a lot more suffering
in my future, I am absolutely having the time of my life and I wouldn't be missing
it for the world and I think that I would sort of invite people in whatever way that
is, it's going to be different for different viewers or listeners.
I would invite people into the space of something like the Climate Majority
Project, you know, check us out on our website if that's something that you
can in any way relate to and we try to design it in such a way that it can be
related to by pretty much anybody and everybody.
Try to think about, you know, what your role is in addressing this deep
civilizational crisis and what your superpower is and if you haven't already
done that, if you haven't already, you know, really seriously done that.
And I think what you're quite likely to find, not necessarily immediately, is
that you find the exact meaning and role that perhaps you hadn't quite found yet
and there just isn't anything better in one's life in that sense, you know, in
as much as philosophers are trying to pursue what is the meaning of life, I
feel like to some extent I've found it and I invite other people into that
space.
Yeah, well, thank you.
I think that feeling of liberation, that liberatory philosophy, you know, is kind
of present, I think, you know, in that thread that we've been following and
where you've gotten now.
So thanks for the work you're doing.
And I guess I just want to ask for people who are in the States and they're looking
and a lot of this is in the UK.
Is it still possible to be part of these groups and talk about this?
Right, so just on the Climate Majority Project, we are mainly at the moment
trying to prove concepts in Britain and until we feel that we've really done that,
which may take a while, we are not going to put a lot of effort into trying to
spread the Climate Majority Project as such abroad, although we already have
strong liaison with people in other countries such as California, Netherlands,
Germany, Switzerland.
But what I would say is the ideas that we've been talking about, and hopefully
this is obvious, so the ideas that we've been talking about, including these ideas
of the climate majority, of the New Moderate Flank, of fructopianism, of
decolourisation, these can be applied absolutely anywhere.
And in a way, the invitation is to people find an effective way to apply it with
others in your life, using your skills and your resources, et cetera.
And so, yeah, that applies to Americans and anybody anywhere, I think.
Yeah, good.
I just wanted, yeah, people can create this for themselves wherever they are in
the world.
I mean, anyway, not just-
A lot of that is what is needed.
You know, this is not going to be a project which is, if you will, laid in a
thoroughly top-down fashion that is completely incompatible with what it is.
You know, this is about a kind of huge distributed emergent phenomenon.
Have you ever read the book Hopeful Monsters by Nicholas Mosley?
I've heard of it.
I haven't read it.
I have this little rule that until two or three people have recommended it to me,
I don't usually try to read it.
So this one is now working its way up the list.
Why do you mention it?
It's something I read when I was a teenager or maybe in my early 20s.
I loved it.
It's beautiful as I remember it, but you remind me you could be a character in
that book.
I don't know what that means because literally I haven't read it in a decade,
but it just came to mind.
But anyway, it's been wonderful to talk to you and thank you so much.
And we'll put all the stuff in the show notes for everyone to look at and check
out and of course, all your books.
It's been a pleasure.
Yeah, thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
