In the depths of depression, you've become the dark, so there's no difference between you and
the darkness. There's no negotiating it. It just is what it is. The only choice you have is
that it's not even a choice. You either endure or you don't. I've often said I can't imagine a
sadder way to die than dying with a sense that in all the years I had on Earth, I never showed up
as my true self with both my light and my shadow. I feel myself to be part of this sort of this vast
chain of being, this vast network of life, which is not only human life, but the life of the natural
world in which we're all embedded. And it sort of sneaks up on us with meanings that are never,
you know, fully comprehensible, but that somehow hint at the vastness of possibilities that
we need to walk around respectfully as a mystery to be seen and to be observed and to be given a
deep bow. The opposite of an ordinary fact is a lie. The opposite of one profound truth may be
another profound truth. When that paradox comes apart, solitude devolves into loneliness, isolation,
and community devolves into the crowd. And what we have going on in the United States right now
is a lot of lonely people who have joined together in crowds that become mobs. Let the
person who cannot be alone beware of being in community, and let the person who cannot be in
community beware of being alone. The epigraph to that book by Thomas Merton is his statement as
follows, I am traveling toward my destiny in the belly of a paradox, playing on Jonah. There was
something in me that said, you're at a turning with this. What you need to understand is that
you've plowed plenty. You've plowed enough and more than enough. You're not going to get any
farther by harrowing yourself. So, you know, that wasn't an instant turnaround in my depression.
But it gave me an image that sort of holds the mystery of when to say enough and when to
take that step forward in faith that there's something worth stepping toward.
Hey everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea Hyatt and this episode is with
Parker Palmer, who is the founder of the Center for Courage and Renewal,
which is located in Greenville, South Carolina, which is a city very close to my heart.
And maybe that's one of the reasons I connect so deeply with Parker, although I think there are
many reasons, including the 10 books that he has written, in which I highly suggest you have a look
at. Because just by looking at the different titles, I imagine you might find something that's
very helpful to you today. Some of the ones we talk about here are A Hidden Wholeness,
On the Brink of Everything, The Courage to Teach, and many more. This conversation,
I was really emotional to have this conversation throughout the entire conversation. And by
emotional, I mean in a positive way. I felt very alive, sort of raw at the edge of myself,
which is why I start the conversation talking about On the Brink, which is one of his books
that he wrote when he was 80 years old. And this idea of being on the brink of everything
really means something powerful to me at this time. I mentioned a Kurt Vonnegut quote when
Parker and I are talking, because Parker uses it in one of his books, the book On the Brink.
And I went and found that quote, and I want to read it to you. Here it is.
I want to stay as close to the edge as I can without going over. Out on the edge,
you see all kinds of things you can't see from the center. End of the quote. And that's from a 1952
novel called Player Piano. In any case, this idea of the edge and the brink is very important.
These ideas of personal, collective, planetary brinks that we've been walking on towards what's
beyond them, because there's always something beyond them, and how my old ways of being no
longer serve us, what ways of being do still serve us. One thing about Parker is he doesn't
try to solve everything. I don't know if you heard the conversation I had about nature and
bioregionalism recently, but one of the things in that conversation that meant a lot to me was
understanding we can tend to and care for rather than try and solve. And that's a message Parker's
been writing about for a long time. He tries to show how we can embrace these sides rather than
try and solve them. And that's, as you've probably heard me say many times, what I mean by beyond
dichotomy is not to solve one side by the other side or for the one side to win against the other
side, but for us to somehow let the sides be what they are. And that's what Palmer's work tries to
do is let the confusion and the clarity and the sorrow and the joy and the silence and the
conversation and the fear and the possibility and the poetry and the horror all sort of be there
and notice them. And it's very hard. I mean he talks about that too about it will break your
heart open to do this, to be present and be alive and feel it. But he also talks about paradox,
which is one thing that has always drawn me to his work, though I had no idea his first book had
paradox in the title as you'll hear us talk about. But he talks about paradox as a survival concept.
I can hardly think of a more important sentence right now than that. That paradox is a survival
concept because I really believe that holding paradox and understanding things we've thought
of as opposites or as either or in a different way is the key that we're all in many different
ways, many different fields, many different areas of life trying to figure out right now.
And it's why everything feels so tense and so hard and so transformative all at once. Parker talks
about soul and role in the undivided life and how we can live into our soul. I don't want to
talk too much before this conversation. I really just want to let it be what it is. But one thing
that really means a lot to me is where we get to at the end because as you'll hear he talks about
his depression and some very difficult times and how when you are in certain places you cannot
feel love. He says something about perhaps he was still being held by the love even though he could
not feel it. That idea, the idea that paradox might be a survival concept and that we might be
being held by love even when we cannot feel it. Those are two sentences that feel really important
to me that I want to speak again here before we go into this. There will be another greening season
that also comes to me now as I think about this poem that sort of spontaneously comes in this
conversation and the cyclical nature of renewal but never coming back to the same place where we
started. So we're going to know it for the first time but it's going to be a different place.
I think Parker might also say it here but he does quote Ram Dass sometimes of we're all walking each
other home. That is what this conversation felt like to me in some way that I don't understand yet
at all. So I just want to leave it and let it be what it is and send it out to you with gratitude.
The sentence that came to me after I had this conversation was just listen, Andrea. Listen
and have compassion for everyone you meet and that's what I want to try to do and that's what I hope
that we can all do today in some form or another. It's not a weakness, it's a real power and it's a
survival. It's a way of surviving and it's a way of flourishing and it's a way of
finding worlds we didn't imagine could be there. I really believe that. That's why I'm doing all of
this and thanks for listening and for helping me do this and being part of it. It really means a lot.
Okay, so hi Parker. It's such an honor to have you on Love and Philosophy. Thank you for being here.
Thank you, Andrea. Delighted to be with you. So your work has meant so much to me and to
many others around me so it's going to be hard to even talk about it all in one hour but
I thought maybe we'd start on the brink. On the Brink of Everything is a book that you've
published. Was it in 2019? 18, right. 18. And this phrase, on the brink of everything,
I think can lead us into a lot of places especially today but just to start, what does that
mean for you? Well as you know, Andrea, in the book I tell the story of how the title came to me
from a young writer I much admire, half my age, Courtney Martin, who had written an essay about
her then, I think, three-year-old daughter, Maya, who as a toddler was, you know, discovering the
world with every step and every movement and every new experience and Courtney wrote about how Maya
was visibly and audibly and bodily on the brink of everything just full of the excitement
of discovery and, you know, learning the world anew every day.
And I was 80 at the time that I wrote the book or close to it and 86 now.
And it just struck me that I too, at the other end of the lifespan, found myself on the brink
of everything, looking at the world through the eyes now of age and a lot of experience
but really devoted as best I know how to the Buddhist idea of beginner's mind
and trying to see things anew and not get stuck as so many elders do in sort of bemoaning the
passage of time or becoming frozen in their perception of how things are and often how
things ought to be, which is of course the way they used to be, not the way they are now.
I didn't want to step into that trap. I don't think it's at all necessary. So
the title contained a lot of energy for me about how I wanted to live out my elder years.
And it all came from Courtney Martin and her three-year-old daughter, Maya.
You found a lot of inspiration in youth or in those who are at different parts of life than you.
How has a conversation between generations been important for you?
Well, it's because younger generations, and there are several of them of course when you're 86,
stand at a different point of human experience than you do
and they look at things differently. They understand things differently.
From my point of view, they may lack a certain experience that would help them reframe things.
And when I see that as a possibility, I'm always glad to be in dialogue with them about
how that same thing looks to me, how today looks to me in the world, for example, as one who
has lived through a lot of apocalyptic moments in U.S. and world history.
But before I ever get to sharing my experience with them, I listen carefully for their experience
because they're looking at a horizon that I can't see so clearly or well as they can.
And but it's the same horizon that's coming at me. And I need their eyes. I need their voices
to help me see how it looks through the lens of someone whose experience is relatively fresh and
new as of today so that I don't get stuck in yesterday.
I think you use a Kurt Vonnegut quote about things looking different on the brink or at the edge
relative to the center. And as you were just saying that, I was thinking how I'm almost
too nervous to talk to you because I so want to know what it's like for you right now.
And I feel a little nervous to even ask things so personally. So I just want to say that because
I feel like I need to say it. And within that is that I'm really wondering how things look
from where you are now in that Kurt Vonnegut sense. And I mean that in terms of age,
of course, where you are in your life, but even today and how you're feeling. And I would just
really love to hear that, an expression of how things really feel for you today if it's
okay to ask that. Well, absolutely. And please feel totally free to ask those more personal
questions. As you know, I've written about deeply personal experiences such as my several
bouts with clinical depression over the course of the years. And I find it very valuable to show up
in the world as I am, as fully and honestly as I possibly can. I've often said I can't imagine
a sadder way to die than dying with a sense that in all the years I had on Earth, I never showed up
as my true self, with both my light and my shadow. So today, in the midst of the political,
economic, ecological, societal calamities that seem to be engulfing the US and the rest of the
world, I go back and forth between the shadow and the light. I have days when it's really hard
to get up and feel energy to pursue the work that I feel I need to be doing as a writer,
because I still feel very much called to using my writing as a way to
shed light, if possible, but also to be honest about the darkness of the times that we're in.
And there are days when it's just very difficult to sit down at the keyboard and feel as if
those words might make any difference to anybody. I think where I always come down
when it feels like what difference could this possibly make is to realize once again,
once again, beginner's mind, realize all over again that it makes a difference to me.
What makes a difference is the feeling of continuing to be engaged with the world,
with my gifts and the best of the light I have to offer, and honesty about my own shadow.
Because in the past, that impulse to do what feels whole and true and honest and full of integrity
to me has been what's animated all of the work I've done, not only the writing, but the founding
the founding 30 years ago of the Center for Courage and Renewal and the work it's doing
across this country and around the world, helping people, in my catchphrase anyway,
to rejoin soul and role, to bring their identity and integrity more fully into the world,
into their personal lives and into their vocational lives and into their public and
political lives, because I think we need a whole lot of human identity and integrity
and to reassert itself in a world where the identity and integrity of so many people is
being trampled on and disowned and dismissed. When language of that sort
reasonably well describes the work that you've been doing for many years and the work you'd
like to continue to do, that sets a pretty high bar for getting up each morning.
And trying to practice what you preach.
Yes, and it's meant a lot. It still means a lot. It will continue to mean a lot.
Even your substack is meaning so much. You're reaching so many people from that writing,
as you do. And that brings up gratitude. And part of what you've said in your books is that
part of this feeling alive and staying in this place that you just described is also that you
have a sense of gratitude that you are still alive after all you've faced. Is that part of
how you find this way to continue helping others too? And help yourself, of course,
in the way you said. Yeah, very much so. Very much so, Andrea. I think
if you're not grateful for a life like mine, in which you've not only been able to survive
some deep darkness, but also find yourself thriving on the other side. If you're not grateful for
the opportunities that you've been able to make use of your own privilege. So the privilege
is structural and it's not what I would choose. I would much rather have a society where the
distinctions between those with and without privilege are pretty close to eliminated.
But when you do have privilege, the question is, are you going to use it
for anyone else's good? Or are you just going to enjoy it yourself as if you had earned it?
So I'm grateful for all of those forces in my life which have said in regards to my own privilege as
a straight, white, male, well-educated, reasonably well-off person. This just came to you for
historic reasons that are fundamentally unjust reasons. So no, I'm not grateful for that,
but I'm grateful for the fact that I got some great help along the way in using that privilege
on behalf of other people. So when you put it all together, both that which I have had help to
understand and that which I've worked hard to achieve and the simple fact that
the gene pool from which I come has allowed me to have this many years on Earth,
what's not to be grateful for? It seems like ingratitude would be really gross
at this point in life and very, very unseemly and sort of not worthy of a grown-up, right?
Yes. Do you still feel that sort of gratitude that I feel in your books? Gratitude just to
walk in the Douglas firs and gratitude that fill life. I'm thinking of maybe we can go into it a
little bit, some of the struggles that you've had and that you've written about and that have
been helpful just because you've, as you said, just stated where you are right now in that moment,
which is so hard to do. You mentioned the roles and the soul in the undivided life and elsewhere.
You help us understand how we can be ourselves and what the soul is and I wonder how you see
that in connection to your life, but the life that you are part of and are feeling because
that connects to, I think, to why we still want to write and leave these messages for future
generations. Yeah, well, I do. I feel myself, and this is a feeling that wasn't sort of
native to me at first, but as the years have gone by, it's grown in me. I feel myself
to be part of this sort of vast chain of being, this vast network of life, which is not only
human life, but the life of the natural world in which we're all embedded.
I think unconsciously, even before I had that personal bodily awareness of connectedness
with this largeness, I was using metaphors from the natural world. For example, the metaphors of
the four seasons that I used to frame the retreat work that we do at the Center for Courage and
Renewal, where we explore what it means that a human life gets lived through, metaphorically,
through the seasons of fall, winter, spring, and summer in ways we can track very directly.
Of course we do, because we are creatures of that world. Those aren't just seasons in the woods or
the mountains or the desert or across the waters. These are seasons of our lives.
So even before I had a consciousness of being joined with all of that,
I was drawing on those metaphors out of some instinct that this is true. If we can touch
that bedrock truth, as we began doing 30 years ago at the Center for Courage and Renewal,
we can frame the search for meaning and purpose in life in a way that accommodates
a huge range of philosophical convictions, religious beliefs, and world views,
which has always been my intent. I've never been a person who thought,
okay, my particular way of looking at the world has it all wrapped up and I don't want
to hear about others. I've always seen wisdom traditions, spiritual traditions, religious
traditions as just one turn of the prism. But when you turn it again, the light gets
refracted in another way and it's the sort of totality. There's a word here that I'm
losing or lost for the moment. I'll get back to it. The holographic principle that in the
microcosm, you can see the macrocosm. If you keep turning and looking for those microcosmic
instances of a larger view of things, you can begin to put together something that
never exhausts the truth of the whole, which is inexhaustible and ultimately a mystery.
But you can come into a deeper appreciation of the vastness of that in which you're embedded.
I even wrote a poem about this called Everything Falls Away that maybe at some point I could read.
I think I can find it here. Of course I noticed because you write poetry in
in the book we already discussed. Poetry comes up often and it's very important for me too.
I just want to notice that. That's a very important source too, isn't it? Of
connection to life. Yeah. No, you're right. It's good to know that you're a fellow poetry lover
because that's such an important lens for me. The poets are just kind of remarkable
well just flat out remarkable. What they pick up out of the corner of their eye and then somehow
communicate to us. Emily Dickinson has a great line that I've always loved. She says,
tell the truth but tell it slant because if you try to run headlong at it, it'll blind you
and you'll be wiped out. But if you tell it slant, the way astronomers say if you're not using a
telescope, there are some heavenly bodies that you can only catch out of the corner of your eye
because the receptors there are more sensitive to light that you cannot see if you look headlong at
it. I love the fact that poetry tells the truth but tells it slant. It sort of sneaks up on us
with meanings that are never fully comprehensible but that somehow hint at the vastness of
possibilities that we need to walk around respectfully as a mystery to be seen and to be
observed and to be given a deep bow while still remaining curious what is that and what's it all
about. I think that curiosity is a huge energy for life that somehow the poets
manage to capture with very few words. Yes and that what you were just saying makes me think about
other parts of your work that I love so much. I know that's been important for you, the idea
of paradox and living the tension and even I think you've talked about writing the contradiction or
writing like R-W-R-I-T-I-N-G and poetry does that in a very special way but I want to put that word
out there as I want to talk about it with you paradox and hear what your feelings are of it
but also before as you were talking I was remembering there's so much nature even early on
in the sunrise, the sunset but also wildness, this word wildness that I remember you using
when you were in deep depression. I think you said it showed it to you, it showed the wildness of the
world to you or something like that so I just want to put those two things there and you can
go wherever you want with them but they both came up as you were talking about poetry. Yeah
no you're well you're absolutely right and those I think those are very um insightful connections
that you're making that actually helped me think about my own work in a new way.
So I'll try to keep them both in mind but let me start with the wild piece perhaps original
wildness that I sometimes maybe have talked about. So I've often said about depression
um the kind that I've experienced on three occasions in my life deep dives into months
of debilitating clinical depression. It's not like being lost in the dark because
if you're lost in the dark there's a difference between you and the darkness
and you can imagine yourself in a dark room still there as someone separate from the darkness
able to grope around maybe find a shade to pull up or a switch to turn on a light or a little
opening somewhere somehow you if you're just lost in the dark you can somehow negotiate the dark
but in the depths of depression you've become the dark so there's no difference between you
and the darkness and there's no negotiating it it just is what it is and um the only
the only choice you have is that it's not even a choice you either endure or you don't
but it was under those circumstances that I was sometimes after a lot of enduring able to see
a tiny tiny tiny possible spark of life deep deep in that darkness distant from me
but there a kind of micro reminder of a possibility that I'd almost forgotten about
which is the possibility to live again um and I came to liken that in a rough metaphor of being
lost in a very dark wood but finding back back in the thickets the far thickets of that wood
this this thing called the soul which sort of came to me as a as a wild animal
um that original wildness of the human soul which uh which is able to survive
on hardly any resources at all as wild animals do and and it somehow was you know calling me
to reconnect with that original wildness and feel again that pulse of life that possibility of life
over against all of that in me which said there's no life left for you and so do the obvious you
know get it get it over with and and that that became you know not instantly curative
but it became a source of hope and so in some way I think that connects back to the other
piece that you mentioned Andrea which is the notion of paradox and paradox is something that
the power of paradox the importance of paradox came to me very early in my career as a writer
and you know earlier still in my own personal journey to understand what life was all about
and how to frame it in a way that opened possibilities in fact my very first book was
titled the promise of paradox um and how have I missed this oh my goodness
oh that's that's very exciting for me actually today there's a book i didn't know sorry but that's
now i have something to find not at all you obviously know the other books well
i appreciate that and um yeah the promise of paradox excuse me was published in 79 or 80
and it was really it was really stimulated by um the reading i was doing at the time
in thomas merton the great trappist monk and mystic who also became patron saint of
folks in the in the civil rights movement and in the peace movement of the mid 20th century
a really remarkable guy who spanned two worlds didn't he say that undivided life or maybe it was
um hidden wholeness or something that you talk about a lot but i feel like there's a paradox there
or a kind of holding of contradiction in in some of his words that you
yeah yeah exactly he was you're right he was the originator of the phrase of hidden wholeness
um but earlier than that what sparked me was a journal he wrote called the sign of jonah's
based on you know in bouncing off of the book of jonah in the bible the the epigraph to that book
by thomas merton is this is his statement as follows i am traveling toward my destiny
in the belly of a paradox playing on jonah traveling in the belly that's wonderful
and i thought wow that's it so i started you know opening myself to understandings of paradox
and i think for me a breakthrough was reading um about the the great nobel prize-winning physicist
niels bohr who once said and he was such an interesting guy in himself he he once said
i mean one of the reasons that i found him so interesting was that there was a story
about how he had visitors in his lab one day this nobel prize-winning fellow and
and somebody noticed that there was a horseshoe hung on the wall over his work table and they said
well dr bohr you're you're great physicists surely you don't believe in that horseshoes bring good
luck and he said his response was oh no i don't believe that at all but they say it works whether
you believe it or not so i just love the looseness of that mind and that imagination and that
that humor um so he said daniels this was the phrase that really opened my mind he said
the opposite of an ordinary fact is a lie but the opposite of one profound truth may be another
profound truth and i loved that understanding of paradox partly because he says it may be
right there's discernment involved here but i got to thinking about about you know human realities
that might fit that that sort of formula of one profound truth being the opposite of another
profound truth and of course the bodily the bodily piece that came to me pretty quickly was
well breathing in and breathing out is a paradox in that sense we we need both you know and if i
were to say to you you know i've decided i'm basically a kind of breathing out kind of guy
so that's all i'm gonna do from here on out yeah you know we'd be saying goodbye to each other
that's just not the way things work at that level of reality but similarly i can construct
a statement like this is the human self made for community absolutely no question about it
we come from community we're sustained by community we we go we return to community
is the human self made for solitude absolutely no question about it we all have to come to terms
with ourselves and what's going on inside of us and embrace ourselves in a way that no one else
can embrace and we all have a solitary journey to make from life to death which no one can
accompany us on no matter how well we've been accompanied in earlier journeys of our life
so i got to thinking how how right on target neil's bore was with that notion of one profound
truth may be the opposite of another profound truth that's beautiful and it relates very much
to what we were discussing about the brink but also this wildness that moment when you were
really depressed i'm not sure which of the episodes it was when the wildness came maybe
the first in any case that feeling being the darkness as you express it so well i remember
you wrote about it as being in the dark and then you sort of realized no you you are the darkness
when you're in that place there's no real way to describe it or whatever actually it's funny
because what you're talking about with the individual in the community i was just with a
group of philosophers i don't know if you know the philosophers of like embodied cognition and
activism and this this idea of what is a self is a relation and so on and we were talking about how
at the same time that that's so true there is something in you that is so individual and so
unique and maybe you're even here to express it or i'm sort of putting i'm i'm saying that but
that can go the other way too like when you're depressed or when you're in pain and there's
something that's so only individual that you can't express and i guess i'm trying to see how do we
how did you how do you understand or hold that that paradox of of the self being relation and
the self being so sometimes painfully um unexpressible yeah it's a great question
and it takes us and it could take us in so many different directions um and and of course the
philosophers like you are still working on it because it's one of those uh i don't know it's
one of those questions that rilke wrote about questions we can't answer questions we just have
to live uh in in hopes that some distant day he said we might live our way into an answer
um which sometimes does happen is that what happened when you were seeing the light and
the way you described it when you are the darkness but the light comes how is that
possible it's it's it's it's such an interesting conundrum let me let me quote you know we get
along with a little help from our friends and i've tried to read uh friends as it were uh who be
intellectual spiritual philosophical friends Dietrich Bonhoeffer uh the great um the great
german pastor who uh who found the courage to stand up against Hitler for which he paid with his
his life um he wrote a book called life together which is about community and it's one of those
books that i've i've trusted deeply because if you know the story of Bonhoeffer building community
under the under the third rike underground community resistance community community that
put people at great risk you you really think okay this guy has a right to talk about community
and i should pay attention to what he says one of the things he says in in his book life together
goes like this and neil spore would have approved i think the bonhoeffer says let let the person
who cannot be alone beware of being in community and let the person who cannot be in community
beware of being alone and i think there's just a deep wisdom in the way he puts that particular
paradox because if you when a paradox falls apart when you don't hold these these life-giving poles
in creative tension with each other community solitude back and forth what i sometimes call
life on the mobius strip um co-creating each other as you go when when that paradox comes apart
solitude devolves into loneliness isolation and community devolves into the crowd
and you know what we have going on in the united states right now is a lot of lonely people who
have joined together in crowds that become mobs uh that become third rike kinds of mobs
and it's not good to say the obvious um but when that paradox is held together
and people in community understand what it means to protect and nurture their own solitude
and people in solitude understand that their need for community and the availability of community
community the whole dynamic becomes very life-giving so it's it's that mutual
resourcefulness and again that life on the mobius strip where you you can't really distinguish
between the two because they keep co-creating each other as you travel the mobius strip it's
one of those phrases i think of a lot about because a lot of this is being able to become
aware of that and to to hold life in that way to understand that when things are happening it's a
whole different way of of thinking which and then as you were talking i think somewhere you even
say paradise is a sort of paradise paradox is a sort of um survival concept it's about
surviving and i wonder if that relates to if it even can relate to when we're really sick
you know when we are in those moments can we still hold that paradox there um i know you've
you don't have an answer for how you've gotten through all these hard moments exactly but
well one of the first things that comes to me is um carl the work of carl jung um who's been another
um influential thinker in in my life and jung was very big on saying that
that the the cure the cure is in the disease so that we make a mistake if we simply try to
eliminate the symptoms of the disease um the the the secret is to go deeply into the disease
to find the cure which is a big big paradox that the western medicine generally tends to
ignore or or or roll right over um we are involved in the symptom relief business
so the whole metaphor the whole medical metaphor is take a pill or undergo a surgery that just
gets rid of the symptoms without looking deeply at the the disease for its sources in which there
will also be a cure i mean that applies more directly to psychological and spiritual pathologies
than it may to physical pathologies but i don't think that there's that they're altogether
different um medicine in western even in western medicine and in western medical schools these days
there is a recognition that mind body spirit healing is a real thing and that there are things
that allopathic physicians can do to invoke the mind and the spirit as they work with the body
that actually enhance healing as as determined by laboratory studies and observations
so it i'm just i i for for me um how to put this as you know this is such subtle stuff
and language is sometimes not subtle enough to to really express it well but it's there's something
for me about working my way through depression that that has to do with respecting the mystery
of depression and walking around it with that respect rather than demanding an analytic
understanding that will fix me right so so once i let go of of that of that sort of empiricist
demand you know i want an analysis i want an answer i want a pill or whatever that will fix
this thing and i'm not i'm not speaking against medication some people need medication i needed
for a while i haven't needed to stay on it so if that's what you need please do it but
it seems to me that a posture of respectfully walking around a mystery is more likely to lead
to healing than than not that i do have a poem that i think i've memorized i'll see if i can
it's a fairly brief poem i think i can quote it from memory that has to do with a moment
with a curative moment i guess is what i'd call it andrea
with regards my depression so and maybe it will
speak a little bit to this idea of holding the mystery without demanding a fix
uh so this was based on an experience i had and i think i was probably halfway through or a little
more of the way through one depression when i decided to i had enough energy to take a trip
out into the country in another state into a rural area where there was a community of
roman catholic sisters one of whom i had gotten to known earlier in life who was a very
trustworthy conversation partner a deeply empathetic and understanding person
with whom i could speak about my depression maybe an hour or two a day meanwhile just
um rest at this retreat center this religious retreat center in the middle of this this
farmland that happened to be in kentucky and um one day um halfway through that week i was out
walking down a country road where there were farm fields on both sides of the road no human
beings in sight no buildings in sight just acres and acres of farmland which had which had recently
been been plowed a stage of plowing that's called that farmers call harrowing the disc
arrow is dragged through the fields to bust up the earth prior to finer plowing prior to planting
and i was suddenly struck with i have enough of a firm background to know that i was looking at
harrowed fields and i was suddenly struck with the multiple meanings of that word i was feeling
harrowed myself here were these harrowed fields so a poem began to emerge which i worked on over
the rest of the week while i was there but a lot of it came to me just out walking and i'll see if
i can get it by memory probably would be would help if i closed my eyes so yeah i was going to
close mine too so it was kind of yeah called harrowing the plow has savaged this sweet field
miss shaping clods of earth kicked up rocks and twisted roots exposed to view last year's growth
demolished by the blade i have plowed my life this way turned over a whole history looking for the
roots of what went wrong until my face is ravaged furrowed scarred enough the job is done
whatever's been uprooted let it be seedbed for the growing that's to come
i plowed to unearth last year's reasons the farmer plows to plant a greening season
wow and then that poem i've sometimes felt like the most important line of poetry i've ever written
was that single word enough that there was something in me that said you know you're you're at a
you know you're you're at a turning with this what you need to understand is that
you've plowed plenty you've plowed enough and more than enough
um you're not going to get any farther by harrowing yourself so you know that wasn't a
an instant turnaround in my depression but it gave me an image that sort of holds the mystery
of of of when to say enough and when to take that step forward in faith that there's something
worth stepping toward thank you so much for reading that that's i think that will be very
important to a lot of people who hear it is important to me and to hear you read it like that
um and it made me think of the roles and the soul and it's soul and soil you know um
there's a lot in there but also i think it's so helpful to be able to
hear that it's okay to that enough you know to isn't that connected a bit to being your soul
letting yourself see your soul feel your soul isn't is there something about i mean i'm thinking
of the writing process itself and how important it is in your life and how that was kind of an
expression of how the writing was a way of surviving but also holding this paradox and also
i don't know how to put it exactly into words but when we think of soul and role
it how can you how can we express that it's for people who don't haven't read you yet and don't
are just listening here um that it's okay to be the soul the soul the soul and the soil and the
the plow or two and also to say that it's enough i i'm not sure what i'm trying to say here but
there's some connection there that i i want to bring out with the soul and the role in the soil
yeah no it's a i think that's a great kind of force field question you know which is what we're
really doing here to explore a sort of force field that's hard to pin down because it can't be pinned
down but what my what what my mind turns to when when you asked that andrea was um was the word
was um was the word humus
or earth or that which fertilizes the seed that that rich
compost in which the seed begins to grow it's you know it's closely related to the word
humble and humility and it's closely related to the word humiliation um so in we live in a culture
that regards all of this as humiliating right yes yes i you know what when i started writing and
speaking publicly about my experiences of depression which incidentally i didn't do until
almost 10 years after my first experience of depression when i felt like okay i can talk
about this in a way that that is integrated into my sense of self that i'm no longer ashamed of it
i'm no longer embarrassed by it and i and until that point i wasn't ready to talk about it
um and i'm glad i waited because until it's integrated you you can't be a reliable
commentator on the experience it's still sort of other than who you are and it's like you're
reporting on an enemy rather than on a piece of your complex wholeness that's where i started
coming up with a notion with this notion that wholeness has nothing to do with
with perfection wholeness is about embracing our brokenness as part of who we are
along with our strengths and and our light but when i first started writing about depression
as this sort of you know mid-career professional who was trying to establish himself as a writer
and a speaker and a workshop leader and soon to establish this non-profit that's still going
strong 30 years later people around me said no no no don't do that that'll make people feel like
you're weak you know that'll make people feel like you're you're on the edge of collapse who
wants to follow anybody who's on the edge of collapse and and my response to that was simply
this this is who i am and i'm no longer at a point where i feel a need to hide out
about that but people felt like that would be humiliating and of course a lot of women will
get the same advice about anything that involves emotional vulnerability you know don't go there
you're that would be showing weakness and a man wouldn't do that well i'm here to say men should
do that and we need you know everyone who's willing and able to model what it means to to live
out loud in public a whole life not over emphasizing or over stressing and any of it
the humility the humility that comes with with one's struggles is is is an essential part
of what we were talking about at the very beginning of this conversation which is
beginner's mind which is the willingness to say uh yeah life is about getting up and then
falling down and then getting up and then falling down and getting up and falling down again and
getting up again that's what it's about and it does no good if if we're interested in
authentic community and relationship it does no good to pretend that it's otherwise
because at some level even the folks who don't want to talk about this stuff realize
we're faking it when when we you know talk in an unbalanced way about who we are i think that's
one of the big problems isn't it of a lot of social media is that people are presenting themselves in
heroic uh championing ways all the time and there's a terrible distortion of reality for everybody
too parker i'm so happy that you brought that word humiliation in with the hummus with the
earth with the soil that's so that's so rich in so many ways i mean not only in where we are right
now in terms of what you said about men needing to get in touch with that and wanting to get in
touch with that side of themselves and also women also i think of it in academia this word humiliation
is such or shame is such a big you know monster kind of chasing everyone around nobody wants to
humiliated and yet we're all sort of always at the brink that beginner's mind is where we where the
best stuff comes in science or in in life and anywhere and to be there is a kind of humbling
place to always be so it makes me think about your early years and how you learned those lessons and
that's like that holding the paradox that we were talking about that now at your where you are now
it seems so easy that you can can hold this but then here's me like half your age and around a
lot of people right now who are really trying very very hard to figure out how to hold what you just
expressed in so many ways it doesn't we don't have to go into all of them whether it's a man
a woman an academic whatever but that feeling that you expressed i feel like it's really
the thing we're trying to figure out how to hold right now which relates to the paradox and so on
but when you think about yourself when you first went to when you when you sort of set off out of
academia which also was you were told not to do i think uh in a similar way right like with the
humiliation how how when you think of that person who did that and where you are now and how clear
in a way or calm you can be about these things i wonder what what that feeling is for you
uh well it's um yeah i think it's probably worth mentioning that as soon as i
put in all the hard work and the years necessary to get a phd at the university of california
berkeley i looked around the world where our cities were burning because of racial injustice
and i decided that i didn't want to use my training in the social sciences in the academy but i became
a community organizer in washington dc and i did have friends and colleagues who thought
right away well that's humiliation right there you know why are you not taking why are you not
taking one of those academic jobs that you've been offered with a with a great phd from a great
university and all i could ever say andrea was um i can't not do it um that there was something
in me that looking back i would say there was something in me that said if i didn't follow that
that imperative of my soul which is how it felt um to get engaged with racial injustice in this
country if i hadn't followed that i would have paid a real price
at the level of soul in years down the road so it was tough and it was tough for
probably 15 years as things unfolded but eventually it came together in a sense of
vocation that i at this point clearly treasure and that's so many treasure i just have to say
i mean thank goodness you were able to hear that and go with that back then
you know everything we talked about at the beginning comes from those decisions right that
you you you really went a different way i think you went to linda's farm by the way and then to
the quaker community and so on so it was a whole other path in this anyway yeah i got to know a
lot of the communal experiments of the of the of the 60s and 70s that's that's for sure and i have
to say andrew that i i i did none of it by myself you know there was always a community
either either coming together or forming around me i mean again that's on the mobius strip right
you lose you lose some connections you gain others because of the whatever magnetic field we have
in which we attract or repel one another as life moves along so you know i think i think really
all i can say is that to folks who are midstream with with that is just hang on and and keep
uh tracking the unfolding of your consciousness of your feelings of your sense of self as as time
goes by and and find a path that allows you to feel i guess the phrase i want to use is more
and more at home in your own skin and more and more at home on the face of the earth
um for all its complexities still a good place to be and i think those the the desire to feel
at home and who we are and in who we are and in whose we are the two great questions who am i and
whose am i in community i think that the desire to feel at home in both those regards runs very deep
and just keep your eye on it um and you know take your temperature on a regular basis on both of
those counts and make those midcourse corrections that you that you need to make there's there's no
one size fits all that's for sure um i know people i had colleagues at berkeley who unlike me stayed
in academic life and i'm glad they did because they made a great contribution
a transformative contribution from the inside that i couldn't have made my work as a writer
eventually brought me back to the academy writing about the academy and not in not in terms of
employment i've worked largely independently for 40 years but i wrote about and spoke about and
and agitated for education reform in a way that brought me back to the academy so even that
um piece of the mobius strip you know returned me to where i thought i'd i'd left courage to
teach we were going to talk about that another time yeah so i just say um some physicians will
talk about the tincture of time as a as remedy you know and i think it's true i think if you
stay alert and aware and make those midcourse decisions that that may feel risky but also
feel true i wonder about this word love and as you're talking about community by the way thank
you for saying that about academia because i don't think it's that you have to leave academia it's
more what we're talking about of getting to that clarity that holding that place wherever you are
which and then you can see which path feels like the one you can't not do as you so well expressed
it but how does love come into this for you just to kind of go out of this i know somewhere you
wrote some somewhere at the beginning you were asking how can i love you know my family how can
i love my job like that was a question i think for you earlier in those years that we're talking
about and how with this communion and community and one of the philosophers i was just with
haneda yeager writes about loving and knowing being sort of really close together in a way we
were holding there and she said something to me and she she gave me permission to say it but
just this past week we were at a conference or at a science thing and and she we were talking about
depression and she's felt it and she said there's a place you go where there is no love anymore
and it reminded me of what you said about what you just said where you become the darkness i just
want to put that there and see what you think about that because i find it very hard you know
i'm thinking about love a lot and love is really hard it's that humus that earth soil soul
humiliation all of that too so i just want to put that there before we go and see you know if you
have any experiences about love that you want to share or just whatever might come up as i say all
of this yeah yeah well first of all let me say you're i think your friend and colleague is
exactly right that you do go to a place in deep depression where there is no love and you can't
imagine that there ever was or will be um and yet you know on the other side i have to say that
that one of one of the things i glance at out of the corner of my eye is the possibility that
maybe even in that deep darkness i was somehow held by a love i couldn't feel because in
depression you can't feel anything it's depression isn't sadness it's the deadening of all your
emotions yeah so yes to what your friend and colleague said
you know it's it seems to me that there's such a continuum of kinds of love
that it's a hard thing to talk about under one rubric at one end of that continuum i think is
um a sort of common understanding of love which is the desire to be intimate with to get close to
to grow in in intimacy with a person with it with with the natural world with experience maybe with
a subject matter that you love very deeply and the link i think between knowing and loving is exactly
in that that knowing becomes a way of of understanding and thereby entering into
a more intimate experience with whatever the loved one may be um human or or otherwise
at the other end of the continuum you know without trying to tick off all the stops in between
at the other end of the continuum is is a definition of love that comes from Rainer Maria
Rilke that i've always loved he said love is this that two solitudes border protect and salute
one another that's a that's a quote from his book letters to a young poet
um and i think it's a it's a brilliant insight in the in the you know and both can be true at
the same time i think in a in a good in a good loving relationship between partners
um human partners um there's both this desire for intimacy and an absolute need to
to border protect and salute the other person's solitude because when we don't do that that
intimacy becomes segues into a desire to fix and save and mold and shape the other in a way that's
not at all loving but that maybe fits our comfort zone better that's an old story isn't it in
intimate relationships that we get to a point of destroying the intimacy by
trying to alter the other person in ways that make us more comfortable so it's it it it
love i think partakes in in the the essential nature of paradox that we were talking about
earlier and when you don't hold those poles together both of them devolve into um unhealthy
forms of themselves that reminds me when you were depressed that you didn't want advice and people
trying to fix you and all of this that's a kind of related to what you're saying too that maybe
love with what was holding you and when you felt it was when the people just were also there
holding it right or even maybe with touch or whatever but somehow just not what you just
described with holding the solitude yeah yeah exactly there was this one person who really
broke through in a way no one else did a man a little older than me a friend who came to my
house every afternoon when i was in deep depression and was and in a very he had
asked my permission of course and i trusted him enough to do it to say yes he would i would sit in
a you know easy chair in my living room he would take off my shoes and socks and for half an hour
he'd massage my feet and he'd very rarely say anything he was a deeply intuitive man
who occasionally would say i can feel your struggle today but nothing else or i feel
you getting a little stronger nothing else but he was there every day with having found the one
place in my body where i could feel a connection with another human being somehow intuitively
knew that and had the courage to walk into a situation that most people try to avoid
as if a depressed person were contagious and instead be present to me in a very non-analytical
non-judgmental way connecting me with the human race in a way that i think really helped save
my life so i think let let that stand as testimony to some of those simple ways we can love by
practicing presence that is unafraid of whatever is going on with the other with the other person
and that's aimed purely at supporting them in a way that can be can be curative
thank you for sharing that that is exactly that that's a lot of what we've been talking
about right there that paradox but also that beyond the humiliation and the humbleness even
it's uh i always i often wonder you know knowing that story from your writing how
how he knew and how we get to a place where we can do that for each other you know i don't know
i don't know but i do know that having had it modeled has made a huge difference to me
and to a lot of people he's helped a lot of people from that act his name was bill taber
bless his memory he died a few years ago well bless bill for for giving and i'm sure we'll
continue giving yeah i think let's let's just let that be because it's powerful uh is there anything
else that comes to mind or use anything that you want to express please well i would um just one
one final thing andrea um i've done a lot of interviews as you can imagine
and this is one of the very finest i have ever experienced i'm so grateful for
the homework you did and and for your not only um attention to what i wrote but your way of
having internalized it and and
coming to the conversation with your own authenticity which i hope has also evoked
evoked mine i've just it would be a mild thing to to say i've enjoyed it tremendously i have
but there's more i've learned from it i think i will grow from it and i just want to thank you
very profoundly for your investment in this and for inviting me to be with you this way
thank you parker for saying that it means really a lot to me and to connect back to that first part
of the conversation that life that we are that we're sharing that we're uniquely giving it means
so much it's so important right these these things we create and give to one another so absolutely
the world has been in great need of exchanges of this sort and connections of this sort
and i'll just say that if if you'd ever like to talk again i'd be delighted to do it and
also to wish you and yours the very best in all that you're doing thank you so much parker i
really appreciate you and uh yeah let's talk again have a beautiful day thank you take care
bye
