Good afternoon, everyone.
Today, I want to share a paper with you,
Radical Embodied Relation at Any Scale,
from Remembering to Navigating.
My name is Andrea Hyatt, and this
is for the Active Inference Institute Symposium for 2025.
So this is a bit of a radical embodied understanding of mine,
and it works at any scale, as the paper says.
So it's supposed to expand some of our fundamental assumptions
about brains, memories, minds, and bodily movement,
and how all those relate.
So the title of this talk is Clidoscopic Cognition,
How the Brain Can Be Modeled and Use Modeling
Without Having a Model.
I know that sounds paradoxical.
And if you know me, you know I like paradoxes.
Holding paradoxes is sort of the point of a lot of this work.
But that title might seem impossible, actually.
So how can the brain model without having models?
And how can we use representations
without them being stored somewhere?
These questions have been really important in neuroscience
and philosophy.
Some might even say they've been plaguing neuroscience
and philosophy of mind lately.
We just can't move past them.
But there's recent research on the hippocampus,
which is the part of the brain that I studied,
little C-horse-shaped structure on both sides of your head
in both lobes.
And it's forcing us to rethink some basic assumptions
about a lot of these words that I've already mentioned.
So what we're discovering is that the brain,
or I would rather actually talk about the central nervous
system and the bodily sensory movement of it all,
but let's just say the brain, doesn't work like a computer
with shared stored files.
Instead, it operates more like a kaleidoscope.
And I know that might sound crazy.
But actually, it's a very helpful, strange new vision
that we kind of need right now.
And that it feels strange is probably a good thing.
So it's this idea of creating shifting patterns
through different but direct refraction of experience.
So if you think of the encounter and then the body
and then whatever that encounter is becoming
as part of the body and sort of going back into the encounter
as, then you can think of it more
as something prismatic or kaleidoscopic.
So this framework is coming from neuroscience,
at least as I read certain studies
and as I've been part of certain areas of that field.
And especially grid cells, place cells,
these kinds of things, which are in the hippocampus.
And I think it has profound implications
for how we understand these words
that we've been taking for granted, like memory, thinking,
but also navigation and everything
that we've ever thought about as cognition,
not only in humans, but when we try to understand
this activity that unites us across different life forms.
I'm gonna be talking about the hippocampus
as a kaleidoscopic function,
a way of trying to visualize some of this new research,
which is moving us beyond either or patterns that we assume.
I think we're all sort of stuck in at the moment
in brain research, even though we say we're not.
But I wanna push us a little bit
towards this kaleidoscopic or prismatic idea of cognition.
And hopefully that'll help us move
beyond these representation wars
and these of talking that have sort of paralyzed us
in cognitive science.
The idea is to synthesize insights from four key papers
that when read together will reveal something
pretty extraordinary about cognition.
And so these are the four papers.
And the first one is my paper,
the one that's kind of framing this
and I guess the sort of foundational text for it.
And in there, I argue that recent hippocampal research
forces us or allows us to reconceive
what a neural representation is
and to think of it as a communication,
communicative assessment,
rather than something stored or findable
or some sort of hieroglyph in the brain.
And I introduced the concept of waymaking,
which is just a way of talking about
this process that we call cognition
or this process that we call locomotion,
but on the same track.
There's also a brand new nature neuroscience paper
by Penn and colleagues,
which came out around the same time,
which talks about, well, it's called path integration
in the hippocampus by shifting reference frames.
And I really see this as just crucial empirical work
and just great timing that it comes out now
because it has a lot to do
with what I'm trying to discuss here.
And it's showing us that grid cells
don't maintain stable patterns,
but are constantly shifting between reference frames,
even though there is a stability.
So there's a paradox built into this,
but it gives us a good way to understand
this notion of kaleidoscopic modeling
that I'm trying to introduce here.
And then we have the Lenz and Clark,
Ewan Friston paper from 2017.
Sorry if I said somebody's name wrong there.
The active inference approach to ecological perception,
because I think there's a lot of ideas in there
that fit very well with this.
And also just the mathematical and theoretical framework
needs to be built up for how we might do this.
And I think active inferences probably,
and especially also Bayesian ideas in machine learning
and so on, have already started figuring out ways
to maybe think about layered mathematics
in the way that I'm talking about here.
But also just the ecological side of it is very fitting
that organisms engage in modeling behaviors
without storing models.
And of course, sometimes we slip up
and say models are in the brain,
but if you really look at what is actually being said,
it's not that the models are in the brain,
stored somewhere, it's that the whole body is modeling.
This last paper too, which inspired my first paper,
and it's from Jacob Belmond and the Doller Lab,
which is where I worked at the Max Planck Institute.
It's called Navigating Cognition Spatial Codes
for Human Thinking.
And it shows us that the mechanics we use
for physical navigation are the same ones we use
for abstract thought, even though thinking
and geographical navigating can't be resolved
as the same thing.
We can use the same metrics to understand them,
but those metrics cannot be based on these either
assumptions that we've been using,
whether it's global and local or even mental and physical,
like conceptual space, physical space, memory, navigation.
Those ways of talking and our use of the word representation
as we're talking about them in cognitive neuroscience
has to shift.
All these papers together point towards
a unified understanding of cognition as kaleidoscopic,
or at least as constellatory is another word I use,
demanding we find ways to model it kaleidoscopically
rather than binary, and these binary assumptions
that frame so much of the way we talk about
all of these topics, the way we even use the words,
and the way we model them,
even if we don't realize that's happening.
By introducing this kaleidoscopic cognition,
trying to push us a bit into a dynamic, immediate,
irreducible understanding of what we mean by representation,
which is actually a communication.
We also understand that we're gonna do this
through communicating about the patterns of regularity,
and that this communication isn't findable,
but it is representational.
So that's a little tricky.
This holding paradox idea is really good,
and also this kaleidoscope,
where you have similar patterns,
but based on the input of the light,
you can even think of it as prismatic, I guess,
you're gonna get different results,
but those will all be tied to similar patterns.
So again, I've mentioned paradox quite a few times,
and the main paradox that motivates this framework
is representations without representations.
Models without models, or modeling without models,
or representing without representations
maybe is a better way to say it,
but traditional neuroscience always assumes
that cognition requires stored models,
internal representations that the brain builds
and maintains, so when you remember something
from your childhood, your childhood home,
you know, there must be some neural structure
that is appearing in your brain
that represents that home, right?
So when you navigate through a city,
you have some kind of map in your head.
This is just the way we talk about it.
Most people, of course, don't actually think
that you can pull a little map out of your brain
or actually find some kind of structure in the brain
that's gonna represent home in some kind of one-to-one way.
However, we still talk about it that way in our papers,
and we still assume this language,
so the reality is that organisms are navigating
these complex environments without anything
that looks like explicit stored representations,
and in fact, you know, there's so much going on
all the time that any of our actual experiments
is just looking at a tiny bit of it,
so if we find some brain activity
that corresponds with a particular memory that we have,
that's actually just one little snapshot in a way
of something that we were directly looking for,
and this is still on this flatland kind of way
of thinking about what we're doing in these experiments
and also what the body is doing
in relation to the brain, the environment,
and all these ongoing movements that we are,
so animals find their way home, they recognize patterns,
they make predictions, including humans, of course,
and yet when we observe them
and we watch the activity of rats
who've been so helpful for us, for example, in neuroscience,
then the only way we can really communicate
about what's happening there
is through creating these representations, images,
or that we record the cell activity
and then we see pictures of it,
and all of that is representational,
but it's not inside the rat,
it's us creating things to understand this ongoing movement,
and that gives us a visual, a video, a screen image,
whatever, and those are the representations,
and those are the communications,
and that is a communication.
I mean, the screenshot or the recording is meaningless
except as communication, and it's important.
We're doing that, obviously,
in order to better understand this whole process
and ourselves, and it's a very real thing,
but it's not findable somewhere,
so the hippocampus is really central
to making more scientific, rigorous sense
of what I just said and getting over this assumption
and use of language that's binary
and that does talk about representations
as if they're inside brains rather than
as if there are communications towards understanding brains.
So for a long time, we actually literally looked
for engrams in the brain, stored memories,
and the hippocampus was like the sort of heart
of where all that came in the 50s,
looking for engrams and memories because of HM and so on,
and then in the 70s, we started thinking
of the same area of the brain as the brain's GPS
because John Uke found cells there
that fired in relation to what the animal was moving through,
so you got place cells and grid cells and things like this,
but this recent research is even showing us
that actually these cells don't maintain stable patterns.
They're always shifting, remapping, re-anchoring.
We don't have a representation in the brain
that corresponds to something outside.
Instead, we have this ongoing communication,
this process, this something like light coming
into a prism and being refracted.
That's where this kaleidoscopic comes from
that shifts as the encounter takes place.
So all of these cells are shifting, remapping,
re-anchoring as the encounter is changing,
just as if light comes into a prism,
it's going to change in different ways
without any kind of stopping and starting there,
even though when we study it,
we have to look at it that way.
So this is where this idea of kaleidoscopic cognition
comes in, and it does sound fantastical,
maybe psychedelic, but it's actually a really accurate way
to begin to envision this and that it feels strange
and even hard is actually part of that
because what's more like the vision,
and again, we're talking a bit in metaphors here,
but it's more like something is refracting between
and as the encounter and the organism,
which includes this whole nervous system.
And that is the guiding action.
That is the perception and action.
And obviously this is really hard to talk about,
but that's what we're trying to do here.
I think we have to find ways to sound strange, be strange,
and move towards finding other ways
to really understand what's happening here.
So we create recordings and photos and videos
and representations to understand this.
Those are real and communicative,
but how could we create more kaleidoscopic ones?
How can we begin to use our technology
in ways that are more like this process
so that we get used to thinking like this
instead of creating things that are still stuck
in this binary sense of as if we've taken a picture
of some kind of whole thing that is mental,
that is a memory.
So before we get to that,
let me just talk about this one question
about representation, which I've brought up,
but how can the brain have representations
and not have them at the same time?
How do we hold this paradox
without falling into something like computationalism
or just total relativism,
which is always the trap here?
So that's where this hippocampus paper comes in,
which you can find easily and read.
And it's arguing that representations are communicative acts,
that they're ways we assess and communicate
about these unbroken intimacies,
not things we like find stored in brains.
And I think that's something that's pretty obvious
in neuroscience, but we don't talk about it as if it is.
And that is a very big obstacle actually.
And of course, there's been tons of representation debates.
I mean, we've really wasted, or maybe not wasted,
but so much energy and time has gone into getting stuck
and going round and round in loops over this idea.
Even with active inference, I think we all know
this idea of talking about models in the head
becomes a trap and it's time to get out of it.
So that's why I'm not in this paper,
but in this presentation,
presenting this idea of kaleidoscopic
or constellatory cognition to kind of just try
to pop us out of that way of positioning ourselves
in cognitive neuroscience and in the way
that we do our models.
So we can understand these immediacies
are refracting differently according to the position
from which they're measured.
And they're not in the thing that's being measured.
So weather maps are a really simple, good example.
We create a weather map.
It represents weather patterns,
but the map doesn't contain the weather,
even though it's tricky how we confuse those things
with what weather is.
But there is no stop and start to a storm
in the sense of you can just pluck it out
of all the rest of the ongoing atmosphere
or something like that.
And we need and create these representations
of things like that so that we can communicate about them
so that we know, okay, a big hurricane is coming
and we need to evacuate or whatever.
These are really important representations that we create.
But the map is a communicative tool
that we use to understand and predict
those atmospheric dynamics.
The dynamics, of course, they're dynamic.
They're ongoing.
They're unlocatable.
You don't find partly cloudy somewhere.
You don't find 70 degrees somewhere.
Those are representations.
And that's the same thing that we're talking about
when we're looking at brains.
It's something like 70 degrees
when we're talking about a representation in the brain
of memory or anything else.
So that process that we call weather refracts differently
from every position on the planet too.
We could think about that and how,
depending on where you are,
you're gonna see that refraction differently.
It's gonna be assessed differently.
Even though, of course, it's real what is being assessed
and it's also ongoing.
And also your assessment of it on one particular day
from one particular position
is gonna be different than someone else
from another and another day.
And that doesn't mean any of it's less real.
And in fact, it'll still probably mean
there's a whole lot of regularities that are shared.
What you're calling a storm
and what they're calling a storm
will have a lot of overlap,
but it won't be the same thing.
And it won't be something that we have found
and then move on from.
So neural representations work that way too.
When we look at an fMRI image or we record neurons,
we're not seeing stored memories
or cognitive maps inside the brain.
We're creating representations, measurements, assessments
that help us communicate about this ongoing
central nervous system bodily environmental dynamic,
which is pretty wonderful actually,
and which we really do wanna understand.
And that's why what we're doing
is so important in all these fields.
But the hippocampal literature
shows us that cognition and navigation, for example,
which have kind of been fit into these different sides
of a binary of mental and physical, for example,
just to kind of caricature it a little bit.
We've assumed for a long time
that those needed to be reconciled somehow,
that they were somehow different things
and how could the same part of the brain be doing them.
But recently we've started to understand,
okay, they're just like refractions of the same process.
At least that's how I'm putting it here.
There are different assessments of this embodied waymaking
that is happening all the time.
And depending what we're looking for
or where we're standing or what day it is,
it's gonna be a little bit different,
but also there are gonna be regularities that we can,
that remain, that help us understand it better
if we communicate about it through representations.
So when you remember a past event,
you're kind of moving through
or navigating conceptual space.
You could think of it like that.
You're using the same mechanisms, right?
To move through that sort of space
that happens when you're moving through geographical space,
but those aren't the same thing.
It's just that there's similar regularities there
in terms of what is happening.
So I use this word waymaking,
which comes from Dallas philosophy
to capture how that cognition and locomotion
can be continuous, can be the same process,
even though when we're talking about something
like remembering our childhood
and when we're talking about something
like walking to the park,
we're talking about different things.
And there's no need to try to resolve those
the same way we wouldn't try to resolve wavelengths
that have been refracted from the same light source
or the same, yeah, we could think of it somehow
as multi-sensory prisms if we can.
But we can't measure and find that in some absolute sense
that there is a memory or there is a little diagram
in the head that's gonna be found
every time we go to the grocery store.
So anyway, the hippocampus doesn't store maps.
It's operating kaleidoscopically.
It's refracting sensory encounter into bodily action.
At least that's the kind of wild idea
I'm throwing in on this presentation.
I haven't tried to put it in a paper, of course,
but at least not yet.
But I do think we make these maps, these representations
to try to understand what is multi-layered,
multi-dimensional refracted in our measurements of it,
even if in itself it's not.
So just thinking of it like that
can help us kind of avoid some of these traps
of arguing about pure computationalism
versus pure relativism or telling all the young people
that everything's a hallucination
or all these extremes that have sort of taken over
and become very exciting in a lot of our fields
but aren't doing justice to the actuality
and the complication of this paradoxical happening
that is cognition and that is not only in humans.
And of course we wanna avoid relativism too
because these are real accessible regularities
and we do need to communicate about them
and that is a very important thing to be doing.
It's science at its best, really.
So what the heck is kaleidoscopic cognition?
So I guess in all this making way that we're doing,
we do make representations of that.
Until now we've made them in these very strict
kind of stimulus response,
either or mental, physical categories.
Even if we think those categories
aren't somehow actually the process
that some people think everything's mental
or everything's physical, all is one.
This is pretty normal now for people to say that
but in all the literature, we still talk this way.
And so when I talk about kaleidoscopic cognition,
I'm really thinking about modeling all this waymaking,
all these ways that the body makes through its encounter,
whether you wanna think of that
through traditionally mental terms or physical terms,
whether you wanna think of it
as making way through conceptual space,
virtual space, geographical space, all those,
they can't be collapsed into one another
but they're all waymaking.
And when we're modeling that, we can think of it that way.
We can understand it that way.
That's the kaleidoscopic cognition.
That means imagining that cognitive processes
emerge through and as dynamic shifting patterns.
Rather than this is happening
and we look for this fixed representation in the brain.
That's the old way, right?
And that's the way our language
and our papers are structured right now.
We could try to understand this through another metaphor
and I'm bringing in this
consolatory or kaleidoscopic metaphor,
which are just like tubes of mirrors
and colored glass and prisms.
But if you really think of the ongoing encounter
and the sensory body, it is sort of taking in that encounter
as if it's light and it's refracting it into itself
in order to continue itself.
I know that sounds a bit mystical and wild
but I think we need some of that right now
just as visualization.
We still need all the rigor and all the science
and all the tests and all the experiments
but we can visualize about how better to do those.
We don't have to stay stuck in mental, physical,
stimulus response parameters.
We can think of the experiment differently.
So when light enters a kaleidoscope,
it's immediately refracted
through like all these prisms and mirrors.
The patterns you see aren't stored anywhere in that device.
They just emerge in this interaction
as you turn whatever the heck you call that thing
on a kaleidoscope.
You turn the kaleidoscope, I guess,
and the patterns change
and that's not stored anywhere.
It's just happening and you need the light coming in
and the whatever, the viewer.
I mean, at some point this kind of starts to break down
but I think you get what I'm saying here.
Twist the tube, you get entirely new patterns
but all those patterns, if we did the math,
could be linked to one another
and we could better understand how they turn into each other
and what sort of condition, what sort of light, so to speak,
creates what sort of pattern.
So the hippocampus and I would say
even the central nervous system,
the brain more broadly works like this.
It receives the encounter.
I mean, even to say it receives it is kind of wrong
because this is just happening.
It's all happening.
It's not that the body is sitting there waiting
and something comes in and it does something.
To be alive, you're in the encounter, you're encountering.
The body is doing this prismatic,
prisming this kaleidoscopic cognition
and we're trying to understand it
by creating representations of it.
So those patterns that come in, so to speak,
come in to the body aren't processed and stored
but they are shaping the way the body
is going to respond in the future.
I think this relates a lot
to a lot of these active inference themes
that you might be seeing elsewhere in this symposium.
So these patterns aren't processed or stored.
They're direct transformations,
just like the light is directly transformed
when it passes through a prism or the kaleidoscope
or whatever that we're gonna visualize here.
So these sensory irregularities of the encounter,
the light, so to speak, coming into the body
can come from the body too.
So it's also not multi-directional.
I mean, it is multi-directional.
It's not just like there's an outside
and it's coming into the body.
You also have the body itself,
which we could look at as many kinds of bodies
and all of this is happening at all those levels too,
the levels of your cells, for example,
or the way that the body and the nervous system
are communicating with other parts of the body.
So all of those are kaleidoscopes of kaleidoscopes in a way
and it's all happening
in this more ecological direct sense,
which is very hard for us to envision and talk about
but I think we're getting to a point where we have to try
and we have technology that allows us to do so.
And what happens if we think of it like this?
I think first we understand that
multiplicities aren't fixed attributions.
There are multiple simultaneous patterns
that are operating at once as we measure them.
I mean, all of this is just happening
but we are going to be assessing it
and able to handle it in that kind of way.
So it's true for how we observe and represent the process.
The second idea there, I guess,
is that these processes aren't structures that we find
and what we call mental content,
it's arising from where it is this ongoing refraction.
It's not sort of retrieved data that's been stored somewhere.
It's more like water that's being directed
in different ways at different levels.
Sorry, I've been traveling and have a cold.
That's why I'm also not on the video, but I hope this is okay.
What else was I going to talk about?
I think also the relationality,
that meaning is this relationality
that's emerging through these shifts of the kaleidoscope,
these different prismatics and refraction matters though,
because as part of it, we're part of it.
The way that we notice it, observe it, assess it
actually has some major consequence on those very patterns
and those ways that we shift the light, so to speak.
So I realize all this sounds a bit abstract,
but let's look at some more empirical neuroscience.
Maybe that's helpful, some grid cell data.
Oh yeah, first I should just mention
these different frameworks, which are part of that paper,
which I think when we put them all together,
we can start thinking about cognition constellations
or kaleidoscopic cognition from a lot of different angles.
And we could even start to try to
mathematize it or model it a bit.
I didn't really do a big research,
but I'm sure there's probably ways
that we can model multiple layers of generative models
that might be helpful in this way.
But anyway, I won't go down that tangent.
Active inference, I mean, I think you all probably know
this mathematical framework by Karl Friston
and many collaborators and colleagues
and this core idea that organisms are minimizing
free energy through their action.
They're not building these internal models
and consulting them, but they are the models,
I think is one way you could think of that.
And they're emerging dynamically with or through
or as this perception action cycle.
So the body, the organism is constantly engaged
in prediction and error correction.
And that's kind of what I was trying to say before,
that even though this is all happening
in the way that you would turn a kaleidoscope
or the way light comes through the prism,
it's happening at so many different points and places
and all of those in their communication,
in the way they communicate with one another,
change what's possible for that.
That's why this can get really hard to talk about
because we're part of it, even as we're studying it.
We're always engaged in prediction and error correction.
And this happens through our movement and engagement
or not even through, it happens as it.
It's not that things are being stored
and then we're looking for those things that are stored.
That's only useful when we're trying to communicate about it
to talk about it in that way.
So I think active inference obviously helps us
with visualizing this, but even puts math on it
and helps us kind of take some steps
towards leaping into this different paradigm.
And then the radical embodied relation,
that's a big part of the paper that I,
that's in nature in the article, which you can read,
but a lot of inspiration there from Tony Chimero
and everyone who's part of that field.
They've been working really hard
to try to make that understandable
and to show what it's doing in cognitive science for us
if we let it.
And of course they've been dealing with this.
There's no such thing as a representation idea for a while,
which isn't what I'm saying.
And actually isn't really what is being said by Chimero,
but they've been questioning it
in the way that has gotten us to a point
where we can start to understand it differently
and where some people even say, oh yeah, it's obvious, right?
Of course there's no representation in the brain,
but that was not something that a lot of neuroscientists
would have said not too long ago.
So I guess the key insight there is
that cognition is continuous with navigation
in an ecological sense,
that these aren't different processes that we're bridging.
They do have to be measured differently
just because we measure them
towards understanding different things.
We're assessing them
towards understanding different things.
So there's no need to solve them into one another
or say that when we remember our childhood friend,
it's the same thing as walking to the park.
I mean, there's no need to say that.
Instead we can understand this embodied engagement
with the environment,
this internal, external ongoing action
that's co-creating the parameters for each part of that.
And I think a lot of you know
J.J. Gibson's ecological psychology
and that idea of the brain as the ongoing translator.
I always want to say that word,
but it's not even quite that
because that makes me think of like Chinese room experiments.
But it's not that it's too immediate.
It's more like the prism, the light coming in
and immediately it's refracted.
And it only looks different from the position
depending on where your position is.
I think that's what a lot of ecological psychology
was trying to get at in a way.
So this kaleidoscopic notion of cognition
just to combine all this stuff.
Well, I'm just going to leave it there,
but I would really hope that someone
could think about this mathematically.
Maybe one of you listening think about,
I mean, this was what I was thinking about.
I was thinking about Carl's 2012 paper
where he tries to do something like this,
or not tries, I mean, he does do something like this,
where he's talking about generative models
and as like ensembles of other models.
And I don't know, maybe someone listening already knows
about something that's already been done like this,
but how could we, is it even possible actually
to have context-sensitive model selection
with it still being free energy driven?
I mean, with the math, I have no idea
because I'm not so good with this math and all this stuff.
But anyway, I was just thinking about it.
I guess a big part of this whole,
the paper that I'm presenting and what I see
is very important in the active inference framework
and why I'm bringing up this wonderful wild idea
of kaleidoscopic cognition is,
as I've already said a few times,
just that we're so routed by these ways
of making decisions of one versus another
that I think we don't see that they're part
of constellations of many more possibilities.
And there's a reason we had to go through contrast
to get here to where we are now.
I don't think those are bad things.
I don't think we should stop having distinctions,
but I think we should start realizing
they're not binary distinctions.
We don't only have mental versus physical.
We have emotional, we have virtual, we have geographical.
I mean, these are just different ways
that the light refracts.
And it would be great if we just got used
to thinking that way.
That's what this kaleidoscopic cognition is.
It's thinking through multiplicities instead of binaries.
And I think the hippocampus
and all the research we've been doing there
where we tried to fit everything
into these binary categories for so long,
and we're now realizing we just can't,
is a very helpful way to rigorously understand this.
I think it's very important in philosophy of mind too
that we try to do this rather than building our careers,
fighting one side or the other of a binary.
That's maybe not the most helpful thing to do anymore,
which doesn't mean all that stuff was not important.
It's actually really important, all of our debates about it.
But now we can still have those.
We can hold those and we can explore the space
and look at other ways of reframing all of that together.
Let's just think about mental and physical for a second.
So in neuroscience and philosophy,
we talk about as if we moved past those sometimes,
like everything is physical,
everything is mental or whatever.
We still treat like thoughts are here
and movements are there.
And I think what I'm trying to introduce here
with this kaleidoscopic cognition idea
is that this continuous action perception cycle
that we represent as either mental or physical
and can continue to do so, by the way,
it's kind of helpful,
is itself an ongoing process
that's refracting in those different ways.
So we hold those together,
however we wanna define them and explore them
as telling us distinct things about a similar process.
In a way, it's what we're already trying to do
because if you're on one side, you say everything is one
and if you're on the other, you say everything is one.
But then instead of fighting each other about who is right,
let's say, okay, what is your path?
Tell us about this one
and what is my path?
Tell us about this one.
So like thinking can be accessed as a form of movement.
If we go back to the FEMBA campus,
through conceptual space, that's helpful.
And moving can be assessed as a sort of form of thinking
through physical space.
But thinking about going to the gym
is not moving through physical space.
And moving through conceptual space
is not the same thing as going to the grocery store.
And we never need to try to resolve those.
That's what we've been trying to do
by resolving certain schools of thought
or even just this debate about representations.
But we also need to understand that
the traditional debate of like,
do we perceive the world directly
or through internal representations?
Doesn't even, you know, that either or,
that whole setup changes when you start to think of
kaleidoscopic cognition because it opens a space
and we can look around a bit
and we can engage more directly with reality
and we can see our representations as assessments
of that ongoing non-mediated engagement of encountering
whatever we're encountering that we might be looking at.
You know, memory versus navigation
is a big one for the hippocampus,
but I have a whole book coming out about that.
So I'll just let you read that.
This view that I'm presenting here
is just that we're engaging with reality
and we build, we communicate about that with each other
and that is where the representations come in.
So dissolving these dichotomies
or not even dissolving them actually,
letting them be what they are
and exploring how we can design experiments
that don't try to solve one into the other,
but rather look at what each tells us
about whatever the spaces that's holding them.
And we might also begin to see other points
in this constellations that have been either or
and maybe those can also tell us something
about this process.
That's a different way of doing an experiment
and of modeling and of thinking
and that's what I'm trying to get at here.
And I actually think it's going to mean
we have to metricize the experiment itself
and really start looking at this
in a multi-dimensional way where, you know,
what we've thought of as the stimulus is itself metricized
and what we've thought of as the response is
and we have many different possibilities
for both of those at the same time in one project.
So just to get really wild for a minute,
just imagine the hippocampus like this.
I mean, shifting, refracting at multiple scales at once.
So instead of thinking at it,
I mean, you could do this
with different parts of the brain,
but instead of thinking of it as a processor,
it's actually not a processor.
It's more, you know, refracting light
or refracting the ongoing encounter
into different possibilities.
There's no internal assessment, right?
Computation, but we use assessment and computation
to understand it when we're communicating
with one another about it
and with ourselves about it, by the way.
That's an important thing too,
because the body communicates with itself in this same way.
So it's not that the hippocampus is storing memories
as files and maintaining little spatial maps
and databases, but it's working more
like a prism directing light.
So when light hits a prism, it immediately refracts.
I mean, it splits in different component wavelengths
and it's redirected.
I think that's more like what we are actually seeing
in these cellular activities that we're studying
as a whole, if we think about it.
And, you know, the hippocampus is representing that
in this way that I'm talking about it right now,
this sort of metaphorical way.
It's not that, you know, the prism doesn't store light.
It's just constantly ongoing and refracting it.
And there's a wavelength relative to the position
from which it's being observed or experienced
that's gonna be the right wavelength at that moment,
I guess, if you're trying to name it.
So the HEF or the hippocampus entorhinal formation
could be understood through something analogous to this.
We can imagine it or model it
as receiving multiple streams of sensory information.
Although even that, I mean, that's the way we model it.
It's just encountering the body,
it's encountering the central nervous system.
All this is coming in,
but we can look at it as seeing and hearing and feeling
and tasting and whatever,
all these different sensory things that are happening.
And we can visualize these as different rays of light
sort of hitting this multifaceted prism simultaneously
and being refracted.
And there's not only one prism,
it's, you know, this is happening all over and in many ways.
And again, you know, yes, it's a bit strange
and a bit metaphorical, but I think you get the point.
It's much different than thinking of it as a processor
or something being stored like it is on a computer.
We need a new metaphor.
Anyway, it also, we can think about,
we could think about theta oscillations through this too,
because that's even more immediate.
The point is just that it's a direct transformation.
I think it's helpful now for me to finally talk about
actually some neuroscience.
And there's a recent neuroscience, this one,
especially the Ping et al from 2025 in nature neuroscience
that shows us that actually grid cells are shifting
through multiple reference frames.
They're not maintaining a stable pattern or just like,
they're not just this GPS coordinate system
that we've kind of come to think of it as,
though I think still seeing it like that can be helpful.
And I don't think it's actually saying that's not happening,
even though they sort of say that in the paper,
but these ongoing refractions are responding
to the current organism environment coupling.
So you have this shifting of frame.
So the hippocampus is literally,
if you look at this paper, operating kaleidoscopically.
Okay, maybe not literally,
but I mean, that's like a really good metaphor for it,
because we can see that it's the source
of multiple simultaneous refractions,
that this system of grid cells is doing this like
constant kind of shifting of whatever's coming in.
It's remapping and re-aligning with it
on many different levels at once.
So that means shifting based on action
and the regularities of whatever's being encountered
in real time, and the hippocampus helps us understand this.
So instead of just thinking, there's thinking,
like when we have this awareness of our mind
or we hear these words in our head,
and that's one kind of cognition,
or maybe the only kind of cognition,
and then moving through a city is not a cognition,
it's just moving through the city.
Actually, no, I mean, that's where this waymaking comes,
like everything that the body is encountering,
it's refracting through itself in this way,
as cognition, that is cognition.
It's making way, it's making way with the encounter.
And so we have to start thinking of cognition
as a more consolatory thing.
It's not that there's physical against mental,
it's that all of those words are different ways
we're understanding how this bodily organism
is making its way.
That doesn't mean everything is cognition,
but it does mean that the body is cognitive
at any time that it's trying to make its way
through anything.
It's a pretty simple way of thinking about cognition,
and yet you can't collapse different kinds
of different kinds of movement into one another.
So that's where it matters very much what you're studying.
You have to really metricize the landscape, actually.
If you're going to be studying how the body's making its way
through an emotional landscape,
you need to know what that means.
What is an emotional landscape?
How do you metricize that?
Because we have to represent that externally,
not assume that we're looking for it in the brain.
This is a different way of thinking about it.
Same with virtual landscapes,
same with geographical landscapes,
whatever you want to call them.
The point is that if you're going to call it something,
you have to be able to say what the regularities are
that you're studying,
and then look at how that relates to whatever the data is
that you're getting from the experiment.
So the body, through the central nervous system
or as the central nervous system,
is this encountering into bodily action.
And it's not like a two-step process.
We perceive, then we act,
and there's a transformation going on at some point too.
This is all happening all the time at once.
When we study it, we break it down.
But right now we're studying it and breaking it down
and looking for it in the body somehow.
And instead we need to realize,
actually it's all, we're representing it.
That's what we're doing.
We're communicating about it.
And we need to be able to represent it
and compare it at different levels,
more like a kaleidoscope.
We need that kind of ability to change things
just a little bit and see very different patterns
with the same input, the same light, so to speak.
I really think we can model this.
We can create neural recordings or computational models
or linguistic descriptions even
that really help us understand
and communicate about these processes
in ways that aren't stuck and routed
in these binary terms and these either or frameworks
that we all still assume we can break out of now,
but it will take being a little bit crazy
and thinking a little bit differently
about how to do experiments,
which doesn't mean giving up any of the rigor of it.
It just means realizing that those representations,
those assessments, those communications
are even more important than we thought.
And all the data we've already collected
is probably able to tell us even more than we thought
if we can position it to itself in a different way.
So we can think of cognitions as constellations
when we're modeling them, interconnected patterns
that emerge through this refraction.
So the way we move to the grocery store
and the way we move through a conceptual space
on a computer program or a virtual space
will definitely have some patterns shared
the same way that each turn of the kaleidoscope does.
How do we look at that relation
without trying to solve them into each other?
That's really the point.
So this is looking more deeply into this empirical paper.
Just wanna give you a little more information about it.
So they actually recorded grid cells
in the entorhinal cortex.
The hippocampal entorhinal formation
is really what I'm talking about here
when I say hippocampus.
So they recorded grid cells in this area,
actually in the entorhinal cortex, I think,
when the animals were performing a path integration task.
And that just means like dead reckoning or moving,
like keeping track of your position
by monitoring your own movement.
So when they did that,
they found that there was no stable grid patterns
during this path integration,
that the grid cells were functioning,
they were not functioning actually
as like some kind of stored coordinate system.
There's not like this internal metric
that is just being pulled out for every place.
However, the pattern, there is a pattern,
but it's shifting continuously throughout the task.
So again, I really think
the way you can understand this is the kaleidoscope,
there are patterns there, right?
But it's never the same pattern with each turn.
And whatever light is coming in
is also gonna mean that the pattern is different.
And there's a constant kind of remapping
and realigning that's going on.
So the patterns shift continuously
of the grid cells throughout the task.
And that doesn't mean that like
from our position of assessment,
we wouldn't find metrics.
But what it does mean is that those metrics
will look different depending on the refraction
from that position of assessment,
because this whole cellular network
is framing based on what is encountering.
So although this paper sort of presents it
as contrasting with the navigational research
and this GPS metaphor,
I think it's actually widening the landscape.
Like it's including that metaphor.
And it's also including a lot of the memory research
so that we can sort of explore the space
that's holding them.
But that's my opinion.
But they did notice what they call
re-anchoring through translation.
And that's an important term,
re-anchoring through translation.
So they even use that word translation.
That's pretty interesting.
So the grid cells like shift between reference frames
within single trials.
So one moment they're coding the position
relative to the room frame, let's say.
And then they're shifting to a coding position
relative to like some sort of salient object
that we need to use,
like a hammer or like a doorknob or whatever.
And then they're shifting to another room frame.
So this is this refraction that I'm talking about.
And we have to remember that as scientists,
we're choosing what to look at and study.
So that's part of this representing that we're doing
to try this communicating about what's happening.
But the cells themselves seem to be
working more at an ecological level,
but also able to shift and realign.
So despite these pattern changes,
this internal structure is preserved
like this manifold that we use
to describe grid cells organization.
It's intact, but it's not like random noise.
It's structured shifting.
So that's a big, big point,
which I don't even understand fully yet,
but I'm trying to explain it here
through this idea of the kaleidoscope that there's,
or this idea of holding paradox.
There is something there that is structured
and there is a constant changing of that structure,
like in a kaleidoscope.
That's the kaleidoscopic function that I'm thinking of here.
This multiple simultaneous reference frames,
constantly shifting, maintaining a relational structure
with the patterns that continually change.
That's hard to hold that.
That's the holding the paradox right there.
And the hippocampus is doing it
and probably the whole body is doing it.
And how can we begin to create representations?
And by that, I mean our communicative measurements
and our experiments and so forth that start from there,
that think that way, holding the paradox like that.
That's what I'm trying to get at here, really, in all of this.
And I think that's helpful.
And I think the hippocampal entorhinal system
is a really wonderful, beautiful, scientifically
validating way to understand this.
So we can engage in modeling without having models
or that we are representing without having representations.
That's the holding paradox of all of this, I guess.
This dynamic process replacing the static conception
of what we're doing.
And the brain's evaluating organism-environment relations,
but this evaluation isn't separate from the action.
Even if we have to represent it that way
to communicate about it.
So creating representations,
whether computational models or math or whatever,
to help us communicate about these.
And I don't know the math well enough
to say how one might pop this idea
into something like a constellation.
But I do think of this geometric hyperscanning idea
that some people in the active inference community
have started to talk about,
this topological way of considering this.
I think this might be one possibility
for how we might think about callioscopic cognition
through active inference.
And yeah, I think I've already talked long enough
and I don't have much of a voice left,
but I was thinking a lot about generative models
and how we can think of the model as the ongoing coupling.
So how can this become understood as constellatory?
Free energy minimization is like driving
the perception and action.
When you encounter something, when light patterns,
there's an immediate refraction
through your organism-environment history.
And this isn't processing or computation.
It's more like the shifting of light through the prism
or this kaleidoscopic turn.
How can we create kaleidoscopic generative models?
How can we create kaleidoscopic generative models?
I think that's really the only question
that needs to be said from this slide.
How do we begin to let the models communicate
in the way a kaleidoscope turns?
I mean, that's kind of a crazy question,
but something like that.
That's kind of what I wanna ask
and what I wanna see if it's possible,
the wild, crazy question.
So some implications for neuroscience,
if we really take all this seriously,
or if we don't take it seriously even better,
it would mean rethinking what neural function is,
fundamentally, that cognitions are the ways we,
or the ways the body makes through whatever it encounters.
So when we're recording from neurons,
we're not, or when we're looking for patterns
as cognitions, they're not to be found,
but they are to be better communicated about
as multiplicities, as possibilities,
not even in a spectrum, in a constellation of spectrums.
And memories are patterns of refraction,
perhaps we could think about it like that,
that sort of reconstitute when refracted.
This is happening again in many different directions
and dimensions, not just in some kind of linear way
that's coming in from the outside,
but you communicate with yourself in this way too,
and you refract and re-shine the light through the prism.
Yeah, there's all kinds of things we could think about
with theta oscillations, but why go there now?
Also, just understanding that bodily is
the sensory cohesion that can be understood
as the refraction patterns,
that we don't separate all these things together,
except to study them and communicate about them,
which is a very important exception.
So long as we understand that's what we're doing,
and this gives us an understanding
of what body we're assessing with our measurements
and where the boundaries of the agent might be,
because we have to set them.
Because we start to understand all this
is just part of the experiment
of the way we're representing so as to communicate,
and you can never actually represent the way making
because we're part of it.
