Hey everyone, it's Andrea Hyatt, this is my diary for October 10th, 2025.
It's going to be about four e-cognition.
So here I am walking down the street, or someone's walking down the street, it's not always me,
these are different clips, but where is the thinking happening right now as we are walking?
Is it in the brain?
Is it in the body?
Is it in my phone that's guiding me?
Is it in the video camera?
Is it in the streets themselves?
Is it in the environment?
Can we separate all of these things?
For most of the 20th century, cognitive science told us that thinking happens inside our heads,
in brains that are something like computers processing information.
But we actually sort of had it turned around because what we've made of computers are
actually just the tip of the iceberg about what cognition really is.
We're hardly even able to handle what's really possible and what's really going on in the
world, a nested world of so many different layers that we can look at from many different
angles and many different positions, as we do, wherever you are right now, you're experiencing
all of this in a different way than me, even though we're in this shared world together.
And that's incredible.
There's a revolutionary shift happening and it changes everything, really, about how we
understand mind, memory, meaning.
And one term that has been placed on this shift is called 4E, like the number four in
E. You've probably heard me talk about it in other episodes, in interviews, I even did
a little intro to it.
In any case, 4E cognition points at this, what I've been getting at here, that the brain
and the body are part of whatever cognition is, which we're only just beginning to understand,
which computers and things like LLMs and even the internet help us understand.
So those things are tips of the iceberg of what these 4Es are, or these mini Es.
And those Es stand for embodied, of course, which I've already mentioned, embedded, extended,
inactive, and also ecological, also exaptive, also emotional.
Also there's, you know, find your E and we could discuss it.
But in this video, which is, we'll just go through the main Es, the ones that sort of
go with the 4E or that originally went with the 4E.
So we're going to explore five of them here today.
And here's the beautiful part.
We can understand them all through something you do every day, which is make your way
through life, which is encounter life, which is be whoever you are.
There's no stop or start to that.
It's what you're doing.
And this is what cognition is.
It's you making your way through the world as an embodied being that has many, many
different layers and parts and dimensions and possibilities.
If you try to understand it, it's all one ongoing process, one movement.
But you can't understand all of that at once, because first of all, you are it, you're
part of it, you're inside of it, you're also outside of it.
If you want to use those kind of terms.
But really, it's more of a fractal thing where you're many different ways at once.
So embodied is a good way to start because it helps us get a handle on that.
So watch what happens as I approach this corner, for example.
I'm leaning into the turn before I consciously decide to turn.
So I kind of noticed that as I was walking that my body knows before my mind knows that
we're going to turn. But, you know, even that way that I worded it isn't really right
because body and mind aren't two different things, but mind is my awareness of my own
body's movements. I'm moving, that's already cognitive, I'm already making decisions.
But when I realize that I'm doing that, when I notice that, when I start to exert some
kind of agency over it that has memory attached to it or imagination or awareness in
this way where I know what I'm doing, then that's mind.
So thinking isn't something that happens in your body, it's as your body.
Your body is your thinking.
And then also because of these wonderful brains that we have, we can become aware of
that. We can like turn our own body to understand that body as its own subject, which
is just remarkable. A lot of times people use their hands when they're talking, as this
person is doing here. And when you're trying to solve a problem, maybe you also gesture
with your hands. I've noticed just watching myself on video that I do move around a lot
and use my hands at times.
And I'm not really thinking about that.
It's just illustrating something.
That's the body moving as thought.
So sometimes you feel nervous.
You have these like butterflies in your stomach before a decision.
That's not something different from your cognition.
When you become aware of it, that's your mind becoming aware of it.
So that mind, which is part of the body, becomes aware of that body.
So when you see someone like this person navigating a crowded space, we can look at
different parts of the body of how it moves.
One part that I particularly like is in the brain.
It's called the hippocampus.
It's the seahorse shaped structure.
And there's a lot of amazing neuroscientists, cognitive scientists, computational
neuroscientists, all sorts of wonderful scientists working to understand what this
little part of the brain does.
There's two of them, one on each side of your brain, sort of in the middle.
It's in the temporal lobe.
And for decades, scientists thought it was crucial for memory.
And it is. Maybe you've heard of special cases where this area of the brain was
removed because someone had seizures or epilepsy and then they could no longer
create new memories.
They couldn't, you know, they would meet you if you walk out of the room and come
back, you know, in 15 minutes, they don't remember you anymore.
So obviously this area had a lot to do with memory.
But then in the 70s, people you've heard me talk about and who've been on the show
like Lynn Nadell discovered that there was something else going on here.
So John O'Keeffe was the first to come upon and name this idea of the play cell,
for example.
But and there's a whole lot of other cells that have since been named, which
sometimes gets referred to as the GPS of the brain.
Although more recent work shows it's not really a GPS because, again, it's
happening in all sorts of dimensions at once.
But the point is the same area of the brain that was found to be essential for
memory, which we would think of as, you know, mind, is also essential for how we
just literally move through space.
So for what, for all these images you've been seeing of us walking, of different
people walking, that's all someone finding their way, making their way with
the help of the hippocampus, obviously.
I mean, not only the hippocampus, but it has a very, very important role to play
in that when you're moving near remembering something, moving through memory.
If you want to put it like that, you can kind of see how we're starting to think
of space in a really different way.
All this to say your body doesn't have, have a mind.
Your body is minded.
It's embodied mind.
I talked to Tim Ingald and he made a good point about embodied can sometimes sound
like you're stuck in your body and it's really not like that at all.
It's more of this ongoing process that is your body, which is in constant communication.
I mean, you're breathing, you're eating, your sensory body is looping
with the world in a way.
Navigation isn't just a metaphor for thinking.
It's literally a form of navigation, or you could think of it the other way around.
Before you develop what you probably think of as mind or cognition, which, as I said,
is that being aware of all of the stuff that's happening and maybe even attaching it
to certain representations, linguistically and so on, you're already cognitive just
by being alive because you're making your way, you're finding your way,
you're moving through the world.
And this is already a cognitive act, which as we go becomes something we can notice
and become aware of and that we then call mind.
That's a little just tip of the iceberg of embodied mind.
But if you even want a more simple definition, just understand that your thinking is not
only in your head, it's in your whole body.
And that is actually a really beautiful revelation to have when you're moving through
the world, because when you're sitting, doing yoga, when you're dancing, when you're
walking, when you're making love, whatever, you're involved in a really multi-dimensional,
beautiful expression with those around you, with the world and with yourself.
So the next word is embedded.
And this is how I think a good way to think about this.
I would listen back to the episode I had with David Seaman when we talked about
Christopher Alexander and pattern language.
I really think of pattern language as a kind of wonderful example of what being
embedded is, because if you think about it in terms of space and place, when you walk
into certain houses or rooms or cities or mountainscapes or whatever you might be in,
that space, you're embedded in it.
And it's also creating an emotional and cognitive, because emotional is cognitive
experience for you.
So you're embedded in everything.
And as you move and as the irregularities around you change, so too do the
parameters of your cognition.
Think about reading a map at home on your couch versus reading it when you're lost
in an unfamiliar city at night.
So the map might be the same, your brain is more or less the same, but it's in a
completely different context.
When you're sitting at home reading that map, you're embedded in a different
context. And if you're actually, you've just arrived in a city, maybe the train
stopped somewhere you didn't expect and you had to get out and you're trying to
read your phone and figure out where you are.
And it's a very different experience, even though if you just describe it, you
could say, yeah, I'm looking at my phone and reading off a map.
So wherever you are, the context in which you're embedded makes a huge difference
for the parameters of what you're thinking of as your cognition or literally what
you're thinking of, of literally what you are as a thinking being.
So content isn't just where you think, it shapes what you think.
So you can't pull cognition out of the environment.
That's what this embedded is.
It's like you're meshed in your cognition and you and your body are all this
beautiful dynamic weaving with the world and you can't pull those things apart.
So different environments will have different effects.
So of course I'm being very general here, but just an easy way to understand this
is that the environment that you're in kind of weaves what's possible.
It gives you the threads for what's possible for your cognition on some level.
Of course, many other things do too, like your body itself, what you ate that day
and so on and so forth, but you get the point.
That's embeddedness.
Now extended is, well, the GPS itself you might think of as almost like
an extension of my mind or our mind.
So when we're looking at the map on our phone, we can almost imagine that
that is an extension of our own body in a sense, because it's literally
connected to us in our hand, it's interacting with us in a certain way.
Andy Clark and Dave Chalmers wrote a great paper about this, which I'll link to.
With this GPS, for example, I don't need to hold the whole city's
layout in my mind.
I don't need to imagine it all.
With a paper map, I might have to translate between the
abstraction and the territory.
When I just ask someone on the street, like where do you know how to get to the museum?
Then I'm navigating through a social interaction and a narrative
and maybe they're gesturing.
Each of these is extending my cognition in a different way.
This is a really interesting subject to think of when you think about writing
things down and making lists and how that becomes part of your memory, or when
we think about any form of technology.
One of the classic examples, which actually comes from Gregory Bateson,
which you've heard me talk about, is this extension of the cane.
If we're having trouble seeing, or we're a blind person and we need a cane,
it can help us.
And after enough time, the cane's feedback is like our body's feedback.
We feel the sidewalk through the cane.
So you can think of that cane as an extension.
So that's another E.
That's another part of this different way of thinking about cognition.
It's not just in your brain.
It's even in the things that you're using, that you're touching, that are
helping you sense the world.
And all those things literally change the parameters of your possibility as well.
Just think about what happens to your thinking now that you have a smartphone.
How much that changes it?
I was just in Iceland and I didn't look at my phone very much.
And I was just in the world, you know, hiking around.
And it's so different, the kind of affordances, what's possible for
your cognitive, emotional being.
But you know, the same is true when it comes to technology.
That also opens up many worlds.
The point is just they're different worlds.
So that's extended.
And then inactive is a word you've probably heard when Mirka talked with
Ezekiel DiPaolo, when I talked with Hannah DeJager, Evan Thompson was on.
Actually, there's a lot of inactive.
Julian Kiverstein works with that a lot.
And that's sort of taking all these things we've been talking about and really
understanding that what we think of cognition is this ongoing participatory
sense-making that's happening between or as our bodies and everything we're
encountering, including our own self in the way that we were talking about, in
the way that we become aware of our own thoughts, of our own movements, of our
own possibilities.
So here's the thing.
I don't plan my entire route and then execute it when I go walk.
I find my way.
I make my way.
I see what's ahead.
I respond.
I adjust.
The route emerges through the act of walking, even when I'm in a new place.
And when I'm in an old place, it could depend on my awareness, what I see.
We've probably all had that experience where you, if you're in a certain state
of attention, the environment, you can suddenly see things you hadn't seen before.
And this isn't just true of navigation.
You don't understand a book, for example, by passively receiving the information.
You're making your way through that book.
So there's a similar coupling is a word people use, but there's a sense-making
that's going on between you and whatever you're encountering, whatever you're in
dialogue with, whatever you're part of and noticing that you're part of and
putting your focus on.
That can be a conversation.
It's the people around us.
It's the animals.
It's the creatures.
It can be the plant.
All of that is this inactive cognition that's participatory.
And it's not something we have or own.
It's something we do.
It's not a state, it's an activity.
We're making sense.
We're making way.
There's this active dynamic systems approach tied up in all of this.
And again, this is just a tip of the iceberg.
Also, I think here you can really get to this idea of loving and knowing and how
they're connected, because we start to understand this as relational.
That's an important word.
Relational comes really to the forefront once you start thinking of inaction, of
cognition, mind, all these things that we think of as emotion, as ourselves, really
as memory, as being ways we move through and navigate the world.
And that relationality is what connects us, what holds us.
And that connects to many themes of love and loving that we've discussed on love
and philosophy.
So you don't have love or have knowledge.
You make these things.
You make love.
You make knowledge and you're not doing it by yourself.
So even if you think you are, even if you're alone, you're actually coming out of
an embedded in, an embodied, extended, ongoing life world encounter with
everything that you're taking in with the books you read, the authors who wrote
them, everything on social media and so forth, or just the person at the grocery
store or just yourself.
So inactive, there would be much more to say about that, but just as a summary,
it's this ongoing relational sense making that's happening as your cognition, as
you're alive, as you're encountering the world.
And then another E, which we're already at five now, but it's ecological.
And that's another word we've talked about here with Harry Heff, for example, and
through the work of J.J.
Gibson and others.
And when we say cognition is ecological, we mean that thinking doesn't belong to
us in isolation and also that it's not always something that's taking a lot of
time. It's an immediate and it's also nested.
It's also a lot of what we've been talking about.
This is a way of getting a hold on it, of thinking of depending on where we're
going to put our focus, we can understand mind as part of all this, of our bodies,
of ourselves, of our conversations, of our social groups, of all of these online
communities, of everyone in our city, our school, our work, our family.
It's this nested system.
So your body's in a room, in a building, in a neighborhood, in a city, in a planet
or on a planet, part of a planet.
So we can think of ecological in a lot of different ways.
The usual way that that word is used is connected to ecological psychology and J.J.
Gibson. But I extend it because I think Rachel Carson, for example, and Gregory
Bateson and many others that have used the word ecological open us up into a
really important way.
Also, understanding cognition as almost like when we say it's ecological, it's
saying that it's ongoing at many different positions at the same time in
many different dimensions as everything that is.
What's wonderful about that is when we start thinking about kaleidoscopic or
constellation thinking, we start to realize how at many different positions
within that ongoing planetary process that what mind is can be very different.
Just as we've discussed, because every body will be in a different place, having
come from a different set of regularities, a different past.
You've read different books, seen different movies.
So when we think of it, we zoom out and realize how many wonderful, crazy layers
there are to the kinds of cognition that are happening, then ecological is a good
word for us to understand that because it's not located in any one body.
And yet it's being co-created by all those bodies at the same time, much like
an ecosystem and the health of it really depends on a lot of its parts.
So I often talk about this ecological orientation, which is sort of understanding
ourselves, not as just isolated, you know, meat machines or something, but as living
multiplicities, constellations of relationships.
So every thought you have is of course, in some way shaped by every other thought
you've ever had and everything everyone's ever said to you.
Also, of course, your body, your biology, your language, your cultures, the
technologies you use, the rhythms of the natural world that you're in.
So again, you're not inside of an ecology, but you are that ecology and you're
co-creating it, and that is a thinking process.
That is a cognitive process.
When we orient ecologically, we start to see that mental and environmental, which
is interesting that mental is part of environmental.
So when we see that mental and environmental health aren't separate issues,
they're patterns that connect.
And that goes from the neuron all the way to whatever atoms or planetary
constellations in the universe we might be looking at.
I'm not saying that all of that is thinking like a human thinks, or that
it's cognitive like a human, definitely there would be much nuance in that.
But what I am saying is all of that as taken as a whole is creating what we're
experiencing right now as cognition.
And when we think about navigability, we start to think about, okay, so if I
think of that map again, you know, it depends on who I am, where I am, what
I'm moving through, how all of that ecological, all of those ecological
relations are setting the parameters of whatever my cognition might be.
Where is this thinking happening?
Again, it's not in my body, it's not in the phone, it's not in the street,
it's not in the people, it's not in my dog, it's not in the sky.
And it's in all those places.
It's everywhere and in no one particular place.
So that's this new way of thinking, which is an old way of thinking that
we're still trying to figure out of how to let all of that be at once in the
moving body, in the moving planet, in the moving everything, context shaping,
tools extending, doing the enacting, ecology, ecological, relational, turning
the kaleidoscope, kaleidoscopic thinking.
All of these are almost like poems that kind of spring out of this way of
thinking that I've been describing here with the E's.
It's part of how we can learn to hold all these perspectives at once and
not have to choose between them.
You know, we don't choose between being embodied, embedded,
inactive, or ecological.
It's just different ways that we're understanding one ongoing process and
we can't collapse those into each other and we don't want to, and we can't solve
it, we don't need to make one into the other, but instead we think of it as
many different ways to understand this process.
So each E gives us a different view of this ongoing process and we can sort
of rotate between them and notice their contradictions and let those
contradictions be portals into new ways of understanding and sensing them.
We start to experience ourselves not as either or, but as constellations,
as many sensual possibilities, many ways of being.
And we're not separate minds, but we are unique minds that have something to
share with everyone we meet and connect with.
And each connection we make, even when they're really hard, can be understood
as a way to increase or expand what's possible for us as cognitive beings and
to even change these shared patterns that we have that guide us and that hold us.
And that's sort of the heart of love and philosophy is starting to understand
that whatever that is that's holding us, when we listen to it and put our
attention on it, we're engaging in an act of loving, which is also a
particular sort of knowing, maybe the only real knowing.
And both of those are ways we make together through this
infinite complexity of existence.
And I don't know about you, but I find it just incredible that we can be aware
that we're here, that we're part of this.
And it's hard, it's challenging, it's overwhelming, it's wonderful.
So that's my diary for today.
Thank you for listening.
Hope you're doing well wherever you are.
And I send you another E, which is exuberance.
I like that word today.
All right, bye.
