I really wanted to see, like, how does our inner contribute to outer change?
And is there a connection?
I always put it, or for me, it has this greater context that I want to do it
for personal, as well as planetary health.
I often talk about eco-philosophy, because any philosophy, like one thing
that I want to, at least what I have for myself as a, the goal is to always see
it in this ecological context, which has planetary boundaries, which has
a real physical reality to one of those things that I thought about it.
Like, okay, I want to find my philosophy, and this was one of the main drivers
for a long time in my life without me even knowing, like, I wanted to find,
okay, what's the philosophy I can live by?
What are the principles, values that I really want to see in my everyday life?
And then I saw these two parts of having a philosophy and living
philosophically, or living that philosophy.
So turning those values, belief systems, actually turning them into action.
And I thought, like, okay, these two parts make, like, philosophy as a way of life,
or make philosophy tangible.
And then eventually I noticed, but this having a philosophy, I've been searching
for the philosophy now for the last 10 years, and I still haven't found it.
And it's almost like, at one point I'm like, should I give up hope that
eventually I'm going to find it?
But then I noticed, well, no, it's so much more about this process of finding
it is actually living philosophically.
And that's the beauty of it.
And then it kind of noticed for the first time where philosophy is called
love or wisdom, so, but it's a love of it and having and possessing it.
And the same for me became apparent with philosophy.
Like, it's not something I have, but it's really something I, on the one
hand, that I do, but also something that has sort of a life of its own.
Because I, as much as I have agency and as much as I can determine certain
parts of that philosophy, at the same time, it's always influenced by so many
people and it's always changing, adopting to my circumstances.
So I will never be able to hold it.
And as soon as I try to do that, I feel like it's already slipping away again.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
Today's guest is Jessica Boma, a sustainability scientist, a
transformation researcher.
She is the founder and director of the Institute for Practical Ecophilosophy.
And she's a professor and academic director in technology management in Berlin.
She also writes about philosophy and sustainability in her blog.
She's following this tradition of philosophy as a way of life that you
might've heard of from Pierre Hadot, which is also very connected to the
Stoic ideas and to Marcus Aurelius, hepatitis, it's not the things that
trouble us, but our judgment about things.
That's one thread of this.
Another thread would be the relational philosophy, the ideas of individuals as
being entangled in their very essence, entangled together in our existence,
as our existence.
Karen Barad writes about this a lot about how to be entangled is to be intertwined
with each other, but also part of one another.
We aren't individuals in the sense of existing alone, but tangled up together.
So Jess is looking at these kinds of ideas.
Those are some inspirations that we talk about here in this conversation.
She's trying to talk about them in a way that will be understandable and
applicable no matter where you are and what's going on in your life.
Taking some of these academic notions and putting them, translating them,
however you want to say it, into other ways of expression.
But it's also just that she's having an exploration herself and that she's
sharing it with us through her writings and through her work, doing things
called philosophy gems, for example.
So that's a European funded research program where different businesses,
small to medium, actually take part in these philosophy gems.
And that's the idea that really drew me in because I'm constantly trying to
think of ways for us to understand ourselves as entangled with one another,
but also to understand that physical and mental is in entanglement.
The philosophy gem idea brings that together in a way.
You're working out your mentality in a sense.
I think of her work as trying to bring ecological love and philosophical
thinking into everyday life and from an engineering mindset and a business
mindset, and that's a big, hard project.
And so I just want to support her and introduce you to her.
And I hope you'll find her work.
I'm sure you'll enjoy reading her blog posts.
We in this conversation talk about how she got to where she is and what she's
really trying to do, what it means to her.
We talk about this knowledge action gap and value action gap where we, and we
know what's good for us or we know what we should be doing or we know what would
lead to a better world.
And yet we don't quite do it.
We can't quite get motivated.
Some of that is the disconnect that it's hard to figure out how to share and be
successful, for example, without selling out or being inauthentic.
And in her work, she wrestles with this a bit.
She might have a title like this article will save your life, which is something a
lot of people will click on.
But then she notes that, you know, you probably clicked on this because of that
title, what is this about?
And she explores that.
We also talk about wildness.
Her sub-stack is called wild philosophy.
And I think this wildness speaks to the entanglement and the relationality and
how, because we're so enmeshed and entangled with one another, we can never
quite see the full picture.
And that's a wildness.
But also how philosophy as a way of life or just critical thinking, the practice
of philosophy helps us to notice that movement in its patterns in different ways.
And this is so helpful for structure, for scaffolding, for connection, for all the
things that we need alongside that wildness.
So wild philosophy and Jess's work, I think, is exploring a lot of this.
And of course, much more.
And we talk about that here.
There might be a little interruption from a dog.
The office was, someone was ringing the doorbell.
And so I'm sorry about that.
If you're watching it as a video, you'll get to see the dogs at the end.
If you're a dog lover, I hope you're doing well out there in the world, wherever
you may be, I just want to send you some support and some love, and I hope you
find some words or videos or music or a tree, whatever you might need today that
gives you a little energy, a little positivity, a little love in whatever
way you might need it.
Don't be afraid of it.
Love matters.
We're making it and it's not easy.
So let's try and help each other do it.
Okay.
All right.
Here we go.
Okay.
Hi, Jessica.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
I'm so glad you're here today.
It's wonderful to meet you.
Thank you.
Very nice to meet you as well.
So I kind of wish I was in Berlin and we could do this on a walk.
I was thinking.
Yeah, that'd be lovely.
Yeah.
I think walkers, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's one of my favorite activities actually, like walking and talking.
It was just the best concept for me.
Me too.
But for those who don't know you, you have quite a wide background.
You seem to have some engineering.
You certainly have philosophy.
You have the ecological.
How can we introduce you here in a way that's going to do
justice to all those parts of you?
Yeah.
My background is in mechanical engineering and I've worked in that
field also a little bit after I finished my studies.
And after a short time, I felt a bit unease and started studying again,
sustainability and quality management, which was very business focused.
But one thing that I did there was I looked at like, what can I possibly
contribute?
And the first thing I looked at were technologies because, you know, with
my background, it was kind of a given.
And then I started going into like renewable energies and water technologies.
And I saw like, there's already so much out there, but why has it not been
implemented on scale, like what's underneath it?
And it kind of got me into questioning like, okay, if all these
solutions are there, why is it not happening?
And then at the same time, I started in my own life to really try to live
according to a sustainable standard, which was, you know, reducing my carbon
footprint immensely, which was impossible, I would almost say to do.
But I really tried to see where in my own life am I not acting ecologically
or also in my social, like in my relations, where am I not showing up in
a way that I think the world needs us to show up?
And that really like became this question of how do I live my life?
And that became so much of a driver in regards to the challenges that I saw.
They seem to be not on a technological level and not on a political level, but
just people kind of pointing fingers at each other the whole time, like the
politicians would say, oh yeah, it's a company, the companies would say it's
got the consumers and then the consumers would say, well, we need to change
politics. And then, you know, it would just go round and round and nothing was
really changing. So I was really looking at like, okay, what can I contribute to
that? And how am I involved in the whole system?
And that since then has been basically where my question of like, how do I live
my life, which really got me into thinking a lot about complex systems and
eventually got me into philosophy, which I have no formal background in, actually.
No, my PhD was very, very focused on a very philosophical.
But yeah, so I tried to bring together these.
Can I ask, can I ask what was your PhD about?
Because it was very philosophical, but it wasn't philosophy.
So, yeah, so, so it wasn't in sustainability science.
And what I was looking at was basically the way that I framed it was about inner
transformation and sustainability or inner and outer transformation and how do
these two relate? And I really wanted to see, like, how does our inner contribute
to outer change? And is there a connection?
And eventually I noticed, like, OK, one of these changes that we need to make is to
switch from a really mechanistic way of understanding the world to a really
relational way of understanding the world.
But once we do that, then actually this idea of the inner can solve the outer
kind of dissolves. But the inner and outer are really, you know, basically two
sides of the same coin.
They are so closely related that it's hard to actually make that distinction,
which, yeah, which then got me into questioning, OK, what is this relational
worldview and which different disciplines have been already engaging with it?
And I saw how many different fields are already part of that, actually.
So I looked at that and then I tried to develop transformative educational
processes in order to teach people, like, how do they get from mechanistic to
relational? And then afterwards I was like, oh, my God, what have I done?
Like, this is such a mechanistic approach getting from one course to effect.
That's wonderful that you bring it up like that, because, you know, this a lot
of my project is trying to understand dichotomy and what does it mean to move
beyond dichotomy or holding paradox, which I've found that it's not about
solving that. You know, you talk about solutions a lot, too, and it's not the
solution. But I do think there's at first it sounds like you had it, too.
We feel like we have these two things that are contradictory and we need to
resolve them. Yeah, we need to decide between them somehow, you know, that if
you're if you're doing something that you've called inner transformation, then
it must be different from whatever the outer transformation is.
It starts to feel like a trap a bit in a lot of different in science and
philosophy in our everyday life to try to make one into the other or choose
between them. Does that speak?
Did you feel that tension a bit when you were?
Yeah, absolutely. And it took me quite some time to to figure that out.
Like when I started, you know, first it started about learning about what
relational philosophy or what relational approaches even are and a relational
role of approaching the world.
And the three spheres that I looked at right from the beginning were about our
ways of knowing, being and doing.
OK, when Barrett talks about it as an ethical onto epistemology, these three
spheres are always interrelated.
So I knew, OK, I don't just have to change what I know, but I also have to
change the way I approach it, the way I act it out.
And this is all involved into into researching that as well.
But I wasn't quite sure, like, how do I bring myself in in that way?
And especially in in regards to doing research, you know, like the relational
lens to research is still something that's very much in the margins, especially
in topics like sustainability, science or transformation research, where I'm
more or less situated.
So developing or it actually needs the developing of methods first in order to
to figure out how that works.
And I've really wrapped my head around it so much and I still am and to some
degree of like this question of how do we make the immeasurable measurable, even
though, you know, in a way, I don't want to make it measurable and, you know,
everything's related, but we also can take it all into account.
So finding this this critical distinction between where does it become meaningless
because we're taking too much into account and how do we, you know, analyze,
take a part, focus on one part of it that's maybe interesting, but at the same
time, don't lose the view for the whole.
Yeah, exactly.
I think that's where complex systems can help a bit too.
And starting to think and what I imagine is multiplicities, which can be hard and
it can be too overwhelming.
But I wonder when, when you started getting into the relational thing and
because you're coming at it from a different way for me.
And even though when I read your work, I really resonate a lot and it's very,
it's very interesting to me to try to understand how you came into it.
So transformation, that's a big word and that research and what, what kind of
philosophy were you reading or what did you first start to, I know you've
referenced Whitehead, for example, and other process philosophy, but do you
remember when you started having kind of.
I think my entry point was actually rather through indigenous philosophies.
And, and, and that was the first time I came.
Yeah, it really made sense to me.
I would say, well, I started, that's still sometimes doesn't make sense.
At least it started to make sense to me to some point.
And then it was very, very diverse and it's hard to, to pin down.
Another one, or who has greatly influenced my thinking was Karen Barrett.
And trying to really understand what she means took me quite, quite some time
and quite of different books as well were also, especially when I, when I
tried to translate that into how do I now do my research based on that, you
know, trying to understand what she's actually saying.
And I think there is a big distinction, at least I see that in sustainability
science, it's easy to talk about these relational philosophies or not easy, but
there was a way of talking about that.
But then to actually translate that into our research and then how we approach
knowledge, this really kind of flips around our way of approaching the world.
And I think that makes it so difficult and I still notice myself, like when I
talk to people and when we, when we write, for example, academic papers, you
know, we're constantly pointing out, well, but here you're falling into the
trap of approaching it mechanistically.
And, and it's really hard to get out of that, that lens, I feel.
I, yeah, me too.
And some of it is just being aware of that you're doing it, not necessarily
not doing it or even saying this is, I'm coming at it from this angle because
then you understand that it's not everything, you know, that seems like
what you do in your work too, a bit with the way that you talk about these very
different, I mean, you, you bring up spirituality, you bring up the physical,
the mental, the emotional, I feel like you're trying to show that kaleidoscope
or that complexity.
I mean, I sometimes think like, as mentioned in the beginning, like the
diversity of the background.
And I think like one thing where this comes in handy almost is that, you
know, my, my studies, my first studies, it was very practical.
So I learned more about like, how do I, how do I build an engine than, you
know, what is academic work?
So it was very, very practice oriented.
So I didn't have so much the idea of these different disciplines.
And I had this huge struggle when I started out at my PhD, that the topic
that I wanted to do, I couldn't find a PhD supervisor.
And I started with various professors and they were like, well, I can help
you with this, but this is actually, no, this is not working.
And then I, you know, actually start working together.
Or they said, I don't want to work with you anymore.
And it was the same topic, transformation.
Yes, it was about inner transformation and sustainability.
And then, and then in my PhD proposals, I was always, you know, take it quite,
quite big and have quite a big approach, which was alienating and not necessarily
typical in academia, especially in Germany, where it's like academia, I feel
is especially siloed and it's sometimes, you know, people are very hesitant about
like unusual topics.
So, and now in sustainability science, the whole topic around inner transformation
has become more established, but back when I started, it wasn't yet.
So, so it took quite some time.
And I think the benefit that I sort of had was that I don't have this strict
academic discipline that I wanted to follow.
And that kind of got me into just exploring whatever my interests took me
without, you know, having that glasses on beforehand.
And it actually only later occurred to me like, okay, okay, this is how you
divide disciplines and this is what it really means.
And yeah.
Yeah.
It's always going back and forth.
Some people want to, when we talk about interdisciplinarity, trying to make it
where the boundaries aren't so apparent, it sounds like you kind of came at it
from the other way of, oh, okay, I can kind of see the differences because
yeah, I guess what a lot of us are trying to solve the same problems and even
using sometimes the same texts, but coming at it from different traditions,
we can even talk, talk about the same things, but mean different things
sometimes.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Do you think when you were trying to talk about inner transformation, was that
difficult for professors?
Because, you know, this is love and philosophy and I, I'm talking to
scientists, neuroscientists, people, and this, this word is very hard sometimes.
I mean, for me too, thinking about it, you know, and also that line, which you
talk about in your writing a bit too of, of the simplification versus the
condition of the complexity or this becoming about something like self-help,
you know, and the way that maybe professors might look down on that.
I don't know, have you, did you feel any of that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, very strongly.
It's, it's opened up a little bit, I feel, but especially when I, when I started
out, I was lucky to find a research group, which also just started out
exploring these topics with the Quiet Established Research Institute here in
Germany, and they were also just two people who had the liberty to kind of
explore this topic.
So one of our first goals was to sort of establish that as an actual, you know,
topic to be discussed and to, to, to start building a community around
people who are already in their private lives, you know, are concerned with that
on a very high level, but don't really bring it into their professional fields,
like especially sustainability scientists who often, you know,
sustainability I think is a good topic because a lot of people come to it
actually through love and through caring about the world on such a deep level.
And so in the beginning, it was really just get, trying to get the people
together who were, you know, somehow in their, in their closet talking about it.
And now I see how it's coming up in conferences.
There's now a conference in the, in the UK, which is accompanied by a pre-event
where one of the main professors is doing like a shamanic journey for people
beforehand to connect that to sustainability.
So it's, I really see a big shift there.
But yeah, in the beginning it was quite difficult and I still find that sometimes.
Yeah.
Well, that's good to hear that it's changing.
Hopefully it continues and I mean, it's always a balance, right?
Do you ever find you can go too far into?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I have this, or there's this one guy, he's writing on Substack.
I think his name is Tom Morgan and he has a scale at the beginning.
He talks about the woo factor.
Yeah, yeah, right.
I love that to bring that kind of as a warning and to show like, okay, we are self-aware
that these things might be a bit ambiguous for some people, but there was so much,
so much to them.
And yeah, but still when I, when I talk to people sort of outside my bubble,
I see how that can be alienating or sometimes I have that with students.
So most of my students are also coming from a background in engineering who are,
a lot of them are coming from India doing an MBA in Germany to work for Tesla,
the big car company.
And so I try to bring these perspectives in and it's, yeah, it's taking some finesse,
maybe is why we're to bring these topics to them sometimes.
Sometimes for some it's just like click, but for some it's difficult, I think.
What's the kind of class that you would teach where you would talk about that?
Would it be?
Well, it's a classic MBA program, you could say with a focus on different technologies.
One of them is environmental and energy management and they do have a basic class
in sustainability or corporate sustainability, corporate social responsibility
and global management.
So I bring these aspects into those sustainability management classes where I try to,
you know, explain the global context first through explaining the meta-crisis and then
bringing that down.
It's great that you're doing that.
I think that reminded me, somebody was, were they laughing at you because you
use the term planetary health or?
Yes, yeah, yeah.
Does that happen often?
Not so much.
So that was quite unusual, yes.
And that was actually why there was peers, you know, who were,
to whom this was so alienating as they are coming not out of this bubble,
but from a very different discipline.
So, yeah, they found it funny.
The students are fortunately a bit more generous.
Do you think that it was funny because thinking of the planet as living was funny?
Or sometimes we laugh just because we're uncomfortable or we're caught off guard or whatever.
Yeah.
But planetary health now sounds, it's funny how you get conditioned and you just,
that sounds like a normal phrase.
But then I do remember a time when it maybe would not have, so.
Yeah, I wonder if it's, and I'd be curious to hear what you think,
but I do wonder if it's, you know, because it is humanizing the planet in a sense,
or giving it the subject of agency.
And I wonder if that is something that's still, like you said,
to us probably it's like the most normal thing.
But I think to many people it is a very weird concept.
Yeah, and even for me, I can see how there could be dangers in that,
even in the way that I do it.
Yeah, I think of these things as all connected and sort of fluid.
And I wonder if you two do too.
And by that I mean the planet in terms of trees and the ecological world that we're all part of.
And then the social groups of different beings, humans, my own body.
It's become hard for me to think of those as really distinctly separated.
I think they're different and they have, you know,
different regularities that hold together differently.
And we have to understand that.
But I also think, of course, in that relational way we brought up before,
it's all interacting, it's all co-creating.
And I wonder if that is the idea that sometimes we miss
when we talk about the planet as a living being,
because people do shut off because they're seeing it as,
oh, we're calling the planet a human.
Yeah.
Which isn't quite the same thing.
Absolutely, absolutely, yes.
And I find it interesting because now that you said that there might be a danger in that,
I think another danger, let's say, or another pitfall might be that
if we talk about the planet as like one,
and if it is one, then we can't really relate to it anymore
because we are distinct in some sense as well.
And if we lose that distinction,
and sometimes that's what I miss in the relational discourse,
you know, it's like relationship as in we are all one,
but we are all also distinct because otherwise we couldn't even relate.
And so maybe if we see the planet, you know, just as this one being
and don't acknowledge that we are also somehow a separate entity as part of that,
then we don't question maybe so much how do we want to shape that relationship.
So yeah.
Yeah, that's a very good point.
And that is also what I feel like we have to learn a new way of talking about these things.
And it comes from exploring it and the messiness of it being okay that we are
separate individuals and different and that we're all co-creating
whatever you want to say together, the life, the planet, our neighborhoods, whatever.
It goes back to that same thing I think you felt with your PhD
and that I still feel in some of your writing of this having to choose between sides
and it being so hard maybe and even tiring to try to hold both of them at once
and to even get people to open up their senses to what's the shared area of those things.
Do you feel like you're trying to do something like that in your work?
Yeah, and I think it's something that I also, you know, it's very much a process I go through myself
to like, we often say like, we need to be able to hold paradoxes and ambiguity.
And I still struggle with that in so many ways to actually be in that space.
And especially I think like sometimes, you know, I tend to if a group of people,
and I don't have a specific example right now, maybe it comes to me a second,
but if a group of people is going into or if I read a lot and going into one direction,
I often ask myself, okay, what could be the different perspective and how is that not complete?
And I try to bring the different perspective in.
But by bringing in that different perspective, I often notice how I'm like, okay,
like this was the truth, but no, it's this and that.
And I think it's the same with, for example, the mechanistic and the relational type
kind of thinking about the world, like it is relational, but it also has a mechanistic point
and it has a separation in things.
So trying to hold both of them, I think, yeah, for me, it's always, always tricky.
And I'm still like, sometimes also readers point out, well, it's that, but isn't it awful that?
And I'm like, ah, yeah, good point.
I forgot about that in my thinking and writing.
And to live with that, I think, can also be quite, quite tricky, especially with paradoxes.
Like one of those things that I've always been very prevalent in my life.
And I think I also, one of the guiding questions for me are this idea between the
knowledge and action gap.
It's referred to in sustainability science or value action gap.
Like, why do we value or know this, but don't act accordingly?
And eventually it's kind of, and I'm still staying with it, but it's sort of occurring to me,
like if there is this gap which can't be closed at all, and there seems to be like almost like
two opposing sides, like maybe that's a completely wrong question.
And it's actually like something in between, like a thought space that's, you know,
bringing me a lot closer to an answer instead of trying to solve this puzzle,
which actually has no solution, if that makes sense.
Yeah, well said.
And I think that's what we're all trying to do in our many different ways right now.
We have to develop a new language almost to be able to do this.
And it does, it is hard because we just assume those kinds of things, like you said,
like there's a gap and it's so built into our language and our way of thinking that
we don't realize we kind of, we did create that way of thinking about it.
And it could be that knowledge and it could be continuous.
It might be, you know, this is the mental physical kind of dichotomy too, or the inner outer.
Maybe those are different assessments of a process that is the same.
And how do we think of that?
Because that means you can't make what is physical into what is mental,
and you don't even need to because you're assessing it from a different position.
It's like, you know, but to really hold that and understand that,
I think it really requires all of us trying to help each other do it,
because it's a very different future if we learn to think like that.
And I also, what you just mentioned about the language,
that's something that I also came across and constantly come across of like,
you know, making verbs out of or making nouns into verbs and really sort of developing that.
In my PhD, I actually started out when I wrote the final piece and created all sorts of words.
And then I got scared and I actually threw it all out in more conventional training.
I just sat like, okay, we need to reinvent new words.
And I think there's something to it because it is alienating sometimes.
So I find that a thin line between developing new words,
because we need a new language to actually describe what we are meaning.
And at the same time, if people are coming to that who are not in that space
or thinking in that space anymore, it's very like, oh, what's that supposed to mean?
And yeah, so we could almost be talking like different languages.
Yeah, and I think we are. It's one reason I want to have these conversations,
because I've, for example, the way you use relational, or I just had a nice conversation
with Bayo Kamalafi, and he's also referencing similar people.
And the way this use of relational is different from, for example, how I learned
participatory sense making and this four E cognition, which is also all built on relation,
relation up and down. And sometimes when we're just in conversation and we're using that word,
we're coming at it from different ways. And it's not that those are bad, it's just that
it opens up other paths if we understand what paths we've been on before.
Holding all that complexity, again, it can be really overwhelming, can't it?
I mean, I know you also have felt a sense of overwhelm because I think that's part of it,
too. I wonder what your experience is of it, of you have to take it slowly and be gentle
with yourself because you do start to realize how many layers and fractals and possibilities
there are. And it can be overwhelming to also hold firm in your place, which is important.
Yeah, absolutely. And I think there was, to me, there's also this, what makes this topic so
beautiful and interesting that it's like I'm covering layer upon layer. It feels like it's
never going to end. But you did kind of come back to philosophy and this continuity, I feel it in
the way that you talk about philosophy, because sometimes you talk about philosophy as living,
as a being. I mean, I think of mind itself as a process, a verb, of our consciousness,
of our living. It's how we're making our way. And I feel like the way you talk about philosophy,
too, is this, it's a livingness. I think you even said sometimes you ask,
is my philosophy tired or something? Could you help us understand a little bit of how you've
come to think of philosophy? Yeah, I'll try to. Knowing that we can't say it all.
Yeah. I mean, when I started out, the way I approached it, and when I saw,
when I really dove into philosophy also as using the term philosophy, one of the things was
that I thought about it as like, okay, I want to find my philosophy. And I feel like this was one
of the main drivers for a long time in my life without me even knowing. I wanted to find, okay,
what's the philosophy I can live by? What are the principles, values that I really want to see in
my everyday life? And then I saw these two parts of having a philosophy and living philosophically,
or living that philosophy, so turning those values, belief systems, actually turning them
into action. And I thought, okay, these two parts make philosophy as a way of life or make
philosophy tangible. And then eventually I noticed like, oh, but this having a philosophy,
I've been searching for the philosophy now for the last 10 years and I still haven't found it. And
it's almost like, at one point I'm like, should I give up hope that eventually I'm going to find it?
But then I noticed, well, no, it's so much more about this process of finding it is actually
living philosophically. And that's the beauty of it. And then I came to the, then it kind of
noticed for the first time, well, philosophy is called the love of wisdom. But it's a love of it
and not having and possessing it. And the same for me became apparent with philosophy. It's not
something I have, but it's really something on the one hand that I do, but also something that has
sort of a life of its own, because as much as I have agency and as much as I can determine
certain parts of that philosophy, but at the same time, it's always influenced by so many people
and it's always changing, adopting to my circumstances. So I will never be able to hold
it. And as soon as I try to do that, I feel like it's already slipping away again. And now if you
go to the great philosophers who actually wrote down a full philosophy, for them it makes sense,
but probably if you would talk to them now, it would also be very different. So what we get
afterwards is a momentarily result from what they have written down. And Sophie Strand talks
about this a lot, about the difficulty of oral cultures versus written cultures and written,
that it's then, it's something that's fixed, but an oral culture would change the story over and
over again, depending on who's narrating it and the circumstances. And I feel like with philosophy,
it's actually sort of the same thing. That also goes to that notion of maybe
our tools, our languages and so on being taken maybe too literally. So when we write something,
we think, oh, then that's the system, right? And it can never change. And I guess that's what you're
talking about here too, is that we're starting to learn it's all a verb and even the books that we
have created are still going to be living and changing. And that's part of the overwhelm too,
I guess. And what I noticed was, and at one point I asked myself, well, do we have, you know,
if language is so limiting in that way, like maybe, you know, do we just need to talk in poetry and
this, that more, more fruitful? And I sort of like, wow, I'm never going to be a poet.
So, and I saw like, well, there's different layers to that, because it's really like this,
also what I do with, or I think any of us do with our writing, you know, we do make this momentarily
snapshot where we analyze a specific topic. And I think there is nothing wrong with it. It really
does help us to understand the world better, as long as we do not forget that it is part of a
process and part of a larger content. So I don't think it's necessarily so much about, also in
science, not only so much about how we do it, but rather how we think about it and how we
contextualize it, or if we contextualize it at all. And yeah, especially in science, even
though it's supposed to be, you know, this open inquiry where we continue to learn, I feel like
the way it's often talked about or how people perceive it, it's like, well, it's science. This
is like, it's a written law that will never change in this, yeah, infinite in its value.
Yeah, that's also part of that holding paradox of science being the best we have towards,
you know, experimenting and finding truth, but also realizing everything we're studying
and experimenting is changing too. So why wouldn't our science also have to, you know,
like you can't just pinpoint it. Nothing's going to just stop. So we have to constantly keep
refreshing all of that. But I wonder, like in your, you talk about health, you know, and
I wonder what's the process of care or what's your, where does health come into all this in terms of
maybe even your own, I wonder about your own experience with the world around you and
the way that you see the health of everything around you as related to your own health.
And how all this is also, of course, connected to what we're talking about
in terms of the thinking being part of that. Yeah. Yeah, the health aspect comes to me because
like, if I ask myself what it is that I'm doing it for, it's like, I'm not doing it, even though
I'm also doing it because I love doing this work, but it also, I always put it, or for me,
it has this greater context that I want to do it for personal as well as planetary health.
And so for me, I often talk about eco philosophy because, and this relates closely to health to me
because I think any philosophy, like one thing that I want to, at least what I have for myself
as like the goal is to always see it in this ecological context, which has planetary boundaries,
which has a real physical reality to it of right now, a lot of species suffering,
lots of devastation all around the world. So to never forget that this is the context that I'm
moving in at this point in time and to put that in the forefront. And then with health, I noticed
how I have an autoimmune disease myself and I noticed how a lot of the ways that I relate
to that disease, how I approach it, what I try to do against it, and the paths of healing,
if there is even such a thing, and there's a lot to say about that, but that those are very similar
and that I see the same patterns like playing out in my own life without immunity that I see
also played out on a greater scale. And this could be very simple things such as, for example, not,
I can't eat certain foods, but it doesn't kill me right away. It's just, I noticed that it's not
very good for me, but then I have sometimes really hard time. And I mean, all of us know this,
we grab food that we know is not necessarily the healthiest choice. And I see how that pattern,
it's just one simple example, but that is played out on such a grand scale across the whole planet
with our consumption patterns where we do know, ah, this is not the best choice that I can make,
but still I do that. So there, this knowledge action gap that I talked about also became,
or that was one of the starting points, basically, that got me into this, how I approach that is
also how I see that same pattern play out on many different scales. Yeah, there's all these meta
patterns you talk about, the way we treat ourselves and the way we treat everything around us,
and vice versa too, right? The way we're treated and the way we parameterize how treatment or
healing is possible. And I wonder what awareness, like that word awareness, or I'm not sure which
word, but in the knowledge and action, sometimes there's a space of recognition or just becoming
aware of the pattern, which is then going to change it in a way. Have you, how have you
experienced that part of it or have you, I don't know. Yeah, absolutely. And I think it's one of
the great possibilities. I recently read a nice book called Choice Points, where it's, you know,
this moment where we do have the possibility to make a choice. And I think that's one of
the great capacities of being a human. At the same time, because our agency is somehow distributed,
I think there is, and this is again a paradox I like to play with and kind of sit in of like,
yeah, we have all this agency where we can make that choice. And on the other hand,
is that choice really ever our own or is it, you know, entangled with so many other beings and
contexts and space and time that it's emerging out of the ether, where it's actually not our own at
all. And it's always both of those. In the moment, we always have a little bit of agency and we also
have the agency to communicate about it with others and that starts to perhaps change those
other patterns. And yet, you know, if we're in a war zone or something, we're in a completely
different set of what's possible for us. So again, it's that context. Yeah, but I guess I was trying
to get at the thinking part of it, that I wonder if there's been some, because you talk about
practice a lot and your institute is for practical echo philosophy, right? We should maybe talk about
that a minute. So I guess like with these practices, because I feel like you've been
trying to help people and help find ways for yourself and those around you to deal with
this health, that we want to move towards a space of health in our own lives or in the world,
wherever we are. And that is a kind of transformation. And you've been looking
at practical ways to do that. So what is that practice or practicality? I don't know which
word you would choose, but what does that bring up for you? Yeah, for me it's, again, kind of a
paradox. I don't want to say paradoxical question, but I think it's a bit tricky and I think it can
cause different opinions on that. But for me, what came up was that at one point when I started,
how do I turn these philosophies into practice? One of the ideas that I always had, I guess,
I need to do something, you know, somehow there's a strong sense of having to do something big.
And I think that's connected to how we live our lives. So it has to be like even something that
I can snapshot or put on, it has to be that I can photograph or, you know, scale to some degree.
And thinking in terms of action and practice in that terms of like something that I can share,
that only then it becomes real. And I think of practice a lot more as the integration into
my everyday life and all these tiny micro decisions that I make or choices that I make
and how I show up that are not necessarily possible to scale or to put on Instagram or
whatever. And it can be, and talking about awareness, you know, could be the way I relate
to my dog, to my neighborhood, to the people outside, to how I eat, how I carry myself,
how I show up to people, you know, am I present, am I not present? So all these micro things that
seem, and like five years ago, I would have never thought that I'd be the person who says like,
okay, this is a necessary practice because I was all about like, it needs to be like something big
and we need to make like grand changes. And then eventually I know there's so much beauty in these
little things. And I've always practiced, you know, in my own lifestyle, you could say,
a lifestyle that's already an alienating word to some people. But I really found it in like
things such as wearing just the same dress every day or so. What does it do to me? What does it
tell us about our relationships to fashion, to beauty, to how we think we need to be in the
world? And one thing I think about these micro habits is if I do think about us as really being
part of a complex system and more about the relationships and as me is just like a fractal
and the relationships that I play out just as a fractal of the whole, then, you know,
it needs a leap of faith, maybe in a sense, but then I, but it's also on a logical understanding,
like how the patterns that I play out and all these tiny relationships are also the patterns
that are played out on a grander scale. And there is no distinction, like when is the scale big and
when is it small? Like this is just so, yeah. That's a beautiful realization. I think that's a
really, really powerful, when you can understand that, that these, yeah, you can change the pattern
of your fractal and it changes the patterns of all the fractals, even if it seems very slight,
you know, these little things somebody says to you at the grocery store or some little change you
make just maybe sitting down and taking a breath and, you know, these small things can really
change the whole of your day. And if you just understand that and then you think, you know,
in these wider nested levels, how that happens, it becomes a real source of,
what is it, of power, I guess, of real power.
Yeah. That's at least how I perceive it. And it's also, you know, I like this paradox of like,
again, a paradox of like thinking like everything matters, like every tiny action I make matters.
And then on the other hand, none of it, like on a very grand scale, none of it really matters.
But again, it's like sitting in that exact sweet spot.
Yeah, how to hold that. And by holding, the holding is a very important thing, because if you hold it
too tight, you're going to, you know, asphyxiate it or kill it. And if you don't hold it tight
enough, then, or if you don't hold it at all, then you're not touching it, you're not in contact.
And so it's not there. So that is a very, very open area of how we can all do this together.
But have you found that you can understand that the small things matter so much and also
that you can relax into being a bigger part of life, that we are just a drop in the ocean?
Have you been able, have you found that's gotten easier to?
Yeah. I found it easy. I still find it, I still struggle with it sometimes.
It's kind of a struggle with itself, isn't it?
Yeah. And there were things, you know, that I see that, I mean, so many things are so
heartbreaking and then it's like, okay, there's nothing I can do immediately. Like that's really
still for me, also a challenge. And I think this is a bit where sometimes we talk about like,
we need to think global and act local. That's like a thing. And I think this is also where
we can try to keep the whole in mind while at the same time, you know, seeing, okay,
what is it that we can actually do in our patterns? And what I found when I started
in the field of sustainability, what I found really crazy was how many people would,
and I still to this day, when I see how many sustainability scientists just fly around the
world and they are talking about veganism, but then they go and eat and they're hotter.
And there was such a contradiction. I mean, we are all sitting with that and we are all
contradictory to some degree. And I think that it can't be otherwise because the systems we
have created are of course kind of enforcing or at least incentivizing the sort of behavior that
is not necessarily conducive to life conditions, great life conditions. But to never see how
we are part of that system, I think, and it's not even necessarily judgmental,
but it's also robbing us of so much potential and so much power and empowerment in a way.
When we think of Alia, we need to change everything around us, but never think about how
we are part of that. Yeah.
Yeah. And it can be very hard to think, well, okay, everyone else is doing it. It's not going
to matter if I decide to stay home and not fly to the conference. But then it does. And
yeah, and then there's also, we need to find ways to be together in person again. So
yeah, there's a lot there, but I think I want to ask you about how it feels for you.
Two things kind of stuck with me when you said that you used to want the big act,
or some kind of, I don't know, is it about having attention or, because I think it relates to this
optics too, of all of us kind of trying to get each other's attention, even if we don't
want to participate in that system, or feeling like we need attention or likes or follows or
whatever it is. And I guess I wonder about you, also the second thing was when you said
sometimes it's just too much. I have that too sometimes where when you really look at the world
and you really love it, because I think it's coming out of a place of care, it's almost too
much. It's almost, how can you possibly really see everything the way it is? Even the love
sometimes is hard to feel so much, to want to do so much, and then to feel that pressure.
I guess those two things don't seem to go together much, but you said you've changed and you're not
necessarily looking for the big optics anymore. Does it connect it to how you feel
in that place of care in any way? Has it changed that for you?
I think the place that I still come from is that place of care for the whole world,
and I think that's beautiful how you put that. But I think there was a difference between
what do I actually care about and then what's actually my response to that. There was this
famous scale of how far our circle of concern is for people, if it's just for our family,
just for ourselves, if it goes beyond that towards the whole cosmos. If I don't really
have any way to respond to that, then there is a very important part of care lacking. Eric Form,
for example, he talks about love as this act of where it's not a feeling, but it's something that
we do. I think this love for the planet will have to translate into something that makes me respond
to it in an actual way that I can, if that's answering or relating. That's what I'm trying
to get at, is where is it personal for you? Where do you see those lines connecting between
these big, huge, try to save the world, or we have to be sustainable and we have to change all these
actions and knowledge acquisition, and then just you're a care for yourself and for your
immediate, my dog is here for my dog, and the plants that are outside, which I don't maybe
take care enough of. Do you see a relationship there in, for example, the way you've started
the Substack? That's a very personal space, but you're also talking about very big issues,
and I can feel you sometimes trying to hold the tension there of, you know if you write the
title as like, this is going to solve all your problems, then you're going to get tons of people
looking at it. But then how do you deliver that from a place that's of care? Because the whole
thing really is very caring. Do you see what I mean? I wonder about this, if I'm right to feel
that sort of tension. Yeah, absolutely. It's something that I sit with all the time, and I
think many of us do, because it's like, we don't want to participate in the system, and that this
is the tension I think that, you know, the same pattern that plays out in so many systems. We
don't want to participate, but still we're somehow part of it, so can we not not participate?
And I don't have a good answer or conclusion for that, except of like, and this is where it maybe
gets a bit, I don't want to say, no I think it's valid, but it's really something that I try to
feel into. And to make it public, or to speak out, at least I try to point out like, okay,
I do that because I know it's getting your attention. So I'm pointing out the things that
I do in order to increase our awareness for that, and to not try to trick anyone into it, but rather
to still engage with the people. Though I talked to one person recently, and she said also like,
oh yeah, if we keep talking only in a specific way, we just continue talking to the same people
basically. So how do we draw new people in, who we think might benefit from it? And I think this
is where it comes to language again. Also it's like, sometimes it needs this sort of different
language. And I think that's the challenge of the Witten word of like, and sometimes we feel like,
are we betraying ourselves if we know in this context we speak like this, and then in a different
context we speak a bit differently. But I don't think it's this way, but it's rather about the
intention we bring into it, and trying to resolve these difficult issues. And I think especially,
one of the things, as we are in this time in between these different worlds, I think it always
needs to hold both. On the one hand try to show, okay, this is the real horizon, and this is where
we ideally want to get to. But we are here somewhere in the middle, and this is the part
where a lot of people maybe feel rather cold to, and how we speak to them. So sometimes we can go
here, or we can go here, and depending on that it needs sort of a different translation maybe.
I wonder if you, do you think of it as an experiment a little bit in the same way you
were talking about with wearing the same dress, which maybe we should talk about that a minute.
You wear the same dress every day as a kind of an experiment to see how you feel, see how others
respond. I'm sure you wash it and so forth. I'm sure everyone wants to know that's the first thing.
Yeah, that's the first thing everyone asks. I have it twice so I can wash it. I'm actually
learning to suit myself at the moment. Oh wow, great. You can sew your own dresses.
But is it also in the writings that you're offering to people, are you also trying to
experiment with your own, you know, displacement? Yeah, absolutely. And I see this is for me an
important framing that's become so prevalent that I see a lot of my life choices rather as
experiments. I'm currently sitting with this concept of life as a living lab, and the living
lab or real world laboratory is something that's a concept, especially in sustainability science,
where you have, you know, over a long period of time, ideally like 60, 70 years, you experiment
with certain, in certain settings, in real life settings, and then you do little experiments,
and you know, it has a broader context, this laboratory, real world laboratory. And I see
life in general, whether it's this real world laboratory in which I can experiment, and I think
this whole notion of experimentation and trying to get feedback to see how it is and then adapting,
I think that's, yeah, for me become very important, and I see how that's making my life a lot more
easier on the one hand, but also so much, such an important skill, because in complexity or
complex systems, that's, you know, we need that feedback and this experimentation in order to
to move forward. And to find different state spaces, and yeah, and I feel that in,
in your work, in a way it connects to everything we've been talking about of,
because there is a kind of a sweet spot of, you raise the word intention, but also
experimentation, where you're, and it is the place of holding paradox that I try to,
that is hard to put words to, but where you are coming at it from a place of care, but you're
also understanding that you have all of these, like maybe you just want attention, of course you want
readers, and you know, and that you're okay with all that, and you're able to show that in the work,
you know, and there's something about that that I definitely feel in your, your pieces and in your
practice and in, in your projects. Yeah. But that, that space isn't easy to negotiate. Do you worry
about criticism? Do you worry about trying to please everyone? Not so much, to be honest,
because for me it's, it's so obvious myself that I'm doing it. So even if someone points out to me,
like, oh yeah, you're losing clickbait, or oh yeah, and I didn't fly for a long time,
I think for the past five years or so, but if I were to step on the plane again, and I'm,
I will likely soon because I want to see friends in the US, you know, they pointed out, I can only
admit it, like it's not, you know, I see, and I'm definitely not seeing all of it, we all have our
blind spots, but a lot of the things that I'm, where I'm thinking like, okay, this is not how
I would ideally love to have it, yeah, I'm happy actually when people point that out, rather than.
Oh, that's good. That feels healthy. Defensive about it, yeah. I think we have to go pretty soon,
but I wanted to ask about this word wild. What's the wild, because it's rewilding,
it's wild health, and I love that word wild. Yes. I wonder, yeah, I want to hear,
yeah, I want to hear about it from you. It has different angles, so one of them is that I love
the word wild too. I think in my own life, like I've always had a sort of wild aspect to my own
life, so it feels personal in a sense. It's also, you know, there is no such thing as wild life,
and there's a whole discussion about that, but nonetheless it has this first intent or inclination
that we hear into, and that's what I love, and the third point is that there is this book where
he talks about wild problems, and the way he describes wild problems are basically complex
problems, and I think wild is a good explanation of the world we live in right now and the state
of the world. It seems wild, and it's probably always been like that, but yeah, so those are
the three angles. Yeah, that's good, and also feeling, there's a book, I can't, I have it
somewhere, it's like Women Who Run With the Wild, it's a Jungian, yeah? Yeah. You know this book?
Okay. Yeah. There's also that kind of sense of wildness, which I like a lot.
Yeah. And I guess I wanted to also ask you about your artwork before we go, because I love the
artwork that you do, and you are doing it, right? Yes. Yeah. Are you also, have you been doing art
your whole life too, on the side from mechanical engineering and sustainability science?
Not really, but it's, I do love, I always wished that I could paint or draw, and I'm
not talented in that way at all, but I never really tried it either. But I love to look at
beautiful things, and I couldn't really find pictures that would go well with the articles,
so at one point I just started to use Pixelmator a bit, and really just, from a very amateur
perspective, started playing with it, and it's become part of the process of putting my care and
my expression of the article into the art world, which is not cognitive, but rather I just put
music on and get into the flow of trying to express on a different scale of what I want to
say. So it's become an important part of the process actually. Yeah. I'm glad to hear that,
because it feels like it, and it feels like it's a part of the writing. Yeah. Wow. I'm happy,
very happy to hear that. Thank you. Yeah. And I think it also does some of that holding we've
been talking about too, because sometimes you can say things with those photos that you can't
necessarily put into words. Yeah. And I just recently started to wonder, because I always
felt a bit of a tension, because I was using pictures from other people and bringing that
into a new collage, so lately I've started to take the whole picture of some of the main elements
and put them within the article to show where it's actually coming from, and it feels a lot
more aligned, and also got me this, kind of shot me out. This is one of the things that I
love to bring with these collages, these new contextualizations, which create worlds in a way.
Yeah. And it does do that, even on a subconscious level sometimes. Well, is there anything that
you wanted to bring up before we go? We didn't talk about the Institute for Practical Echo
Philosophy. I don't know if you want to introduce that or anything, or anything that you...
Yeah. I mean, I'm always happy if people are interested on working, also just being related
to the Institute, seeing where possible or collaboration is possible. I mean, we're starting
out, just starting out. We are just two people right now, so very small. And one of the ambitions
that I have with it is to really bring this idea of living philosophically to life. And one thing
that I have been sitting with a lot is this idea of, yeah, why do we need philosophy and living
philosophically? Is it for personal and planetary health? Is this for a vital life or a peaceful
life, or what is it for? And at one point I noticed it is about living philosophically in itself.
Like that is the thing already. So yes, it is for a peaceful life. Yes, it is for an adventurous
life or whatever, however you define a good life. And I would love to see that at one point
in my life to really be a value in itself and something worth pursuing.
And yeah, I hope to contribute to that with the Institute.
What's a philosophical workout? Is that trying to work out all the stuff we've been talking about?
So one of the ways that I think about it, I mean, it's just starting out. We started these
philosophy gyms last year. I love that idea, philosophy gym. I mean,
that's a wonderful kind of melding of inner and outer and mental and physical and all that.
Yes, yes. And when it started out, we're like, okay, it's about, like, how do we bring our
philosophy into our everyday life? Like, this is what it's going to be about, without really
knowing what that even means. And the way it turned out, though, the group that we have
performing there is that it really became this collective sense-making sessions where certain
topics that all of us care about deeply, we would, you know, try to make sense of it
in all different ways. And I think this is what it's been developing into. I mean, there's
different aspects to it. And yeah, I'm still in the process of developing that. I just started
a project which is funded by the European Union across five different countries where we develop
philosophy gyms for regenerative futures in small and medium enterprises.
Oh, wow. That sounds wonderful. But what is that exactly?
Yeah. And this is what we just started in January, really, where we are now trying to develop
philosophy gyms and the format for companies. And for me, I think the aspect that I would like to
have in there is this idea and now coming back to the paradoxes and simplifying, but finding a
philosophy like, where are we actually coming from? Understanding what are other people's
philosophies? How can we then collaborate with these other philosophies or these other ideas?
And then also bringing that aspect in of a bit what you talked about yesterday,
it's different ways of knowing, because all of them are forming our philosophies.
And then the third aspect is, which I think is relevant for companies, you know, which I notice
are often sitting with the tension of like, these are the ethical decisions I would love to make,
but these are the realities in the system that I'm facing. And there is no blueprint and no
final idea of how to go about that. So how can we find ways to engage with these or help companies
engage with these issues? So these are three of the core ideas at the moment, and we'll see what
it develops into. And do you think bring in this experimental approach to that? Yeah.
Yeah. Because it does seem simple, but profound to just actually have a space where people
work out ideas together and notice their ideas. And, you know, to have a space where you do that
as a company or as individuals or as a group of friends, you know, living the question.
Yeah. And one of the things that we're also doing a test one with Goccas, it's called,
it's a platform very well checking out. And there we are also running a philosophy gym over seven
weeks to see sort of experiment a little further with that and see what philosophy gyms ideally
incorporate. And also coming back to what we talked about earlier about the measurement,
how could we measure the success of a philosophy gym and measure the immeasurable and the quality
that maybe goes into it and that I've experienced so far in these spaces. And
sort of what Noah Bateson calls warm data, you know, how can we, how can we maybe translate that
further? So this is another experiment this is taking. Yeah, I like that. And also thinking
of measurement differently in a dynamical way that we were saying so that, you know, even when
you're just assessing your own philosophy, it's a kind of a measurement and measurements are very
helpful and we need these measurements and these maps and these metrics, but also not taking them
as so seriously as we were saying before that as if they're never going to change. It's gauging
where we are on this part of the path. And the next part of the path is going to present maybe
something slightly different. It's a different kind of approach, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. I'm looking
forward to see where it's going. Yeah. I mean, I love all the ideas. There's so many, it's so rich.
So send you a lot of support for that. Okay. All right. Oh, I can't see. What kind of dog do you have?
Well, thanks for all you're doing. I really enjoy your sub stack. I'm so happy to share
it with everyone. And the philosophy gym idea is great too. And yeah, good luck with everything.
Thank you. Thank you too. Looking forward to continue learning from you. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. Bye bye. Bye.
