Hey everyone, this is a bonus episode with Shoma Shodri. We will introduce her at the beginning of
the episode, so I won't do that here, but I will just say that this was for a synopsis conference
that she puts on. We were talking for that last year, so this is an old conversation,
over a year old, but there's a new one coming up in December, I think it is. I'll put all the
links in the show notes. So I thought now is a good time to pull it up from the archive and share it
with you because it hasn't been shared publicly yet here. She's really interviewed some of the
most famous people in the world, I guess you would say, and she's a link sort of bridging all
kinds of different people across the world, and these synopsis conferences are very interesting.
That's how I came to find her. I think it was through Nick Bostrom or Jérôme Lanier or
someone like that. This is just a good conversation about life and how we can be
complicated humans in a complicated world. So I just wanted to share it with you. The next episode
is with Hanna de Jaeger, and that's coming soon too, but for now here is Shoma Chaudhry.
Hello, Shoma. I'm so happy you're here. Thank you for being with us today.
Thank you for having me, Andrea. It's wonderful to connect with you.
I discovered you through something called Synops, which we could talk about a bit. This
really amazing conference, which everyone can actually watch. It's even available,
which I'll link to, and it was a kind of technology and science. We could talk about
it later, but soon I discovered you're a bit like the Barbara Walters meets, is it Christiane
Amanpour? I never say your name right, but in India. So is that fair to kind of compare you
to that? Because I came at it through this conference, but I'm still trying to figure out
you do so much. You started in many different places. Is it fair for me to bring up those names
in a way? Well, actually, at one level, it's presumptuous for me to say.
Of course, you can't say you're Barbara Walters or Christiane Amanpour. I said it,
but I guess let's just say you're doing political reporting or conversation.
Yeah, let's say the world of concerns kind of intersects with mine in the sense that I'm very
interested in both sort of public framework questions, questions of urgent public concern,
and also intimate landscapes of emotion and inner life and inner motivation. And I've also
been an investigative journalist. So in that sense, the concerns of Barbara Walters and Christiane
will possibly coalesce in my own canvas of concerns. So the thing I connected with
immediately starting to listening to some of your conversations was your ability to hold the space
of either or. This research project is a lot about trying to understand how we think beyond dichotomy
without necessarily rejecting opposites or rejecting differences. And in the way that
you carry out your conversations, and by the way, for the audience, you've talked with some of the
most famous people in the world, but you hold the nuance. So I guess to start, I want to figure out
how you got into all this. And I wonder if there was a time in your life when you saw the world
in a more contrasted way, or if there was a moment when you started to think about nuance.
That's a really interesting question. And one, thank you for sort of zeroing in on that,
because I think my capacity to hold adversarial, you know, viewpoints together, and again, to find
not a, you know, it's not necessarily always trying to make them go here, but to have a space
where people feel understood and then disagreed with, you know. So today, I hold that as something
that I'm proud of and that I think I've evolved to. So, you know, thank you for noticing that.
But yes, it's interesting, you know, I think when I was younger, and when I first started out in
journalism, I did have a much more adversarial approach to journalism, to public conversation.
You know, it was very much about holding truth to power in a, I would say, almost strident way,
and maybe that has its place in a certain time. And I think it has great usefulness in society,
because it creates a kind of counterforce to many things. But, you know, even then, I always believed
in that those you criticize must always first feel understood, correctly represented, and then
disagreed with, you know. So that's a principle I've always held. But increasingly, you know,
as the world has become more polarized, and you know, I myself have experienced life more,
I think I'm increasingly interested in creating, you know, I would say middle ground, not in a
cop out kind of way, there's always a value framework that defines anybody's life, you know,
we're all very political beings, just by virtue of having a value system you live by. So I won't say
that I've abandoned my value system, but I've definitely become very interested in creating
spaces where people with really opposing viewpoints can meet, have good faith discussions,
concede what may be correct in each other's positions. And I've become really wary of being
locked into any binaries, you know, and that actually, you know, and we can get into it a
little bit more, but just at a philosophical level, I know that to be true of any of us,
you know, that we all live in different registers. You know, even those, and now again, coming to the
kind of polarized world we live in, people we love, people very close to us in our own families,
partners, friends, have, you know, almost irreconcilable political positions, and you
still love them. They still have wonderful sides. And to somehow make sense of all of that,
it's become very important for me not to fall into the name calling, you know. And now some
of this again has seeds in my earlier years as an investigative journalist, where at least to my own
newsrooms, and even in the stories I wrote, I always said that I did not want adjectivizing,
you know, and it's not enough to just operate from the righteousness of your own position,
call people names, and then cancel them, you know. So for me, journalism always was that if you are
going to disqualify someone, it should be with facts, you know, and you have to marshal facts
in a way where, you know, you obviously put a lens on somebody which makes them seem unpalatable,
but it can't just be by saying, you know, you're fascist and you're this. You have to marshal the
facts to show that. So not hyperbole, not adjectivizing. Those are things that have
evolved. But yes, to come back to your original question, there was a more binary position about
what's right and wrong. And now I'm much more interested in the complexity of human experience
altogether, you know. And one point even about the binary holding people to power is that
those who sit in positions of power often, you know, they have to marry many contradictory
positions and take the best possible decision in that. So, you know, it's not really possible
for those who really occupy complex positions of power to have decisions which are like, you know,
binary white and, you know, kind of without complexity. So increasingly, I have an empathy
for that, you know, that you question, you try to nudge people to particular value frameworks,
but it's not this fire and brimstone, almost punkish position of those who are outside the
circle of power, you know, just shitting on others without knowing what it takes to sit in those places.
Yes, gosh, but this is so difficult. And I know you've held power. I mean, you started your own
magazine and you've so you know what it's like to be in a position where you have to hold a million
positions and make a million choices in the way you're just describing to and also, this seems
like kind of the problem of our times in a way of how to still be I've heard you use words like
fierce and vigilant and those are very important words for anyone. I mean, to be able to
be comfortable with being powerful and yet to direct it towards a place that's coming from
the right intention and that's not about you. I think this is really hard and it's if we look at
some of the things that do polarize, that's another word you use, that do polarize us,
it ends up starting with something like feeling fierce about something and feeling as if we can't
hold the nuance because it would be questioning our sense of self. Does that make sense to you
that we get this personal kind of confused with maybe the larger objective or the action? How do
you see that? I see the world today as being so stifling in some ways, you know, because
people get locked into their position. So you've uttered something when you were 14 or 15.
And I think for me, that comes from a very humanist position and those, I think, go back to
even my childhood or the story of yourself that you said. Yeah, we all have this kind of story.
Yeah. And my point is that when you're not allowed to evolve, you know, that fierce
vigilance is fine if it is undergirded with compassion, you know, and I think with that
capacity to understand that life means evolving, you know, and I often say this,
that even Gandhiji, you know, the Mahatma would have been cancelled in his 20s, you know, because
Yeah, maybe you can unpack that a little for people who don't know about that time of his life,
who only know him. Yes, you know, so when he first started out, he was quite casteist
and when he was doing his early work in Africa, you know, he was speaking for Indians, but
had a kind of, you know, like he had what would today be called a racist position
on blacks and that evolved, you know, and life taught him and it deepened his understanding and
he was able to, you know, I mean, he wrote my experiments with truth because he was constantly
interrogating himself and shifting and learning and changing. And that process is now often denied
to all of us, you know, that you're so and this is that tightrope of not giving people a sort of
easy ticket where anything goes, but also not locking people into never changing, you know,
and deny that then I feel you're denying the whole point of being alive, you know, and you're
denying people's essential humanity. And that's where I feel sometimes that, you know, I would be,
if I had to be defined, it would be as a left or center liberal, but I often now find myself
uncomfortable, you know, with liberal positions, because it's so sort of, you know, fierce in its
righteousness, that it again denies the heart of what I think being a liberal is, is to be able to
evolve to be more gentle, more compassionate, while, you know, standing firmly with the value
system, you know. So yeah, so I agree that these are the kind of problematic things. And that's
why today I would look at my, you know, investigative journalism more in creating complex
ground rather than in just purely adversarial ground, you know, I think it's even more difficult
and even more investigative to find those middle positions and to acknowledge the complexity of
things, you know. Yes, because it's interesting, I think most people would agree with what we're
saying that life is nuanced when you're living it, but when we live it through our social spaces
these days, it doesn't feel like that. And we are almost like two different kind of, or many, many,
we're all many different people, right? Like that's why it's so hard to define yourself by these terms,
like these political terms, because depending where you are in the world, and depending
which position you're talking about, and which person you're talking about within that party,
it means something different. But as you were saying, we all have our story, so we all kind of
filter it through our own lens. So we think we're all talking about the same position and often we're
not. So I guess the point is that all of this gets very confusing. And what it seems like is learning
a practice almost of all of us understanding in a way that all of these positions are dynamic.
And it's a practice of conversation, which I think you kind of demonstrate in your work is that,
because you're actually still very fierce in your questioning, and you do, you're still,
this word watchdog comes into my mind of, you know, I think you were kind of a watchdog politically
with your journalism, you could tell us about that if you want. But I also, now you're talking to a
lot of scientists, philosophers, people in technology, people who own, you know, companies
that are kind of creating all of this technology. And I feel like you're still trying to hold them,
you're still the watchdog, but you're doing it not to only provoke in the way that we seem to think
is what we have to do to get attention now. That's a hard balance too, isn't it? Does that?
Yeah, I wonder how you learned that too. That's a hard thing to learn that practice.
You know, again, first of all, I really want to thank you because I think you're picking on
things that I value about myself. So it's wonderful to hear it articulated by somebody else. But,
you know, again, if I were to distill it, I think it stems from a position of genuine curiosity,
you know. So I think when I'm questioning, it's never from a pre-settled position. Like,
I genuinely want to understand how someone else thinks, you know. The other thing I think is
fundamental to human beings is that everybody operates from a position of feeling that they
want to do good, you know. It's very rarely that someone will think of themselves as evil, quote,
unquote, or themselves as bad and position of viciousness, you know. So we also want to be
liked and accepted and part of a community. And sometimes those fill a lot, I guess.
Yeah, but I'm saying so when I question or I seem to hold people's feet to fire,
it's more out of genuine curiosity to say, how are you thinking about this? Like, what's the
worldview you come from? You know, where you could, for instance, you know, I think one of
the conversations I had with Eric Daimler at Synapse, and he was Obama's advisor on AI,
you know. And he was literally talking about with relish about labor compression that will happen
out of the advent of artificial intelligence, you know. And now the older younger me would have said,
you know, would have canceled him for that. Whereas I wanted to understand what is this
mindset and this mindset is driving the world. So it's not just enough for me to cancel that out.
I want to understand, where does that stem from? What is that motivation? What is the framework
within which you operate or think? And then can I, like, just open some window into your mind,
which reminds you that you're not just an entrepreneur, but you're also a citizen and
a parent and a lover and a friend, you know, that your decisions are going to have other
ramifications. So I somehow find that today, if you approach things with more gentleness and good
faith, you probably have a greater chance of getting through, or having that moment of
connection with people, which helps shift their perspective, you know, rather than coming at it
from a position of anger and outrage. So one is that. The other is that I increasingly find that
if you, if I at least don't operate from this position of genuine open-minded curiosity,
that I'm myself not able to articulate my own truths. I find that very imprisoning that again,
the world is so polarized today that my inner self can see that some of the people that I
would normally have considered my, you know, worldview adversaries or political adversaries,
that they have some seeds of truth in what they are saying, you know, and I want to have the
intellectual freedom to be able to concede that and say, hey, you know, facets of what you're saying
are right. They should give us pause. They should make us rethink, recalibrate. But here's the stuff
that I don't agree with, because it just doesn't fit with, say, a universal value system, which
is of equity or justice, or, you know, but increasingly, we are so locked into positions
where you, the moment you concede something about someone else, you're immediately considered like
you've sold out, you've gone over, you know, and I don't, I find that intellectually uninteresting.
And that's why for me, it's much more intellectually agile now to be able to cross across borders rather
than to just, you know, and I can give examples like, for instance, you know, in our own context,
in the Indian context, I would be a very proud Hindu, but would be opposed to, say, the right-wing
political agenda of the Hindutva movement, you know, which is really deploying a religion for
political consolidation. So, but so even while all my positions would resist, you know, making, say,
the minorities feel insecure, or second class citizens, or, you know, use religion as political
deployment, those value systems I'm clear about, you know, but there are aspects of, say, cultural
renaissance, or default positions liberals had, where you kind of, you know, denigrated
your own heritage, you know, you focus your modernity only on Western enlightenment.
Now, those are things which are actually making me intellectually sit back and say, hey, maybe I had
blind spots, and these were things, or the fact that you had cut yourself off from, say, the
emotional fabric of people who are maybe not, you know, like, there's a class of people quite
deracinated, you know, world citizens, not necessarily so culturally rooted, and you kind of
were not connected with the emotional truths of others, or cultural truths of others, and I find
that now a very interesting cultural phenomenon, you know, so can I engage with those who I oppose,
and yet feel that they are also giving me a wake up call to recalibrate some of my own positions?
I think that's much more intellectually honest, and emotionally honest, than being so vain about
your positions that you won't shift from them, you know, so in the American context, like, I would be
somebody who would be opposed to, you know, Mr. Trump's articulations, but in that, I was once
doing an interview with Fareed Zakaria, and I kept pressing him on saying, if he's not articulating
some truths that people are feeling, then why would he, say, win over Spanish vote, or why would
certain classes of people be voting for him, you know, even some immigrant communities, unless you
have that intellectual curiosity to tap into saying, what is he tapping into that we are missing,
you know, and I think that's very important to diffuse some of the sort of social political
bombs going off all around us. Yeah, there's so many things going through my head as you're talking,
I'll just spout out some of them, but first is that thinking, we often think of differences as
like, doors closing instead of portals opening, you know, and the way you just explained it,
and the way I've been trying to think about it is part of this practice, right, because it's a kind
of a practice that, as I was saying, that we were trying to learn a different way of being together,
I think, right now, because we've become so polarized, but if we see those differences as
a portal, that sounds more like what you're saying, that, okay, this man is getting a lot of votes,
and a lot of people really like him, that's a portal for all of us who don't get that,
and who reject that, and whose body feels turned off by that, that's legitimate, but like also,
there's something there that we're going to learn if we look into that portal, how can we do that
in a safe way, you know, becomes kind of the question, that's one thing that came to mind,
and another thing is you brought up this personal accountability, I think that's very important,
because when you're having all these conversations, or when you're in the public life,
you know, a lot of us, a lot of just humans, it's very hard, because you feel like you have
to take a stance, and then the more you're seen, the more you're likely to be criticized,
that's just kind of part of it, so it becomes very hard to figure out how do you not defend yourself,
you know, and then you start holding on to these things, so I think one does have to do some really
personal work, it's almost like spiritual work, to kind of understand your intention, and when
you're in conversation, to be sure you're the watchdog of yourself, you know, that you're,
at least I'm talking from personal experience, that if I'm coming from that place where
maybe I'm going to be wrong, make wrong decisions, we're all human, but if I'm trying
from the right place, then I can admit that I'm wrong, and I can sleep at night, and like,
do you know what I'm saying? There's some kind of personal accountability too, to this practice.
Yeah, I think one other complexity to that, you know, yes, there's a kind of lot of self-visualence
that's required, you know, and that capacity for truth-telling, first of all, to yourself,
but it's not easy either, right? Yeah, but I also think that there's a tightrope to relativism,
you know, so it's again, and I guess everyone arrives at their own place of what is that
balance, where you can't also arrive at a place where anything goes, right, so I don't want to
take moral relativism to such a place where it's, you know, it's not that everything is okay,
there is something called accountability, and there is a value system, which, you know,
I think enough of human history has been lived to arrive at, as I said, issues of justice,
or equity for all, you know, I'm not talking equality in terms of that everyone has to be equal,
but equal opportunity, that those are goals that one is striving towards, I think those are not
negotiable, you know, and you can't be morally relativist about that, and I also don't like
relativism where a lot of journalism leaves things as he said, she said, he said, she said, you know,
and that I don't think you can necessarily be neutral, but you can be fair, you know, and so
these are things that I feel I've arrived at the nuance of, which is that if I'm describing a
conflict, like I said, I'd like to correctly describe how Israel sees its own situation,
and how Palestine sees its own situation, but I'm not going to opt out, cop out and say I'm
neutral in that position, I'm going to marshal the facts to show why I take a certain stand,
you know, on something like that, where there is a morality involved. My only thing is that I won't
do it by hiding uncomfortable facts, or facts that don't fit, or that make it a complex position,
I'd like to articulate its complexity, as I said, make my adversaries feel correctly represented,
and then disagree with them, or point out why I think there's a value mismatch, you know, so that
definitely is a practice that, but I think it's also empirical enough for everyone to follow,
you know, it's not a subjective experience then. I think this is so true and so difficult,
it's like holding the paradox, I mean, I think about it all the time, too, of how to be,
you just said it in a very nice way, or a good way, that you're not neutral, but you're fair,
because no one's neutral, right? I mean, I think that's kind of the thing, we're all coming,
we develop, we come from a certain place, we've learned certain things, and there are truth,
I mean, there are truth, we can hurt each other, and there are things, these moving parameters are
moving, but only within certain other parameters, right? So, I think it's like a different way of
thinking, right? Instead of thinking there's one good, and there's one bad, and you either know it
or you don't, it's more like we're all coming at it from really different places, and yes, there
are parameters that are shared that are, as you were saying, that we have to fight for, but within
that, there's so much nuance, and the only way we're going to kind of get closer to hopefully
changing things so that life is better for more in the ways that matter, it's going to probably
be by trying to understand each other's different positions a little bit better, but also that's
exciting in a portal too, and it doesn't, it's not about smashing everything together and making it
the same either, so there's this, we're both trying to hold this paradox with the way we're
even talking about it that is kind of hard, I think. Yeah, but as I said, you know, I think
it's, the interesting thing about it is that there genuinely are steps that one can take,
which are like an empirical playbook, so that, like I said, it's not only a subjective thing,
you know? I mean, I think if the intention is there, then everybody with whatever shades
they're arriving at, but the process to it is an empirical process. And is it about research,
or there's also this problem of where you look for the information you can find certain slants, so
when you're going about that, how do you, if you're going to look at an issue that's very
polarized, where do you, like, you know, of course you can't give me like an absolute answer here,
but how do you try to cover all that space, because it's too much space for any one person
to really cover fully, but... Yeah, I think mostly, like, if it's any one particular issue,
then I always try to read up, if there are two sides to that, then, you know, I'm not going to
read things which give me a confirmation bias. In my news sources, I do try to read from
exactly the people that I feel opposed to. I like to read what they're saying, you know,
because it's only if you understand, like I said, like, we're all trapped in different narratives
of our own making. And if you understand somebody else's narrative, then let's assume you even want
to fight it. You have to understand it to be able to fight it, you know, if you're just fighting it
with the blunt instruments of your own perspective, you know, you're not getting anywhere. So I find
that, yeah, so one is that I actively research from both perspectives, even if I'm researching
something like science, you know, I do look at, say, the arguments someone's making, and then
look at everyone who's critiquing that perspective as well. So let's say, you know, right now,
everyone has a free bed, everyone's making the world a better place, you know, but you start,
and there are certain, like I said, there are some inviolable value systems, you know, like,
how much energy are you using? Is it equitable? You know, if you are going to use water and
energy to some, you know, insane level to create AI, then what is the distribution of that? What
is the concentration of power? What is the concentration of wealth? What is the concentration
of information? You know, who wields it? Now, those are not, it's not that you have to be
anti-corporate, you know, again, just transparency in a way. One is transparency, and also to know,
like, what is, like, if they say they want to make the world a better place, let's acknowledge that
you are talking about extreme concentration of power, and then talk to us about how you see
extreme concentration of power as being a good thing. So once you articulate it, most people then
can't hide from it, you know, and you can, I mean, for instance, I often say, a lot of the big
infrastructure, like, say, laying the internet, you did need either governments or massive behemoth,
corporate behemoths to do some of that, you know, you can't do that with just small players.
So you can see some of the importance of being big, you know, but when you're using up huge
amounts of resources for extreme concentration, and you're not discussing how that can be
distributed, or how anyone can have a say on it, you know, those things, like I said, those,
you know, it automatically becomes clear that there's an obfuscation here, you know,
so I think it's important for people, like I said, in good faith, lead them to describe themselves,
and some of the untenability of their positions will become clear to themselves, you know,
and I can give examples, like, again, recently with the most I had a former Mossad chief
on a conversation about the Israeli bombing of Gaza, you know, and I know that this is and you
can understand the wound from which it comes. But you know, across the board, you can hear,
you know, many is particularly from government, or, you know, even a lot of news outfits, saying that
the Hamas is sort of numbers on those wounded or dead in Gaza are not true, you know, so rather than
like just being nasty about it, I did ask the Mossad chief, I said, do you accept those numbers?
And he said, No, they're not true. So I said, Okay, you have great precision. You know, you're the
the sort of best intelligence gatherers in the world. If you deny those numbers, what's your own
estimate of numbers? You know, what do you think has happened there? And he said, we don't really
know. So then I just left it at saying, you don't know yourself, but you're denying what they're
saying. So, you know, where does the emphaticness come from? And just, just saying that I think
made it transparent that there's a there's a narrative war going on here. It's not that
you're talking facts, you know, it's not that you're like, here, they're putting out, you know,
they're putting out an empirical number, you're denying that, but this is what you know, so just
that, I think, immediately diffused. Like, you get what I mean? Like it made me feel it's just
it's the power of conversation. When conversation is done from this place we were talking about,
I think of curiosity or that that you brought up of truly wanting to understand the situation,
truly understanding that this is kind of the ultimate paradox, this one. And
for me, I mean, it can seem so overwhelming. I think it's a great illustration of it's almost
just hard to even bring up because, you know, people are going to lock into certain positions.
It's so emotional. It's so passionate. It has such a history in the way that we were talking about
where we assume we're talking about the same things, but we're often completely assuming
very different things in the same conversation. So I guess that's kind of a is a great example
of how to if you can hold the space of just trying to understand that other process,
it's almost like I think of it as a different way or a different path in the world and you're
you're almost trying to kind of map it, right? You've got a completely different path, even
though the terrain is shared. And as we all know, you know, you can go up a mountain and
from different sides and see completely different mountains. So I guess what I hear you saying is
you're holding that space with the conversation of how to explore a space you think you know
from a different direction or something. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah.
Well, as I said, while not entirely succumbing to relativism, you know, because I think that's
also, you know, that and sometimes you feel a bit uncomfortable, like, are you, you know, in that
quest to understand others, one shouldn't lose a value framework, you know, and that value
framework, I feel like others may feel that, but I wouldn't, you know, I would not give up
on a value framework, which, as I said, I think human history has fought enough for that equal
opportunity, a sense of feeling safe, etc. is important. But that's where, say, for instance,
some of this, you know, even even in the majoritarianism that's taken over the whole
world, I think what's important is to kind of decipher. And, you know, again, there are some
places where the fight is just necessary that it's a fight, because there's also so much of
brainwashing, you know, false facts, propaganda, all of that. So, you know, you can't really make
space for a sort of accommodative space for all of that. So there is a time to be fierce. But I
think, again, there when when say, you don't want a majoritarianism, politics, but how do you fight
that, while acknowledging that while being a majority community, there may be some emotions
that need respect, you know, like, if, if indeed, you have, say, the labor class in America,
feeling disenfranchised, you know, it's not enough to, it's not enough to just delegitimize that
emotion, or, you know, like, how do you engage with it? How do you give it respect? I think respect
is a very, very important word, you know, and at least in my experience with whatever conflict
situations one has either written about or been engaged in, I think respect is a very, very powerful
force, you know, that if you respect people's positions, and then disagree, even very, very
fiercely with it, that's something people can engage with, you know, it's when all the name
calling begins, and you're like, literally dropping everyone into baskets of poison, then there's a
there's a huge contrapuntal force back, you know, because nobody likes to be described as an asshole,
you know, so if you kind of respect people's emotions, say, you know, they're feeling
their jobs are being taken over, or that there's a hypocrisy going on about, say,
you know, let's take the whale debate in France, you know, where, say, people feel that they have
fought long and hard for, let's say, equality to be expressed in a certain way, or modernity to
be expressed in a certain way, you know, where the hijab should not be allowed. Now, how do you still
respect someone's position and get argue, you know, so don't just call them jihadists, but
respect that there's a certain cultural thinking there, and then argue that out and then put out
your value system for why it's not negotiable, you know what I mean? So that with the moment
you call someone a jihadist, there's going to be a there's an anger outflow back. Whereas if you
say, Okay, I understand that you feel this and that's it comes back to that, like respectfully
represent someone's, you know, position, and then engage with it, or dismantle it, you get what I
mean? At least in your articulation, that's, that's, that's something that one can really do,
you know, so that respect some kind of a spiritual practice or some kind of because,
or here's another way to ask a question, like, have you ever been in a situation, I imagine you
have, because you're around so many powerful people where they just, the power is just kind
of the inertia, and it's almost like a bullied atmosphere, to where, I mean, I think people
often find themselves in these situations where it feels too powerful to resist, or the inertia is
too much, and it's, it's hard to do what you're saying we need to do, even to have the space to
kind of catch yourself and, and do it. Do you know what I mean? Have you ever felt that? And if so,
how have you managed to kind of learn how to deal with this?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, even in my own personal life, there's, you know, professional life,
there has been, you know, very difficult circumstances, where I have tried really hard
to, you know, okay, so I just before I sort of get into any specifics, I think,
yes, it is hard to do. There are times when you feel that inertia or you or you want to
pick your fights, you know, you can't be sort of fighting every battle, like I said,
but the other is that, I think what I learned from a lot of the tumult in my own life,
was to not describe situations or people as in the essence, you know, but to describe your
experience of it, because you can leave experiences behind, you know, so let me explain this,
like, for instance, suppose I don't like some of your actions. I know that when people describe
me as, you know, they're again, like kind of labeling you or describing the essence of you
in some way, which does not feel true to yourself. There's a lot of frustration or anger or
like a pushback on that trapped and you know, whereas if somebody says some things that you
have done, because actions are external to your being, you know, actions can be changed, actions
can reverse actions can be left behind experience. So it's not that you're like essentializing people.
So that's again, something I've learned through the tumult of my own life.
Whether it's with my loved ones, whether it's with my children, whether it's with professional
people, anybody, I try and restrict a discussion about actions rather than essences, you know,
because I wouldn't presume to know the essence of anyone else, I can presume to discuss a set of
actions, a set of attitudes or behaviors, you know, so that's another kind of tool I've learned.
But vis-a-vis taking on things that are very powerful. I think we all operate in our own,
you know, there's always a landscape of action, and some may have larger canvases, some will have
smaller canvases. But the set of challenges in any canvas of action of being a human being,
these things present themselves, you know, it could be in relation to your partner in relation
with your children in relation with a teacher, anything, you know, and then telescope out to
being presidents and prime ministers, you know, but I think the things we are discussing can
change in scale, but the heart of it is still the same, you know, and there again, they're like if
there's a insoluble situation, you have many opportunities, you know, you either walk away
and you leave. There are times when war and violence is necessary, you know, because you're
really defending something which is inviolable. So again, we come back to that thing you had said,
what's the intention, you know, and it does require, I mean, when you say spiritual, yes,
I've arrived at a spiritual practice, but I think this is all, it begins with a conversation with
yourself, you know, what are you speaking from life, you know, from your own temperament, are you
somebody who walks away, are you someone who fights, what are the fights, and each, I mean,
again, you can't presume to say that for anyone else. Yeah, that's another paradox, that spiritual
science, I mean, it's almost, that too is very nuanced, I guess, you know, I mean, all of this
that we're talking about could be thought of as spiritual in a way, in terms of trying to kind of
be in the right vibration or place, you know, as you're conversing, I mean, but again, people
hear those words, science and spiritual, and it locks you into whatever your path is with those
words, I guess. Yeah, you know, I mean, the spiritual, again, because meanings have accrued
around words, it'll always depend on which cultural position people are in when they hear the word
spiritual. Personally, for me, exactly as you're saying, you know, a lot of this constant clarifying
of self is a spiritual practice. I've also been in very toxic situations where increasingly, I find
myself able to absorb toxin, because I don't take things very personally, you know, and that's
actually come from very, it's been earned through fire. It's not something that I was born with.
But I think arrived at a place of genuine self-confidence and peace, you know, so I've
been through a lot of very roller coaster volatile situations. And in that, I think the
kernel of what I've come to, which is my own cell of strength, is to know whether you're at peace
with yourself, like are you looking yourself in the eye, you know, living by the story of
yourself, you know, it's not about what stories others have constructed about you, but are you good
with the story of yourself? You know, so for me, those are my sort of monastic cause. And
increasingly, I've been able to arrive, you know, to greater measure, not sometimes it may slip,
but that's my constant vigilance. I genuinely don't take things too personally, you know,
so even if a very toxic conversations going on, with, you know, people, again, like I said, work,
love, in any context, I am able to create that separation. And that not bristling about something
actually diffuses things a lot, you know, and you're able to say, okay, like, really, like,
and I don't mean this in some sanctimonious way, you know, it's not sanctimonious. It's just like,
curious, like, really, like, you experienced me like that. And so again, that sometimes you say,
oh, wow, like someone experiences you like that, then is there scope for change? If you think it's
unfair, drop it. If you think there's some kernel of truth, I'm quite interested in thinking of
myself as clay, you know, and like being a storyteller, you kind of, I don't think of myself
as fixed, you know, I think that's important. That's freed me up a lot. I think that's actually,
yeah, that's really getting at something key, that there's a lot of different narratives. Again,
we don't want to fall into relativism, because there's not an infinite amount of anything goes
narratives. But there's a lot, always a lot of different ways you can get to the same place,
or a lot of different ways you could tell the story of a life. And we're different people in
different contexts, you know, that doesn't mean that we're not the same person, or that we're not
all sharing the same world. So yeah, but as you're talking, I'm thinking of that, that's also a
practice that I guess is just life. And it's lived when it's lived in the way that might be the most
exciting and the most like, I mean, if you think back 10 or 20 years, from where you were and where
you are now, and you've gone through a lot, that feels like it's worth living, if you can get to
that place where you can understand yourself as many different people, but and you can look at
yourself as possibly fitting into these narratives and decide if not. But I just want to say this is
like a really hard process, I think, for a lot of us. And often it does take going through
painful things. I mean, you know, someone says something negative about you, for example, or
and then you, it's hard not to react against that and fight them or hate them. And then
some people devote their whole lives to them, like hating those people who said that bad thing. So
this is really important stuff we're talking about. And it's hard. I don't know if you want
to share anything from your personal life. It's just this I feel like is the real crux of life.
And it's what everyone is trying to figure out how to do, how to be okay with who they are,
and still grow and communicate. That's a lot, but whatever comes to mind.
No, I mean, yeah, and my personal, some of it was, you know, there was a kind of public
disaster that hit my life. So I can think about that, because it was all over the net. But,
you know, I think when I was listening to again, just like a core concept that's
really helping, like I said, I mean, I've really had to walk through fire to arrive at some of these
places of like, you know, equilibrium and homeostasis, you know, keeps me steady. And
my thing is that life, I think a lot of this also came from the journalism. So two things I'd like
to chat about one was, I've really had to struggle with understanding when you go through very
painful experiences or relationships or, you know, circumstances that how do you
forgive, but not forget, you know, and I think that's a clarity I've really come to that I have
genuinely been able to forgive, you know, my past people that impacted it negatively, even myself,
like I've been able to forgive even who I was for participating in some of those, you know,
very painful situations. But then how do you not forget it, you know, so you don't want to be in
some wimp where, you know, like you're all just flowing. No, very important to be able to forgive
that, because, you know, you want to move on, like, and that I think is a truly spiritual practice,
life is really transient, and it's moving, and you don't want to be stuck, it's one life, like,
or whatever, you know, you may spiritually believe in many lives, but still your experience right
now is one life. So how do you not stay stuck? So for me, forgiving, but not forgetting, and that
really took me a long while to understand. So when I say forgetting, is that to learn from your past,
and you would not let a certain set of circumstances happen again, you would not let
people treat you a certain way again, you won't let, you know, yourself behave in some ways again.
So that's about learning, but then you forgive it, you know, and that weakness of being to know that,
you know, you're evolving, you don't have to be stuck with the shoma of the past.
No, but there's still this accountability.
There's a lot of ease, you know, so.
Yeah, that speaks to what you've been saying, too, about not falling into relativism,
because it's not that you just flow and everything is all fine or whatever, it's no, it wasn't fine,
but you forgive it, you forgive them, you forgive yourself, you see it clearly, but then you,
you know, you're in a different place than you're, you're not, it's not just everything is fine and
flowing, it's that there is some kind of change that is, that has been made. I mean, when you were
talking, I was thinking about when you get your heart broken, right, or, and how it can just,
you just want to shut down or something, or like not open up again, or you start, maybe you think
you did something wrong, and it kind of, that's where you learn how to hold that paradox of,
okay, like that didn't work, and you kind of have to separate your own self,
it's not a judgment of you, right, it's not taking it personally in that way,
and there's many scales of that, I guess, in all of our, in all of our lives.
Yes, absolutely, and you know, and all this now sounds, I always say I love meeting people
mid-journey, you know, usually you speak to people when they're very successful, and I,
you know, I often tell people that I'd love to meet people mid-journey through their
tumult and their confusion, because, like I said, this can sound really sanctimonious,
you know, like, oh, you got it all taped up, but, you know, I just want to keep everything,
it's been a process of fire, you know, it doesn't-
Yeah, well, why don't you share some of that?
Yeah, I mean, I'll be happy to, I will. I just wanted to say, there was just something which
came to me, yes, you know, we were talking about relativism, and I think the other thing that has
freed me up a lot in life, and where I do, I hope, fingers crossed, continue to have a kind
of lightness of being, comes out of really understanding that, hey, life doesn't owe you
anything, you know, so, and that, again, comes from that capacity to look around you, and certainly
there, my journalism has helped, you know, so I have a self-pitying approach to life at all, you
know, because I really believe in endeavor, I genuinely believe that I'm a real, like, I
genuinely work a lot, and, like, anything that comes, it's from the fruit of that labor, but for
me, also, the process genuinely is joyful, you know, so again, it's like what choices you make,
I'd rather be poor than do certain things, so with my work, it has to be a place of joy,
you know, so that's helped, but with the journalism, you know, I've seen really, really
good people suffer, you know, with sort of political sort of persecutions, you know,
the finest people with the finest motivations leading the toughest lives, you know, then sort
of painted black, wrongly framed, wrongly represented, pilloried by the media, spending
years in jail, or every now and then you'll hear of people, you know, just in the bloom of life,
you know, accident, or disease, or loss, grief, think of Gaza, or think of Syria, or think of
Israel, I mean, just think of the way people, you know, so I'm not again saying, my sister and I
used to have this joke between us, you know, whenever we kind of feel really sorry for ourselves,
we'd say, okay, but think of someone with an amputated limb, you know, and that as a metaphor,
just tells you that life doesn't owe you shit, you know, so that perspective helps, you don't
operate from that position of behemoths so much, while of course, endeavouring at every instance,
to better your life, to expand your life, to improve your life, to do whatever it takes,
you know, but like not I think the key and I guess that's when you said spiritually is like,
not to take it all so, so personally, you know, life is personal, ultimately, actually.
Yeah. And you're not just one static stuck person either. I mean, that's the thing too,
taking something personally means you're comparing to something that's static, right? But you're
moving and you can learn and you can change and I think that's part of like, don't take it personally
too. And also to your point about thinking of people who are in what seem like less fortunate
situations, it's also, that's also a weird nested thing because as we were saying, a lot of times
when you go through difficult things, it opens you up, it opens you to another kind of consciousness,
right? It's not that we all want to court negative things in our life or like have any kind of
sickness, but when you go through something that's really hard, you have to expand your
consciousness. I think of like double consciousness with W.E.B. Du Bois, you have to develop an
expanded consciousness and it can actually lead to a richer or a different life, which doesn't mean
it was right that it happened and it shouldn't happen. And part of that consciousness is towards
changing it, but all of this gets very complex too, right? And that's part of what I guess
conversation and journalism is doing too, because I was going to ask you, how did you, two things,
like how you hold all these different knowledges when you're talking to so many different people,
it's a lot of space, right? To go from talking to most famous kind of journalist to the president
of this company to a famous actor and like, it's a lot to hold, a lot of worlds and also kind of how
you found a way to enter all those different positions. Because I think a lot of this practice
that we're talking about is understanding that there are so many different positions, even though
it's a shared non-relative space. So is it just been the journalism too that's kind of taught you
that or personal relationships? I know your dad was a neurosurgeon too, so there's a lot of philosophy
and neuroscience that comes out through your stuff too. So I don't know, maybe you can help me thread
how you've understood all those different ways of being an embodied being in the world.
Yeah, that's a tough question. If I had to come down to just like one explanation for that,
it would be genuine. And I mean this genuinely, it's like not even a, it's not a stance.
Genuinely, I'm moved by curiosity. If I'm talking to somebody, there's no construct to it.
Did you read a lot of books when you were a kid? Or did you watch a lot of movies? I mean,
because I always find people who watch a lot of movies or read a lot of books,
they also can develop this way. So my father, you know, you brought up, so not so much about
the neuroscience, but he was in, both my parents actually were doctors and they both had an amazing
zest for life and for nature. And like pretty simple in that sense, not worldly. But I would
say, I mean, if they were sort of shaping influences in my life, like nature would be
a big part of it. I mean, yeah, nature really, and like, I'm never more, you know, even on Instagram,
like my team always last year, I never put out anything. And the one time they said, can you
please personalize your Instagram? I put out a picture of a squirrel, you know, like, okay,
take this down. This is not getting you viral. Oh, I understand. I'm also not doing a personal
speak somewhere once. And they said, can you give us a picture, which is not your public self?
And it was me in a like jungle pool, you know, so really, but so my parents, yeah, my father,
not so much the neuroscience, but he had this kind of, I would say, you know, like very much
there's a Vedantic thought, you know, talking about spiritual is like, how do you act while
being disengaged, you know, so like, that sums up quite a bit of what we were just talking about.
Yes, it's 100% involvement in the endeavor, not in the outcome, you know, and it's that,
like, how do you live in that disengaged self while being like, I'm like a 9,000% passionate
worker, you know, but I'm still kind of a bit disengaged internally from it. And those, like
I said, I mean, yes, it has come, I would really say curiosity, you know, stories, reading films
and meeting people, like, if you're a true curious student of just human living and being,
you know, you actually see that, like, amazing, like explosion of stories around you all the time
in people's lives and, you know, and it could be famous people, it could be ordinary people,
there's always a story going on beneath, you know, and I think, like, by consuming that
with genuine, like I said, not a construct of curiosity, but genuine curiosity,
like now this is a cliche, but it makes you a student of life, you know, so I think that
helps me hold a lot of stuff in my head. And the other thing, I mean, that's just being blessed
with a very photographic memory. People do say, like, how do you like not look at notes, not look
at it? Yeah, I noticed none of you, you never have notes in your talks, or I haven't seen them.
Yeah, but for me, that comes from, it comes back to that great desire to understand something. So
when you actually understand something, then it's made sense, you know, so it stays in your head.
Yeah, it's a narrative. So you're, yeah, it's all leading to the next thing. Yeah. So I don't hang
on to facts, like, just without the string, you know, but because it's locked into,
like, I've understood it, so then it makes sense. And then you remember it, you know, so
I don't know if that and I'm wondering if your audience is going to, like, kind of get lost
with this conversation, because it's, you know, in the air. No, that's what they like.
The more like that, the better. No, but I do want to, as you were talking, I was thinking,
not just then, but throughout the whole thing, this kind of sense of presence and of
getting out of self in a way. So not taking yourself seriously, but also
realizing that there's this incredible world going on, right? And that there's a kind of
presence which that curiosity speaks to, right? If you can be present to the people in front of
you and their stories or the world around you, and just everything that's happening,
there's a connection there, isn't there, between not taking yourself seriously and that
space of curiosity and awe, or kind of what you were saying where you're disengaged, but you're
not, but you're active. Yeah, you're very involved with life without being sort of constantly
implicated in it at every moment, you know? Yeah, curiosity, and I was going to, again,
it's a very esoteric word, but for me, if I kind of think of some tools for living, or again,
and those I think are patterns, I think I had seeds of it myself, but you know, when you're
talking about the power of the story, because I've had the privilege and blessing actually to meet
such a massive canvas of interesting people, you notice some common ingredients, you know, to
a very richly lived life. And for me, wonder is another, you know, you just use the word awe,
so curiosity will be one. And I think like this, I possess it because I love nature, but like there's
also like childlike wonder and joy, you know? And again, joy, as I've grown older, I've begun to
understand just how powerful these words are, you know, like what does joy mean, like to really
have that sense of wonder about people's journeys, about nature, about, you know, just sunlight on
leaf, or just like a little bird, you know, those things. Yeah, I mean, without like wanting
to get into a cliche, if you really arrive at the meaning of that, it makes you quite this,
like I said, that light traveller through life, you know, because one, as I said earlier,
life doesn't owe you. So that eases you up, you know, because it's not particular, you know,
like no one's getting at you because your life's so screwed up. It's just the way it is. And you
can look at anybody's life, you know, and you'll find that underlayer of pain and grief and struggle
in everybody's life. So it's not that personal. And then the other is that joy is always available,
you know. So I think you were asking me to personalize some of this. So there has been,
I was telling you, I think the peak of my career when I, you know, in conventional terms, I was on
top of the world. I was managing editor at the Helca and you earlier said about founding a
magazine, like who founded it? The real founder was Tarun Tejpal, you know, and he's a journalist.
He was a close friend, a journalist, looked up to him. But he was accused of sexual harassment,
which then later was represented as rape. And I was the managing editor then. So there was a big,
huge like a scandal that erupted. And by virtue of being many things, you know, just circumstance,
it was like one of those first viral stories, you know, after Monica Lewinsky, this was like the
next global viral story. So this was over 10 years ago or so. Yeah. 2013. Before all the
me too. And yeah, like that first big explosion of me too. And, you know, again, not together. And
again, everyone's experience of it would be different. And when I say that, it's not to
say relativism is genuinely to understand what every, so I can only speak for my experience of
it. But I know that, you know, for all the professional hard work I'd put in, and I was,
as I said, on top of at least my canvas of the world, and respected had a body of work, etc.
Suddenly, I became a piece of fiction, you know, like anybody could say anything about me,
because I happen to be the managing editor, I think I intervened with alacrity, again,
with empiricism. And you know, I keep saying that, I don't want anyone to take my subjective truth
on this. There are actions, you know, that you base a story on. So I say with empirical fact that,
as the leader of an outfit, we took immediate, urgent, transparent collaborative action. But
still, you know, the accuser later, and you know, what she was saying to me personally,
was I, I'm so moved by the way you've responded to this, and it's helped me heal. And there were
complex truth, so it comes back to the complexity. Yeah, so much nuance, but media doesn't often
represent it that way, especially not 15 or 10, whatever back. Yeah, it was literally, like I
said, that first acetylene, you know, story. And, and I did take her and it was very difficult to
do because in a in a public maelstrom like that, I was, you know, I said, the institution has taken
immediate, transparent collaborative action, which coheres with her and which prioritizes her
emotions and feelings. But if there is a criminal case where someone's liberty is at stake,
then, you know, one doesn't have the tools to investigate the truth of this.
And my truth was that as the leader of the organization, I was given two competing versions
of what had happened, you know, so I will, I took that position of saying publicly, that as long as
it was an institutional response, even the Supreme Court, you know, there's been allegations of
sexual harassment in the Supreme Court, even they did not take action with the alacrity and
transparency that we took, you know, but that's an institutional response. Now, if there's a
criminal response, I cannot presume to be the arbiter of deciding whether there's a criminal
action that's taken because I don't have the tools to investigate, you know, and as the first
responder, or what I thought I was the first responder, I was given two different versions
of what happened. And there were some empirical things which played out both of those, you know,
so in the public space, I could have really taken the easy, you know, sort of popular position,
and, you know, completely sort of crucified the man in, you know, in content. But what I said was
that, here's what the institution has done, we have prioritized the woman's feelings, I have,
and all of that is on record, you don't have to take it subjectively. But now that it's a criminal
case, it's for the police to find out. And there were two versions of the truth, or two versions
of the incident, and that has to be investigated, you know, I was absolutely burned alive for saying
there were two versions, you know, and that was a lesson to take, you know, because
Gosh, that speaks right to this difficulty of the either or in the paradox in the way we
see the world through, you know, just just to say that two people had two different stories sounds
like you're saying they were two truths, which isn't the same thing. Yeah, and to say that this
needs its own investigation, you know, but because people wanted me to take the easy binary position
on that. But there is again, like, that I can give you many other stories with that, because
it's a public one, where that really helped me clarify for myself, like, who I am, what I am,
do I regret that position? And I don't, you know, because as a woman, as a leader, as a journalist,
you know, as an individual, if all of that super painful
maelstrom and catastrophe had to happen again, when I was in that position, I would say the same
thing again, because that was the truth, you know, that was the truth in terms and then eventually
the person was exonerated, the man. And I'm sure there's still layers of shades of where both
were telling their own experience and their own truth about that. But that's what I'm going to
say that there's a criminal legal position. And then there's the experiential, emotional,
social, psychological position. And all of that, for me, though I was burnt alive for that,
I would do it again, because that's, and I can't lose that adherence to the truth, you know,
so I lost a lot of that, I lost public position, I lost, I would say, 20, 25 years of my work.
When you resigned, right? Yes, I resigned, you know, for a long while, you lost your reputation,
I felt I lost my voice, because that's when the whole me too storm is when it must have been so
hard. Because I guess I should stop for a minute, because I don't know all this either. I mean,
if people Google you, they'll see that you're super famous in a lot of ways. I mean, Google you
from the US or from Europe. And then also that something happened, like what you just described.
So I'm really glad you just described it, because it doesn't really say what happened. And people
could also take it whatever way they want. But it sounds like someone accused someone that was
your boss or whatever that you knew very well of doing something. And you held both stories,
you listened to the person, you told them you didn't say it wasn't true what she said.
And you held this space. But then you were accused, you were exonerated, or you were
criticized very heavily in the media, which I don't know. But I'm sure you live through it.
But you don't see it so much on the internet. I didn't search. But it sounds like you went
through one of those really difficult situations. And you're still able to say that you did hold
the space the right way, which is kind of amazing, actually. Yeah, because I wasn't denying
her truth at all. That's the thing that matters. Yeah. And it was just that, how do you? But
I can't, I could not lie and say that. And I kept saying that, you know, this is the journalism,
like everyone kept saying, you're such a respected journalist. And I said, but you respected my
journalism because I could tell difficult or open the space, right? Like, that's the hard part is
opening that space. Yeah. Yeah. And now you're not allowing me the right to say a difficult truth,
you know, which is, I mean, yeah. But anyway, that's not a judge. I mean, how could you decide
all of this? But I think that's what we want in it. Not we, but this this weird thing that actually
isn't any one individual, but it's some kind of weird inertia of all people seemingly deciding
as the media. And it's probably just like now it's just algorithms of getting attention,
but I'm sure it was similar back then, right? It was going to be a big story. And so
everyone kind of just repeats it because it's going to get a lot of attention. Yeah. Something
like that. It gets kind of almost hysterical. Yeah. And, you know, I mean, there are lots of
hard lessons to learn in that you can't speak into a tsunami, you know, there were many strategic
things I could have done different, but I feel at peace about the fact that I acted in really
good faith with all the players involved. And that's what I was saying about sometimes having
the peace of your own, like, are you good with yourself? You know, when you play games, that
that makes you really vulnerable because then you are trapped in like too many positions, you know,
I was with my own truth, my own intention, and I could stand by that and I could take the hits
for it. You know, I would not have been able to take the hits for something duplicitous or,
you know, manipulative. It's very strong. It feels to me like real power, you know, which isn't the
kind of the way that word is used often. But and there's something about time I've thought of a
lot in this conversation of how a different concept of time, because a lot of this is like
this temporary hits or temporary grabbing of attention. And it's very hard not to react in
that short time period to like, maybe you could have tried to suddenly rectify everything and
change your position or, or whatever, but you just kind of sat in the difficult situation, you know,
and over time, it makes more sense, right? And people trust you because you held that space.
Things that happened for me out of that. And it again talks about also not getting so
trapped in the short frame of something. You know, there's always a frame outside of that.
And if I believed everything that was going on in the media at that point, I, you know, like,
close friends at all, like, you know, in your place that have committed suicide, or
etc. And I was like, I didn't feel I was, I didn't feel I was something ugly. So even if someone's
positioning me as ugly, I'm not feeling ugly, you know, but the beautiful thing that happened to me
from that is that I eventually got invited to give the Gandhi oration at the University of New
South Wales in Sydney, soon after the scandal, you know, and I asked the, you know, and I had
gone into a kind of period of, I would say, like, just below, because all my work blew up. So you
had to start from scratch again. So I said, like, how did you reach out or buy? And it was like,
one of the most wonderful things that happened, because the person who invited me said,
because we watched you in that time of conflict and fire, and you behaved from very Gandhian
positions. Oh, that makes me want to tear up or something. That's very nice. You know,
that again showed me that outside that layer of noise, there were others who even in this time of
frenzied media, could sift through, you know, so if you're like, and that's you have to have that
kind of faith. But I just want to say one other thing, you know, you were talking about tough
lessons, where I feel I really grew there. And it was a moment of pivoting for me, because a little
bit of that understanding about what detachment means came from a position of humility, you know,
so if I were to pull, like, distill everything I've been talking about, the immediate aftermath
of that was a sudden fall from grace, you know, suddenly you're not invited anywhere. I used to,
like, speak in forums across the world, I'm suddenly not invited,
not friends, you know, even like, meet you socially, you know, you're like that. Yeah,
I had young kids and, you know, so it, and so just for a while, I was shuffling at that, you know,
oh, like that went by, I wasn't invited, oh, suddenly, I'm not being asked to speak anywhere,
you know, I'm not on television, I'm not being invited to give my views on anything. Yeah. And
then I had this wonderful quiet moment, again, enough, like a forest walk behind my house.
And I suddenly said to myself, I said, what's going on? Like, you know, the tree, like, I'm
bemoaning not getting fruit, but the tree has been cut down, you know, so obviously, the fruits not
coming my way, the whole tree is gone, you know, and it was such a moment of, like, again, I'm using
these words, and I hope it doesn't sound cliched and sanctimonious. But like, these words to me
have got reanimated with meaning, you know, like, I had that moment of humility, to see
big effing deal, you know, like, shit happens. And it happens to everybody. And I cannot grasp at
the fruit when the tree is gone, you know, so let's just start again, like the seed, you know,
and that literally was so freeing, like that, that's what I was talking about, like that acceptance
that life does not owe you a joyride right through, you know, so the ability to take the
hits without feeling over personal. So today, if I were to count some of the things I'm proud of
is like, I'm not bitter, I'm not angry, and I'm not like trying to, you know, I don't feel any need
for any bookkeeping on any of this, you know, so that sense of hope. And in a way, that's
one of the biggest services or gifts you could give. I can say this, you don't have to agree,
because that's an extreme example of a difficult situation where, you know, someone that you respect
or care about it, or that's part of your life is, I mean, we won't go into everything that happened,
but this is a difficult situation. And then to have to go through what you just described where,
you know, literally, it probably feels like overnight, all the things that you could have
invested in as your definition of self were gone, right? Like all these invitations and these things
that people kind of live on as their definition of self. But that service is that you could hold that
space and go through it and give that as an example. I think that's probably what I felt
in your conversations. And I think that's what I was trying to dig out of how did you learn that,
because it is not an easy thing to learn to hold the space and be, as you described it, you know,
kind of totally present, but not taking yourself personally, almost like watching yourself
and still in awe and wonder, even as you're participating fully and actively and with
vigilance. It's holding the paradox, I often say. So it's kind of a, it's a really big gift, right,
that you went through that. So it's not for nothing, right? And I think it becomes more so over time,
because all of us go through that at different scales, not the scale that you did, but in our
everyday life, when somebody says something or hurts you, or you do something even like you make
a mistake and it's embarrassing, right? And then you have to kind of hold the space. And the more
you learn how to do that, it's back to that practice, the more life opens up and the more
you can be in a state of wonder and presence and engagement and curiosity. So all of this is
connected. And now I have to also say I made a mistake earlier, because in a kind of embarrassing,
because you were saying nature, and for some reason I heard Nietzsche, perspectivalism,
but actually it's connected, right? This idea in philosophy of being able to hold many different
positions, we learn that when we can be in nature in the way that sounds like it's been very
important for you. Like that story is very beautiful that you just told. And I'm imagining
that you had that as a kid, maybe this nature experience where you do, you can think of like,
for me, it sounds like you kind of put yourself in the position of the tree or of the landscape or
whatever. And it helps you to put these things into a different way of seeing them. So anyway,
so nature, that's a very important word. That time we were talking on so many strands,
I forgot to circle back on that. Nietzsche, it again connects back, I guess, with proportionality,
you know, I mean, I think Nietzsche gives you a sense of proportionality. And I'm, you're making
me say some things which are like fairly, you know, it doesn't sound so personal, but like,
it's really the textures of me is that even, yeah, when I'm in like really difficult positions,
I often like, I might actually like a tree really matters to me. There's that, you know, it's like
that reaching for light. So again, like, I think one of those helplines in my life is to reach for
light, you know, you can either wallow and stuff, or you reach for light. And like trees have that,
you know, it's that so and you know, you, for me, like, I was just thinking, I again, like,
it's from a position of humility that I want to say that all of this was enabled for me,
because I genuinely live in a circle of love, you know, and I've been very, very, very blessed with
my life, whether friendships, my siblings, my sister, in particular, my partner, you know,
my husband, unbelievable man, and then my kids, you know, my boys. So right through this sort of,
you know, bobbing boat through life, some way or the other, like, if you find love, and you know,
some people like I've been blessed with human love in different forms, you know, friends, siblings,
partners, kids, but professional love. But some may not even be blessed with that. But that's
again, like you come to understand, like, you know, yeah, like, that was really a big source
of strength. And that that redemptive quality of love could come from many things, you know,
for many people, it comes out of work, it comes out of, you know, it could come out of anything,
which gives you that sort of space of just being, you know, like, not having to prove,
so it could be a relationship with music. And yeah, music, I think is, or nature, too, right?
Where you can relax into the space, you feel bigger than all this other stuff, somehow.
Yeah. And of course, the nourishment of human love is, is huge, you know, and everything one
says about love. And I'm not just saying romantic love, just the power of love, it makes you,
you know, it holds you very strong.
It does hold you. And thank you for bringing it back to that, because that was going to be my sort
of where I wanted to go to end, because I think nature and the way that you described it, and also
I was imagining, because you brought up your sister, and I was, you can feel that there was
family holding you. And again, family doesn't have to be the people that, you know, your parents and
your sisters and your brothers, and you can find family in books and different groups and nature
and music. We all find it in some way, but it's that sense of expansiveness, isn't it? Where you,
because we're all, I think this gets to the relativism, too, in a way that things aren't
relative. We are all connected, and it is a moving, ongoing thing, but you can, there's wonder and
curiosity is, in a way, relaxing into that wider space, isn't it? In a way, I guess we all,
however we access that, it's very helpful in dealing with these situations that we've been
talking about. And maybe even it's what we're trying to open up with conversations.
Yeah, I think with conversations, I think the wonderful metaphor you used was about
doors and portals, you know, like, for me, the power of conversation is that, you know, that you
can't live many lives. You live one, which is your own, but conversations is your opportunity to
enter so many other life experiences, you know, and learn from them, take from them. So it's like so
much of clay, and I definitely, like, I think I'm a pastiche of, you know, when you admire somebody,
you, like, it's not just to admire, but to say, hey, like, what do I like about them? You know,
what is that attitude? And then how do you incorporate it? Yeah, it's like a pattern or
rhythm or something you, it becomes part of you. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And again, like that,
you said movies, books, conversations, and also stories, I think, you know, we underestimate the
power of stories, like we were talking about a story of yourself, or a story of a nation, or a,
like, who are leaders? And how do you move others is your capacity to tell a story, you know, and
every circumstance is a story. And yeah, although you put on something, the spin you put on something
completely changes your experience of that, you know, so that I think that, yeah, that love for
stories, and other people's journeys, it's, you know, it also changes your experience of something,
because if you shift the lens on it, it just, the whole, your whole reality changes, you know?
Yeah, it does. That's why being brave enough to look at your own story and share it, and also
opening, like what you're doing with your work now, there would be so much more to talk about, but,
you know, you're opening spaces where people can at least have the chance to do that, right,
in a safe space to share their story. And I'm sure that who knows how many people, but even if it's
just one person who kind of hears your story here and needed to somehow have that portal opened,
and then now it's like, okay, someone else has felt that way, so I can sit with it.
It makes a huge difference. And I think we can't put it into words why it matters so much, but I
really think it does matter a lot. So all that to say, you know, thanks for the work you're doing,
and thanks for sharing and being open and talking about all this with us today. I just want to send
you gratitude for all that. Thank you so much, Andrea. It was wonderful talking to you. And
you're very sensitive, not just because you said so many nice things about me, but just your own
search for things. It's like such a wonderful, sensitive search light, you know. Well, thank you.
I mean, yeah, I mean, it's coming from definitely a place of just, I think, what you mean by
curiosity too. So I think maybe that's how I connected with you. And it's opened up my
landscapes. So in so many ways, I didn't even get into because a lot of the people that you had on
your, on the synapse, which everyone I'm going to link to, some of, quite a few of them are new for
me, right? So this has to do with opening up new countries to one another too. I mean, you opened up
some new things in that sense too. So yeah, thanks. Thanks for feeding my curiosity.
Please come for synapse. The dates are there 22nd, 23rd. So I really hope you come for it,
you know. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. All right. Is there anything that you want to say before we go
or any comments or just stuff you want me to know or anything I didn't get to?
That's so much, because I'd have loved to ask you things about you and so many stories to tell.
I just wanted to come back to that one note about forgiveness, because, you know, when you talk to
people, there's a lot of that. So there's about forgiving others, but I just want to, again, stress
that kindness to oneself, you know, like when you don't lock yourself into the positions of your past,
that's, you know, I know I had to do that a lot. Like I had to sit in peace and, you know, because
you also participate in your own pain. So you do things, you know, you're attached to people who've
caused you pain. And how do you forgive yourself for that is, again, I think, a very spiritual
practice. It's not always just about the others, but freeing yourself up to be a free agent.
I was going to, I mean, maybe we can talk about it another time, but I was going to ask you about
that vulnerability or because, you know, we didn't talk about like being a woman, but when you're a
very strong woman, right? And you're also like in a position where you're a public strong woman.
And so just thinking of that and how you're not going to always be right, I guess, like
nobody's always right. But when you're publicly, you know, make a mistake or something like,
yeah, I guess that vulnerability, I was going to ask you, like, how do you stay vulnerable to
yourself? Because I catch myself sometimes, you know, where you're supposed to be in a position
of authority, right? I'm supposed to be a philosopher. So if someone knows something
about philosophy, you know, you kind of like need to have to catch myself and try to remain
vulnerable or remain humble is a better word, not vulnerable.
Yeah, I do. I mean, I would say again, external knowledge, I used to be, that would have been my
younger self. Now I'm not because it's just like, you know, the world is so huge that there's no,
no, everything is just possible, you know, so I try to hide from that. But the woman factor, yeah,
like, I think, you know, being called a strong woman, there was a lot of some of the position,
you know, and some of the turbulences I've been in life and with again, mostly, I would say with
attachments to people, you know, the illusion of people that you've sort of wedded yourself to and
and in some ways, then you, you know, you're participating in pain, which would not be your
normal public construct, you know, so that's what I was saying that you to that takes real courage
to sit with yourself and see yourself outside all the constructs, you know, and genuinely forgive
that that that for me was very freeing. I keep trying to like, that's genuinely something I would
love to gift people in pain, the and a lot of my friends who've been in difficult positions or
whatever, I keep saying, you know, just try that, like, it's really hard, like, it's a gift I want
to give people of like, how do you just sit with yourself, let your thoughts flow, and see them,
it's like, again, that bringing back that idea of cinema and a story, like, when you, you know,
when you drop all those facades and defense mechanisms and constructs, and you can just sit
with yourself, I guess, it's meditation, but it's not even conscious meditation, it's just like,
letting it become transparent to you, letting yourself become transparent to you, you know,
and when you see that, and you can cringe, and you can, like, you know, say,
what version of myself was that? Yeah, like watching a movie where sometimes you can hardly
watch it. And that's, for me, that has been very, very liberating, you know, to be able to do that.
So, if at all, I could use this conversation to give that to people is to really, I repeated it
two, three times, but to say, you don't have to get so locked into being just that one version
of yourself. I think it's worth repeating, because it's not something, like, it's one of those weird
things that if you know it, you know, that's really important, but we never talk about it.
It's not really like in our public persona, because I think that's why I brought this vulnerability
and stuff, because it seems like you're not supposed to admit that there might be hard things
to watch in your life, even though we all know there are, right? But when you do your Facebook
page or Instagram, you're not supposed to show that stuff. So, but I think it just is great that
you did say it a few times, because it really is this practice of what we've been coming back to
in different ways, this theme of not taking yourself too seriously, but being very present
to yourself. That's the weird paradox you learn how to hold. And also learning that you are
an important, unique being, but you're changing all the time, too. And so you can look at yourself
as you would a book or a movie in a way, and you can change the story, you know? It's a real
powerful thing. And I do think conversations help that. When I watch you in conversation,
I'm learning that pattern, right? And so that you've gone through all this stuff in your life,
and so you can hold this pattern, you can hold this space. And in a way, just watching you do that
becomes a lesson, even though you don't, because you can't speak it. You can't say, like, here's
what you do. I mean, you've tried in this conversation, and there's a way we can point
to it. But in truth, a person has to go through that a few times before it becomes something that
you can sit and watch and do, you know? I just wanted to end with one scientific fact,
which, again, would be a perfect metaphor for everything we've been talking about. I just
read about it yesterday, because I want to get someone with gene editing at Synapse. And it's
like just the marvel of it. So that's, again, my point, you know, that even when, say, I'm
like age reversal, or some aspects of AI, or even gene editing, you may have social dilemmas or
ethical issues. But first of all, I just want to marvel at the intelligence of people to think,
like you keep saying, like, how did someone even think that death is not inevitable? Like,
I just want to marvel at that level of intrepid thinking, you know? Yeah, right. How did you even
get to that point? But anyway, so the fact I wanted to leave this conversation with is that
apparently, as an adult, we have 27 trillion cells in our body. And that's undergoing like a billion,
100 billion mutations every day, you know? Like, that's how mutating, the day you're mutating a
billion times. It's crazy. But what stays the same is the pattern. I mean, in philosophy, it's a kind
of ship of theses thing, right? Because there's, again, it's not relative. It's not that you're
just totally a new person, because you have patterns, but you can shift those patterns,
you know? And that's how we kind of open new worlds. And that's why when something strikes you as so
contrary to your own patterns, it's a portal. It doesn't mean you need to take on that pattern.
That's why I said do it safely. And I think that's why we were talking about all this presence and
research and stuff, because it's not that you just take on that. But it is, you know, it's showing you
that there's other patterns in the world that are very different from yours. You might be able to
learn something, might be able to open something. Do you mind if I just say one other quick thing?
Yeah, no, not at all. I remembered one other tool of, you know, which has helped. And I think, again,
it's not relative. I think that really does help people is that coming back to the power of
conversation, you know, I acknowledge my loved ones, my siblings, my husband, and all of that.
But there was a particular friend who I have had like a stream of consciousness conversation with
over 10 of the most tumultuous years of my life, you know, and that space to just talk, you know,
it's again, the power of conversation, it allows you perspective, it allows things to breathe,
you can laugh, you know, it externalize like the ferris wheel in your head, when it's out there,
and in a safe space, it just suddenly you can see it, you know, and it's not a cycle in your
head anymore. It's so funny you say that I literally was thinking of that today, a friend
was going through something and I, you know, and talked about it and then kind of said, gosh,
it's so good to just talk about it. And it is I mean, even if you don't have someone to talk to,
you can write it out, or just get it out somehow, right? You know, talk it out to yourself. I mean,
I guess it's what people do online too, sometimes now is just put it, but do it in a truthful way,
you know, to yourself. Yes. It comes back to the power of conversation. It's very healing.
Yeah, it is. And it's friendship is so important. And I think all this is a model of two of being
friends with yourself. And also it can be with books, a lot of us read books, and we find
ways of externalizing our own stuff or listening to other people's conversations. And I guess the
point is, somehow look for a way to have a conversation about it, or listen to a conversation
about it, or watch a conversation about it. It helps. All right, well, I've just loved this. And
I feel like I could talk to you forever. I love that we just went to where we did. And I think
it feels like somebody probably needed to hear all this, whatever this was. So I really, really
thank you for doing it, for going there and, yeah, talking about it.
Thank you so much, Andrea. I love talking to you as well.
It was great.
Thank you.
All right. Bye, Shama.
