It's not a crisis for the planet as such, the planet can keep right on going with life probably perfectly fine through this human perturbation.
But it is a crisis for us and for other species as well.
We don't see that we have a blind spot.
We don't see there and we don't see that we don't see.
The blind spot arises when we mistake the idealized and abstracted models that we've created for the concrete reality of nature, including ourselves in it.
We're substituting a tool for the phenomena and it's surreptitious because it's hidden.
We think that time fundamentally is what a clock measures rather than our experience of the now and duration and becoming.
There's nothing in the project of science itself using mathematical abstraction that has to be pinned to this idea of a kind of metaphysical hierarchy
where human experiences is not on the same level as other phenomena.
Whitehead called that the bifurcation of nature, the fallacy of misplaced concreteness.
They saw that there's a hidden experiential depth to our relationship with nature that we easily lose sight of when we become fascinated with our scientific achievements.
If you reduce the diversity of species, you get rid of the arts and humanities and you emphasize just STEM discipline.
It's actually undermining the culture that creates innovation, that creates scientific advance.
They exist, they're real.
And yet there are different lived, perspectival experiences of coming to study them.
I like heterodox thinkers.
I like underdogs.
I like alternative viewpoints.
I find orthodoxy boring.
We constantly run up against the fact that the way nature is disclosed to us depends fundamentally on how we are investigating it,
how we are interrogating it, on the tools we have, on the cultural infrastructure of science.
So on the one hand, you could say we're absolutely central to what science is telling us.
But on the other hand, we're peripheral or we're tiny and contingent.
And so that's not like, strictly speaking, a logical paradox, but it's like a conundrum.
It's a sort of tangled up knot.
So how do we untangle that?
Hello, everyone.
Welcome back to Love and Philosophy.
It's New Year's Day, 2025.
Happy New Year's.
It's very windy outside.
I'm near the sea and it's a wild day outside.
You might hear the wind, but hopefully this still comes through.
Today's episode is with Evan Thompson, who is a philosopher, one of my favorite philosophers,
because he writes with such precision and honesty and clarity.
And he's been doing it for such a long time.
I have to admit, I've also been writing a book about Evan, not only Evan, also Evan's father.
And this time period when Evan was a child and teenager growing up, when a lot of groups
of scientists were coming together in different ways to try and find what I think of as a
complex system, rather than a linear approach to the problems of the world.
For example, with Evan's father, William Irwin Thompson, there was a group called Lindisfarne.
And some of my favorite writers, people you've definitely heard me mention, like Gregory
Bateson, the pattern that connects comes from him.
Also Francisco Varela, Len Margulis.
To be honest, the list goes on and on.
But Evan's father got these people together.
Also some Native American leaders, Buddhist thinkers, and this was in the 70s.
So it was before anyone took Len Margulis seriously.
For example, Gregory Bateson, Francisco Varela, these were more fringe people at that time.
Now we think of them as founders of earth system science and founders of certain kinds
of neuroscience studies.
However, at this time, when Evan was growing up, his dad was getting all these people together,
thinking of new ways to exist, to think, to move.
And that relates to this whole idea of beyond dichotomy for me, love and philosophy, holding
paradox.
Just to say, I'm very pleased to bring you Evan Thompson on New Year's Day.
We talk about his newest book, he's written a lot of great books, but he and the astrophysicist
Adam Frank and the theoretical physicist Marcelo Gleiser have written a wonderful book called
The Blind Spot.
We talk about that title, what it means, how it relates to these other themes that I've
just mentioned.
We talk about some of these people like Bateson and Varela, who have been important to continuing
this tradition.
We talk about what it might mean to have some sort of a practice or what Pierre Hadot called
spiritual exercises towards being able to think differently about the patterns that
connect us all across disciplines and taking our own individual subjective experience seriously.
We talk about how in the wellspring of science and technology, what we're really missing
is this idea of subjectivity.
We pretend like it's not there in our science, but we actually can't get away from it.
We also talk about crisis.
This word is used a lot in meta-crisis, meaning crisis, and ecological crisis.
There's a lot of talk of the crisis right now.
We talk about how that's related and what we might do to change that.
Some of you might know Evan from his book Embodied Mind that he wrote with Francisco
Varela and Eleanor Roche, one of the founding books of embodied cognition, of actually thinking
of cognition and mind as something that is embodied, as an embodied act.
Evan has been trying to hold the paradox for as long as he's been writing, as far as I'm
concerned.
Writing about the continuity of mind and life, for example.
Writing about the continuity of action and cognition.
Here writing about this in terms of subjectivity and objectivity, particle and wave, you might
say.
He gives the example of temperature, which is, it's almost hard to even understand the
example because we take temperature to be a number that we read with a tool.
But of course, without lived experience, without the subjective experience, this makes no sense
at all.
But in this way, it can be very hard to understand that all of our tools and science and math
actually does have an embodied subjective wellspring at its core.
We get a bit confused when we think that a technology might develop that because the
technology is part of this continuity out of that.
So that's not an easy thing to hold and understand, but we do try to talk about that here and
look at it.
He also wrote a really wonderful article, which I'll link to about time and Einstein
and Bergson, also trying to hold this idea of subjectivity and objectivity together.
I hope that you had a good end of the year for 2024 and that everything is refreshing
for you today for New Year's in a way that brings you love, clarity.
I hope that wherever you are, you hear something in this conversation that helps you in the
new year.
I've now listened to this conversation, I think, at least five times as I've been trying
And every time I listen to it, I hear Evan say something that I hadn't really heard well
the first time.
And of course, I had this conversation with Evan, so I think that really tells you something
about the depth of his scholarship and how when he's talking, he's already making a lot
of connections because he's really put the time in and studied this and thought about
it deeply and takes responsibility for what he says and the associations.
Thanks also for your support.
Thank you for joining the Substack.
Thank you for your comments.
Thank you for joining the YouTube.
Thank you for your emails.
Thank you for just being here and thinking about these ideas and trying to find the patterns
that connect and move forward in a new way together.
Hi, Evan.
It's so wonderful to see you today.
Thanks for being here.
Thanks for inviting me.
I'm going to talk to you about this book, Linespot, today.
And there's two words that kept coming up in the book, but also that I really focus
on right now.
One is urgency and the other is paradox.
And the very beginning sentence, I know it's kind of annoying to read your first sentence
to you, but it's really serious, right?
The first sentence is, we write this book with a sense of urgency because we believe
our collective future and human project of civilization are at stake.
You're not playing around here.
Yeah, that's right.
We feel that we are in a kind of cultural crisis that you could describe in a number
of different ways.
I think maybe most fundamentally, you could say it's a kind of crisis of meaning, but
it has its most tangible manifestation, perhaps, in the climate crisis, which is a planetary
crisis for humanity.
It's not a crisis for the planet as such.
The planet can keep right on going with life, probably perfectly fine through this human
perturbation, but it is a crisis for us and for other species as well, not just us, but
particularly for us.
And we feel that that crisis is a manifestation of a certain worldview that is not the same
as science, but has come to be grafted onto or embedded within science since the rise
of modern science and the industrial worldview.
And so we're trying to target the ways of thinking really that have to do with meaning
and the understanding of nature and human experience and the relationship between the
human form of life and the rest of nature and the rest of the cosmos.
We're trying to identify the sources that have their most tangible manifestation in
these crises.
Crisis is a word I hear a lot from a lot of different people, different areas, different
fields of study.
Where does meaning crisis come from for you?
I would say that, so if we were going to describe maybe some of the philosophical sources for
this way of thinking, or you could say this diagnosis, one of the very influential works
for us, which we talk about in the beginning of the book, is a work that also had crisis
in the title.
Crisis was the work by the German philosopher and mathematician Edmund Husserl.
He wrote a work at the very end of his life.
It was really a series of lectures that he gave called The Crisis of European Sciences.
And that was 1938, he was writing, and he died really just before the outbreak of World
War II.
The crisis that he identified was, it was really a meaning crisis in the sense that
we had come to acquire a very powerful method for investigating and manipulating things.
This is the method of modern experimental science, which involves abstracting away from
certain aspects of our experience, idealizing and quantifying others, rendering them in
a mathematical language that we use as a tool to gain insight into and to gain control and
prediction over phenomena within certain ranges of our ability.
And what we do, according to Husserl's diagnosis, is we mistake the method, which is basically
like a tool of knowledge.
We mistake the tool for the nature of the thing itself that we're investigating.
In that way, we think of nature as if it's entirely objective or objectifiable, as intrinsically
mathematical in a way that doesn't fundamentally involve how we encounter it, how we interact
with it, how we perceive it.
And Husserl calls this the surreptitious substitution, that we substitute a tool or a method for
the phenomena.
In his way of thinking, that's where the crisis really has its deep root, because it's a way
of rendering the meaning of our experience in an objectified language and forgetting
that its status as a language is that of a tool, not that as a thing itself.
Can you tell me what that word means?
I kept meaning to look it up the whole time I was reading the book.
Surreptitious.
Of course, it's one of those words, you know what it means, but I don't really know how
to put it into words, just for...
Yeah.
So you could say, it's actually, it's not quite what the German word Husserl is using.
I think Husserl's words is something more like a displacement.
But the translator rendered it, I think, in a way that's quite ingenious, as surreptitious
substitution.
So surreptitious is the idea that something is happening behind the scenes, that it's
covert, that it's not out in the open.
And substitution is you're replacing one thing with another thing.
And you're not, because it's surreptitious, you're not, either you're not aware of it
or you're not calling attention to it.
You're letting it pass by without any further thinking or critical reflection.
So in his case, what it means is substituting a method for being, that's actually how he
puts it, or substituting a tool for the phenomena.
And it's surreptitious because it's hidden.
We describe, so classically, Galileo describes nature using geometry, and Descartes comes
along and gives us the algebraic version of that, and then it's sort of up and running
as the project of modern mathematical physics.
And the surreptitious substitution is you substitute for the phenomena, the mathematical
description of them, which is abstract and idealized, and the phenomena are concrete
and sensuous.
So that's the substitution.
And you do it in a way where you're not saying, look, this is a useful tool.
You're saying this is actually how nature is.
Galileo famously says, if I just imagine all the minds gone, all the sentient beings gone,
it's left nature in itself, which is matter in motion, understood in terms of its geometrisable
properties.
And so this book by Hursl, which I just had here, but I took it downstairs because we're
going away from my husband's birthday and I wanted to bring it with me, but the one
that you mentioned, it's such an important book.
And I really was hoping you'd bring that up when I asked about the meaning crisis, because
it feels really connected to what you're doing here, too.
What you just described kind of is the blind spot, in a way, isn't it?
We don't see that we've mistaken the models or the science for the process that the science
is studying, so to speak, and he saw that and he was trying to bring this to the attention
in an urgent way.
But let's think about this blind spot, because that is the name of the book and you've already
described it in a way, but we haven't really talked about it sort of directly.
So what would you like to unpack about blind spot?
So the term blind spot, of course, is a metaphor.
It's taken from the fact that we, actually all mammals, have a blind spot in our visual
field.
So the visual field blind spot is where the optic nerve leaves, the eye leaves the retina.
And in that area, we don't have any photoreceptors, so there's no visual sensitivity there.
So it's an area in our visual field that's not receiving sensory stimulation, but it
makes seeing possible in the way that our eyes happen to be organized, because you need
the optic nerve to conduct the impulses to the brain.
So it makes seeing possible, but it's a gap or an emptiness or a spot in the visual field
where we're blind, but we don't see that we have a blind spot.
We don't see there and we don't see that we don't see.
I have to say, when I was studying neuroscience, the first time I realized it, the professor
drew something on the board and then we kind of moved through the room to the point where
our blind spot was and I literally couldn't see the thing on the board.
And it's really kind of creepy, right, to realize you can't see it at all when it's
in your blind spot.
That's right.
It just disappears from view.
So there's something that disappears from view and we don't see that it disappears
from view unless we undertake these particular movements and exercises that will bring our
blind spot into our awareness.
So we use that as a metaphor for the idea that there's something that's fundamental
to the way science works, but that our scientific worldview has occluded, has hidden, and it
has not been able to see.
So it's the scientific blind spot, you could say, and that's the source of science and
lived experience, the primacy of human experience for the whole project that is science, which
is a cultural human activity.
And so the blind spot is that idea.
We become so taken up with the models and theories and technologies, which are all incredibly
powerful and valuable, we become so taken up with them that we forget that there is
this underlying source or wellspring for them that is human experience, and that's the blind
spot.
Yes, and this is, I would ask you like how did this happen, but that's what the whole
book is about because it's a long, complicated story happening at many nested levels, so
I'm just kind of kidding when I say how did this happen, but in a kind of cartoonish sense,
can I just paint it like you come to awareness in the world, or we do, of each other and
then we start studying how this is happening and we start developing sort of tools to study
that, and then at some point we become so good with our tools that we can predict things
or we can build things that help us.
And of course, again, I'm cartooning a whole book, but we become almost obsessed with that,
or it becomes something that we think that's the only way to find the answer, right, through
a blind spot in a way.
It's just almost through awe and wonder, but then wanting to be able to trust in that and
have some kind of concrete thing to hold onto, which of course science just becomes that
in a way.
Yeah, so that's really what we cover in the second chapter of the book.
We give a kind of very abbreviated history of how going back to the Greeks and then up
through medieval natural philosophy and into the early modern period and then down into
the 19th and 20th centuries, there is this what we call ascending spiral of abstraction.
So there's this really fundamental insight into the role that mathematics can play in
giving us cognitive insight into nature.
And we progressively refine that, refine that, refine that.
And in and of itself, that's a marvelous thing.
But the blind spot arises when we mistake the idealized and abstracted models that we've
created for the concrete reality of nature, including ourselves in it.
So this is, to use the term from another sort of hero of our book, Alfred North Whitehead,
who was writing around the same time as Husserl, this is what he called the fallacy of misplaced
concreteness.
It's that the abstractions have a very powerful cognitive role to play, and they do latch
on to aspects of nature.
But then we read them back into what nature fundamentally is in a way that involves denigrating
human experience.
So we create a kind of hierarchy of being.
We say that, well, you know, particles in motion are more fundamental than human experience.
And when we do that, we've created a hierarchy where we've in a way cut ourselves out from
what nature is fundamentally, where human experience is one way that nature produces
cognitive beings with a particular relationship to a particular environment.
So it's a kind of hierarchical, it's a metaphysical hierarchy.
So there's nothing in the project of science itself using mathematical abstraction that
Whitehead has to be pinned to this idea of a kind of metaphysical hierarchy where human
experience is not on the same level as other phenomena.
So Whitehead called that the bifurcation of nature.
He called it the fallacy of misplaced concreteness.
This bifurcation, let's hang on that word for a minute, because I mentioned paradox
at the beginning, and I kind of want to get to that way that it's sort of created this,
I almost want to call it a habit or a way of seeing the world that's bifurcated.
Do you want to talk a little bit about bifurcation or maybe we could also talk about the parable
of temperature.
Is it temperature?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because that kind of goes through the book.
And I think that's a really easy way to understand how our lived experience, our direct experience,
we want to understand it and it then becomes abstracted in the way you've been describing.
Yeah.
So the parable of temperature is an example we introduced at the very beginning to illustrate
all of these ideas.
And it's the idea that with the creation initially of thermometry, of the science of the measuring
of temperature, the science and technology of the measuring of temperature, we had to
start with our concrete lived experiences of hot and cold in and through our body.
So we start with our bodily experience.
And then we realize that there are certain regularities that happen in the experience
of hot and cold despite variations across individual sensation.
We can fix on those.
We can actually stabilize them in controlled setting.
We can discover that there are fixed points where water boils, where water freezes.
We can use those to create thermometers.
We discover those are context dependent, whether you're up high in the mountains, whether you're
at sea level.
So we progressively explore in and through our body the variability and variations in
experience looking for the invariance that then we can fix and then really control through
technological means.
And out of that, we create the science of temperature.
Then we come along with thermodynamics, and we give a theory of what's actually going
on, initially a theory that you could say observational, and then that gets underpinned
by statistical mechanics, and we redefine temperature as opposed to the sensation of
hot and cold as the average kinetic energy of particles.
So all of that is fine.
That's all wonderful, but the blind spot would arise if we say that the average kinetic energy
of molecules is metaphysically more fundamental than the experience of hot and cold, and we
forget that the intelligibility, the meaningfulness of a construct like average molecular kinetic
energy actually depends on our experience for its underpinning or its source.
So we call that the parallel of temperature.
That's kind of an illustration of the ascending spiral of abstraction, the surreptitious substitution.
The bifurcation of nature is the idea that nature is divided into what is subjective
and exists only in the mind and what's objective and exists outside the mind and is really
fundamentally a matter of mathematizable properties.
It's almost like with the temperature now, instead of understanding it's this bodily,
sensual, ongoing thing that isn't actually monetized and data, it doesn't have numbers
on it, we actually think of it through the temperature of numbers.
Right, right.
Yeah, exactly, and that's something that we do in all sorts of ways.
So we think that time fundamentally is what a clock measures rather than our experience
of the now and duration and becoming.
So that's an example.
Another example would be, say, in the neuroscience of consciousness where the idea is, how could
you investigate something like consciousness except from within your own consciousness?
The entire activity of investigating the brain is happening in and through the conscious
experience of the neuroscientist, but then there's an attempt to redefine what consciousness
fundamentally is as opposed to how we encounter it subjectively in terms of something like
neuronal computations or integrated information or one or another construct in cognitive neuroscience.
So that's another example where we take ideas that have their proper home in models and
then we read them back into nature in a way that you could say undercuts the source of
the model, which is the lived experience itself, which is never something that you can exhaust
if they capture in a model, it's just not the nature of a model.
You were getting to what the bifurcation was and I'm glad you went there because I want
to get into that, that not only consciousness but what you were saying about somehow we've
sort of like lived experience and subjectivity has almost become something we don't take
seriously, which is very weird since it's the source, but maybe just that bifurcation
and what Whitehead was trying to bring out with that and I think it also connects to
what was like the real kind of thing that really hurt there for him.
Right. So the bifurcation, the idea is you have nature and you're trying to understand
nature as let's call it a system of relations among different processes, different phenomena.
And then you introduce a cut and you say, on the one hand, there's what's objective
and on the other hand, there's what exists only in the mind.
And so an example of this would be to say, well, colors don't really exist.
There's really only electromagnetic radiation.
And the problem with that is that you still have to account for color as a phenomenon
because it is, after all, part of nature.
We see color, birds see colors richer than we do, fish see colors richer than we do.
So color is part of the phenomenology of nature.
And if you kick it outside of nature into the mind, and moreover, you don't have a way
of explaining the mind because nature has been set up as mind removed.
Galileo says, let's remove all the creatures and describe nature as it is without all the creatures.
So then you try to put the creatures back in and you use the same method to try to describe
them that you use to remove them.
You're immediately in a very problematic situation.
And so that's really the bifurcation of nature is that you've made this cut that you have to
stitch back together somehow.
Exactly this dichotomy.
This is very important because even the way we have to talk about it, the way you just
described it, mind has been cut from nature.
Our language is built on it already thinking that mind is something separate from nature.
And of course, in your work going all the way back, you've been dealing with how to show
that that's not a dichotomy, in fact, but isn't it hard to even present the problem clearly?
I'm trying to get to what you kind of call that we're like stuck in an impossible contradiction
because even just then the way you have to explain it, you have to use these words that
are already setting things against other things.
It becomes very hard to clearly see that we don't actually need to have that dichotomy
because our language uses it.
That's right. I mean, the dichotomy, I think, is deeply entrenched in our ways of thinking
historically and linguistically and in the languages that we use, as you're saying.
And the paradox or the contradiction is one that we point to, I think, at the very beginning
of the book, we say that, well, on the one hand, the scientific narrative that we have,
the narrative of evolution, biological evolution, the narrative of cosmology, how do we figure
into that? Well, we figure into that as a kind of very tiny contingent phenomenon on
one planet as a result of an evolutionary and cosmic history that very well could have
gone otherwise. So we're on the one hand, we're kind of a tiny contingent accident,
you might say, in the grand stories that science is telling us, but we are also the
authors of the stories. And in all of the areas that we discuss in the books, cosmology
and quantum physics and cognitive neuroscience, we constantly run up against the fact that
the way nature is disclosed to us depends fundamentally on how we are investigating
it, how we are interrogating it, on the tools we have, on the cultural infrastructure
of science. So on the one hand, you could say we're absolutely central to what science
is telling us, but on the other hand, we're peripheral or we're tiny and contingent.
And so that's not like, strictly speaking, a logical paradox, but it's in the sense
of a self-contradiction, but it's like a conundrum. It's a sort of tangled up knot.
So how do we untangle that? Well, you know, our argument is we untangle that by seeing
that science is a human activity, that the way that nature is understood in and through
models fundamentally depends on human cognition, on human interaction, so that we can't take
ourselves out of the story. There's no way to take ourselves out of the story.
Which is what we've been doing and why this urgency to bring that word has come about,
because there's this disconnect. It was almost like we had one leg on each side of this for
a while, and now we've just, everyone's had to jump to one side because the parts have
moved apart conceptually. So now you have to choose sides in almost everything.
Maybe we should talk a little bit about this paradox, because for me, the whole book is set up
through many different kinds of paradoxes, which what that really means in life right now is that
we all feel like we have to choose sides. Either mind is this or mind is that. Either everything
is physical or everything is not physical. It's always an either or kind of thing.
You talk about time and cosmos, matter, observer, nature, consciousness, reduction,
objectivity. We can go on and on, and the book sets it up really well in different ways.
But this dichotomy of slicing things is different than those things being different poles or
different ways of looking at an ongoing shared process, right? How can you help me unpack that
a little bit? Because as you say multiple times in the book too, it's not that it's wrong to
bifurcate, but it's that the bifurcation is a measurement or a method or some kind of way in
which we're trying to understand that which can't be bifurcated because it's ongoing. It's a process.
Yeah, no, definitely. So I mean, I think the challenge in very, you know, maybe general
abstract terms is to move from familiar dichotomous modes of thought that show up in all
sorts of ways, you know, mind, body, subject, object, inside, outside, subjective, objective,
to move from those kinds of frameworks to frameworks that emphasize a kind of irreducible
relationality, irreducible complexity. So by the end of the book, we talk about the emergence of
complex system science, of network science, and what we see as very rich in those developments
is tools for actually thinking in terms of relations and networks in which we can include
ourselves as necessary nodes in the network and participants in them so that whenever we are,
let's say, trying to characterize a network or web of interrelated phenomena,
we can also take account of the fact that we are included in how that network is going to
get characterized in terms of how we're able to observe it, how we're able to measure it,
how we're able to, you know, perturb it. And for, you know, nonlinear systems,
the ways that one intervenes and perturbs them has huge, has potentially huge influences
downstream for the network, including for the one who's engaged in perturbing it. So that whole
kind of relational way of thinking, I mean, Whitehead was sort of a proto philosopher,
not a proto, he was a philosopher of this, because he emphasized, you know, relationality and process
rather than substance and dichotomies. So that's, I think, the challenge. And that's not something
that, I mean, that's like an ongoing work in progress. And it has to be done in and through
science, you know, we're absolutely committed to science. Our book is not a science critic. It's
not a book criticizing science. It's a book criticizing certain philosophy that's got attached
to science. So the challenge is to find our way to that. Do you think it means that developing a
kind of different stance? I don't know even how to put this into words again, because everything is
so stuck. But I know you're not a Buddhist, and you read a whole book about why you're not. But
you have studied widely what consciousness and mind are from many different perspectives,
right? Like the embodied mind, I mean, even that title embodied mind, you had to say that and show
people that the mind and the body are connected because of this weird split that kind of came
through science. But what I'm getting at is, is there some kind of practice that we have to do
to be able to understand what you just said, that we're part of it, and we can also study it very
rigorously and robustly through science, that these things don't cancel each other out.
Lived experience and sensuality and phenomenology is part of it, and you can still be scientific.
Is there a practice to it, do you think, to really being able to understand this?
Yeah. I mean, I think there are practices. I wouldn't say there is one practice. I think
things like learning how to tolerate uncertainty, learning a certain kind of, you could call it,
cognitive humility, learning how to remember that anything said is said by somebody in a particular
context, and that that has to reflexively be taken into account. I think there are
various kinds of practices that, or let's say traditions, that inculcate that kind of attitude.
I mean, Buddhism, the Buddhist tradition for me is an important one, even though I'm not a Buddhist,
because I do think in certain areas of that tradition, those kinds of skills, you could say,
are very much inculcated. In the embodied mind, that's really what we focused on, was the idea of
certain kinds of practices of, in that book, we called it mindful awareness. This was long
before the mindfulness buzzword, but we called it mindful awareness. I think those practices are
much more evident in philosophy in the way that it was done in the ancient world, whether you're
talking about Buddhism or Greek philosophy, Platonism, Stoicism, Chinese philosophy,
Confucianism, because very much the idea was that of philosophy or knowledge in general
as cultivating a whole being of character and attitude and way of life. With modern philosophy,
we really lost that. We came to think of philosophy as really a kind of critical
project about knowledge and the paradigm of knowledge is science. We learned a lot of things
from doing philosophy in that way, but we need to recover something that was lost and that included
what one scholar would call spiritual exercises. This is Pierre Hadot. He was a scholar of ancient
Greek philosophy mainly, and he wrote about how in the ancient world, philosophy fundamentally
involved various kinds of spiritual exercises, exercises for cultivating and training one's
spiritual being, one's being as a person in the world. I think actually some of the very best
or most exemplary scientists, they embody these things even if they don't necessarily talk about
them in that way. I've been privileged to meet a lot of scientists over the years of my life who
very much embodied that kind of way of being. That's, I think, something that we don't teach
when we teach science, either in elementary school, high school, university. You might meet a
professor who embodies it and might be a role model for you, but it's not something that's
but it's not presented as part of the scientific worldview that these things are also important,
and that, I think, is a loss that we need to work on.
Yeah. I have trouble with loss, the word loss, because it's almost that we've gotten too busy
or too focused on other things to realize that it's there or something, but I wonder who you're
thinking about because you've got so many people in your past that actually practiced this long
before it was cool. In a way, it's starting to become cool, being able to hold two contradictions,
seeming contradictions in mind at once. This connects to something like Buddhism or even
like a Zen cone in this wider sense, but also there's a lot of science. You talk about quantum
physics a lot in the book, and there's a lot of scientists or anthropologists or
pick your field that when you go so deeply into the subject, you almost end up having to practice
this unless you're going to develop clean to a certain one of those sides that we were talking
about in the dichotomy. Is there some kind of practice to it that infiltrates those who
are going really deeply? For example, Bergson, you bring up and you've written about Whitehead.
These people, they had a lot of success, but it wasn't easy for them to hold and present this,
and most people dismissed it as naive and only later was it like, oh, actually,
I see what you're saying. Yeah, that's right. I mean, these people in some ways,
I mean, they are successful in one sense, like Bergson, Husserl, Whitehead, and that there's
canonical figures in the history of philosophy, so you could say that they have a kind of success,
but they're also underdogs in a way, and I always root for the underdog. They really tried to call
attention to things that went against the kind of emerging sensibility of the time, and I think
that in large measure, they have enduring value, and we keep rediscovering them because they call
the attention to things that we really need to pay more attention to. So in those cases,
and they were all exceptionally scientifically literate philosophers. I mean, Bergson actually
was adept at mathematics. His first publication was in mathematics. Whitehead and Husserl were
not trained as philosophers. They were trained as mathematicians, and then they entered into
philosophy from mathematics. So these were extremely scientifically knowledgeable people,
but what they all shared in common is that they saw that there's a hidden experiential depth
to our relationship with nature that we easily lose sight of when we become fascinated
with our scientific achievements. I think that's part of this crisis too,
or this meaning crisis starting out. You kind of think you're going to go into neuroscience,
for example, and that's going to tell you the answers different from your lived experience,
and then you do kind of develop a crisis at some point because you realize kind of what I think
all those thinkers realize, right? They went so deeply into the science or the math or whatever
that you bump up against the fact that you have to understand that it starts with lived experience
and you're not going to be able to get away from that, right? I think that for young people it can
be a crisis, right? Because the society is still set up where science is supposed to have all the
answers rather than science is a very rigorous way in which we model and try to understand an
ongoing process in the sense that we were talking about before. Have you seen that or felt that? Is
that part of the meaning crisis too for you? Yeah, I think
this is one of the things in a way we call attention to in the very beginning of the book,
that there's this very you could say divided or schizoid relationship to science in our culture.
We have science triumphalists who sort of proclaim from the mountaintop that science
is the greatest thing ever and philosophy is really irrelevant. Then we have science deniers
who think that, well, science denial takes different forms, but who get sucked into
systems of thought like conspiracy theories, for example, that involve counter narratives or
or denying scientific activity or you get sort of new age fringe science. There's all these
ways that our relationship to science is kind of broken up and not integrated in a culturally
holistic way. Yeah, and that feels like you have to make a choice, doesn't it? I mean,
I love that you set that up. There's triumphalism, science triumphalism,
which I never really thought of it like that, but that describes that mood and then scientific
denialism, which is what it says. Then you also kind of put new age postmodernism. I'm not really
sure how to locate all of that, but in any case, this is what I was talking about where it feels
like you have to choose a side. You have to go with science or you have to be against science
completely or you have to cling to some particular guru or perhaps like very strange
deconstructive kind of stance in the world or something. I feel like what you're showing with
the book is here's how we got here. Let's open up the space and hold all this stuff together
because we're at a crisis in terms of individuals and also in terms of the earth. But yeah, you
could go ahead. Yeah, no, exactly. I mean, that's exactly the situation. I think part of it also
has to do with, well, particularly in North America, but not exclusively that we have created
educational situations that for the most part strongly emphasize so-called STEM disciplines
in a way that severs them from connections to things like art and the humanities. I mean,
I think of it in ecological terms. If you have a healthy, robust, resilient ecosystem,
it has an incredible diversity of species in it. So if you reduce the diversity of species,
you get rid of the arts and humanities and you emphasize just STEM discipline. It's actually
undermining the culture that creates innovation, that creates scientific advance.
I mean, there's many reasons why that's come about, but in terms of education, that's a very
tangible manifestation of it.
That speaks to another thing that could be very problematic right now, which is this
fascination with, and of course also advancement in an amazing delight of technology and AI and
stuff like this, just to try to link it to scientific triumphalism and denialism.
Maybe we could talk about something like the atom or the electron because this
features in the book in a way that I think helps unpack some of this. This might be messy,
but you can help me because I have some trouble here. So in a way, there's no atom in terms of
process and life ongoing. We've reduced things through the models, like the maps, the models,
the science, and it's a very helpful way to think about all this ongoing stuff in order to
understand it. We think of it in terms of atoms or we model it in all these different ways through
our tools. So we do have all this technology and it does seem like we can look closer and
closer at things or we can get better and better at something with large language models or whatever.
And there's a point where it almost feels like it's doing it better than us so we should trust it
and we really forget that it got set in motion by our orientation. And this becomes very hard,
I think, to understand and to hold. The atoms and electrons thing, can't we really see atoms
and electrons with our tools and technology? And can't we just now just kind of give our authority
over to that technology since it can see it better than us? How would you unpack that?
Yeah. So there's no argument in our book that atoms and electrons aren't real. I mean, we say that
we have all sorts of reasons to believe that they're real because we can create technologies
where we can track phenomena that are correlated with them. We can image things microscopically
and observe the effects. We can create technologies that use atoms and electrons to do things so we
can causally make use of them. So as entities, they are part of the fabric of reality. That is
something that we explicitly say in the book. I know you do say that directly in the book and
that's why I'm trying to bring it up. Because again, with this thing with language, that we
could have called them something else or sometimes it's a particle, sometimes it's a wave. A lot of
it depends on where we're coming from, what we're measuring. It's not that they're not real,
but it gets really confusing of where's the map and where's the territory. Because you almost just
then you're kind of having to defend and say, no, no, atoms are real, electrons are real. I'm not
saying they're not. Of course they're real. Life is real. Everything is real. And in terms of when
we're studying it, it's real. But that becomes a very hard thing to talk about and hold on to that
from some perspective, you could be studying the particle and from another, it's going to be the
wave. And that doesn't mean either of those, there's the paradox again, don't exist. Of course,
they exist. They're real. And yet, there are different lived perspectival experiences of
coming to study them. I told you this would be messy.
Yeah. I think that's right. So whether something shows up in a particle mode of behavior,
whether it shows up in a wade mode of behavior, that definitely depends on a whole bunch of
things in the cognitive circumstances of the interaction with it. So there is in that sense,
you could say a perspectival or agent-based, like cognitive agent-based factor that has to be taken
account of for sure. So part of the argument of the book is to try to push us to see science in
that more participatory interactional way than as if it's just nature out there the way it is in
itself. And then we show up and we just are able to uncover to one or another extent or degree how
nature is in itself. That's too simplistic a story, especially when how nature shows up for us in and
through our interactions is then described in a way where we take our interactions out of the
picture and we treat them as in some sense, derivative or secondary and not essential to
understanding that phenomenon. Yeah. Well, I was going to say in the case of language,
if we're talking about large language models and artificial intelligence,
now there I think the situation is rather different because I think
large language models, they are models. They are statistical prediction models
that from the outside, in terms of how we view them, have to do with predicting sequences of
words in statistically likely reliable ways. But the models themselves, they have no access
to anything. What is getting predicted is the next token in a data structure, but there's no
structure. But there's no understanding in the model that the token is a word in a language
that's used for purposes of semantic understanding and communication. Those are all things that exist
for us because we built them and we train them with pre-digested data. But the model is just a
model. A model has no knowledge, has no agency, has no action at all. So that's a different kind
of situation. Yeah, but it fits in terms of just the habitual kind of putting things into boxes.
It seems to fit into the science box, which is kind of the dangerous thing, right? Because they're
trained on perspectives, so to speak. And the language itself is already kind of a model in
the way we were talking at before. I know that was kind of controversial to say that, but words are
not the process that the words are describing. So there's all these kind of meta levels of which
this becomes more of an urgency, that we take a step back and understand the difference between
modeling the process and the process itself, so to speak. Yeah, definitely. And I think in the case
of large language models, people forget their models and they think that they raise questions
like, well, to what degree does the large language model understand? Or they raise
hyperbolic questions about, could these models be sentient? That's, I think, just a completely
confused question because it's an abstract statistical model and it has no access to
anything having to do with relevance or semantics. It doesn't care about anything. There's no way it
could care about anything. So it's rather that through incredibly powerful computing
capacity in terms of memory and speed and statistical prediction algorithms, it is able
to produce remarkably readable text by our lights, but it has no lights at all. So that,
I think, is a very extreme example of the surreptitious substitution. But people are
so fascinated now that I think for me, and maybe you disagree with this, but the fact that we don't
understand that language and that the way we communicate, that speaking itself is a kind of
way of modeling or of representing this process to one another, then we take it so literally that
language is us almost. Because of the split, in a sense, we've associated ourselves with images and
words because we haven't learned this way of holding the paradox. And so when a machine is
able to do that, which is literally, as you just said, it's being trained on a lot of literal
words, it doesn't matter that it's a word for that. It's just able to recognize the patterns
and sprout it back out. But from just an everyday point of view, if something is using language in
that way, we just have the direct phenomenal experience of as if something is speaking to
us because we don't understand that it's part of all this process of creating models in order to
understand a process that's bigger than that thing. Do you see what I'm saying? There's some kind of
weird collapse almost in a different direction there that happens that's equally as dangerous
or urgent in terms of the blind spot. Yeah, I think so. I think we externalize in
technological form, computational technological form, we externalize aspects of human language.
But then we forget that they were abstracted out of a context that involves people in the world
with cares, with bodies who can act on the world, observe the consequences of their actions,
and that language really sits in that home. So that if you abstract out one aspect of it,
which is statistical regularity for the tokens that make up a way of codifying language,
if you abstract that out and then think that a system that's able to manipulate that
is doing what we're doing, then that's just, I think, a kind of confusion that comes about
through a fascination with the power of the technology and the computation and the resource
extraction. I mean, the amount of energy it takes to run these things is ridiculous.
Yeah, we don't realize that either.
Yeah. I mean, the amount of energy it takes to run one of those things compared to the
metabolic energy budget of the human brain, I mean, we forget the materiality of the thing.
So I think it's a kind of like, I would call it technological animism, but I actually have a lot
of respect for animism, so I don't really want to call it that. But that's sort of-
Even though that is kind of the paradox, right? That's, yeah.
Well, maybe this can link us to this idea of computationalism or we can move towards
understanding consciousness and mind and experience in a philosophical
way. Because I wonder if what we've been talking about is it's almost like we wanted control,
right? We're in this blooming, buzzing confusion with all this experience, we started to try to
want to figure it out, and then we become more and more aware of it. And so as we sort of put that
into an academic set towards almost like the scientific mindset, we got to a point where we
started to think of that as a machine or as a computer or as computing, just in trying to
understand mind, let's say. We've got a lot of energy and resources went into thinking about
mind as a computer, say. How would you relate that to this blind spot, so to speak? I know that's a
lot to try to tie together, but you can- Well, I think if you look at the history and evolution
of cognitive science, it's kind of an interesting case study for the blind spot. Because for some
thinkers very early on, particularly in say the era of cybernetics in the 40s and 50s, I think
there were researchers who were actually quite attuned to what we are calling the blind spot.
So if you read pioneering figures like Warren McCulloch, who's really the sort of father of
neural networks, computational neural networks, or you read some of the later cybernetic thinkers
like Heinz von Forster or Gregory Bateson, you see that there is a fair amount of sensitivity to
this peculiar situation we're in reflexively, where we're using the mind to study the mind,
where we can't sort of step outside of our cognitive domain, our cognitive framework
in the effort to characterize cognition. So there's actually a fair bit of sensitivity
to that. But then with the rise of especially the computer model of the mind, and the idea that we
can really understand the mind as a computational system modeled paradigmatically on the digital
computer, we see those aspects of sensitivity receding and the emergence of what I would call
a kind of blind spot surreptitious substitution, where the fact that we can model certain kinds
of mental or cognitive processes when kind of controlled within a certain frame, that we can
model them in computational terms to then thinking, oh, well, what the mind must fundamentally be as
a computational system, then we're back in the blind spot on the surreptitious substitution.
And with then a bit later, the rise of, you could call it in general terms embodied cognitive
science, there is a sensitivity, again, to the issues of abstraction and trying to remove the
body when it turns out that so much of cognition, human cognition, animal cognition really
fundamentally involves the body beyond the brain. So you're being a little bit
oscillated back and forth. Modest, is that the word? Because
weren't you sort of part of bringing that into all this? When was that? In the late 80s when you and
that's the late 80s working on that book, it came out in 90 or so? Yeah, 91. Yeah. So the late 80s,
we published that book in 91. So we were writing it in the late 80s. And we were part of a kind of
emerging trend in embodied cognitive science. And then we introduced the idea of a particular way
of thinking about that that we call the inactive approach, which emphasizes the idea that cognition
is bodily sense making in and through action, rather than the representation of a pre-given
world by a pre-given mind. That was how we phrased it in the embodied mind. So I very much see
inactive cognitive science as having centrally in view the kind of situation we're in when we
try to study the mind that can lead us into various kinds of blind spots. That's sort of
the distinctive feature of the inactive approach. Yeah. And you were bringing up Gregory Beighton
and you named a few other people and that I won't go into all your personal detail, but I know you
came out of background with your dad and with Lindisfarne and so on, where there were a lot of
people trying to think about these things and then not succumb to the blind spot, so to speak,
at that time when you were growing up. Gregory Beighton was around. Varela, who you wrote the
book with. There's lots of others. Margulis, who we can now sort of come to the earth part at the
end. And Gaia. Lovelock was there. So I guess, I mean, we don't have a whole lot of time, so I
don't want to get into like what inaction is and all these different kinds of ways of thinking
about consciousness and cognition. So forgive me, I'm just going to be like broad here. But I feel
like with that book that you wrote with Varela and Rosh and also a lot of other work you've done,
you have been trying to hold this paradox between something like mind and life, mind in life,
or the body and the mind, or a lot of the things that are in this new book that you're trying to
also open the space around. So I want to connect us to the urgency again of the planet, of our own
individual self. And that's why I'm going back into your past a little bit, because I feel like
those people were trying to do that. And not that they did it perfectly and not that they were
perfect people. But did you already feel that way of holding the paradox in that environment
in terms of that you didn't have to choose these sides and they weren't choosing the sides?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's partly what I meant earlier when I said that I was fortunate
to meet a lot of scientists who had a very different kind of sensibility
in how they thought about science and how they thought about human experience.
So exactly people like Francisco Varela and Gregory Bateson and then-
What was it about them, Evan? What was it about them? Because we need it, right? And I see it in
you, but what is it? They were all, I mean, one of the things that's interesting is they were all
heterodox. In a way, they were rebels. I mean, so that was also part of the spirit of the times,
of course, right? The 1960s, 1970s into the 1980s. But they all argued for perspectives,
for ways of thinking that had against the kind of mainstream of, at that time, what we would have
called technocratic industrial science. And they had a different kind of vision and they
were very, I think, prescient in seeing the looming ecological crisis. So I grew up
already from the late 60s, early 70s with this consciousness that our behavior as a species on
the planet was driving the planet in relation to us into a crisis situation. So that was already
part of their way of thinking. Did you get that from your dad and from that environment or was it-
Yeah, definitely. I got it from him, from these scientists, from the environment of all of them
talking together, from the artists that they talked to, the poets, the environmental activists.
I mean, it was a very kind of broad- It was a complex system. I mean, I say hold the paradox
as if there's either or, as if it's dualistic, but actually part of this practice or what the
book is doing is opening up so that we realize there's all these others. From any one point,
you could see a polarity, but there's actually this nested complex ongoing thing. And I feel
like that environment you were growing up in, all these things were represented in a way that was
almost too much for the times to have all those different forms of science trying to come together
and see from so many perspectives. I wonder if it was overwhelming for you to be in that environment
or if it just naturally helped you develop that space to hold it all together. I don't know if
that makes sense. Yeah. I didn't find it overwhelming, at least not in that respect.
It's just what I emerged into from the time I was very young.
So you could say it also gave me the biases that I have now.
What kind of biases do you mean?
Well, I mean, I like heterodox thinkers. I like underdogs. I like alternative viewpoints.
I find orthodoxy boring. So things like that. That's a way of looking at the world that could
very well lead you to misjudge things under certain circumstances. It's a set of biases.
But I feel like there's something very hard about being able to embrace something like science in a
really rigorous way and really do this very hard work that is critical thinking, where you really
do have to do the hard work to try to see this process clearly, which is ongoing, right? You can
never stop that. And also being able to hold these other sides, which get lumped. The reason
Whitehead or Bergson or someone is dismissed, right? Because it seems mystical or because it
seems sentimental or this is a hard thing to hold, especially in academia. Yeah. No, I agree
completely. It is a hard thing to hold. How have you done it? Well, there's no recipe really for
doing it. I suppose in my own case, because I was always very drawn to philosophical thinking,
I got drawn into that way of approaching it and thinking about it. If I had been an artist,
I would have had a different way of relating to it. If philosophy was kind of the path that opened
up for me as my way of trying to navigate and negotiate those things. And what about all this
input, seeing people who are doing it? Because I think maybe it's too personal, but it's not like
it's been easy, right? I don't think it was easy for your dad to do what he did because he kind of
was definitely a rebel and that wasn't easy, even though it was exciting and he did a lot of amazing
things and there's a lot of good stuff in there. I'm not saying that, but in the way we were talking
about Whitehead or Bergson, these are not easy things. If we talk about, yeah, how did seeing
those people go through that? Your dad or Bateson? I don't know if it was hard for Bateson. Maybe I
imagine that it was and it wasn't. Or Varela, who is also kind of one of these people. It feels like
to me you watch them go through something. I just wonder what it's like from your perspective. What
was motivating that and was it hard to witness? There were hardships for all of them. There were
the successes and there were the hardships, definitely. Kinds of hardships that you don't
get if you just kind of have a more, let's call it, for lack of a better word, conventional
life path or career path. These were people who worked at the intersection of different kinds of
institutions, different kinds of groups, of people. There's turbulence and hardship that
happens in a situation like that, absolutely. I think that it's an interesting question because
I've never quite thought of it in exactly the terms that you're describing, just because I
sort of was so immersed in it. In a way, I'm not sure what to say about that other than to say
it was always challenging in various ways. But the culture then, so maybe an important point
is that the culture then was more open and fluid for these kinds of things in ways that,
at least it seems to me, it isn't now. Maybe it is now and I just am not attuned to the right
places where it's happening, but it seems to me there was a kind of openness to these kinds of
cultural discussions, let's call them, cultural activities that's harder now.
Because of the blind spot? Because you have to choose a side? I mean, that's part of it,
but I also think what happened in the late 70s, early 80s was a kind of conservative retrenchment,
like a rise of a kind of neoliberal conservative worldview, the election of Reagan, Thatcher,
the long-term implications of that politically, socially, that really changed
a lot of the cultural sensibility away from these more open experimental kinds of discussions.
So there may very well be a lot of that happening now in pockets all over the place
that I'm less attuned to than I was then, but it seems to me that it's more difficult now.
I mean, the internet has made some things more open and possible. That's like a game changer in
some ways, but the cultural activity of creating an alternative institute that was also like a
residential community that emphasized science and let's call it spirituality and art,
it seems people are as hungry for that now as they ever were, but it's harder to bring about.
I think people are really hungry for it and it's there. And gosh, when you're talking,
I'm thinking, okay, but like a lot of those people like Margulis, Lovelock, your dad,
Bateson, Varela, you, even though you're a kid, but you grew up in it, you're all now figures,
you know, influencing from whichever field we want to choose. People like Margulis and Lovelock,
just to go to earth, they're really, you know, laughed at and kind of not taken seriously.
And now it's like, oh, yeah, actually, that's probably how we should be doing science.
That is true. And that's an interesting case where the same for Varela actually, where
Lovelock and Margulis are like acknowledged as like pioneers of earth system science now.
And at the time, they were so dismissed. Similarly, Varela had a vision of the brain
working in the 70s and 80s as a complex self-organizing system that was highly
nonlinear, where any incoming stimulus had the significance it had because of the ongoing
endogenous activity of the brain. This is like textbook neuroscience today, but it wasn't then.
Absolutely wasn't. So yes, in some ways, things do change. Yeah.
In his kind of way of just living it out, you know, fully going to Trungpa and all the stuff
that just seemed kind of crazy at the time in terms of how can you be a neuroscientist and
you're going to go work with a Buddhist monk and now that's cool and normal. And so there's that
side. But I guess what I'm trying to get at as we wrap up is this stuff matters, right? We started
with urgency. We've understood paradox as kind of maybe a way or a practice, but also a really
concrete history to this that everyone's just going to have to read the book to really get
to all that. But this stuff matters. And I feel like all those people understood that in a way.
And I guess what I'm trying to understand is how do we help each other see our blind spot? I don't
know if we get rid of it so much as hold it. I know in the book you do say we need to move
on beyond the blind spot, but there'll probably be another blind spot. So we're trying to learn
how to help each other, like how I imagine your dad was trying to do in his best moments. Bring
everybody together and you're all going to see something different about each other. And that's
going to help you notice your blind spots, right? I mean, I'm speaking very colloquially in a way,
but this matters is what I mean. I think it matters hugely. I think it's about really
the working to bring about a different kind of value framework, you might say.
The climate crisis is a manifestation of a value framework that's embedded in an industrialized
view of nature, capitalism, where the fundamental value that motivates us is capital that's tied
to resource extraction. So the idea that there needs to be a change in values that includes in
a sort of ecological network sense, art and science and spirituality, I think that's what
motivates me fundamentally in terms of the different kinds of work that I do. And I think
it's not anything that comes out of any one person thinking in a particular place. It's a
conversation. It's a community effort. It really needs to involve a lot of different kinds of
voices. I mean, one of the limitations of the 1970s conversation was it was still very,
you could say, dominated by certain kinds of voices, certainly gender. I mean, most of the
people involved in that conversation, with some exceptions, like Lynn Margulis, of course,
were mostly men, mostly people from Western societies, Northern societies, as we would call
them today. Although your dad brought in a lot of more Native Americans, right? Yeah. He did, yeah.
And also Tibetan refugees. And he did bring in Japanese people. He brought in different voices,
for sure. So that's an ongoing effort and project of, if we were to use the old term,
consciousness raising. Yeah. Well, I mean, I have to bring up the word love because this is love
and philosophy. And I think when I look at this and at your work and stuff, I kind of wonder if
it motivates you. Of course, like love of your dad and growing up as a boy in this way, but you are
very close to Varela. I don't know if you're that close to the Bateson and the others, but
does it connect to, did you see them doing it out of a place that you would describe as that? Or
is there any kind of thread there that we can tie together? Yeah. I mean, I would say that
all of those people in their best moments manifested their knowledge out of, or their,
let's call it their way of knowing out of a place of love. One of the most vivid examples of this
for me was actually watching, and I've written a little bit about this in different places,
was watching Lynn Margulis show a film of the microbial world and this very complicated
interdependency of different symbiotic organisms. So it was the termite and how it's able to digest
wood through, I couldn't recapitulate it all, but the endosymbiont bacteria and protists. And it was
this incredible vision of the interdependency of life. And she just talked about it in a way
that just manifested love for nature. I mean, it was just absolutely evident in the way that she
presented it. And those are the things that are memorable and striking more than anything else.
Similarly for Bateson, similarly for Varela, my dad too, absolutely in his best moments.
It's a kind of way where this is something that the philosopher Hannah DeJager has written about.
She'd be a great person for you to interview, by the way. She's written about loving and knowing
and how there's this deep inner tie between the two, and that we need to return to a way
of thinking in which that's kind of evident and manifest to us, this deep interconnection
between loving and knowing. So these people embodied and manifested that. Especially when
you're young, that's an extremely powerful thing to have as an influence. Yeah.
I think it's what gets transmitted too in a weird way through all the philosophy and science,
even though we have to put it into all these other terms to be able to test it and see it. But
often it's the thread that really motivates us to do the work that needs to be done. It is
the lived experience, so to speak. Yeah. Well, I don't want to keep you anymore because we
had our time, but I really appreciate you talking to me and I really appreciate the book.
And also all the other books that you've written. I do wonder what's the difference
between The Avenue Road, this one embodied mine, and Blindspot. Does it feel like it's been,
how many years has it been? 91? Yeah, 91. Yeah, a while. 91 to 2024, I guess. That is a bit of
time. It's a little bit of time. Yeah. I mean, there's underlying connections. There's differences
too, I suppose. I think there's, from my perspective anyway, there's a constant
motivation and you might say vision, though that's a bit of a pretentious word, that I think runs
through pretty much everything that I do that's common, even if I articulate things in different
ways or even if I change my mind about something, it's still always sourced in that for me,
at least subjectively that's how it seems to me. There's always a sincerity it feels like to it.
I guess that's what I was trying to get at a bit too. Love is a strong word, but there's a,
none of us are perfect, but you can kind of feel that you're trying to really get to the
heart of it in a sincere way and be clear about it and not be a denialist or a triumphalist or
anything. I just am telling you that I appreciate it because I know it's not easy to do.
Yeah, thank you very much. I appreciate hearing that. Yeah. All right. Thanks again. I hope you
have a nice, your day is just beginning there. It's already night here. You're in Utrecht, is
that right? Yeah, in Utrecht. Okay. Yeah. All right. Well, thank you very much.
