Hey everyone, it's Andrea. The question for today is, what do you believe?
One of you asked, so here goes my impromptu diary for Friday, December 19th. I believe we can
be better, live better, experience more love together, more than we can even imagine right now
if we do it together. I think the only way we can do that is by learning how to be honest without
judgment and how to share our ideas and our love, by the way, without forcing them on one another
to help one another hold all this tension that so many people feel right now and that seems to be
about to crush some of us, but if we can hold on and help each other hold on, maybe this is a portal
into more meaning, more care, more potential, the kind of love that you feel for yourself and for
others and that you feel from others and from yourself even though life is annoying and
terrifying and frustrating. I'm looking out the window right now and the color just changed in
the sky. It's a beautiful sunset and there's so much beauty like that I think in you, in our
connection to life, to one another. It can be very hard to feel that, but I believe we can. I believe
that all this difficult energy can become energy towards care for one another even though it feels
almost impossible. I believe in, that was the question, in care and trying to help one another,
trying to be better, trying to not judge one another, not worry so much about embarrassment.
I also believe that it doesn't take fancy degrees and all these usual tokens of success to be
successful, to give and to care and that those are actually the real signs of power. I think we're a
little confused about what power is, what success is. We're at a moment that we can help one another
figure this out in a different way, towards a different approach to power and success that
is actually about helping one another, caring for one another, accepting one another even though
we're still honest and we try to move towards different and better potentials. All of that
is about holding the tension and what I call paradox all the time. That's what some of us
have been calling both both and and either or, which is kind of confusing, but I believe in
embracing this confusion and this not knowing that we don't know and that we can't know everything
and we don't have to and that we don't have to be perfect. So I believe in life, in love, and I
believe that even though it's challenging and exhausting, we can find and create knowledge
together and knowledge isn't about fancy books and all these hard things that you'll hear on this
channel because I do talk to people from all kinds of walks of life and there's no way any one person
can really understand all of it. That's not the point. It's more to find ways that people have
been inspired to create and learn and to understand this as bodily. It's not about words and all those
things are helpful, but the real thing is about how you live in your life, how you care about
yourself and about everything you encounter, all the life you encounter from the smallest to the
largest and in all directions. It's not about hierarchies, it's not about better and worse,
but it is about learning, growing, loving, and caring and that is the experience of living that
I believe in and finding ways to do that together better. In a publication I said something like a
paradox is the portal, love is the answer, and philosophy is the practice, and I really believe
that. I know it sounds kind of cheesy, but it's really not. It's really hard to do that, to believe
that and to hold tension and to still find and feel love and care in a real way, not a sentimental
way, not in a way that's forcing others to be something you think is right, but doing this
really really opens up life. It's as beautiful as the sunset I'm looking at out my window.
It's as beautiful as whatever your most beautiful experience is and I believe in you and I believe
you can feel this and help others feel this and that's what this channel is about, even though
it's very nerdy. Sometimes, yes, I've been trained in philosophy and neuroscience and all those things
and we talk about that year, but really what it's all about, and I hope you feel it in every
conversation no matter what, is about that, is about care, finding ways to care better for each
other and for ourselves. That's what I'm here trying to do. That's what I've been trying to do
my whole life at my best moment, and I'll keep doing it, and thank you for being here and thank
you for helping me. All right, bye.
