When you categorize the world in that way,
when you think in terms of categories,
you leave out the processual relational tensions
that always mediates category, categoricity,
that within every binary or binaric formulation
are worlds in their becoming.
Cultures are holding spaces for bodies, right?
The rituals, the rites of passage,
but cultures can also become a form of imprisonment.
So in the ritornello, in the repetition,
something crystallizes,
but then in this crystallization,
cracks become possible, right?
Maybe my father is diffracted in the thick now.
Maybe he is here.
Maybe his ghost is how I live.
Maybe his ghost is in fungal blooms
or in the architecture of ancestrality.
Maybe he is here in a way that I have missed out on
because I'd be looking at the doorway
instead of the crack on the wall.
It's incomplete.
And maybe that's my way of also saying
that I think of love as the radical incompleteness
of everything, right?
That it's, love is the crack that emerges in the ritornello
just as much as it is the ritornello, right?
It is how we craft embodied spaces,
even though there are always violent risks
in the imminent fields of differencing that is ongoing,
but it is also how that field speaks
to the structures that emerge.
It is also the intimacy between field and structure
that says, don't trust your completeness.
Don't trust your ideologies too much.
Don't trust the shape that your body has taken.
There's still something else to do.
There's still shape-shifting to do.
That conversation between field and structure
is the radical insufficiency or incompleteness
of everything we presume to be and do.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is Andrea Hyatt, and this podcast is still forming,
but is forming around the idea of life as a journey
and one that involves binaries,
but that we can learn how to hold beyond dichotomy.
One that takes love seriously
and thinks about what it really means in our lives
and our academic work.
I'm talking with Bayo Okomolafe today.
He's a philosopher, a psychologist, a professor,
a poet, a teacher.
He's also the founder of the Emergence Network,
and he's written two books.
Today we mostly talk about one of those books
called These Wilds Beyond Our Fences,
Letters to My Daughter on Humanity's Search for Home.
And because there was some disruption,
we were supposed to meet earlier and we couldn't,
so you kind of hear that at the beginning,
we have to settle and get our poise,
and then we just launch into a conversation
and decide not to follow any sort of script.
Not that I ever follow scripts, as you can probably tell.
However, we talk about the main themes of this podcast,
and because we didn't have a lot of time,
we didn't explain some of the background
to some of the things we talk about,
so I just wanna mention that here.
For the sake of the conversation,
I want you to know that Bayo's father was a diplomat
and they moved a lot,
and he also lost his father when he was young,
and that's part of the story,
and I just wanted to mention it
so you're prepared for that.
That's what we're talking about
when we're discussing his father.
The book is also written as letters to his young daughter.
There's one part in the book where she gets stuck in a room.
She goes in and accidentally locks herself in a room
up some stairs, and she's very young,
so of course you can imagine that's very scary.
This is in India where Bayo lives much of the year
because his wife is Indian.
Bayo is from Nigeria,
and his daughter, his little daughter,
gets locked in the room,
and we discuss that here
and how Bayo has found this rickety ladder
and somehow managed to find a little window or hole
to get his arm through to help comfort his daughter
and also to hold her so they could tear the door down
basically to get her out.
I hope you will have a look at Bayo's work.
He writes in a way that really opens up multiplicities,
makes us think about the many other ways there are
of being human that we haven't explored yet
and how we can hold our differences
and let them be what they are
while also understanding that, as he says it here,
the cracks are the love and the openings, the portals,
the places to move through to fill one another
and see one another differently.
So I hope you find some of those cracks
that let the light in today.
Follow that transformation.
Feel whatever you're feeling fully.
Embrace it.
Know that you are important,
and I'm glad you're here.
And I send you a lot of love today, wherever you are.
All right, here we go.
Okay, hi, Bayo.
Thank you so much for making time being here today.
I know it wasn't easy.
Thank you, Andrea.
Yes, it hasn't been easy, but it's worth it.
Yeah, well, thank you.
I think since we've had a little disruption,
and that's an important word,
what I'd really like to do is just get right
to the heart of it.
My research, this podcast, a lot of the philosophy I do
has to do with dichotomy and this idea
of beyond dichotomy, holding paradox,
which I have a million notes here
of how this could relate to your work.
But instead of trying to follow a script,
maybe I'll just ask you lately in your life
and even right now, how do those words fill to you?
The idea of binaries and those not being what they seem,
how do you see that?
I think I'll just start there.
Welcome, Sunay.
Thank you, sister.
And again, I'm grounding myself in this vocation of care
that is larger than care.
I'm here somewhere in Great Barrington in Massachusetts,
which I flew into just last night.
And yes, there is something to be said about binaries
as modulated attempts to ways we organize the world
so that it is convenient, it is legible,
it is accessible, it is intelligible.
Modernity is a form of organizing.
It organizes complexity.
Disorganizing is a form of care, right?
It is an attempt to hold ourselves.
It's a ritual.
It's a way to hold ourselves and hold our bodies.
We would say that darkness is the opposite of light,
that man is the opposite of woman,
that the divine is the opposite of the mundane,
that this is the opposite of that, right?
It's not evil, it's not wrong.
It's just the very inadequate and limited way
of meeting complexity.
What is obscured, obviously,
is that when you categorize the world in that way,
when you think in terms of categories,
you leave out the processual relational tensions.
That always mediates category, categoricity.
That there is, that within every binary
or binaric formulation are worlds in their becoming.
Are slaves escaping the plantation, right?
Or are things that don't really fit, right?
Which immediately renders every act of inclusion
an act of violence.
There is something that is left out
when we try to gentrify the world
into ontological familiarity.
So I speak about ontofugitivity or ontospillage
to mark the ways that the world is too promiscuous
to fit neatly into binaric formulations
or binary formulations, yes.
That's very beautiful what you said about it
being an act of care to think about categorization
or binaries.
Do you think, I mean, even right now,
I feel like you're doing so many things
or in so many different countries,
languages, many different yous
that you have to be each day.
And I wonder about that care.
Is it necessary for you sometimes to have some order
and some categories for yourself?
How do you hold that also with everything you write about,
which is about multiplicities
and about opening the space in a way
and this other kind of power?
Is that hard for you to hold?
Does it help you sometimes to have structure in that way?
Absolutely.
There is a word that comes to mind, retornelo.
And it's, I mean, Deleuze and Guattari
and some other continental philosophers
used it to describe this refrain.
This, it's basically a small story
that is told to children at night.
It's like to get them to sleep, basically.
Yeah, like a refrain or a little bit different each time,
but same pattern.
Exactly, the repetition, right?
And I, my son comes to mind and how, who is autistic
and how we often depends on repetition
in order to shield himself from the tsunami of complexity.
He is less impervious to than I am.
The sensorial onslaught that he is immediately,
his body is aware of, his body is in touch with.
I think at some level, we will always create structure.
We will always create categoricity.
Categories are not bad themselves.
It's just that they can become carceral.
They can incarcerate us.
Care can slowly become in its embrace,
can slowly become a form of asphyxiation.
Cultures, cultures are holding spaces for bodies, right?
The rituals, the rites of passage,
but cultures can also become a form of imprisonment, right?
So in the retornello, in the repetition,
something crystallizes, but then in this crystallization,
cracks become possible, right?
And it's those cracks within binaries,
within care, within formulaic algorithms
that presume that they understand our bodies fully.
New worlds glisten.
New worlds are always possible riskily
in the emergence of a crack.
And yes, I find myself, well, not consciously
or intentionally, but that's only a part
of what it means to be present.
I find myself dabbling and trafficking in categories.
Right now, I have lots of Canadian friends,
Canadian families.
And with the recent imposition of Trumpian tariffs,
I found myself dabbling in nationalistic fervor,
saying, hit back, elbows up.
Even though I would never consider myself
a nationalist or patriot in any sense of the word,
I'm not even American or Canadian,
but I found myself wishing
for some shuddened, frowned moments,
like a nation winning a battle against Trump.
It's another nation.
We will always be caught up in the vortices
of these categories.
Yes, it's not ours to choose all the time, I guess.
Yeah, that makes me think of what you write often
about relation or relationality,
things not being things, but in relation.
And that seems to be the way to hold all that
that you just said, because it's that we need categories.
Binaries are kind of real in that structural way.
And then at the same time, they're not,
and everything is messy.
And that's a word you use a lot.
Dust, you talk about in your books.
Both of those are true, but isn't that,
that's very hard, isn't it, to hold or to be, to live as,
especially in these kind of moments,
like the one you just described,
which I felt very strongly to having similar
kind of confusion about those things.
And I wonder, is it, has it become easier for you over time?
Is it always the same kind of practice
that you have to remember?
No, I mean, life itself being practice
doesn't have a script, right?
It doesn't have a standardized progressive script
where, oh, this gets easier, right?
We will, even the fugitive that escapes the plantation
might repeat the logic of the plantation in flight,
in exile, right?
It's that life, death, you know,
life, death is messy in that way.
So I, even though I speak and wax poetic about emergence,
about complexity, about modernity,
constituting some kind of onto epistemological trap
in its formulations of binaries,
and then the need of the trickster,
who might be referred to here as the third way,
the transversal cut, walking across the binary
and dismantling it from within.
Yes, even emancipation moments like that
tend to give birth to new binaries and new categories, right?
Yeah.
And that's the world in its comings and goings
and its fluidity, right?
There isn't a destination, a utopian arrival,
a point of conscious wokeness
where we summarily get mastery or become masters of it all.
We will be taken and spirited away.
And in our spirit in a way, we will fall into traps,
traps of thought, traps of categoricity,
traps of being.
That's what it means to be alive or dead.
Yes, and I think sometimes we can also feel
like we shouldn't be feeling those things,
like we shouldn't be feeling this way.
And that definitely does something numbing
or that gets us away from the source or life in a way too
that, oh, I shouldn't feel this way.
Sometimes we have to embrace that we feel this way.
Don't we?
The should is a trap as well.
Yeah, right.
Is a moral, is some kind of moral holding space too.
So we're talking about layers upon layers upon layers,
machines, morality machines, other kinds of machines,
constantly in a palimpsest that is never fully rendered,
always interacting with one another.
So even the moment of saying, should I feel this way?
That is potentially a category invisibly rare in its head.
Yes, and at the same time,
there is something about being able
to become aware of that, for example,
reading your work or reading other work
and starting to understand that we do see the world
through binaries and then you kind of realize
that you always see a contrast,
but if you zoom out, that contrast is within a multiplicity,
the complexity that you discuss.
And when you were talking about your son
and about this sensory overwhelm,
I was thinking of you as a boy,
the way you describe yourself
in these wilds beyond our fences.
Did I say that right?
When you were talking about the tapes
that you listened to over and over
after this very moving,
everything with your father is very moving
in that book, I find, to just bring up love right now.
And you were listening to these tapes
over and over and over again.
And I wondered in those moments
how you became the person you are now,
because in that part of the book,
you seem so unable to deal with all of this multiplicity
and sensory overload and you just wanna,
or at least I'm projecting probably,
you wanna be alone with your books
and that was kind of how I was as a kid and protected.
And I found myself wondering,
how did you become a public intellectual from that place?
And I think as I read through the book,
then I started to realize it was this practice
of understanding your habits and stepping out of them
and looking at them or something.
But I wanted to ask you about it
and just like what came to mind
or if that relates to what we've been talking about at all.
That is intriguing.
Well, I did try to save my dad conceptually
from his incarceration behind the pearly gates
or death or whatever.
And my way of trying to do that
was to deepen my exercise of understanding my faith.
I think those are the early days,
the seeds of my public intellectual career
that if I understood well how the world worked,
I could build a time machine of some kind,
a temporality machine, a vehicle,
a multi-dimensional vehicle
that could take me from the mundane
to peel back the membranes of the ordinary
so that I could actually touch him again.
And yeah, the more that I did try to do that,
the more my time machine glitched and failed.
It didn't quite transport me to the pearly gates.
And then I started to recall a lost memory, so to speak.
And maybe the pearly gates were not at a distance.
Maybe it is here.
Maybe the afterlife is in the meanwhile, right?
And in thinking about increasing
or bending space-time in that way,
increasing reality in that way,
other kinds of thoughts became possible.
I started to let go gently of the notion of a giant truth,
a destination, the jump off point.
And I started to think about the materiality
of the world we're already in,
that maybe heaven is not at a distance.
It felt like a rationalizing of my failure,
but it worked, right?
Maybe my father isn't there.
Maybe my father is diffracted in the thick now.
Maybe he is here.
Maybe his ghost is how I live.
Maybe his ghost is in fungal blooms
or in the architecture of ancestrality.
Maybe he is here in a way that I have missed out on
because I've been looking at the doorway
instead of the crack on the wall, right?
Maybe I already have intimacy with my father,
even though it's in attenuated forms.
Maybe there's some attenuated intimacy
that I'm already part of the ocean by being the shore.
And that, of course, led to a poetics of relation,
a processual philosophy,
a social constructivist account of the world
that bled into an agential realism, right?
And I started to think in terms of the moment,
the now, our bodies, the imminent,
instead of the transcendent, presto, I'm here in front of you.
That makes a lot of sense because you do say
that you got closer to your father.
You were trying so much to find him to get,
he had passed away and you almost wanted to join him.
You were so desperate to,
it's almost as if you wanted to find the place
where those binaries met.
And what you just described,
you also talk about physics a lot in the book,
and what you just described is more like that folding
of space, that it is a multiplicity and the complexity.
And I can really see that,
that then you started to understand it's not
like a linear thing where I'm gonna go and meet
at the point where the binaries touch.
Instead, there's all this other stuff that,
which I've heard you say before too,
that there are multiplicities of being human
that we don't know and that we have yet to explore.
So that makes, that's actually very beautiful.
I can see that because you also say,
it was very unfair, right?
That your father, and it sounds like that started
to shift or heal or something too.
Is that connected to it?
I mean, at some level, it still feels unfair, right?
I don't think there is a letting go of that
in any summary fashion.
I said to some friends a while ago, some days ago,
that I know that many people before they parent children
attempt to purify themselves of their trauma
so that they don't pass it across.
And I think that's noble,
but I also think quite controversially
that the greatest gift a parent can give their child
is their trauma, right?
That it is trauma,
which is how bodies are shaped,
that becomes this anchorage of gravity
in a world that is not resolved, right?
It's like, imagine a child coming through the matrix
of a woman's body.
There's no passage through into life
without the bacterial microbial gift.
It's almost like a heritage,
like, oh, you're coming out here.
Have this, take a, get a load of the messiness of life.
You will not arrive pure, right?
So that if it were possible to find a modality
where we are completely purged of trauma,
completely purged of any notion of woundedness or brokenness.
And if there were such a technology,
maybe in an app or in a drink or in a dosage of some pills,
I would not take it because it would mean
that whoever is birthed through me
is not able to participate in the world.
It's basically co-creating Baldur,
the famous Norse god who was impervious to pain.
And as a result was impervious to pleasure, right?
That there's something about the transaction,
I don't wanna use the word transactionality,
but there's something about the contract of being embodied
and being alive and being in touch.
That means we are also never not broken.
And yeah, yeah, please, please.
Oh, go ahead, if you had something else.
No, I wasn't sure I tricked stuff into a side quest,
but I think the main highway of my response
was supposed to be this in response to your question
that, yeah, I still feel it's unfair.
And maybe that is interacting in my family in some way.
I still feel I lost my father too early
and he was my best friend.
And I wish that did not happen.
But at the same time, paradoxically,
or ironically, or however you would have it,
I'm okay with that.
I'm okay with that unfairness.
I'm able to bracket it long enough to know that
it has its place in the world,
but it is not the world itself.
Yeah, I think it is unfair.
I mean, no one should lose a person they're so close to,
especially at that age.
And yet I also really understand what you mean
because you do show that in the book.
There's a lot of portals, right?
And I think what you described there
is almost like a portal like this.
That same with your father's, with all that pain,
if you can look at it in the way you just described before,
it becomes a kind of portal,
but it doesn't change the binary.
It doesn't change that the things are what they are.
And in your book, you talk about doors a lot
or their doors or windows.
Like when your little daughter,
who the book is to her, it's letters to her,
when she got stuck behind the door
and you found the window to hold her.
That seems like another example in a way
of what you were just describing.
I'm not sure how, but does that make any sense at all?
This, yeah.
Well, I love you so much
for bringing back that story to me, Andrea, thank you,
of holding, oh, yes, yes, yes,
of holding my daughter through the window.
But not quite grasping her
and her not quite reaching me,
but just the morsel of connection
in that moment made things bearable for both of us,
I think, while the doors were being cracked open, right?
Oh, thank you, that's a, yes, that is a way to see it.
It may even be a way to think about the entire book, right?
The wilds beyond our fences are already within the fences.
They're already here.
They're not outside.
They have some kind of ambassadorial presence
within the ordinary.
There's an embassy of the otherwise
that exists in our spaces, yes.
That's very touching, thinking of your father
with the ambassador in the embassy.
Yes.
But yeah, exactly, the way you describe it in the book,
your daughter is really scared
because she's been locked in a room,
but you can just touch her.
And it's not enough, right, to take away the pain
and the fear, but it's enough to keep her there
so she's safe and so that the situation can change.
And that feels a bit like what we were talking about
with your dad of that space you got to, that portal,
doesn't make it less what it is, but yeah.
That brings up something which I can't remember,
but maybe you do, about the saying about,
oh gosh, what is it?
It's too much to handle, right?
It has to do with the sensory overload.
We walk around the tree, but it's too much for us.
And we walk around the well, but we don't go into the,
it's too much to get into it or to jump into it.
Is that, do you have a better way of remembering that or?
No, I don't, you said that was in the book as well?
Yeah, I think so, yeah.
It's like a, I think you're talking about,
you hated listening to your, the tongue, mother tongue,
and, but then you wanted to learn some sayings,
I guess when you were writing the book,
and there's one saying in Yorubai, do I say it right?
Yes, Yorubai.
Yeah, and it's about this of, but yeah, I mean,
that's kind of that realization of you go around the well
and you see that it's there, but you don't go into it.
Yes, yes, yes.
That feels like that, what I'm trying to get at
is what maybe happened to you,
or what can happen to us when we do start to notice
our habits and our patterns, does that make sense at all?
It does, it does, it's that noticing is an interruption
of some kind.
Disruption, interruption, that's right.
Yeah, systems know themselves only through cracks, right?
It's like a desensitization, it's like, sorry,
to use this macabre and indelicate and impolite example,
but it's like someone farting,
farting in a room and stinking up the place,
and you just resign yourself to it because it's not,
and I heard a very comical account of a plane
returning to the takeoff point, to the airport,
because someone was just letting go and was not, yes.
And the strange thing about that
is that everyone will close their noses
and the criminal will never,
there's no Scooby-Doo moment,
there's not gonna be like, you did it, you know?
Everyone is in this together, right?
So imagine a room being stanked up, you know,
hurting the language, stank up to the nth degree,
but you resign yourself to it not only by choice
or by compulsion or by enforcement,
but your body actually loses the taste,
the whiff of the room,
because you just become part of the room.
We always become part of our environment,
but someone cracks a window open
or comes into the door and says,
what is that awful smell?
By this time, you've forgotten what's happening,
you're like, what smell, right?
It's through cracks that systems recognize themselves
and know themselves.
So noticing is not just an individual thing,
it's a perceptual regime,
understanding and meeting itself as if for the first time.
Cracks are always impersonal.
They're more than personal, more than human.
And maybe going around the well and not jumping into it
or going around the tree,
I need to understand what that proverb is saying.
I revisited it so I can see what I was saying there
or what the Yoruba people were saying there
is an invitation to notice that, yeah,
it's simply that, an invitation to notice.
Do you see any parallels with that
and where we are right now,
just in terms of what we were both kind of hinting at
as being, we're in a room right now
and I'm not sure who's opening the window
or if there's windows or what's going on,
but there also seemed to be a lot of cracks
and how do you see this moment
that we're in through that orientation?
Retorn yellow.
It's the circle, it's the concretized crystallizing circle.
Think about a pandemic.
It made us ask questions like, what is work though?
What is education?
Why do we need to go to work, right?
It's that the entire world started to like,
okay, what is normal?
What is abnormal?
What are children?
What are those little things running around?
Because parents were so used
to sending their children off to school, right?
That when they came home in the morning,
they came down in the morning to go to work,
they met these little versions of themselves
and they didn't know what to do with them.
Literally, there are papers in India
and we're in a pandemic in India
that we're asking questions like,
what do we do with these things
that we call our children, right?
They came to interview my wife,
who at this point in time was known
in some places for her unschooling work.
And so they came to interview her and said,
you're unschooling these little versions of ourselves.
What are they?
What do you call them?
What's their botanical name, right?
It was very interesting.
Of course, I'm mixing it up a little bit.
But yes, this seems to be where we are as a species,
as amniotic spaces within white modernity,
that it's care paradigm,
white stability is its care,
is flailing, it's dying.
The United States specifically is witnessing
an empire in decline, right?
And as this space of care withers
and as the ruinage of the anthropocene becomes more
clarifying, more lucid in its spread,
in its pervasiveness,
we are doing many things at once.
We are attempting to return to what a
someone that I know and care about very deeply,
her name is Laura Pena Zanatta
who would call rituals of absence.
And it's also a way that we're stabilizing ourselves
within a world that is dying.
We don't know how to really meet this moment,
but we're also experimenting tentatively,
haltingly, surprisingly, riskily with the crack.
And that is important work.
That is parapolitics.
That is post-activism.
Yes, we are at the threshold of a care
that doesn't know how to care any longer.
I'm glad you brought up care because before we go,
I wanna talk about love a little bit.
And when you were talking,
I was thinking of how you've said experimentation is,
I don't know, holding the space for experimentation
is what we're trying to do in a way or open the space.
And you just brought up care there.
And also reading your book, the one I've already mentioned,
it's so about love.
It's love of your dad.
It's love of your family.
It's love of your daughter.
It's love of your wife.
Your wife even writes in it.
It's so loving, but in a way we've been talking about it,
a very disruptive way and there's spiders.
And it's like, it's a lot of, there's water.
There's all kinds of disturbing moments.
But so I guess I'm just trying to put that together.
We're in a disturbing moment now too.
And how do you see love?
What's love gonna do for us or what is it right now for you?
Well, that book, These Wars Beyond Offenses,
which was the shimmering data point
in our conversation system, ends without ending.
It's a truncated ending.
I'm supposed to gather nine hushes or 10 hushes.
I don't quite fulfill the ritual.
Yeah, I was gonna ask you about that.
The last four are in the little flower, but that's not.
Yeah, it's incomplete.
And maybe that's my way of also saying
that I think of love as the radical incompleteness
of everything, right?
That it's, love is decoloniality.
Love is the crack that emerges in the retornello,
just as much as it is the retornello, right?
It is how we craft embodied spaces,
even though there are always violent risks
in the imminent fields of differencing that is ongoing.
But it is also how that field speaks
to the structures that emerge.
It is also the intimacy between field and structure
that says, don't trust your completeness.
Don't trust your ideologies too much.
Don't trust the shape that your body has taken.
There's still something else to do.
There's still shape-shifting to do.
That conversation between field and structure
is the radical insufficiency or incompleteness
of everything we presume to be and do, right?
And love continues into my next book.
It's called An Ocean of Milk,
a parable of love in three numbers.
Oh, wonderful.
And it's basically a pan to this radical incompleteness
told through the story of a trickster
that leaves the familia in order to die well.
And that's what I'll say.
Well, I can't wait to read it.
And that makes a lot of sense.
That's the sort of fold in space-time
that got you closer to your father.
And that's the window that you found to touch your daughter.
And so I see that.
So thank you for connecting those dots with the word love.
And thanks for making time today, Bio.
I really hope things go well for you today.
And I appreciate you and your work.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
All right.
Bye.
Bye.
