Holding paradoxes, you know, understanding each other lives as a
thing of its own between us, right?
So I think via geometry, we're trying to formalize that, right?
And seeing not just that there's a perfect sort of like coordinated pattern,
but actually one that's mutating in real time, spatially and temporally in our
brains, and more importantly, in the sort of third brain that emerges between us.
I think what geometric hyperscanning can offer us is to name, you know, the
moments of matter and human connection.
And by doing so we can make them tractable for care.
Hello everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is Andrea Hyatt and this podcast is about trying to hold what feels
irreconcilable, trying to explore knowing from the heart.
And these are mostly unscripted conversations with thinkers and seekers
from all sorts of scientific and philosophic paths.
And I'm really glad that you are here and that you are hopefully going to help
us try to move beyond either or, or even figure out what that means, because
we're all doing this together as we try to imagine a new philosophy of mind, a
new philosophy of cognitive science, of understanding that sees paradox as a
portal and sees what we've till now thought of as oppositional as maybe
contrast that we can also see as somehow in a constellation with much more than
we ever thought was possible.
And I'm not the only host, you'll hear others, if this is your first time, it's
usually me, but other hosts also come on.
We think of this as a community project.
So anyone out there listening who has a wonderful idea for someone they should
talk to about the themes of this podcast, or someone, some one of us should talk to
about these ideas, then please do reach out, send us an email.
We'd love to hear from you.
Today, our guest is Nicolas Heinrichs.
He is a Chilean German biologist and cognitive neuroscientist.
He's investigating how minds coordinate in real time through something called
hyperscanning, which is a wonderful word, hyperscanning.
And I'm going to explain that in just a little bit, but he's at the Max Planck
Institute for Human, Cognitive and Brain Sciences.
And you've probably heard me mention that before, because I was a guest
researcher there for a while.
And I also did my master's thesis as part of the, one of the labs there on these
topics related to the hippocampus.
So Nicolas and I are going to also be taking part in an active inference
symposium, which is coming up pretty soon.
So if you're interested in that and you'd like to hear more talks about hyperscanning,
which is what we're going to talk about here, or about the hippocampus, which is
what I studied, relative to some of the other ideas like kaleidoscopic cognition,
which you've heard me talk about and which I know sounds a bit crazy, but isn't.
Then check out the active inference symposium.
I'll put the links below.
Should be just a couple of days after this podcast comes out that you can watch it.
Carl Friston will be giving the keynote and there's lots of great speakers.
So this conversation is just to get you ready for that in a way, but it also
stands alone by itself and we are also doing a piece on Substack about
synchrony, brain synchronization.
So have a look for that too.
But today we're talking with Nico about hyperscanning.
So hyperscanning is this neuroscientific technique that records brain activity
from two people, two individuals simultaneously while they're having
some sort of interaction.
We're going to delve into the mechanics of that here.
We're going to talk about brain synchronization and how that might
reflect shared attention, empathy, our effectiveness, communicating and
coordinating, and we're going to touch on some broader issues about, you know,
how we bond relationships, different kinds of disorders, how hyperscanning
might advance our understanding of what social interactions are and how this
relates to various insights relative to philosophy.
And ideas of participatory sense-making, which you have heard of a lot in this
podcast and Nico's also working with a lot of these 4E cognitive science ideas.
So you'll hear a lot of those themes resonating here too.
We also highlight the potential of hyperscanning to maybe help us
understand mental health better through something like holding paradox when it
comes to how we're doing our science and what we're really thinking of as what
mental is.
This is a conversation that's really neuroscience related as some of these
are, but even for those of you who don't know anything about neuroscience, I
think you'll still find a lot of interesting themes here, which resonate
with other episodes that we've had.
If you are a neuroscientist and you already know everything about hyperscanning,
you can go ahead and skip the next four or five minutes and get right into the
conversation.
Although you might want to think about this term geometric hyperscanning because
it's something that Nico has come up with and it's an empirical neuroscientific
method and there's no way I can completely describe it here because it has
to do with Foreman-Rishi curvature and all these sort of topological
reconfigurations.
There are also other authors on that paper like Mal Aberaassen, who you may
remember from this podcast.
She's also going to be joining Nico and I on the Substack post.
So anyway, I will put the preprint of their paper in the show notes if you
really into that kind of stuff and you want to look at it because it has a lot
to do with interbrain networks and entropy serving as a proxy for phase
transitions and has some really interesting points about rupture and
re-attunement and co-regulation.
And if none of this is making any sense to you, don't worry, it hardly makes any
sense to me either, to be honest.
Even so, I think there's something really important and interesting here regarding
the themes of this podcast, even if we don't all understand it perfectly.
What is being said and all of these ideas about active inference and geometric
hyperscanning and whatever.
But basically, you know, we're looking at two, the dyad, even still in this paper.
But I try to push us towards thinking about constellation cognition or
cognition as a constellation.
And Nico actually says he's thought about that before, too, and even thought of
that word before.
So that's cool.
So what does that mean?
So right now when we're dealing with hyperscanning, which I'll tell you about
in just a second, we're usually looking at two different brains, a dyad.
We're also looking at the alignment of those.
But of course, misalignment or ways of layered alignment.
If you think of it instead of just this linear either or it's either aligned or
not aligned, actually the brain is, you know, multidimensional, multilayered.
And the ways that we measure it are often choosing a little part of it to measure.
But what if we could understand ways and places where the brain is aligned and
other places where it's not and start to think of this in a more kaleidoscopic,
there's that word, or consolatory way so that we can understand how different
alignments or misalignments might be telling us something when two people are
in conversation.
So Nico's new method is, at least as I understand it, is designed to capture
these phase transitions and how two brains coordinate in social, emotional,
effective interactions.
So that's amazing because it's going beyond this normal temporal synchronization
and it's looking for structural changes in the actual network topology of the
interbrain connectivity.
So even though we're still dealing with two, two brains, this is a way of maybe
thinking about it not as two, because as you'll hear him say, he's starting to
think about the brain activity more as like a choreography or something instead
of these snapshots of, okay, here are brains aligned and here are brains that
are not aligned.
So it made me start to think about almost like a dance or, you know, like this third
entity, if you've heard that podcast that I had with Shea and Beck about the third
entity, this kind of entity that comes when two people are in a conversation.
It's like the third thing, which is both of them.
And what if we could better visualize that with our methods, because that's what
this is really.
It's these, this, what we're talking about with the geometrics are our method, a way
of doing something with the data that we get.
So what if it could be like a kind of dance that we're watching of these two
brains aligning, but also where they're not aligning, you know, do you see what I
mean?
So yeah, that's a little far out, but I think it's worth mentioning because we do
touch on it a bit in the conversation.
And who knows, maybe somebody out there is listening to this and they'll know
exactly how to kind of create something like that, that will help us all better
visualize this third entity that is the conversation, maybe not the conversation
we're having with words or language, but that the bodies are having, that we're
all having all the time with one another, that we're sort of co-creating one another
daily with these ongoing bodily alignments and misalignments.
As I was reading the paper, I was of course seeing it through my own lens and
I was thinking, okay, well, this is like a way for us to start to look at these
many dimensions of alignment and misalignment, not being necessarily an
either or thing, you know, holding the paradox and all of these themes, which
this whole podcast is built around.
That's the lens through which Nico and I discussed his work a bit because he is
also interested in these ideas and his other work in different areas of social
interaction is already, I think, trying to do this to hold these seeming
contradictions that, you know, misalignment and alignment in the brain
seem like you have to choose one or the other.
But in actuality, when we're in a conversation, there's a lot of alignment
and misalignment going on all at once.
How do we explore whatever that is that's going to let us understand those
and hold those as one?
And that's this kind of holding paradox idea comes into play there.
But, you know, of course that is itself a kind of care.
That's what we talk about here.
It's, you know, really caring.
Like why, why, why do we need to do all this hyper scanning?
I mean, the point is to try to help one another understand these difficult
situations we're in when we have relations with each other and with ourselves, you
know, and that can be everything from mental illness to social issues, or just
to maybe something that happens with you and someone you care about.
And, you know, what's this alignment misalignment going on?
Okay.
So I know that's already way too heavy for a lot of you.
So for those of you who haven't heard of hyper scanning, let me just
talk about that for a second.
Nico and I will go into it even more, but I just want to talk about how it's done.
So basically you have these different ways of monitoring brain activity through
like fMRI or EEG or functional near-Ephrared spectroscopy.
I can never say that word right.
FNIRS.
There's all these ways, but just in general, you can think about, you've
probably seen these ways that people wear these little like hats with wires on them
to, to monitor their brain activity.
That's one way, or, or in an FMRI.
And that's what you'll hear Nico call these white tubes.
You've probably seen them in the movies or fMRI machines, these big long white
tubes that you kind of go into.
That's what we're talking about with the fMRI.
In any case, you're monitoring the brain activity of two people at once, and
they're engaging in some sort of interaction, playing a game or doing
something on the screen at the same time, collaborative tasks.
Sometimes these trials are pretty constrictive in terms of like how the
body can move, but a lot of this new technology that some of which I already
mentioned is helping us do it in ways where we can move around a lot more.
So it's getting better and better.
But the point is you're analyzing the patterns of activity in the brain,
whether it's blood flow or whatever.
And you're seeing how those patterns relate between the two people, how they
synchronize or how they couple between the participants.
So it's a really fascinating technology.
And we do find, you know, that it does synchronize in social interactions that
certain brain regions do become synchronized between two people when
they're doing activities together.
So they can sort of align or almost mirror each other, or they just sort of
become, you know, part of the same pattern, which is really fascinating.
So this is helping us understand how our brains, our nervous systems,
which are our bodies actually, they're not just these things in our heads,
even though that's basically what, what we're measuring the activity in.
It's actually a whole bodily thing, but we are coordinated together and we
change each other's movement and we change each other's pace when we are
in conversation together.
So hyperscanning is pretty new.
It was, I think it started in the early 2000s and more and more people are
starting to do it.
And again, it's just the technology is getting a lot better, so it's becoming
easier to be able to do this.
I guess it's important to mention that we are talking about neural
synchrony.
So it's, you know, patterns of neurons, which are all through the body, but of
course, these are mostly being measured in the brain, becoming aligned.
That's a little bit different than, you know, Jung's synchronicity, which I know
a lot of you probably are thinking of that idea of Carl Jung's idea of
meaningful coincidences.
But these are philosophically like pretty different terms here.
So researchers have speculated a bit about whether there might be some
interbrain synchrony going on with what Carl Jung calls synchronicity or these
meaningful coincidences, like when you were thinking about someone and they
suddenly write you.
But I'll just like put that on the side.
You can think about it and maybe later I could write about how there might be
some resonances between these ideas.
But this is about the brain and about neural synchrony, about brainwaves and
activity levels falling and rising together and patterns of cells firing,
basically our blood flow becoming temporarily aligned, firing in
coordination, so to speak.
And it tells us about attention, about, you know, how we have conversations, what
happens in our bodies as we're kind of taking turns talking, tells us a lot
about perhaps about emotional resonance, empathy, joint action.
Maybe you remember Fred and I talking about joint action and joint language.
You know, there's a lot of wonderful themes and layers from other podcasts
that could be explored through this method of hyperscanning.
And in fact, some of the philosophers and scientists that we've had on are
working with Nico to think about how this might be done.
So it all fits together in different ways.
And it's also interesting to think of in terms of active inference and Carl
Friston's framework where, you know, you're trying to minimize surprise or
prediction error and how this relates to with this synchronicity experience or
synchronous experiences of the brain generating predictions about what's going
to happen next and how when you're matching with someone, you might be more
easily able to, of course, predict what they're going to do next.
But all that's just kind of speculation and just a little bit of titillation, I
guess, to get you to go watch Nico's talk at the Active Inference Symposium.
But for now, let's just go into the conversation and learn a little more
about hyperscanning.
I hope you're all doing well out there and having a good November, that things
are going your way, that you're seeing some beautiful fall leaves somewhere.
I was just driving through the country.
I saw some really beautiful leaves and beautiful colors.
And it's a wonderful time of year.
So I hope you find a place to enjoy it and be away from your screen.
And, yeah, I send you a lot of good thoughts wherever you are in the world.
OK, then time for some hyperscanning.
Trying to speak, it's always been so hard.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
It's it goes both ways, though, because I was raised here in Germany and Spanish
wasn't so I wasn't like raised by culturally from the get-go, because I guess
in the nineties, some paradigm reigned for some reason with like not confusing
children, they didn't speak Spanish at home.
So we had German and English, right?
But then when we moved to Chile, I had to learn it.
And then suddenly I realized that like eleven.
Oh, that's a hard time.
It's a tough, tough moment.
Yeah, critical phase.
And so, yeah, then just then I mean, in retrospect, of course, I realized like,
oh, Spanish is, you know, a hurdle of its own.
Usually people say German is trickier, but Spanish is like, you know, it has so many
times and very subtle pronunciations.
So, yeah, I can imagine even more coming from Germany to like, it's a whole
different kind of dance, isn't it?
Linguistically.
Absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Hi, Nico.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
It's great to see you today.
Hi, Andrea.
Thanks for having me.
Such a fan.
So we're going to talk about something we haven't talked about ever on the show.
And that is hyper scanning.
I don't think many people will know what it is.
So just from the start, maybe you could help us understand a
little bit, if you don't mind.
What is hyper scanning?
Yeah, my favorite topic.
So it just means that we record to the brains of two people at the same time.
That's sort of like the umbrella term.
Then you can get like more nuanced in saying it's also people that are interacting.
And we want to overcome in my sort of broader project, a couple of the
limitations that I've seen in that type of methodology that belongs to
social neuroscience, mainly in that the metrics that have been used and that
have sort of like made up the field and sort of like make it stand for what it
is nowadays, they're a bit limited in trying to point towards synchrony.
So the coordination between people, but in a very sort of, let's say,
simplistic way, right?
It's like, if you think of interaction, it's not just that you move in the
same beat and then that constitutes your relevant marker, right?
But there's more factors, I think of it like more as a choreography, right?
And so there you also have other layers on top of the beat, right?
And maybe sometimes that loosens or tightens and definitely shifts, right?
So we want to acknowledge all of that in this very novel type of methodology
that is brain imaging, just simultaneously.
So, and people that are, yeah, interactive.
So for people who've never, don't know what brain imaging even looks like, I
mean, are you just taking pictures of people's brains or, I mean, yeah.
So could you try to set it up a little bit?
What do you, what do you do when you do an experiment, for example?
Are you a neuroscientist?
Is that how you would define yourself or a psychologist or both or?
I usually like to think of myself as a biologist.
Biologist.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, with a philosophical bent, maybe.
Okay.
So when you're doing these experiments, what does it look like just in general?
Like if no one's ever seen it before, just describe the room.
I think the most typical scenario would be a somewhat clinically looking room.
So maybe, you know, all white or all gray or something like that.
So kind of like very hygienic.
And then if you want to have two people interacting, then you'll have sort of an
isolated room for that within that larger lab where they can, you know, be isolated
from external noise.
So in the case of EEG, it looks like a shower cap with electrodes, usually 64
placed through that cap.
And then that one is really great in doing literally snapshots, as you're pointing
out, but at a very high temporal resolution, right?
So you can kind of get a video in a way.
And then the spatial resolution will be a bit limited.
So you will get the outermost part of the brain with that one mainly and not dig
deeper into the volume of the entire brain.
Right.
And then if you move into other methodologies, that inverts slowly where
you get like really static pictures.
But maybe not maybe, but you trade that off with volume so you can see structures
in 3D.
So, yeah, it depends on what paradigm you're testing, whether you want to go
with one or the other, but it's usually in that clinically looking room and you
will have people wearing or being maybe inserted into a tube, which would be the
other extreme of the spectrum of methodologies, namely fMRI, where they
barely can move, but we gain this insight that's volumetric into their brains.
So, yeah, you pick your poison.
And you're looking at the brain activity.
We don't have to get into how all that happens with the blood flow and everything,
but we're looking at the brain and its activity.
But hyperscanning is different because it's not just one person, which is what we
all assume and what, you know, that's pretty much all I ever did.
And that's kind of the norm.
You know, you just one person.
So how are these two people, how are two people, we're looking at two brains at
once with the same stimulus or how would you describe?
Yeah, yeah, that's a great question.
So I think it comes in all sort of flavors.
For instance, right now, we want to replicate a study made with fMRI that
came out last year by Sebastian Speer from Princeton that explored interacting
diets, so pairs, in somewhat naturalistic conversation, right?
So imagine the tube.
So you're basically immobilized, but you're talking with one another.
You can't really see each other, right?
Cause you're both stuck in tubes.
And so that, that detracts from the ecological validity, we call it, you
know, the fancy term to say like how representative of daily life that is.
So we want to replicate that with a method that's called fNURSE, which is
mobile and it still offers sort of a midway between EEG and fMRI in terms
of spatial temporal resolution.
So I was just describing to enhance that ecological validity that's somewhat
limited in the published article on that project.
So you kind of, yeah, as I was saying, you have sort of a trade-off, right?
And in that kind of paradigm, we're basically saying, you know, if you're
talking with one another, at least you need to be able to see each other, right?
And then if you want to be even more naturalistic, maybe you can go
into proxemics or haptics, right?
People sort of like touching or like getting, getting closer or distant,
more distance from one another.
And that will certainly exclude already fMRI because you can't really do any
of that within the tube, but then maybe you want to even move past fNURSE into
EEG to be able to interact even more.
So yeah, it really will depend on the limitations of the technology, what kind
of paradigm you can even think of to undergo without risking to have
too much noise in your signal.
You can think of the oscillations like in a lie detector for the audience, you
know, going like all over the place.
And then that basically means that your data, once you want to do some
calculations to make sense of it from a mathematical point of view, you can't
because they're so spread out, so sparse out everywhere that you can't have like,
you can't pinpoint statistically meaningful markers from that data.
So you kind of have to leverage that.
And what are you trying to figure out here?
I mean, what's like, maybe we should talk about IBS or something because.
Yeah.
Yeah, we can just assume we're trying to understand how two people are in
relation together somehow and what the brain activity is doing at the same time.
And the main idea is we're two people in relation and we're looking at how our
brains, what, synchronize, I guess.
Would you go into that word a little bit?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So that's sort of the hallmark metric of these simultaneous and
interacting studies, which in a nutshell just means co-occurrences, right?
So maybe that part of your brain is activated while that part in my
brain is also activated, whatever that part is that we will skip that,
the neuroanatomy for now.
So what has been cool for the past 15 years to realize is that IBS, as you
named it, interbrain synchrony has been shown to, so the co-occurrence of
activations in areas during these experiments has been shown to be, you
know, meaningful for a bunch of cognitive and interactive phenomena, right?
Like for instance, enhancing just mere comprehension between
two interacting parties, right?
So that tells you already that there is some kind of interplay at the
neurobiological level that is accounting for or is in part a meaningful
substrate to the phenomena, right?
But we haven't moved past that and I want to overcome just that simple
synchrony understood as co-occurrences towards a more sophisticated mapping of
each function in time and in space.
That's basically the whole gist of it, right?
It's not just reproducing canonic work that asks, you know, are these two
individuals in sync, but actually are there patterns that change as they
talk and move, perhaps repair, you know, during a misunderstanding, you know,
that's going back to the analogy of moving beyond the beat, you know, which
is like perfect coordination.
Let's get it deeper into the real choreography, right?
So that's basically what we want to do by making use of geometry to detect
deeper patterns in the activations that we record with these electrodes.
A few of the conversations here, like with the neuroscientists, back
Todd, for example, and others, we talked about this kind of third entity idea,
which I think relates very well here, right, to this synchrony.
And that comes from dance where the bodies are synchronized, so to speak.
I mean, in a way we can think of it in a really obvious way that when you
dance, you have the music and you're sort of synchronized to the music.
And so the bodies are synchronized.
I guess we could think of the brain as, you know, somehow sync, you
know, in sync at the same time, but it's wonderful.
This is a great paradox holding for me because we all understand that in a way.
And it can be beautiful to think, oh, we're having a wonderful conversation
and our brains are in sync.
We can't get into how limited all of this imaging technology is, but we
decide what we're going to look at and we can look at what parts are going to be
in sync and there might be so much else that's changing all the time and not in
sync.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
I love how you phrase it because it is indeed holding a paradox.
I was just yesterday talking about the same topic and it feels like to me, like
the intuition that I have with this, because I don't consider myself a
philosopher, but some of the ideas that I've had to incorporate, so based out of
need to make sense of, to make a deeper sense of the topic at hand, right, with
everything that it involves from a philosophy of science perspective, I had
been thinking of, you know, the agential cut that one makes and it's inevitable.
So why don't we empower ourselves and, you know, own up to it and say, okay,
this is the agential cut, you know, I'm not gonna discourse this away in a sort
of neatly packaged paragraph in my paper.
No, I'm actually gonna improve on the methods that are the, for me, the
constituent part or one of the, certainly one, but maybe the core of what
scientific praxis is, right?
So holding the paradox sort of like motivating it all and I want to not
dissolve that in just words in my, in my research, right?
I want to, I want to, that potential of the paradox to sort of like shine
through the entire research and so, as you say, we have so many limitations
with the tech, but we can certainly try to make sense deeper of what we have
with those limitations and I think, I think it's fair to say that, you know,
hyperscanning is learning how to walk, if anything, you know, it's very, very
young as a sub-discipline, let's say.
It's not even a coherent discipline as of yet, right?
That might even be a bit generous on my behalf because I like it, but, but it's
not, you know, there's not even agreement on what constitutes synchrony.
For some it's like areas in the brain, as I was saying before, for some it's
spikes in the oscillations, which is a completely different thing to consider.
Certainly related in the same locus, sort of neurobiologically speaking, but
completely different measure, methodologically seen.
And so I'm even like motivated to, to try to write, call everyone on the
hyperscanning front to write a consensus paper, which most certainly won't have
a consensus, you know, but that's the point of it, to, to sort of make a
snapshot, you know, of I guess it would be next year, 2026, what is synchrony
now for us and then look what, and then maybe in the future, you know, we can
look back and say, oh, wow, okay, all of these assumptions wrong.
And some of them may be held true.
I think that's a, that's an interesting exercise to do, but I like the idea
that you play the limitations of tech to the maximum, you know, and, and, and
see, see what's left, you know.
It's not that those things have to be either or either, right?
I mean, there's also a way in which there might be many different kinds of
synchrony, depending on where, what the experiment is, there might be a
definition of secret synchrony that's very general that could apply to all
those, but each experiment is going to probably have its own definition and you
probably have to take whatever the experiment is as part of the definition.
That, that still feels like a little bit hard to hold or does it?
Yeah, no, I think that's, that's, uh, true for me as well.
Um, I think you need to, um, for so many other disciplines as well, you kind of
like need to be contempt with certain narratives or certain stories that can
be also just standalone and meaningful in being that, you know, um, that's
certainly progress and on its own, right.
Right.
But, um, I think in, in trying to, um, tackle something like interaction, um,
especially so, cause in the future, I would like to, um, apply this, um, to
mental health intervention.
I think there's so many intimate nuances and, um, responsibilities also, um, in
treating those topics, um, that deserve a more refined take and not just, you
know, your one, uh, research article, right.
But like actually a body of, um, frameworks that coalesce together to make
it context sensitive, you know, ethically grounded and ultimately useful.
Yes.
And also you did a paper with some people who've been by Elena Koufari.
And I know you've, you're working with Hannah DeJager and I know you've
brought up Prisma in your paper and this, which is a kind of a different
way of thinking about experiments too.
You know, the way you described the experiment at the beginning, we could
have a very different setup where, you know, you don't just have the scientist
sort of watching pictures of brains.
Maybe there's some way to think about what's going on there because that's
what we really care about, isn't it?
Like where, you know, you brought up mental health, these have very real
implications, which with all this kind of talk and all these big terms that we're
using, we can forget that all of this is actually towards the fact that in everyday
life, interaction is so important and our health is so tied to it.
So yeah.
How do you think about that notion of synchrony in that kind of bigger way?
I think, I think the main driver within that complexity for me is, is what I
just mentioned in passing, namely the, the responsibility, right?
If you have someone who's willing to seek a change that's good or foreseen,
hopefully good for them in their life and you're reaching out for someone to
take on that sort of co-navigation, right?
Then there's a huge sense of responsibility there, right?
It's not just whether your method is ethically grounded, but it's a personal,
very intimate journey that you take on.
So I think it's like only fair to bring together all of these complex considerations
because the journey by definition, by default is complex, right?
So I think it's only, you know, living up to that complexity, really the, the
fact that, that, that it's, you know, complex, maybe to the point of
being a little messy too, right?
But that's what drew me to neurophenomenology.
And within that, talking to, to different researchers, I think a lot of these ideas
have resonated very well with Elena and Hane, who were introduced to me, by the
way, by Nara Figueiredo first.
So she was the first point of contact, I would say, for me with Prisma.
She's doing very interesting work too, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
Elena actually introduced me to her because they did a paper, right?
Rather recently.
Yeah, in Senteza recently.
Yes, yes.
And which I've always pronounced Synthes, but someone corrected me recently.
Yeah.
So I didn't, to be honest, I didn't know about Prisma until Nara introduced me to it.
I had, you know, of course, read Linguistic Bodies, but I didn't know the
core of Prisma as a, you know, methodology of its own.
It's pretty new though, anyway, so.
Yeah, that's true.
And maybe fast forward with the three of us, the four of us, sorry, I was
excluding myself, are trying to extend Prisma.
So, which is basically a method, I'm probably going to butcher it if I
try to explain it in detail, but let's say that it's a phenomenological
methodology, right, for interacting groups and where the participants are
considered co-authors of your experiment, if you will, right?
And there's feedback loops where that assure that they have that role.
And so we want to extend Prisma.
It's one way of saying it into hyperscanning, or we could also say we
want to expand hyperscanning towards Prisma, it can go either way, but
basically it's a way of grounding the search for a method that's
neurophenomenologically framed via the neural substrate.
And I think the broader implication or aim is also to build on a science
of participatory sense-making, right?
To leverage all of these tools that have been coming up, but by these
great researchers and sort of like pointed at neuroscience.
Yeah, and this, I mean, for people who don't know, this is not
exactly an easy task to bring these things together, and we're trying to
find ways to really look at what's happening, you know, that we're not
just in the lab and then we're in real life, or there's not just philosophy
where we think about what mind and consciousness are, and then the way
we study it in the lab.
So this interaction that you all are having, I find really beautiful in
that way, because hyperscanning is a great place to try to work this stuff out.
It's got to be messy.
And I actually just took part in a Prisma with Hanna in Austria not too long ago.
And I was really surprised by it because I hadn't thought a whole lot about it.
I'd heard of it through her work.
Just briefly, for those who haven't heard, you really are the experiment.
So I was the experiment with three other people and it's hard to describe.
It's a very different setup from what I'm used to in neuroscience where
everything is like you described at the beginning.
So I love that that's even getting brought into the idea of hyperscanning
and that maybe the technology has to kind of somehow come into that space, but
also the philosophy has to kind of opens up another way of thinking about what
science, the rigor is still going to be there.
Have you had to hold those things in your work?
Absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And again, I really like this concept that you brought up, the holding
paradox, because I think that's for me the maybe the second order sort of
reason why or motivation of why to do this or why to attempt to do it, right?
The primary motivator, of course, is care, right?
But a second order one is that I think if we do not steer ourselves in holding
that paradox meaningfully, then we will tend to gravitate towards what I call
unnamed centers of attractions or attractors in a landscape of discourses
as researchers, as knowledge creators, what has been called social materially
augmented research.
I think Tom Fraser from Akinawa has called it like that, right?
Because we have all these tools to sort of like pinpoint at concepts and then
sort of augment them.
And I think the risk is that those centers that we cannot name can fill your
own discourse of considerations or the considerations of your own praxis if
we leave that unchecked, right?
So I think that's why I think the becoming cherishing the holding the
paradox, right, is I think important to me as a secondary sort of motivator.
And a sanity check in and of itself, because if left unchecked, as I was
saying, I fear that something else will trickle into your discourse or the
discourse of your praxis, right?
And I think, as I was saying before, in topics like these that deserve a
specific kind of very detailed and nuanced view, that's crucial then.
Yeah.
It's wonderful you brought up care alongside that, because that's basically
this show in a way is, I mean, I actually think what you described as, you know,
holding the paradox or holding these contradictions, seeming contradictions or
seeming opposite sides without trying to decide one is better than the other and
without trying to like ignore one, you know, in the way you were talking about
is a kind of care.
I mean, you have to sort of, that is a space of care, which is why it's so hard.
That also reminds me of other parts of your work where I think you're also
through care, through affect and emotion, even if we want to put it in the kind
of more scientific language, but I feel like it's coming from that space of care.
You're also trying to hold these.
And just to go back to that idea of synchrony, where it's not so simple, we
aren't just holding this space where we all line up perfectly and everything's
aligned. And so we all fully understand each other and that can be an image of
it. But in your work, you're also always bringing in the tension and the rupture
and the fact that the point isn't just to match to each other.
As you were saying before, we're sort of aligning and how are we, you know, kind
of moving through this together in a way?
Can you talk about that a little bit? Is that important for you?
What does that bring up?
Yeah, no, that's great.
I think the crux that I see in trying to
create this participatory hyperscanning, if you will, is precisely overcoming
these linear views of like the perfect mirror image in interacting parties.
Right. And I think but I think it's very intuitive to see the benefit of
recognizing that, for instance, misunderstandings, you know, under a perfect
mirror image, they would be noise.
Right. But it turns out there are signals, there are meaningful signals instead.
Right. And in everyday life.
Right. So why don't we operationalize them within our experimental paradigms as such
instead of, you know, regressing them out of our math?
So I think that's sort of been the crux in the sense of that's where I want to go
at. We're not there yet, but that's also what I see as the core of what will
constitute an improvement in how we do social neuroscience as a whole.
And then based on that, I would hope to, you know, start decomposing different
pillars, I would say, of interaction.
Right. To see how, you know, the same way that we're saying, you know, there's
no, you know, perfect mirror instance of these phenomena within interaction.
You know, there's there's rather, you know, phase transitions.
You know, you flip states during a conversation.
You and so you need to think less about an average harmony.
Right. Or a mean harmony.
And you need to think more of transformations and say, you know, this is the
imperative voice.
I apologize for that, but that's just me saying, you know, I think that we should
do this part of this whole relationality.
We've talked about there's two.
And so there's the self-navigation, which you might think of like we're we're we
are ourselves trying to navigate through whatever is happening.
But we've been talking about this relational thing.
So you brought up some terms there and made me think of like a manifold or that
everything can kind of be seen different ways, you know, according to what we're
trying to study or look for.
So does that relate to what you were saying about it's not just about, you
know, matching to each other?
Because I'm trying to get towards your geometric way of thinking about hyper
scanning, because for me, when I was reading about that, it opens up more like a
manifold or like a constellation instead of this linear kind of way that we've
thought about it before.
So because it might not be just a diet.
It could be a triad or whatever.
I mean, this generative systems, you know, come in many forms.
So is do I read that correctly?
Are you trying to kind of constellate what is linear?
Absolutely. I think I might have used that word in the past, actually.
Now, it's sort of feels like I didn't even know if it was a word, but I use it all the
time. Yeah, I think I think at some time, at some point, I wrote something about
cognitive constellations.
Oh, wow. You have to send it, but it feels like I will.
But it felt like a nostalgic echo, you know, I will dig that up.
But yeah, absolutely.
I think, you know, this goes back to active inference in an action, I think.
So you co-predict and co-regulate.
I would say that those are the, you know, respective take home messages from those
frameworks for this.
So, you know, understanding each other.
It lives as a thing of its own between us.
Right. So I think via geometry, we're trying to formalize that.
Right. And seeing not just that there's a perfect sort of a coordinated pattern, but
actually one that's mutating in real time, spatially and temporally in our brains.
And more importantly, in the sort of third brain that emerges between us and we can
see is a certain moment in time that we can, you know, describe neuro-phenomenalogically.
Neuro-phenomenalogically.
That's a big word. Neuro-phenomenalogically.
Yeah. At the discourse level, with the proxemics, with the haptics, et cetera, whatever
you choose to have in your multimodal paradigm.
Right. And mix and match that with your neural signals.
Then it would be certainly meaningful whether your network is perhaps more local or
globally spread between us.
You know, are we in agreement?
Are we in disagreement that time, you know, and then it suddenly changes?
So I think to me, that's the only, you know, or the most natural way to move forward
with the current tech we have for that in thinking that, you know, if we assume that
this is true, that we co-predict each other and at the same time, we're co-regulating
each other and interaction is its own thing, then we need to dig deeper and not just
take these snapshots that have shown us important correlations, but are limited in
showing us these more mechanistic implications of these modalities.
That reminds me, you write about time and temporal things a lot, you know, related to
emotions, because what you just said on this whole constellatory cognition, often when
we're communicating together, you know, we might be in sync in some parts, but maybe
I'm, maybe I'm reliving something based on the words that you said.
And I know you talk about something like temporal aiming where, so my trajectory is I'm aimed
towards my past and I'm kind of thinking about something in the past and maybe you're
looking towards the future.
And so maybe there's a part where we're synchronized, but we're really aiming temporally
in different ways, which can cause trouble.
And that seems incredibly complicated to try to actually model in science and visualize.
But I feel like you're trying to move towards that with the geometric idea or with this
constellatory idea, right?
We first have to kind of imagine it before we can start to model it.
Is that fair to say?
Are you thinking about that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think I think that's a fair description for sure, because
these spaces are oriented, right?
And so it was Mao who we've interviewed before, who came up with temporal aiming while we
were writing our paper that got accepted, by the way, at the International Workshop
of Active Inference.
So we'll be presenting that in a couple of weeks.
Thanks. And so I think it's a work in progress for sure, but we've already established
that, you know, for our model, it will make it can only make sense if we take into
consideration these as you exemplified retrospective and prospective orientations that
you will have in holding the spaces of, you know, knowledge about the other and yourself
in relation to the other during communication or interaction.
So that'll be that'll be a big one to to formalize further and put to the test empirically.
That's wonderful. I'm really excited about that and about just trying to think of, you
know, even if we just try to think of this as like a landscape that we can always take
many different paths and how do we visualize that and how do we, you know, even put math
on that just to model it so we can all kind of look at it, you know, and and see that
maybe we're not always in the same place.
And I find that really inspiring.
I don't know if there's anything about the geometric evaluation method relative to this
kind of interbrain network stuff that you want to say here.
I can just point people to the paper, but it is kind of a new way of thinking about all
of this. Right. About. Yeah.
How would you I know you can't summarize it.
It's very hard. Most people don't even understand active inference, including me,
probably. So even though I've studied it forever.
So but yeah, like for people who, you know, are just curious, like what's different about
this? What would you is it is it this opening of space?
Yeah, I think it's it's giving us a glimpse into
how it might be, you know, more biologically realistic,
a realistically depicted account of
interaction. Right. So it's it might in and of itself be
its own sub-subdiscipline, perhaps in the future.
Or as we're playing a bit around with with Elena and Hannah and Nara,
maybe framed within participatory sense making or maybe,
you know, our club, our collaborator Guillaume Dumas just came, just brought out,
you know, a generative account of neurophenomenology.
So maybe we steer it also more towards the machine learning
side of things. The future, of course, will will show
what ends up being the space of, you know,
probabilities that that that ends up coalescing best with with a method like that.
But I think it's fair to to to describe it, as you say, and sort of
already from the get go, from its inception,
it is intended to
to be responsive and attentive towards the co-regulate
co-regulation and co-prediction of beings.
So I think, yeah,
even if I do say so myself, I think it's it's a it's a promising avenue
in regards to making interaction be lived up to in the lab.
Right. Instead of just, you know,
being explained away by, you know, your consensus on neuroanatomy
or sort of relinquished from the lab entirely via
just being limited to discursive practices
that don't get to mingle that intimately with neurophysiological studies.
Right. So it's a we're trying to to merge them or to integrate these approaches.
And an advance, a fuller account of of interaction.
And as we were discussing before, because of the importance
that it holds in therapy or parenting, you know,
even broader in society. Right.
So that's that's I think that's the the general direction.
Yeah, we were talking about, you know, holding the paradox or holding
these seeming opposites.
And if you can kind of visualize or imagine some sort of shared
generative manifold that might even be Mao's kind of terminology for it or yours.
I don't know who says it, who says what and what papers are where.
But you can, you know, if we start having ways to visualize this,
maybe we can start to understand that, you know, we might be sharing
the same space and sync synchronizing and also experiencing that same space
completely differently at the very same time.
It feels really important.
And it also feels important to other parts of your work when you talk about
asymmetry or when you talk about neuroprotective rituals, for example.
Right. Because, you know, another weird thing here is that every brain is different.
So even when you're setting up the hyper scan, you really actually need to kind
of be able to configure it completely different for every brain.
So there's all these levels of this holding of paradox.
But do you think that's a good way to do it?
Holding of paradox.
But do you see that connected to, for example, how you might help someone with
who's struggling, you know, with mental illness or something?
Absolutely. That's that's the entire sort of intention behind that.
Now that you pointed out, pointed to to the neuroprotective rituals,
that's actually a term I came up with very recently
in our conversations with Mark James from the Okinawa Institute.
Science and technology podcast.
Yeah. A lot of our work sort of seems motivated by by similar sort of intentions of care,
although our works don't don't intersect formally yet.
So it's really interesting.
We're all trying to reach towards each other, you know.
Yeah, I agree. I'm trying to find each other.
Yeah. And neuro protection as a whole, as a thing exists, of course.
It's sort of a medical, technical term.
But the neuroprotective rituals is something that we came up with,
Mark, during our conversations.
And it's sort of hinting at possible solutions to issues such as, for instance,
chronic inflammation of the brain, which usually happens as a response to
some external agent or, for instance,
stress, which can be, as Agustín Iváñez showed last year, I think, in Nature,
can also be produced by social inequality.
So if you point your research at something like that,
you can certainly try to help people and overcome
the situation where, you know, the brain is just under constant,
you know, disadvantage to not say, you know, under constant sort of pathological
even influence, right, by circumstances that we all share.
Right. So I think that's where the notion of like having rituals,
which perhaps can not just recreate, but even complement and enhance
therapies that are metabolite-based.
So something that you ingest, right, or something that is sort of done to you
as a passive client or patient, which is sort of passive is in the definition
of patient, right.
So something that you can, you know, actively seek.
And so that's, I think, how we want to close the loop there in using
interpersonal synchrony, right, as a more global sort of account of
synchrony within which inter-brain synchrony is one of possible synchronies
to entrain, you know, autonomic, effective cortical systems
to be more adaptive against these stressors, right.
When you were talking, for example, I was thinking of how lonely people feel
when they don't seem to be experiencing the world the way others are.
Right.
You know what I mean?
You know, whatever kind of, if you want to call that an illness
or a misalignment or whatever, even though they are sharing that space.
So rituals tend to bring us into shared space, I guess, right.
But if we could also understand that we're coming into shared space
and we're all going to experience it differently, it's not either or,
then it could be really helpful because you don't feel so lonely
because you're sharing the ritual, which is what rituals help us do.
And then at the same time, it's okay that you're not experiencing
exactly the same way as someone else.
Like that becomes almost like a portal.
Yeah.
You know, I find that really exciting, right, to think about what that could do or help.
Yeah, I think that's great.
It sort of made me think of Michael Levin, who you've also had on the podcast.
Who's also trying to open this manifold.
Exactly, exactly.
And for me, it resonates with ideas of his where, you know,
I don't know where he said it, but he was speaking about intelligence, right.
And how it is shared by definition in the sense of it being something
or was it consciousness, regardless.
He was speaking about how we as agents sort of tap into it, right.
Almost as something that feels like, phrase like that, as if it's something else,
right, or something beyond ourselves that we access to.
But it's really just a way of saying that it's, you know, biologically realistic
as a reality, as an aspect, right.
And so I feel that when we talk about rituals,
maybe people tend to think of, or one could read this as sort of an exercise of sociology.
But it's, and it can.
But I think it's not just that.
I think it's saying that, you know, the space between agents
is socially distributed as a biologically realistic thing, right.
So I think that's where we're tapping in with the neural side of things, right.
We're trying to understand how the unfolding inside of a system
is indeed capturable in a meaningful way, right, by interacting agents.
In our case, we're limited to diets, duos right now.
But at some point, we'll definitely have to scale this up to collectives.
But yeah, I think it's both, right.
It's sort of the social biological view that all of these matters are distributed,
hence the possibility of modulating their intrinsic dynamics by different methods, right.
Not just the metabolite route in the institution, right.
But other ways are possible too.
And even just seeing the diet differently, you're already doing something there.
You're not just assuming the diet.
You're doing what you brought up at the beginning of, you know,
seeing that you're using the diet, but you could be, you know, a constellation.
And also when you were talking, I was thinking of that cognition or consciousness
or that understanding that we've kind of tapped into it, as you put it,
is also just kind of the tip of the iceberg of actually what cognition is.
I mean, you know, when we become aware of it and when we're thinking about it,
that cognitive light cone to, you know, talk about Mike Levin or something,
that too is nested, right.
And the same model could kind of help us understand that too,
because it's quite a hard thing to really take in without going crazy.
I mean, that's that old Fitzgerald quote, right.
How to hold two opposed ideas in mind at once and still saying.
But I'm hearing a lot of I'm hearing a lot in everything that you're saying.
And I'm wondering about you and your path and how you got here.
Like, how did your relationality, you know, how did you get here?
Yeah, yeah, sure. I can try.
It feels like I should, you know, start like autobiographically.
But yeah, I think but I think that might might perhaps ease the narrative,
the autobiographic part in relation to that sort of curiosity, I guess,
and the loving to learn type of, you know, epistemic stance, I guess,
that that I do, you know, perform on a daily basis.
That was definitely, you know, scaffolded on top of, you know, what my parents or
our parents, because I have a bigger sister, older sister offered us, right.
They were really doing cool stuff, right.
My mom, a cello player, my dad, a theoretical physicist,
very open disciplines, but very focused disciplines, too.
Right. So holding paradoxes.
So much discipline and yet.
Yeah. Yeah.
But I think throughout that all of that discipline and like, you know,
the learning to love, sorry, the other way around, loving to learn,
although that also kind of like you, you find, you know,
throughout all that discipline, you also find your desire.
Right. And what do you want to apply this to?
And I think that's also something that I talked with Mark about a lot.
It's like, there's certainly, you know, episodes in life where you thought,
okay, this is, you know, unacceptably, you know,
under determined from the perspective of science.
Something like, for instance, mental health intervention,
where even one of one of my collaborators, dear Leonard Chilbach,
admitted that and this is a term, a technical term, you know,
that a lot of work in that area and cognitive neuropsychiatry
is based on what's called referred to as a clinician's intuition.
Right. So I think it's just not enough.
Right. We need to double down and drill down, you know,
on what is underlying all of this because of what's at stake.
Right. And so I think all of that sort of curiosity
that comes from a really nice place, you know, from my life history
and a bunch of influences, I felt sort of, you know,
that I had to direct it to something that actually matters
because if not, then I feel that, you know, the exercise of critique
or the exercise of traversing data spaces
are both in and of themselves, you know, just stale.
Right. But I think combined and geared towards something
that is of benefit for someone else, that is sort of like golden.
Yeah. It's interesting that I was thinking
about therapy. I mean, of course, most therapists are doing their best,
I guess, you know, but what we were talking about before,
we're all coming from a certain path.
So it's that same what you're trying to do with your work.
I can see how it could help with that because if the therapist
and the person who's, you know, in the therapy, if there was some way
to understand that you're not just making your best intuition
or that you are, but, you know, you're pinpointing that,
you're saying that, and maybe there's some kind of resource
for how to, I don't know what, try out different ways or, I mean,
I guess what I'm trying to get at is, you know, these things are also
kind of powerful in their immediacy, these kind of relationships,
like with the therapist or, you know, when your mom,
she probably practiced so much and it's so disciplined,
but then there's this immediacy and the people just fill it.
And it's like, you know, we don't want to,
we also don't want to over structure that.
So have you had, do you see what I'm saying?
Do you ever feel that kind of tension where
you want to let the magic happen too, right?
That's true, yeah.
How do you, I find that a very hard thing to,
in this, what we were talking about with this, for example,
participatory sense-making meeting, hyperscanning,
how do you not over-determine it or under-determine it
to kind of think about Hannah's ways of talking about love, you know?
Yeah, yeah, that's so interesting.
I think I would even, you know, content that we're in an era
where that is actively being done, right?
So you reduce mind to brain,
you reify signals from the brain that's being read
and used as a proxy to describe the mind, right?
And around that, there's certainly, you know, forces building
what I guess, you know, Foucault would have called,
you know, biopolitics and Chan,
Bill Chung-Han calls it psychopolitics,
and perhaps we could call it neuropolitics nowadays, right?
Where our attention and emotions, et cetera,
are, you know, being commodified.
So I think what you're pointing out is not just, you know,
a question mark to, you know, contemplate,
but to actually act upon, you know, definitely.
And, you know, I'm not talking about, you know, futuristic risks,
but, you know, something that we can actually trace, right?
So I think maybe that will have to be studied in groups
that have to do, you know, with regulatory frameworks and policies.
Thinking here of something that's instantiated
in perhaps in a legal way, right?
But I think that's my way of saying this whole sort of perspective
on how these, Emilius, these different spaces of knowledge about ourselves.
It's not a question of whether they are connected or not, right?
It's they already being made use of in a connected way, right?
So I think we need to pay more attention to them.
I don't know if that answers the question, but I went to that place.
No, it makes sense.
And somehow I was also thinking that maybe you learned
how to hold these differences growing up the way you did
with having the hard science and the art
and maybe seeing that both had parts of each other in them or something.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, absolutely.
Do you think that's helped you bringing this in?
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Because there's like this sort of functionalist view, if you will,
like how things can actually matter on a math point,
from a math point of view.
But there's also the participatory.
I think there's some flexibility that you need
to traverse those perspectives, right?
And I don't think either is the full picture, right?
So I think that's actually sort of where I sit most comfortably
in trying to juggle both.
Yeah, you probably learned it in your existence as a kid.
Because I've always found those worlds,
people seem to think they're so different,
but they hold similar constellations.
They do the things differently,
but both have kind of the rigor, for example,
and the expansive soul part too.
Yeah, absolutely.
But taking those both seriously at the same time, as we've said, is hard.
But just to kind of come back to hyperscanning just to end,
I'm going to ask you an impossible question.
Okay.
How does this relate to the way that we do care for each other?
Can something come from hyperscanning
that helps us widen the circle of care?
What do you really feel about that?
Does it help us?
Could it help us?
How do you see it?
Yeah.
Yeah, great question.
Thank you.
So if we're holding the paradox,
I think what geometric hyperscanning can offer us
is to name the moments of matter and human connection.
And by doing so, we can make them tractable for care.
Do you have any kind of connections to love
or anything about that word that you might want to share at all?
Yeah.
I think I'm feeling like I want to tell you,
but perhaps not the listeners.
That's fine.
Okay, I can go ahead and stop it then.
So then you can feel safe.
How about that?
Thank you. Yeah, that's okay.
Okay.
Hey, everyone.
We stopped recording there and didn't actually kind of say bye.
So I just thought I would say bye.
Thanks for listening.
And if you want to support the project, this endeavor,
it would be much appreciated.
Just sign up for the sub stack or do the buy me a coffee,
which is new, but no one's used it yet.
Or send an email and tell me what you'd like to see more of on the show.
Whatever.
Anything you can do to support this, help us.
Would be really appreciated.
All right.
Hope you're doing well.
Bye.
