Reverse the symbolic weightings of key terms.
Take a negative and turn it into a positive.
So you've got to let them lead the dance.
You've got to learn how to get in step, get in sync with the rhythm of their moves.
If not, then you're violating a fundamental ethical principle of hermeneutic justice and
patience and generosity.
Give the writer his or her say.
Learn to dance with them.
Learn how to get his steps.
It's not about agreeing or disagreeing.
You've got to give them their say.
Open yourself up to them.
So this was a central concern.
And King said, look, I'm not talking about erotic love, I'm talking about agape love.
So part of it is getting worked out.
What do we mean by love?
So let's talk this through.
We call it dialogue.
Listening, asking questions prior to rendering final judgments, being open to the possibility
of changing oneself.
Well, you said something, yeah, but I thought you meant, no, no, that's not what I meant.
Oh, but I thought, I understand what you thought, but here's what, oh, I misspoke, oh, I missheard.
Okay, well, let's try it again.
That process is crucial to having a stable, viable computer.
What do we mean?
Also, as we call it, democracy.
Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy.
Today is a really special episode, also a very challenging episode for many different
reasons.
It is with Lucius Outlaw, and he is going to tell you about his journey from growing
up in a segregated small town in Mississippi to becoming a philosophy professor, a very
well respected one who knows everyone.
He's been in the same room with everyone from Eric Fromm to Martin Luther King Jr. to many
of the leaders of today, as you'll hear in this conversation.
And we're also talking about one of my favorite philosophers, who is W. E. B. Du Bois, who
came up with this phrasing double consciousness, which you've probably heard me talk about
in other episodes.
For example, with Mina Salami, we talked about double consciousness and extending that into
thinking about it through the ecological world.
We also talk about Hegel, someone you hear me talk about a lot here, and the idea of
holding paradox, of course.
But this doubling, this idea of the third space or stepping to the third way in order
to see the two sides that have seemed oppositional, Hegel might be discussed as doing this through
synthesis or the dialectic.
And Du Bois is talking about these two kind of irreconcilable, seemingly irreconcilable
notions of self that one often experiences, the self of your first person phenomenological
experience and then the way you're perceived by those around you as a kind of two-ness,
an inward two-ness, which is also part of your social relation because of however the
society around you is defining you.
There's a lot of links to that, to Hegel, of course, but also to other writers I love
like Emerson.
And Du Bois was also studying at Humboldt in Berlin for a little while, which is where
I did my degrees too.
So there's a lot of connections here.
And even more so, one reason I really wanted to talk with Lucius, not only just because
I wanted him to tell a story, which is really what this is, because it's very interesting.
You know, there's also Nikki Giovanni makes an appearance, but also because he brought
phenomenology together with Du Bois, which is something, I mean, I think Du Bois was
already doing phenomenology and he had studied it in Germany.
He knew about it.
But in Lucius Outlaw's work, he discusses this directly and phenomenology that we could
do a whole episode on that.
In fact, someone asked me to do a research diary and I will, but just for purposes here,
when you study consciousness or our experience of consciousness from the first person point
of view, from the point of view of how you experience it.
So you're really looking at the structure of that ongoing dynamical experience that
you're having or that one is having and taking that seriously.
There's these names which like Hursl, Edmund Hursl or Sartre or Merleau-Ponty is very important.
The person I work with in Heidelberg, Thomas Fuchs, we did a nice talk together.
He's coming out of that tradition in Germany and also with like Carl Jaspers was at the
Universität Heidelberg, which is where I am.
So there's all these connections which you don't need to care about.
But what's important for this discussion is that Lucius brought together Du Bois and phenomenology.
And he did that through the work of Alfred Schutz.
He did this all the way back in his dissertation, which we talk about here.
Alfred Schutz was a phenomenologist who also brought some different threads together because
he brought the work of Edmund Hursl together with the work of Max Weber, or Max Weber,
you might know the name.
And this connects to other ideas like sense making, participatory sense making, relational
philosophy, process philosophy.
A lot of these are different turns of the kaleidoscope towards trying to understand
how we are part of one ongoing process.
We also have individual experiences.
Those are co-created by everything that we're interacting with, by what we call our social
environment or our ecological world.
And how do we understand this?
That it's just going on all the time, we're separate, but we're also never separate.
You probably remember some of these themes from discussions with Ezekiel DiPaolo and
Mariko and Hannah de Jager and Rebecca Todd, Shay Welch, Elena Kufari, Evan Thomson, for
sure.
So in different ways, a lot of these philosophers and neuroscientists and thinkers have been
trying to understand this, how we are first person.
We are having individual experience, coming into awareness of it, and also doing that
in a social, relational, ecological process.
And Lucius, in this discussion, discusses it from the angle of W. E. B. Du Bois and
the experience that he had when he wrote The Souls of Black Folk, for example, which he
wrote in 1903, by the way, where he was already reading all of this phenomenology, but also
Emerson and Hegel and the Phenomenology of Spirit.
And I find this phenomenology of double consciousness just so helpful.
I really hope that more can think about it in our academic work and write about it and
read Du Bois and also read Lucius Outlaw and his writing.
We don't want to lose narratives in that perspective.
And it also opens up other worlds if we can sit with it and try to understand it as part
of the life world that we're hoping to be able to expand enough to fill into, to understand
as connected to all of us.
So all that said, and that's a bit clumsy because, you know, I just talk when I turn
on the mic for these intros, because that's just this podcast, but this is also just a
difficult conversation because of where we are right now in terms of how we are able
to talk about these kinds of subjects.
It's hard also because his internet kept going out.
I think we talked for three hours and there were huge pauses and so much trouble with
the audio.
We actually had this conversation a year ago and it's taking me that long just to be able
to get through it and actually get it into a presentable enough audio form that I can
put it online and that you can actually listen to it.
So this has just been, you know, quite the challenge in so many different ways.
Also as you'll hear, just the subjects are really tough.
If you feel like you're ready, please do listen.
If you don't, that's okay.
I do hope you'll go look at W.E.B. Du Bois in double consciousness though.
Think about the philosophy of that and especially in relation to something like dialectic and
Hegel and other threads of phenomenology.
All of that we talk about here and Lucia said some really interesting things about Hegel,
for example.
Think about that word double consciousness, this doubling that is actually not a doubling
at all if we can begin to understand thinking and consciousness in a more kaleidoscopic
way.
That's a word I use a lot or as a constellation and this whole research channel is documenting
people who are trying to do that from different directions and different ways.
And this is another one, a very important one, I think, to bring in W.E.B.
Du Bois again, double consciousness, the work of the philosopher Lucius Outlaw, who you
will hear discuss here.
You will hear him discuss his work here, how that relates to Hercel, Merleau-Ponty and
Hegel.
I'll try to do some separate videos on all these different topics for those who are coming
to it new.
Don't worry if you've never heard any of these words.
I mean, this is just a little tiny corner of the universe.
There are many others, but the things we're trying to understand here and that all of
these people I've mentioned are trying to understand are how we are individuals and
part of the world at the same time and what that means and what consciousness is and how
we can live it more fully and more sensually and perhaps even begin to open up new worlds
for one another of love.
I hope and of care, which is where this conversation goes in the end, connecting to Martin Luther
King Jr. and that whole spirit of love that I feel we really need right now.
It's still here.
Don't be afraid to feel it and notice it and live out of it.
It's really needed and it's really part of us.
And it's really a wonderful way to live when you can live from love.
So it's not always easy, but it's worth the persistence.
Thanks for being here.
Hello Lou.
Good morning.
So good to see you.
Thank you for having me join you and the discussion.
So there's so much about your work I want to talk about as I was just telling you.
But I think to start, let's start in Mississippi in 1944.
I was born and grew up in a small town in Mississippi, which is sort of East Central
Mississippi.
It's about 16 miles south of Tupelo, Mississippi, 120 miles slightly northeast of the capital
of Jackson, Mississippi, in an area called the Golden Triumvirate as a state institution
at Mississippi State University, which was segregated at the time I was growing up.
The first new girl knowingly admitted was in summer of 1965 was actually one of my best
friends and classmates who integrated Mississippi State University in the summer.
I was an only child.
My mother said she prayed and made a promise to God and if he gave her a child she'd give
it back to him.
So as a consequence, I spent more time in the war, grew up in churches and I could have
spent the rest of my life thanks to my mother, which led to her making sure that I was in
a lot of churches for most of my life.
My mother did day work mostly in the homes of white families cleaning as a maid and my
father was the janitor of a large white Baptist church, the first Baptist church.
We were members of second Baptist church, which was what we call the color, a Negro
church in St. Andrew.
As I was growing up, of course you've got to be trained early on in the rules, the laws,
the unwritten law, norms and protocols of high altic racial segregation and order around
Negroes and white people, etc., superior art and inferior art and all of that.
So you grow up in that context and for a great deal of normal everyday life in a sort
of segregated world, interestingly, you might think that a racially segregated society has
really very sharp boundaries, physical boundaries between black folk and what we now say, black
folk, colored people, etc.
I was born on one side of town on one street and we moved when I was four years old.
It was on West Main Street, which is the West End Main Street in Stavrid.
If you would leave my house and go downtown, there would be a block of West Main, which
would intersect with Long Street.
On the other side of Long Street, that was a boulevard with a divider in the middle,
one way up and one way down, that was a block long.
That block was all white homes.
But when you got past that block, you would go down a hill, another block.
One half of that block to the right, there were white homes.
The other half of that block were colored homes and the next block on the right side
of that block was the back of the white Methodist church on the left side of that block, the
Methodist church and a couple of Negro businesses.
And then you were in the next block, there were all these businesses downtown.
But if you turned left into that block, it was the beginning of a whole colored neighborhood.
So my point is the proximity of white people together was you could walk across one street,
you're in a white neighborhood, across another street, you're in a colored neighborhood.
If I went to Long Street and turned right, all those houses to the next were white homes.
If I turned left, all those houses were colored homes.
I mean, so there were divisions by streets and et cetera.
It could be as subtle as one house here is white, the next house is common.
So it's kind of interesting, but as I grew up and was going to school, one of the striking
things is, okay, why are there different churches?
There's one God, everybody's chosen that, okay, right.
And so, you know, my father's working in this white church and I was working at that same
church cleaning the building where that served as a nursery school, et cetera.
You know, by the time I was older and in high school, having discussion with my father about
this, he would often say the church where he worked was pretty much filled on Sundays.
He took that as a kind of measure of the commitment to the faith of these white people, et cetera.
And they could, you know, you say, you know, both rural girls need to go to church.
You know, I'm the kind of white people who go to church and et cetera.
You know, I raised me sons there and I said, oh, well, they fill up the church on Sunday,
but they're going to call me nigger on Monday.
So I don't see why that's doing much good.
The church is saying, I'm still going to be called by many of them on Monday.
So who is this never convinced?
Yeah.
And, and of course that began to trouble him because most high school, he was like,
you know, I'm just going to get you in trouble.
I got in trouble in school for challenging the principal about something.
And the principal got really upset and sent me out of the office and called my father
over to the school and the assistant principal was a cuddle of my father.
And they called me down to the office.
And the issue had been when James Merida integrated to the University of Mississippi
was a big deal.
You know, there were federal groups brought in and et cetera.
And it happened over a weekend.
And actually studying back to where quite some white students in Spongfield were protesting
that imagine that we didn't miss it.
So they were marching through town, neighborhood protesting.
And we, my mother and I had been driving my mother to a church function.
It was coming back and we ran into them.
And at first I couldn't figure out why is there a parade on Sunday on the highway?
She was like, get out of here to turn around, quickly turn around.
So we had to take a different route home and got home and sign off.
But they were protesting.
Well, the next day in school, one of my classmates was the principal's granddaughter.
So she was arguing that, you know, we shouldn't have been going to the schools.
Negroes need to stay in their place.
And mine was my data-based access is a state school.
We shouldn't have so much right to go to the state school.
So she got really upset.
Went downstairs to the principal's office to her grandfather and told the man father
what I had said.
But we're sitting in this classroom.
The principal comes over into the car and do that.
Calling us and says, Mr. and Mrs.
are on your class.
Yes, Susan.
I come to the office and she looks at me and she's like, oh, Lucius, why can't you just
keep going?
I got to go down to the office with the principal and the principal.
I'm giving me a hard time with my father.
Oh, that's fine.
Just not having, you know, I simply would not back down.
And actually there was a maternal uncle who was the principal of the elementary school
at that time, who lived with us on weekdays and would go home to the country on weekends.
He was the principal of the middle school.
So he stayed with us doing weekdays while he was serving as president.
He went home to the country on weekends.
So I'm like, I'm going to get in my car and my mother was sort of in the living room
getting up on me about, you know, dealing with this explosive issue.
I just wasn't having it, you know.
And so my problem's like, you know, your mouse is going to get you in trouble.
So he's sort of a fear, you know, I was going to get into trouble.
He was always advising me to look at these political matters alone.
They wouldn't work that out.
You shouldn't be pushing it.
So I just never convinced about that strategy, though I sort of followed it in one sense.
That is, I didn't deliberately go around protesting doing things, but I was sort of
a rebel in my own mind and I just never accept that those terms were appropriate or should
be accepted.
That's interesting.
You were already philosophizing in a way, but it's interesting, too, because what you
said sounds like was the comment.
I mean, like it was just looking at things the way they are.
But your dad and mom, I gather, were worried that if you said like something like that
in the wrong context, you would be in a lot of danger.
So it was kind of a protective thing, right?
Not that the people didn't agree with you necessarily, but or do I misunderstand?
No, that's fine.
Remember, I am what they call, I'm a member of the Emmett Till generation.
So when Emmett Till was killed, supposedly for being first quarter of life long,
and conditioned my life wherever I learned to date.
Parents looked at you and didn't want that to happen to you.
So there was probably a huge amount of how do we protect our son?
In this world that's not fair at all.
Yeah.
So that was part of it.
One of the significant things that happened one day, I saw that I was downtown on Main Street,
and we were walking west of Main Street together.
There was an older white man on the sidewalk walking east.
He was walking directly towards.
He walked up to my father and moved over a boy in a white green pants.
And my father never raised his voice.
He just looked at him directly and said, I am not a boy.
You are not dismissing me in front of my son.
And the white man just sort of lowered his eyes and then stepped around my father and what all.
And my father never said anything to me about that encounter.
He never said a word to me about it.
And I witnessed it all.
We never discussed it.
I never, ever forgot it.
And I came to understand something about the nature of the man that my father was.
I mean, he wasn't going to get involved in protests.
He didn't want me to be involved in protests.
He was trying to figure out what words you might say.
For him, it was going to all get worked out in time.
He had a brother, for example, there were other black people who
left and went north because they thought life was going to be better in the north.
He had a brother who had done.
And his name was, I don't think there's anything special about them,
nor it's going to really get worked out in the south better than the way and involved.
And for him, he was a gradualist, right?
And he didn't believe in confrontation and stuff like that.
And in the meantime, he had developed a very, I mean, several things.
One is he was clear to himself about who he was and he was not going to be disrespected.
He accommodated certain kinds of things, but he was not going to accommodate disrespect,
but he wasn't going to be involved in protests.
So he was an interesting strategist about how he negotiated the entire situation.
I mean, he said to me once, he said, you know, son, what you've got to learn to do
is you've got to learn to handle the way people get in love.
You've got to learn to persuade them to do what you want to do.
And I watched him on a number of occasions do that.
I mean, there was a way in which he was shocking himself, like a new television.
A white person that he knew really well, he said, I've got to have a new TV.
And he said, okay.
He says, well, I can only pay so much for the TV.
And he's like, well, Lucius, I'm sorry.
Yeah.
I lost you again.
Lucius, I'm saying Lucius, that's the last thing I heard about the TV.
The business man would say, well, you know, Lucius, I'm sorry.
This is what it's cost me.
I probably was just quietly saying, yeah, I understand, but I can only pay some.
And he would sit there and continue this back and forth if it took two hours.
And eventually the white man would say, oh my God.
All right, Lucius.
Yes, you can have it for that price.
Well, thank you very much.
And then they had arranged for the delivery.
I mean, he would get what he needed, but he would definitely continue softly
gently to negotiate.
I'm sorry.
I can't do that.
I need a loan.
My son is going to college.
Got to have this mortgage.
I got a second mortgage.
I've got to have this loan.
Well, no, I can't pay that much.
Now here's what I can pay.
He would get the terms that he could meet.
And that was part of the way in which he worked.
And he was a bearer of how to respect it.
The other thing was he learned and I'd learned through him
and Harrison and I went back to Europe is that not all white people are the same.
The distinctions that I grew up with was they're good white people
and they're bad white people.
You need to know which ones are the good white people
because they can make a distance between life and death.
Which ones are bad, you should avoid.
We would say now, well, who are the white people that are really racist?
Who are the white people that are less racist?
Who are someone that were not really racist, et cetera.
You have to learn those distinctions about people
and develop relations and et cetera with them.
And that was something that I learned growing up.
But again, the whole thing didn't make sense.
So I went off to college, majoring in philosophy and religion
because I was really going to go to the ministry with myself.
So I'm over a year.
Finally reached the conclusion of religious stuff.
They weren't making an assessment with me
and I'm not doing a God day anymore.
Which made it to a real break with my mother.
Yeah, I was about to say, I bet your mom was not happy.
Oh, happy is not the word.
She was distraught.
I had written her a letter back
and I got one of those letters from her, sort of.
Dear, oh my God, oh my God, you know, sort of.
You know, metaphorically, still staying letters.
What are you doing?
Why don't I send you to a place with atheists and blah, blah, blah.
So I go home that at the end of that academic year
and one evening, I noticed she's dreading
when she gets dreaded to go out.
And there's nothing to do at night.
You know, there's no clubs.
Yeah, my father didn't go out drinking or anything like that.
And it's not Wednesday.
So it's not prayer meeting at church.
So where is she going?
She gets stressed and there's a knock at the door.
She goes to the door and opens it.
My father's not working in the yard
and she opens the door.
It's our minister.
She sort of steps out and says, there he is.
I'm sitting in the living room watching television.
The minister comes in and she leaves.
And I was thinking to myself, oh, damn it,
this is what this is about.
But he's not going to win this argument.
So the minister comes in and we talk.
I don't remember anything about what we talked about.
I don't remember anything from the conversation.
The only memory I have is my mother returns.
The minister gets up and starts to leave.
He gets to the door and he says, he's putting on his hat.
And he says to my mom on her way out the door,
that's not being good with the boy.
Leave him alone.
And he walks out the door.
Now there's a whole bunch in the background
about my relationship with this minister
and all of that in my life, blah, blah, blah.
But, you know, I had made up my mind.
And then, you know, my mother was still destroyed.
And one time I finally said to her,
I said, look, God and I have made a deal.
He doesn't mess with me.
I don't mess with him.
He's crying.
So I literally stayed away from home for about two years.
I just said, I'm going to deal with this.
I said to her, look, I'm going to live my life
on my own terms.
I'm never going to live my life on the basis
of a deal you made with God.
You don't make deals.
I'm going to live them on my terms.
You can't pray me in the helmet.
You can make the deal,
but I'm not going to live that deal.
This is my life.
Now, this time I'm studying philosophy.
I'd had a course in existential science.
It was interesting.
You're reading Sartre about freedom and et cetera,
talking with classmates about this.
And there was actually a classmate who said,
you don't have to do this religious stuff
if you don't want to.
And they're like, I can't.
I have things.
And they're like, no, you don't.
You can cheat us.
And I sort of had a breakdown in crime.
It's like, yeah, you're right.
I can't do this anymore.
I'm not doing this.
I hated it anyway.
I'm not doing this preaching stuff.
I can't do this.
I'm just not going to live my life.
I'm living it on my own terms.
Period.
Really not easy thing to come to.
I mean, all of us trying to what our parents want for us,
it can be hard to go against it,
but this is like really hard because your mom from,
sounds like from the beginning,
almost your health in her mind and your kind of,
it was almost like she was worried
if you didn't do what she'd promised God,
like she would fear for you or something.
And for her son.
Oh, wow.
So there's a whole bunch of stuff built into the seventh son business.
Whoa, yeah.
To deal with, right?
The seventh son, a gift from God.
Yeah, okay.
But I'm not going to play the God game anymore.
I'm out.
I'm taking myself out of there.
And so it was years later,
she was working at a local two-year college.
I was invited down to give a talk.
So my wife and I and our baby,
firstborn son and her first grandchild,
we go down and I give this talk
and we're back in her apartment later.
And we just sort of lounge around in the apartment,
said to me, she said,
you know, after listening to you tonight,
I realized there's a lot of different ways
you could minister out there.
And I said, yeah.
And by this time, I had dealt.
While I was at first, my freshman year,
one of the things that was happening in Nashville
was that the nonviolent, direct action,
steady end movement was still very much underway.
Now my parents, so Martin Luther King Jr.
came to the campus to speak one Sunday.
I'm at Nashville University.
Du Bois went, very famous place.
Yeah, Du Bois went there.
My sophomore year, I'm living in Du Bois Hall.
King comes to speak and the jail is packed.
I go here, Martin Luther King Jr.
There's demonstrations going on every day.
People are marching downtown, sitting in, et cetera.
My parents said, don't get involved in this.
It could be dangerous for you.
It could be dangerous for us.
And people are firing out bad gear.
We can lose our jobs, et cetera, et cetera.
This was early 60s, around 60.
I went to Fiske in 1960.
So this is a 63, 64 year.
So, you know, there was one day that classmates,
people in my dorm who were going out demonstrating,
get arrested.
The university would call and raise money,
get them out on bail.
They'd come back, taking showers,
singing freedom songs and going right back out on the street.
And one day I was standing on the sidewalk,
watching as they were marching off and I couldn't go.
And I was just sort of standing there crying.
And I just said, okay, if I can't be in the street now,
I can figure out how to devote my life to supporting this
and being a part of this in a different way.
And that's very powerful.
You said you could do it another way.
You could, that connects very well with what your mom
ended up eventually seeing too.
And the way you think about teaching.
And that was that moment, right?
Yeah, because I mean, there was kind of court
lessons of a couple of realizations.
So I'm living on this campus where a lot of faculty live.
This is an interracial faculty, international faculty.
It was a place where a number of persons who were European
and Jewish and escaping the Holocaust
came to the United States and joined us.
So my professor of German was a person
who was escaping from the Holocaust.
There were people from India on the faculty,
from the Caribbean, from Africa, from Europe,
white Americans, African-Americans,
people living on the campus, et cetera, et cetera.
So it was this really interesting little oasis
of integration in a racially segregated city and state.
But it was a private institution.
So it did things that a state-based,
historically black institution couldn't do.
So it was this really interesting place.
And again, what I looked at how faculty who taught there
but also lived on the campus and came,
you know, this isn't just a job.
This is a way of life.
And I was really intrigued by the intellectual life stuff,
which is why I started paying attention more
to academic philosophy.
Because I just found that intellectual very tricky.
I was trying to figure out how to make sense of this stuff.
So I was like, oh, maybe these are people
who make sense out of things.
I'm not stubborn in philosophy thing.
But I also want to become a college or university professor.
And so it was like, okay, then here's a way
in which I can take up this endeavor
of speaking justice and et cetera.
And I can do it perhaps as a teacher.
And so that sort of became my life commitment
by the time I was sophomore heading into junior year.
This is where I'm going.
That's beautiful.
Because it reminds me of your time at Haverford
where you were kind of living that life in a way.
But we'll get to that.
But I took you away from you were about to say
about Martin Luther King.
And I really want to hear about that.
So this is this time period at Fisk and he came to speak.
Yeah.
So he spoke in gym on a Sunday night.
And, you know, I'm there and it's a pet place.
I go back to my door.
I'm sitting around with friends.
Talking about, here's this historic figure already.
Because this is 1960s, early 1960s.
So someone started yelling out on the hallway.
Hey Lucius, at the time there was like one phone
on each hallway, a pay telephone.
So someone started yelling, hey Lucius.
The phone was ringing.
Somebody didn't answer the phone.
And so I said, hey Lucius, the phone for you is your mother.
OK.
So I go take the phone.
It's my mother who has heard, by the way,
of one of the very powerful radio stations in Nashville
or somewhere else, that Martin Luther King Jr.
has been in Nashville and spoken at Fisk University.
She was calling, don't you get involved in this.
So that was one of the complicating factors.
You know, that OK, I will not do what they say,
but I will make a commitment to figure out
how to do this differently and better.
And so that's what got me started down this road.
And of course, at some point, I don't remember what year,
you know, I read early stages of,
early chapters of, you know, The Souls of Black Folk
is one of the texts that anchors my dissertation.
By Du Bois.
So were your parents, did they talk about Du Bois?
That happened while I was in college.
Now the whole time I was in high school,
you know, I knew nothing about Du Bois in high school.
There was nothing bad.
Things that was happening,
like my mother was very active in church things.
And so she would do certain things like,
for example, the more one of the popular songs
that we would sing at church meetings,
you know, stuff was crumbly.
And so my mother would use that song,
church dramatizations, as how it was a coded message
that slaves would use to say,
hey, come back here, we're going to be over here
in the secret place, blah, blah.
So that, but there was little active
history and much stuff going on in my school.
I didn't learn the Negro National Anthem in school.
I basically learned it as my wife
when we would be taking a road trip.
We'd teach our sons the song.
And that's how I came to learn the song,
where she learned it in school.
We didn't learn it in school.
I mean, the principal just didn't allow
that kind of stuff to go on in our schools.
And so it was a very complete and interesting place.
So this was a very pivotal impactful place.
I mean, it set me off on a course of life.
I mean, it was a very demanding place, academic.
For example, I had a classmate who
go to boarding schools in New England.
They had no colored people with them.
The boarding schools, his father was a multimillionaire.
I think the old man wouldn't be a grown millionaire.
So here's his kid, father's a millionaire.
He'd gone to boarding schools in New England.
He'd had a sister graduated from Frisco.
His father, I think, may even have been
on the board of trustees or something like that.
So a very wealthy family.
After our first semester of our first year,
at the beginning of the second semester,
work was speculating that, hey,
did you hear about stolen toys or something like that?
What do you mean?
He's like, he's not here anymore.
What do you mean he's not here anymore?
It's like he punched out.
Punched out was the expression where he's failed.
So he's been expelled.
Father's a millionaire.
He went to boarding school.
His sister's a graduate.
And they have expelled him for academic forthcoming.
Okay.
My father's a janitor.
Never went to college.
My mother's a maid.
Never went to college.
We are not wealthy.
So the only way I'm going to stay at this
is I'm going to get my work done.
Got it.
So I busted my burnt.
I mean, for four years between Monday and Thursday,
I probably never went to bed before one,
two, or three o'clock in the morning.
I mean, I studied so hard because they would
put you out for academic reasons.
No apologies.
No questions.
No matter who your mother was,
who your father was, you didn't perform.
The joke among students was if you didn't perform
up to par academically,
the university would give you a coming book,
a banana, and a one-way bus ticket home.
So it was a very demanding place academically,
but intellectually very stimulating, right?
Very powerful teachers back in Hawaii.
And so I just got in.
Emma was in an academic intellectual life.
I was, became a participant in an honors program.
It was even more intensive and demanding.
And I was in classes with students,
particularly women who was just, oh, come on.
And I ended up having to develop a whole new appreciation
for women pretty and sexually attractive.
If that's the only way you approach it,
there was something to laugh in your face.
And they were like, you got to be kidding.
You know, rather than, what are you reading lately?
There's a whole take.
So it was a really, really interesting
environment to be in.
And so there was a whole kind of,
there became for me a kind,
competitiveness is not the right word,
but there were peers and upper-class persons,
and women and men.
I mean, the four years I was at Fisk,
the four years, women were president of the student government.
I mean, you know, so when I was back on the faculty,
it was like, oh, we got a female student government.
The first time, like, no, no, no, no, no.
That's not the first time.
Two of the four years I was here,
the student women were president of the school.
Lots of women, part of the reputation.
The first time I heard of this was from a young guy
who was studying in American Baptist seminary.
And I was talking about what I wanted about the school,
and I was thinking about going to our historical black institution,
to the A&I State University of Nashville.
And he said, well, you can't start a class in there,
but you can do it at this place called Fisk.
I was like, oh, and he says, and by the way,
they have the most beautiful black women in the world.
My first day on the cap was, I saw exactly what it meant.
And my first week there when upper-class women came in,
I went to the dining center to have dinner.
I was always on Sunday at midday.
And I was sitting in there,
and all these upper-class women started walking in.
At that time, there was a dress code.
So on Sundays, you had to dress up to go to dinner.
You couldn't wear jeans and shorts or whatever as a female
on Sundays that wasn't allowed.
And I was sitting there,
and these women were walking into that dining center.
I couldn't eat.
I had never went to anything like that.
This sounds like such a rich time,
and also within a really rich social and political time.
It's interesting thinking about what you said about your dad,
about that story you told of him having this kind of poise
and this way of being strong and committed.
And at the same time, I mean,
when did you start to be able to step back
and take perspective in that way?
I'm still trying to figure out how you even got to Fisk.
You just kind of said it a little bit,
but you already wanted to study philosophy,
but you were going to go for religion too.
So you were already kind of combining those.
But part of my commitment was,
I was not going to go to a Negro school in Mississippi.
That was out for me.
I simply wasn't going to do that.
I went out of Mississippi.
Okay.
And my father says he had recommended Morehouse,
but Morehouse was called male.
He said, I rejected it because I had said,
I don't remember this.
He said, I said, I'm not going to any school
that doesn't have girls in it.
When I get to Fisk, there was just this enormously powerful
place, you know, with this residential community,
teachers who care and teachers who were really demanding.
I mean, the institution was really demanding
and they made no apologies on it.
I mean, there was an operative sense
that Fisk was producing a talented tent.
I had an experience where my junior year,
I spent a semester away on exchange at Dartmouth College.
While I was there, I lived in the fraternity house.
Another interesting part of that story.
And near the end of my time there,
one day several of the guys in the fraternity
in the house came to me and said,
hey, you don't have to go back to Fisk.
We've talked to the dean.
You can get a scholarship to stay in Dartmouth.
You thought, what?
They're like, yeah, go see the dean.
So I go to the dean.
He says, yeah, if you want to stay,
there's a scholarship for you.
What?
That's an out.
About a year ago, I got an email message
from a person who said,
hi Lucius, you might not remember me.
You all called me Gus when we were at Dartmouth together.
I was one of the people who went to the dean
to ask the dean to get you a scholarship
to stay at Dartmouth.
That email was from Senator Angus King of Maine.
Wow.
What a life you had.
I mean, we haven't even gotten into it yet,
but all the people you ended up sort of encountering
as you got scholarships to different places,
the Moten Center and so on and so forth.
But Fisk is important because for people who don't like,
this is the 60s, everything is changing,
talking about consciousness and all this,
but you were kind of skeptical.
At least when I'm reading your work,
it sounds like you were doing really well in school.
I think you ended up becoming the president
of the student government and stuff,
but you were doing really well.
But you weren't fully taking part in all of these things
because of your parents, but also it sounded like
you were still trying to figure out
how you felt about all this kind of incredible change
that was happening.
So I come back from Dartmouth after the end
of the term in the first semester.
So I get back at the start of the second semester
at Fisk in the student union one day,
and the dean of students, a man, is coming,
and I go to him, and of course I knew him well.
Anyway, I said to him, Dean, I need to talk to you.
He was with another school official
who was head of financial aid.
I was on financial aid, so I knew him well too.
So I said, Dean, I need to talk to you.
He said, yes, Mr. Outlaw.
We're standing in the student union building.
And I said, I need to talk to you
because I'm thinking of transferring to Dartmouth.
The dean immediately turned and walked away from me
and walked out of the building.
Didn't say a word, just turned immediately
and walked away.
And the other official said, Lucius,
he's not going to talk to you here.
You better go to his office.
So I quickly walked out, followed the dean,
we go over to his, and, you know,
he urges me into his office and he sat down.
He closes the door and he sat down and he tells me,
what I remember is something like the following.
He looks at me and he says, young man,
we have been watching you.
We have expectations for you.
All right, what, what is he talking about?
We've been watching you.
We have expectations for you.
And he goes on to sort of say,
in a sense, there's a way in which I have already been
distinguished by him and other people as,
okay, keep our eyes on you.
We have expectations for you.
And he talks to me about this.
Something I never knew.
I had no idea about any of this, none whatsoever.
And he talked to me about that
and then eventually reached in his desk,
took out a forearm slated across the destiny
that I could use to withdraw from Fisk.
Conversation was over.
I took the forearm and left us all in prison.
He waited for Fisk.
Did that, what did that, what was that,
what happened in your experience?
And was it like, because we were talking
about the Talented Tenth, we were talking about,
you know, everything that's happening,
this moment on the street where you realize
you want to do something.
Was all that kind of coming together
in a different way after that?
I mean, you know, I spent a lot of time with him.
I really liked him.
But one thing to my darkness was all male.
And so I just found it such an off-putting experience to,
I mean, I just was not going to play the chorus.
And so I just found the whole situation
at Dartmouth unappealing.
So when I actually went back to Fisk from Dartmouth,
a handful of guys from Dartmouth who were white
and they hung out for a week.
And I said, and we'll be drove onto the campus.
There was a woman walking from one building to another
who was a friend.
We didn't date, but we were good friends.
Suddenly, suddenly beautiful.
Hey, I simply said to the guys, hey, Gavin, you see her?
That's why I'm back yesterday.
But I did think about trying to explain.
But then, you know, after the conversation with the dean
was like, no, I'm not, no, I'm not leaving.
So that was in the spring,
start of the winter separation of 1960.
That summer, I spent seven weeks with some other students
from Fisk in a special program in Scandinavia
where we were in Norway, Denmark, and Sweden.
And it was while we were in Denmark,
Jay's marriage was on a walk against spirit in Mississippi
where he was shot.
And when at the end of that march,
a lot of people joined in and they marched to Greenville,
Mississippi, where Stoke-La-Comme got up and gave the speech.
They said, well, we need much more black power.
Well, we're in Denmark.
I don't know what the hell black power is.
There was one guy in the group from Tuvalia, another HBCU,
who the whole six weeks we were traveling,
we got to be friends.
He was reading this one book that I'd never heard of
called The Wretched of the Earth.
And he said, you gotta read this book.
But when this whole black power thing broke in the news,
it was international news all over.
And we'd wake up in the morning saying,
okay, who's going to go into the local news
and get a copy of the Internationalist New York Times
so we can figure out what the hell's going on in the United States?
And this guy was a member of SNCC.
So he ended up on Danish television
explaining what black power meant
and explaining to us what black power meant.
So by the time we were back at Fisk in the fall of 1966,
which was my senior year, the black power thing has broken.
And so we're getting people coming to the campus
like Stokely Carmichael, Kathleen Cleaver, Spring Fisk.
Baraka, I think he still came, Mary Baraka, Leroy Johnson.
Yeah, there was an annual spring arts festival.
And so one of the people at Fisk was John Oliver Killings,
a very prominent black writer who taught writing.
But he had to bring in all these people,
anybody given by who was a black intellectual writer,
the young people, Gwendolyn Brooks,
Lerone Bennett, you name them, they were coming to Fisk.
And they would have these seminars and stuff
and these exhibitions and whatever.
And you were expected to go to me.
So for a week or more, this was happening.
And I'd go to this talk by Baraka.
And I'm sitting there and I'm like,
when that was over, I waited and went up to an appointment.
I said, you know, I came to Fisk as a colored man,
but I'm going to leave as a black man.
So this is in the spring of 1967.
So the whole black power thing is happening.
It is impacting Ken Fisk.
You may know of a black poet,
it's a woman named Nika Giovanni.
Nika Giovanni was a classmate.
And Nika and a bunch of students were petitioning
to have a chapter of stick on campus.
The administration didn't want a stick chapter.
I'm president of the student council.
The student handbook says any new student organization
has to be chartered by students.
The problem was nobody knew what it meant
to charter a new student organization
because it hadn't happened during our time at Fisk
and there were no guidelines.
So then the president said, well, we'll give you guidelines.
He and some board members wrote up guidelines
and called me to a meeting and said, here are your guidelines.
And the first was the organization must have
a stable national leadership.
Well, Stokely Carmichael was president of SNCC.
They weren't going to regard Stokely as a state.
I'm like, oh, no, I'm not going to discuss.
I had gotten elected.
When I was running for president,
I was classed as the radical
because I had called for a student strike.
And what was the issues of the strike?
Longer hours in library, better food in the dining center
and longer weekend hours for the girls.
And I had come from Dartmouth where
the radical thing for me was student power
because this was part of what was happening
with the anti-war movement.
The black power movement was sourcing around student power.
So that was my issue was, I became president.
I got elected calling for student power, right?
So when this issue about the SNCC chapter came up,
the SNCC people were politically miles ahead of me.
I was committed to student power.
They were actually for other kinds of power.
And so we were having this intense battle.
So they were pressing me for some things.
The administration is constantly containing that in another way.
So student government is in the middle.
So I'm in the middle between these two pressure points, right?
So one night we're having this meeting
and the people from SNCC come in
and beat us to death.
They call us lapids of the white trustees.
Just all kinds of derogatory stuff.
And I'm just worn out.
I'm trying to get them to chill
because I know the administration is trying to set them up
so they couldn't have a chapter.
I'm trying to say, look,
you've got to give us some space to figure this out
because they're trying to set you guys up
but I'm not going to go with it.
But you've got to give us a break
till we figure out how we can do this real well.
So one night after a long, risk-needed meeting,
we leave.
I walk out of the meeting room of standing in the hallway.
Nick and Giovanni, who's been in there calling us
everything but a child of God, walks up to me,
kisses me on the cheek and says,
we love you, it's okay.
And walks away.
Then I was just like, what the hell just happened?
Because I thought it was all personal.
And all she was saying was, it's not personal.
It's political.
We love you.
And I saw her years later,
and actually I got to introduce her at this,
about a year or two ago,
she was back to give a Ghibli day address
and asked me to introduce her.
And I began by saying,
it was the strangest kiss I ever had.
Nick was like, wait, it's disappointing.
So now you can have an understanding of
what the dissertation was about.
Well, actually, before we get to that,
because you mentioned, friends, Fanon already,
and you mentioned language.
Those are two important things.
And this change, like you yourself are thinking
you're going to become black in this way of language.
But we haven't talked really about
the problematic that you use there is Du Bois,
who we have talked about,
but this idea of double consciousness.
So were you reading Du Bois at this time?
I read the Souls of Blackwell, probably the prettiest.
Du Bois is a major figure at best.
I had a copy of the Souls of Black Folk,
and I had read it.
And I don't remember being particularly moved by it
in any particular sense at the time,
but by the time I get to graduate school,
so I'm in Boston from 60s to 70s.
Well, Boston is a major academic center
in the United States.
When I was in graduate school,
there was something calculated to be
like a quarter of a million students
in a 25 mile radius of downtown Boston.
So there were lots of political things happening.
And of course, my first year,
I'm there in the fall of 67 and the spring of 68.
I'm in a seminar with all graduate students
and professors talking about how we do teaching
and all the kinds of stuff as graduate fellows.
There's a break in the seminar.
There was a white woman who was a year or two ahead of me
comes rushing in and said,
Hey, Lou, did you hear us?
Did I hear what?
About Dr. King.
Now, what about Dr. King?
She said he was killed.
Well, I was the only white person in the graduate program.
And when she said that to me,
the only reaction I had was,
I've got to get out of here.
So I just got up and walked out.
I didn't say anything about it.
I just left.
I made my way back down to the central part of the lip
across the street from the Benecho Center.
And I was just lost.
I left.
I go back to where my apartment was down
near the Prudential Building.
I just go walking along the streets.
People are crying.
They're driving the sirens.
And I can't see her out with the makeup on.
It's killed Martin Luther King Jr.
And so this is a pretty turbulent period.
So my roommate in the apartment was actually one of my roommates
and best friends from Christ.
He was at Harvard Law School studying.
And this was the friend who had a conversation with us.
He said, Lord, you don't really have to do this religious preaching thing if you don't, Lord.
He was really influential and stuff.
So anyway, he had a bad bedroom with the one that overlooked the Prudential Building,
which at the time was the tallest building in Boston.
It was in the front bed.
So I'm in there reading for a seminar on satras being and nothingness.
And my roommate started saying,
Oh, roommate, roommate, come here, come here.
Right quick, right quick.
So I go running back to this bedroom.
And he points out the Prudential Building.
He says, let's go burn down the prune.
I said, roommate, you can't burn down the Prudential.
It's made of concrete to steel.
He says, that's not the point.
Let's go burn down the prune.
What the hell is wrong with this guy?
And he is a black guy from, you know, Hot Strings Orchestra,
studying law school.
Let's go burn down the Prudential Building.
I'm here thinking, how do I explain to my parents
that I'm in Boston getting a PhD, but I've been arrested
because I had a can of gasoline and matches
heading over to a concrete steel building
because I'm going to burn the damn thing down, which can't burn.
This makes no sense.
He kept saying, you don't understand.
You don't understand.
Let's go burn down the prune.
And I'm like, no, roommate, I don't know.
What the hell is wrong with you?
And he finally said, he's in Harvard.
He's in Harvard Law.
He's got this first background.
He's studying law.
And they are making clear to him at Harvard,
we're not interested in questions of social justice, period.
We're not interested.
Your job is to learn to take life of law.
Brief the case.
Tell us what the law says and all like that.
You can go somewhere else.
He's really frustrating.
So he's like, we need to go do something.
Let's go down there.
Yeah, I understand your frustration.
But trying to burn down the Prudential Building,
which can't burn, ain't a way to do it.
I'm not doing that.
He's like, you just don't feel like it.
And so I had to go figure out, well, what am I going to do?
I ended up joining an interracial organization,
working on stuff.
I became editor of that newsletter.
I had to sign out lists of what I was doing.
And then it was like, OK, what am I going to do in a dissertation?
And I chose this problematic that had to do with the call for Black power.
And I had been reading for now that chapter on the Negro and language.
And I sort of hit a bonus problem.
What is the call for Black consciousness all about?
And for me, it became perhaps here is a means by which to resolve this double consciousness.
That gift of language from Negro to Black,
the embracing of what had been a derogatory term
as a positive and talking about Black consciousness and self-consciousness.
In order to do that, you'd have to resolve what had been a negative duality,
separation between oneself and being able to get past her.
So the dissertation project became my way of contending with all of that intellectually
and setting myself a trajectory.
And when I posed it to the chair of the department, he just sort of looked at it and said,
you're going to be on your own.
They were accommodating me in an interesting way.
It was like, basically, let's not mess with you.
It was like, okay, you're going to be on your own.
And that was I found a professor who said, yeah, I'll supervise your dissertation.
He had no reading in any of it.
I had discovered that for just walking in a bookstore,
I saw a title called Phenomenology of the Social World.
And I was like, whoa, what the hell is this?
And they bought it.
One thing you were allowed to do in the graduate program was design reading courses on your own.
So I just set up, I designed my own reading course around reading shows.
Even when I left them with the Nashville to teach at first,
I would order my books from this bookstore called Mandrake because they have all these
titles from all around the world.
In particular, all this stuff from Phenomenology of the Social World.
The whole Northwestern University had the whole series in Phenomenology of the Social World.
Cain had a series of them.
So I happened to see these books.
And so I started writing these books by Schutz.
And I just designed a reading program.
And this professor agreed to advise me who became my dissertation advisor.
But he knew nothing about any of it.
He was learning with me.
And he later on started teaching Schutz along this plot.
I started reading Schutz.
And then, for example, one of the other resources that came along was Joachim and me.
And so the whole notion of how you socialize children, etc.
I wanted to try to figure out how to bring together into a coherent project.
And became the dissertation.
Well, you had already, you mentioned German before that you had some German classes.
And I think I remember reading somewhere that you had a really good teacher in Hegel.
And I remember also that you got turned on to Marcuse and the Frankfurt School at some point.
Because I think someone dragged you to a lecture.
You didn't even know what you were going to.
And it was Marcuse.
Maybe that was at Boston College, too.
Yeah, that was at BC.
The first day I got to Boston College, another graduate,
Coach Ty had to paint the whole persona.
I was introducing him.
He took me over to the egotistical cafeteria stuff to meet some other graduate students
who were actually in my cohort.
So there were at least two other white guys.
Now, one of the white guys had graduated from Vanderbilt University in Nashville.
I didn't know him.
He was from Little Rock, Arkansas.
White.
He was dating a black woman at Fisk whom I knew.
I had just tried to date her.
And she said, I'm already seeing somebody else.
And then she said, you're going to Boston College.
My boyfriend is going.
Make sure you meet him.
I was like, OK.
Did I get that at first date?
That was him.
Then there was another white guy who had long hair and a beard.
At Boston College at the time was male-owned school.
Went to work in the School of Nursing or the School of Education,
but not in the College of Arts and Sciences.
And all the young men in the College of Arts and Sciences
had to wear coats and ties to school.
I walked up to this camper in the summer.
I've been on a button-down short-sleeved shirt.
I'm down the camera because I'm into photography.
And I see all these young white boys running around in coats and ties.
I'm like, what the hell is this?
And I'm like, I've known the wrong campers.
Because this is nothing like I had imagined being.
So to get to the snowboard and meet these two white guys and the woman
with the long hair, he's from going to school in California.
He was from Oregon.
He's dating a woman whose family is from South America.
And he's having a stroke with his beard.
And he's like, this is such a weird damn place.
And I'm like, yeah, but it can't be.
We are good friends to this day.
And that's why the three of us, all of us got married within a year or so.
We became a very, very tight group of people, et cetera.
A good first meeting then.
Lucky you.
A guy from Oregon picked up on school in California near San Francisco.
So I think he wondered, hey, I'm going to hear this lecture done at BC.
So I go to this room, this standing room only.
And this old guy comes up to the podium and starts giving this lecture.
And it was riveting.
And I'm like, who are they?
How is this?
And he's like, it's Herbert MacLeod, right?
I'm in a seminar on Hegel with Jacques de Menio from Louré.
And what he did, we had the barely translation of the cardiology.
And he would have us, one of us read a paragraph or so.
And then he would explicate it.
A German edition he had, a French edition.
And he would explicate paragraph by paragraph by paragraph by paragraph.
That was the seminar.
So you learned that kind of movement.
I bring it up for a reason, because I feel like in your dissertation,
and the doubling, double consciousness, the way you bring Fanon in,
I'm interested in your understanding of this dialectical pattern or whatever, too,
and how that might have been important in your thinking.
Also with the Frankfurt School, because Marcuse was your intro into that,
but you ended up, we can talk about it later another time,
but that Frankfurt School group, even meeting Habermas,
and there's a lot of this pattern of this dialectical kind of reconciliation,
I guess, is what I'm wondering about.
You kind of started learning that maybe in that Hegel class?
Oh, the Hegel class was very, very influential.
I mean, I tell people, if you read Hegel, you may not read with Hegel,
but you would not be able to think in a way you did before you read Hegel.
If you really begin to understand, if you can, if you, I used to say to students,
reading Marcuse or reading Hegel, it's like learning to dance,
make love with a partner for the first time.
It's really kind of awkward at first, because you don't,
your bodies are not coordinated.
I'm asking, it's like when you kiss about it for the first time, it's awkward.
You don't know who's going to send the head which way, your bum noses,
but after you dance with somebody with a partner for a long time,
you begin to know body moves, their rhythm,
how they coordinate their rhythms with your rhythms, et cetera, et cetera.
And I said, to me, learning to understand someone like Hegel,
it's like learning to dance with a partner.
You got to learn the rhythm of his thinking.
How does he structure his sentences?
How does he organize a paragraph?
What's the rhythm of the logic in what he's saying?
And once you get it, to me, it's really easy reading.
I mean, once you understand the rhythm of the logic and how it folds.
I mean, I've always thought the same about Hegel,
that you're almost learning more of a new kind of movement or calibration,
or you talk a lot about praxis and practice and action and thought.
And there is something about if you can read Hegel from a certain way,
you learn a new thought movement.
It's not necessarily about what he says.
I totally don't agree with all this junk he talks about in terms of history,
but it's more the movement that you learn this movement, right?
Which I'd also sense in other writers, not just Hegel,
and I think it's in your dissertation, too.
You're doing something of that movement.
But yeah, I'm so glad you said that,
because I think that's a really important distinction
that I don't really ever hear made.
Yeah, I mean, and I try to tell students, every writer has a rhythm.
So you said about learning, you know, that's why I always say to students,
your press responsibility is always to give the writer his or her say,
not to judge them, but to give.
You've got to let them lead the dance.
You've got to learn how to get in step, get in sync with the rhythm of their moves.
If not, then you're violating a fundamental ethical principle of hermeneutic justice
and patience and generosity.
Give the writer his or her say.
Learn to dance with them.
Learn how to get his steps.
Not agreeing or disagreeing is you've got to give them their say.
Open yourself up to them.
Now, if they can persuade you to dance,
now you could really love dancing, saying, but I don't want to marry you.
I enjoy dancing with you.
I go to sleep with you every night.
One time, I don't need to do this again.
You know, you shake you for the person that you are.
And once I began to get that rhythm, and I had this conversation with Tumino when I was
taking the Hegel seminar, because I'm trying to understand the US, how can Hegel get me
understand you first?
I mean, now, I mean, originally I had gone to be thinking I was going to focus on analytics
also.
We've got all this anti-war, like how all this stuff going on.
I'm sitting around analyzing sentences or writing.
No, this makes no sense.
I need another strategy.
So I'm reading Hegel and trying to understand how can it get me understand
my situation, the US, et cetera, the life I've had.
I'm trying to continue with this race stuff.
And so I have a one-on-one with Tumino, and we start talking.
He says, yes, you know, the United States has a lot of negativity, but there's no
real appreciation for negation.
And it helped me to appreciate Hegel in a particularly good kind of way.
Then when I started reading Marcuse, in particular, as you read in one of his
texts, there's an introduction to one of the texts called A Note on Dialect.
It's a really interesting way of accounting for dialectical thinking and logic within
the context of Hegel.
And he has this whole thing about that if you read Hegel, you're just shot through
with historic grounding and implications.
It's not just speculative, abstract stuff.
So that was helpful.
All of those are sort of resources that I'm trying to drop on and put to work in a
particular way.
One of the other really significant happenings while I was in graduate school is
this person comes to campus to speak, being given by a man named Harold Cruz.
Harold Cruz published this book called The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual.
Now, there were two kind of seminal moments with me in graduate school.
I went to a bookstore in Cambridge one night, browsing, and I see on the stand a
journal called The Black Scholar.
And I was just stunned by those two words being together in a way I had never seen
before.
Scholar and black.
And put those two things together.
Now, I remember I'm still working through this whole unconscious system.
Cruz gives this talk based on his book, The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual.
I read the book and there's a deep critique going on about Negro intellectuals.
Well, already the Black Power movement has a distinction between being Negro and
being Black.
One is negative and one is positive.
I'm reading through this and saying by Cruz, there's a whole tradition of Negro
people being intellectually applied in different kinds of ways.
So while that is problematic, you need to be taken a different kind of way.
Oh, wow.
There's a whole new agenda.
There's this new journal called The Black Scholar.
Well, and in fact, one of the founders of that journal, I just got to notice, died a
couple of days ago, Nathan Hare.
So there's a whole, he's the head of the first Black Studies program in California.
I mean, all these influences are happening at this fertile time in my life.
And now I've got a whole new notion of what it might mean to be an intellectual.
I couldn't get with the notion of a scholar.
I was planning to be a college teacher.
I wasn't thinking about scholarship.
But I see a possibility in this notion of being an intellectual, which fits with me
because I like the intellectual stuff.
What might it mean to be an intellectual who is blind, committed to social justice
and having to make conditions better for black folk and white folk in the United
States and having an international strict process.
And it kind of washed off.
I mean, all this, how might I bring all this together?
And so the dissertation became that kind of project of I think there's a way I
can bring this all together.
So yeah, it was like, you call it a kind of hermeneutics of the transformation of
consciousness, or at least that's how I'm thinking of it.
Then that's why it came to me.
So I think we have to pause for just a second, though, because this will be
probably a little bit wrong and you can correct me.
But here's kind of how I'm thinking of all this to try to thread these things
together.
I know a lot of listeners will know some of this and not other parts like Hegel
maybe or not this.
So okay, we were talking about your consciousness situated, nested in time
period.
And there were many kinds of ways we could have thought about your
consciousness.
But in a way, we've been talking about a transformation of consciousness in a
sense.
And then we were also talking about the philosophical part of that.
And we talked about this feeling of this kind of dialectic of things doubling,
like double consciousness in Du Bois.
Or when we think of Marcuse and Hegel, this dialectical movement that two
seeming opposites are kind of recognizing one another and in so doing opening a
different path so that it wasn't really opposites, but there's some kind of
movement there or patterning that's a doubling.
In a similar way to Du Bois, in terms of setting something against itself or
having to in maybe the way you did as a child looking across the street and
there's a white church and there's a black church and it doesn't make a lot of
sense.
And there's a kind of doubling there or the way Du Bois talks about it of the
black experience where you have no choice but to realize that where the
white people don't have to really realize that.
But so there's all these themes, right, that I see as connected.
And I guess what I'm trying to get at now is you were just talking about
Negro and black and that too has a history, right?
There's a time when those words are in this dynamical process of changing and
you're kind of noticing that changing and it's tied to the transformation and
this becomes part of your dissertation.
But I think for people who don't because, you know, you could start at different
points in history and those words are going to mean different things and
they're going to be for the people using them meaning different things.
But as you show in your dissertation, this is part of this reconciliation
process that's going on and maybe even part of how we're going to continue
resolving a lot of things that bother us.
But before we can really look at that, can you help people understand these two
words?
Like they weren't necessarily always opposites, right?
Or were they?
Or what was going on there?
I'm a little worried people won't really understand or maybe that I don't even
really understand how that was when you saw black scholar.
Yeah, I don't know.
What was that movement?
Well, think about it this way.
So as a kid growing up, if you really wanted to assault another kid verbally,
one of the ways was to call them black because all their connotations were
really very negative.
Dirty, thinky, inferior, you name.
Right.
And remember, we weren't really Du Bois as the souls of black folk in Star
of Remembrance.
So black was always a negative connotation.
So part of the work of a lot of the young folk on SNCC and in what became
the Black Consciousness Movement drawing off of their readings of unknown,
the Negro in language, et cetera, et cetera, was as one scholar later,
was to reverse the symbolic weightings of key terms.
Take a negative and turn it into a positive.
So think of how we now might orient ourselves to the term queer.
It used to be an act, but people took it, reinvested it with meaning and gave it a
new positive significance rather than an invidious significance.
And so that's what began to happen with what was called the Black Consciousness
Muse.
Take the term black and instead of taking it as a weapon or taking of it as a
negative, rather, I'm black and I'm proud.
That in the language of self-reference was psychologically very wrenching.
It took a lot of time, effort, and work to go from a negative to a positive with
these key terms.
And that's why I was focusing on it by saying there's an awful lot happening
in going from Negro to black.
It will give us an entree into some larger cultural political happenings
in the life of black people.
So much is about language and I'm in some ways working on that still now,
but I'm dealing with Ralph Ellison and reading Kenneth Burke and language and
similar, a whole bunch of other stuff going on right now.
But that was the insight that was the enterprise that I was committing myself
to.
But it also led me further into Franklin School and down to critical social
theory with me.
And at some point, sort of pretty much exhausting my time with that.
Well, sad and Oakley Habermas, I've had enough.
Let me go for queer hills.
This is really, really important, I think.
And I want to try to talk about it a little bit because like you were saying,
this is a whole lot of work.
All this, we're only talking a couple hours here, but all this change of the stance or
being able to turn the positive into a negative.
I mean, it's a kind of internal, it requires something like the person, many people
like nested, you know, the individuals, but also these groups becoming aware, first of
all, of the situation in terms of, I guess, what we would say Dubois is talking about
with the double consciousness.
So you're already, you're already aware of it.
If you're the person who's being, I guess, if you're in a particular context, then you
have to be aware that you're being seen in a certain way.
But then you kind of become aware, as you did, in a way that this doesn't make sense.
And then you begin to, it's almost like an Akito or a Tai Chi or some kind of, in the same way
we were talking about with the Hegelian movement, you're noticing that energy becoming present
to it, and then you're taking it as your own, in a sense, or like owning it and in so doing
changing this whole dynamic between whoever was using that term in a negative way.
So this long process of what we were talking about with consciousness, right?
I think there's like consciousness raising is this kind of phrase that you use sometimes
or transforming consciousness.
In a way, do you see this kind of praxis of becoming aware of something that's happening
and, I guess, owning that and then redefining that and not always consciously, but sometimes
consciously?
Is that part of all this?
Yeah, one thing we've got to talk about Golden Gate Hallison.
So I went to Hamilton for the night in 1930 to visit for a year.
I moved away 21 years later.
Now, accepting an invitation to go to Hamilton for a year was a very, very, very wrenching
experience.
A very difficult experience because I had been committed to working in HBCUs.
I wanted to be in historical backgrounds.
I wanted to be in the cell, et cetera, et cetera.
So now, for a whole bunch of reasons, I'd leave Feresca, go to Morgan State and other
historical backgrounds.
I wasn't working with a family as a state institution.
So I get invited to go to this predominantly white institution.
What a thing.
I've been interviewed at other predominantly white institutions.
I think you'd even been offered you could stay at Boston College and you'd said no
because it goes back to that moment on the street of that was the part you were going
to play at that time.
And so now I've got this, I'm too devoted and I'm really torn.
So I go talk to one of my friends at Morgan State who's still my current friend to this
day.
And I start telling him how agonizing about this possibility.
I'm turning my back on my people.
He looks at me and he says, no, you're not.
He says, we know who you are.
You're going to be fine.
Go to Hamilton.
We know who you are.
You're going to be fine.
It's okay.
Oh, and I was like, God, he just sort of took this rock of guilt.
What a gift.
Yeah.
I go to Hamilton and then I come to another realization.
Okay, if some of us who are involved in eschatology and black studies, we've been critical of
the way the literature has been canonized and the histories have been written, how racism
is played and the writing of histories, the building of disabilities and all of this,
I come to this realization, well, so I'm at Hamilton.
And to this realization, if all of our critiques of the way in which canons, histories have
constructed under the auspices of white racial supremacy and all of that,
I want correctives to that.
Part of that corrective has got to mean that successive generations of white children are
going to be taught in ways different from the way in which they've been taught.
So initially, I was guilt-ridden about going to Hamilton.
I came to the realization, well, wait a minute.
White young people in college need a me as much as some black students need a me.
Because if we're going to disrupt the cross-generational perpetuation
of white supremacy, one of the ways we are going to do it is by educating
new generations of young white people.
So there's important work for me to do here.
And so I spent the next 40 years working in redemptive white institutions.
And one of the essays I wrote for a particular volume, the title of it is
The Rehabilitation of Whiteness Questionable.
So in the rest of it, a prominent sort of movement at one point called
the abolition of whiteness, led by a broad, a white, liberal Congress in the United States,
cruel Risman, I again, the way people saw the racial problem is getting rid of the notion of
whiteness, the abolition of whiteness.
Now, I find that a deeply problematic notion for all kinds of reasons.
But simply put, if white folk could take the notion of blackness and rehabilitate it from
a negative to a positive, why would that conclude that the same thing can't be done
with the notion of whiteness?
There's nothing inherent in the notion of whiteness that requires white supremacy or
invidious notions of whiteness or blackness.
It's a term.
We invest the term, we give the terms meaning.
So what would we have whiteness mean?
That's really up to us.
And so when I reflect upon how black folk rework the meaning of blackness,
I say white folk can rework the meaning of whiteness, have it come to mean something
completely different from white supremacy and all of that.
There's nothing inherent in the notion of whiteness.
So I invite whiteness, well, tell me how to do it.
No, no, no, no, no.
That's not my job.
It's not my job to tell you what whiteness should mean for you.
That's your word.
I didn't have you tell me what whiteness has to mean for me.
I can work that out.
Inviting you, I will support you taking up the really hard work against the brain of
centuries of wanting out a new notion of whiteness that has nothing to do with
white supremacy and racism.
Nothing.
Now, I don't find that strange at all since I've known white folk who are not committed
to notions of white supremacy or racism.
So that's nothing serious about it.
They've always been white folk who thought of themselves different.
In your thesis, you talk about in the dissertation or in other writings, you discussed
this that we need to understand this, the double consciousness is like this
transformation of consciousness, the self-consciousness of black folks, I think you
say, and this consciousness raising and all of this.
I feel like we all need to understand that, white or black or whoever, right?
And that maybe is part of what you're saying now about like, I wonder if this pattern that
you describe, because in the dissertation, it's pretty much a way to reconfigure these
praxis of social cultural meaning and praxis, right?
The life world.
We don't have a lot of time to talk about the phenomenology, but it's really
you're really talking about lived experience, a transformation of lived experience, which is
coming about through symbols.
So you can't really ever symbolize fully this world.
But language, with language, we can have this third space where we can
externally represent and discuss all of this process.
And through reconfigurations there, like the one that you describe with the actual language,
what happens there, it's a shift of power and of meaning.
It's a reconfiguring meaning and it's reconfiguring practice.
And it's reconfiguring it for all parts because it's the process.
And I feel like that can be nested, right, into what you're saying with other groups
of people and people who haven't had to engage in it in the way that black folks have and
the way that Du Bois was writing about with the double consciousness.
That's a specific experience of black people in America.
But I feel like the pattern of it is what you're describing in the dissertation a bit
and also what other groups could do.
Of course, as a group, it's always we're representing something that's an ongoing
process and has many different ways of being looked at.
But I guess what I feel like I'm trying to get at is that we all can learn from this
double consciousness in a way that could help reconfigure meanings and practices of
our shared life world in ways that I think you're getting at in terms of what whiteness needs to be
concerned with.
Does that make sense at all?
Sure.
So part of what I'm having to prepare for now, a couple of weeks ago, a person who came,
a very historic figure, had the good fortune of becoming good friends with my wife and
becoming a major influence in my life, a man named the Reverend James Morris Lawson Jr.
Does that name ring a bell?
Describe from your perspective.
He died a couple of weeks ago.
A huge person who taught direct action civil disobedience to John Morris and Diane
Mashin over to very young people in Nashville in the late 50s.
So he had been at Vanderbilt, he got expelled.
In a way, I was involved in bringing him back to Nashville as a distinguished
professor, visiting professor for several years when I was an associate crew.
So we could be good friends.
Well, he died a couple of weeks ago, but he had specified instructions for his field
service that I'd be investing in for marks and his field service.
So I will be doing that in LA on July 6th.
But one of the things that I am trying to figure out how to work into this is a conception
that I've come to.
I had a conversation once, I called him and said, I'm trying to figure out
what it means to try to be involved in the situation in the Middle East involving
Israelis and Palestinians, right?
How might a movement of the kind you with their significant hand
in Nashville or in the country and Memphis and LA and other places, how might that take place?
So we talked a bit about it.
So one of the things I came upon, and I shared with a couple of former students,
when I was at Harvard, it was a period where I had three advisees in the same class who went
with philosophy majors, and they were the ten good friends.
One of them an African American woman, one was a Jewish woman, one was a Palestinian.
Good friends, and I'm their advise.
So they were very special.
I always said to them, you are my vision for the possibilities of the future.
So recently I was talking to the Palestinian woman and the African American woman,
there's been some tension in the relationships involved.
I had been thinking about this and I said to the Palestinian woman
that as for my generation, part of the battle took place, if you will, only to write of language.
The transformation of black from a negative to a positive.
So for me, there's part of the battle for the future of a just situation in the Middle East.
It's also going to have to be on the terrain of battle.
And what I'm getting at is over an expression of a vision for what can happen in that region.
So did feminists, so did queer, lesbian, bisexual, trans, gay, et cetera.
People had to invest all of that with new positive means.
So now we have Pride Week.
We speak of queer studies in universities when it used to be an effort.
And the battle on the terrain of language, that is a way of being able to envision and give
expression to new visions by which we can order our lives and move forward together.
It's part of what I think has to be done in that region of the world.
And to me, part of what I will be offering in that region, the reverend was one of the
greatest gifts ever to the history of this country.
Because here's a person, I said, if you look at the United States Captain and 11, they declare a
war. If you look at what happens in Israel after October, they declare war.
And in both cases, the nations felt themselves just in her.
If you look at what happened to African people and mid-ascenders,
millions of people were enslaved, millions died, millions were oppressed, et cetera.
However, it has never been the case that black people have taken that as a justification for
declaring war on white people.
I find that utterly amazing.
Instead, you have a movement grounded in laws.
That, to me, is utterly astounding.
And I think that's a tremendous gift to the United States.
I've read where you talk about there are no real categories, but we need to make categories.
So in the same way that there's this map territory thing in a way.
So you have this ongoing life-world process where there's actually no distinctions.
Everything is alive and changing all the time and changing each other.
But when it comes to language already, we are making distinctions.
And language is the place where you're going to change that process, in a sense, even though
the language itself is never fully representing that process.
It's representing it, but it's not the territory.
It's a map of the territory.
But I hear you saying, actually, the way we change the maps changes the territory.
So it matters how we change the map.
It matters how we change the language.
And what you're just saying is powerful, too.
But I think also it matters from what perspective the agency is being given.
Like, depending on where you're using those words or where you're listening to what you
just said about them, they're going to be interpreted in a different way because the
map isn't the territory, right?
So your meaning behind that, the way you actually mean it, might be being interpreted
a completely different way if someone's using a different map, so to speak.
And same that happened, I think, a lot with the struggles we've been talking about in
You Know Better Than Me, where your dad knew how to use the language to get what he wanted,
in a sense, because he had to learn that.
That's a different perspective than the white person who didn't get any of that.
So I guess what I'm trying to say is, doesn't it get really complicated in terms of that
there's so many different ways of using the same symbols, such that sometimes we think
we're talking about the same thing or expressing the same thing and we're not,
or that someone might hear what you just said and hear it from actually through a
completely different map than the one you mean it by?
Isn't that a complication, too?
And how does that get worked out?
Making a commitment to working it out rather than shooting it or
in a following simple kind of way.
I hear what you're saying, what do you mean?
Here's what I thought you meant, is that what you meant, you play it back, and I say,
no, that just what I said is not my meant or intended, so let's talk this through.
We call it dialogue, right?
Now, a dialogue, in order to be effective and have the potential for sessions,
they're going to be ethically structured.
There's got to be some norms that structure dialogue, like fundamental respect for the
participants in the dialogue, listening, asking questions prior to rendering final judgments,
being open to the possibility of changing oneself.
Well, you said something, yeah, but I thought you meant, no, no, that's not what I mean.
Oh, but I understand what you thought, but here's what, oh, I misspoke, oh, I missheard.
Okay, well, let's try it again, right?
That process is crucial to having a stable, viable community, or what do we mean?
It's such as we call it, democracy.
But there's a whole bunch of philosophical politics, ethics, et cetera, that has to
undergird democratic praxis, has to, if you want to have it.
And one has to be committed to, one has to give up on the same kind of epistemological
commitments, namely, truth is going to come by the way of a method I have worked out that
guarantees me successful acquisition of truth.
And I've got the right methods of doing so.
What is going to be truthful and best for all of us is what's going to come out of
our ideological engagement with what the issues are, what the desires and wishes are,
that we work out between and amongst ourselves in a way that serves all of us as well as we can,
given what we're working with.
And then we have to continue to work at that, continue to work at that.
And each of us has to be prepared.
Now, the other thing is, there's another whole discussion we have in there.
So much of what I've been given over to over the last couple of decades, growing out of focusing
up on the notion of race, and this has to do very much with Du Bois, is to work out
for my own understanding, what was Du Bois' sense of human evolution?
I am convinced he was an evolutionist,
that his notion about raciality, racial groupings was not a receptionist notion,
that he was an evolutionist.
If I stand with looking at human species, there is no way I know how to make sense of
the evolutionary history of homo sapiens without having an account of groupings.
It reminds me of the way you talk about symbols and language in the dissertation.
This theme kind of continues on where there's a distinction to be made between the language
and the symbol area, the map, I would call it, and the territory, which is the process,
the ongoing dynamic, ever-changing, all of it, where of course there's no categories,
there's no real such thing as a species because it's all always changing and moving.
There's no, all these terms we use, of course, in that language,
in that life world or process, it's all dynamic and always changing.
However, to be alive, to communicate, to have anything like a language,
or symbols, or science, or philosophy, we do use categories.
We do need categories.
Yeah, I mean, Claude, what I'm drawn to know is that I'm convinced about is that
our species is first and foremost a social species.
No group has all of that knowledge resource to solve all of the problems that come up in this world.
One of the things you need is new information.
How do you solve certain kinds of problems?
If you survey the world and see how people who differently have come up with similar problems
and figured out how to resolve their problems, you enhance the well-being of all.
Take away that diversity, take away that adaptability.
All you need is a new problem for which we don't have a ready answer,
and the game is going to be over.
You eliminate the adaptiveness, game over.
So the openness and learning, being able to encounter the new and the different,
to run the assessment without having to say,
you're not like me, therefore I've got to condemn you,
rather than saying, oh, what's that new dish you're creating?
Can I taste it?
Oh, wow, what's in this?
What is its properties?
How might this be helpful, et cetera?
Those are the keys to the viability of our species.
That's the insight that I think that Du Bois grasps really, really well.
Yeah, well said.
Do you think that double consciousness is part of it?
Is that an old term, or can we keep using that doubling to better understand this process?
What he described as double consciousness was a problematic state.
So he wasn't recommending doubling.
It was a particular kind of situation.
What he was opting for was a resolution of what had become a troubling split.
I feel like that's what I was trying to get at with this dialectic or this pattern,
that the reality isn't that troubling split, but somehow through this recognition
that we've seen it wrongly or that we've seen it differently,
we've seen it differently, then another path opens up.
It doesn't mean we need that, but maybe there's other ways in which we can
get to a place of transformation by noticing that we've doubled, I guess, or that we're seeing
that we have this double consciousness of that others have it even.
Maybe it's because I feel like this theme applies to a lot of either or situations
that end up becoming incredibly destructive and painful for different groups.
It's not the same as the Black American experience and the way that Du Bois describes it,
but you brought up the queer experience, for example,
and I think there's a double consciousness there.
Or maybe there's a way in which this pattern we can notice is happening in a lot of different
places in different ways, not to say that it's all exactly the same way, but I guess that's more
what I mean. Part of what I'm trying to learn to appreciate in writing and teaching to appreciate
is how do we contend with that which differs?
Part of what I'm trying to work through is an appreciation for, if you will, the evolutionary
growing up of difference and diversity, and how in some ways that is
a key to adaptive success if understood and taken up in appropriate kinds of ways.
Exactly. Just as you show in your dissertation in that sense of it looks like a negative,
but if you take it in a different way and make it a positive,
it's almost like right now we think difference strikes us as something bad or that we need to
be afraid of or that we need to resolve, when instead it's like a portal into a transformation,
to put it in kind of terms, a transformation of consciousness that ends up affecting both sides.
It's a different way of thinking about all of that that I feel like the world really needs right
now. Part of it is to let go of the fears that motivate us to try to mobilize resources to
eliminate differences and establish what we take to be the safety of homogeneity.
And I'm trying ... There are dangers in homogeneity. That homogeneity needs to be tempered
by new information that is heterogeneity.
That homogeneity can easily lead to stasis and render us, individual or group of people,
or living being, render them maladaptive because the homogeneity is built upon a
certain amount of information, but that information can easily become maladaptive
in a dynamic world. Our universe is not a frozen stasis. It's dynamic.
There is no homogeneity. If there was, we wouldn't be here in another way to say it.
So how do we continue, but how we take up differences for growth and transformation?
Right. Maybe noticing the patterns and appreciating the patterns without thinking they
have to be corresponding to some specific substance in some specific thing. I mean,
that's that map territory thing. But also, I have to bring up this word love here because
this is love and philosophy, and we're talking about all this. I don't know about love in Du
Bois, but I think what we're trying to describe right now is a kind of ... It does put you into
a place of love. I mean, you've been with your wife, you said 50 years, I think,
and you were talking about ... Yeah, 54 on the way to 55.
Okay. So you must know something about seeing things from a different position or ... Yeah,
I don't know. Okay, if I bring up that word love, what is that? How do you see that in
this process that we're talking about? I mean, think about it. So this was a central
concern for Martin Luther King, the movement for revolution, et cetera. And King said,
look, I'm not talking about erotic love, I'm talking about agape love.
So part of it is getting worked out. What do we mean by love?
Part of it in that movement was there was a care for the rescue of white people from their racism,
as well as for the rescue of Negro people from the racism of white people.
That both things needed to happen. That you needed to be caring for the well-being
of white people beyond racism, as you can for black people in rescuing them from racism.
That everybody needed to be loved. That love was going to be key to helping
everybody. And caring for the very well-being of all. And that means for me, it means I have to
reject a position articulated by Malcolm X, who said, by any means necessary. My position is
there are some means I will not accept. Like your dad on the sidewalk.
That's right. That is, if I say by any means necessary, well, I'm not going to accept it.
I don't think I am justified in using any means to achieve my end. That I need not have any regard
for those against whom I struggle. I don't accept. It doesn't seem like we can fit love
onto that. No, there's no way to fit love into there. I mean, I signed a very notion of advocating
by any means necessary, morally reprehensible. I think it's one of the most reprehensible
ethical things that Malcolm actually ever said. I think it's morally reprehensible
to advocate by any means necessary. Any means? We've got plenty of evidence in human history
of atrocities. But if you're going to endorse that, there's no distinction about atrocities
versus humane struggle, where you're committed to preserving the humanity of people who
consume the struggle. I think it has to do with... Yeah, when we feel like we only have one choice
or the other, it's that thing too, where there's never that. I just found it absolutely astounding
that I have come upon no history of a principle commitment on a part of black folk to wage war
on white people. I just found utterly astounding. What about Marcus Garvey and this kind of...
Garvey wants separation. Garvey wants separation. Garvey goes, the plan means Garvey has planned
people coming to him because we agree on the same thing. We need to be separated from each other.
He thinks, yeah, we don't need to be together. We can't live together. Let's just go to separate
places and live. Y'all will be us. He wasn't calling for war on white people. Again, that's
the thing. Here's another example for me. Think of an enslaved black woman working on a plantation
where she's preparing food for the slave-owning family and feeding them. Now, one of her options
might be, I could end this by poisoning the whole white family. She doesn't. She could say,
this is a cross-generational project. They will the slaves to other people. They've got a baby.
Instead, she nurtures the baby sometimes, lets the baby suffer from her own nipples to sustain the
baby. Why? I just find that utterly mind-blowing. Yeah. I think it's love. I think it's some
connection to the reality. That's right. My maternal grandmother said to me more than one
occasion, son, the only way you can keep somebody in the ditch is that you've got to get in the
ditch with them. Don't get in the ditch with a white man. They would laugh at certain things
about white folks. They never propose hatred on white people. Never. I just find that period
that runs across the entire history of African peoples in the Western world, to me, it's just
mind-blowing. I think it's such an extraordinarily powerful lesson and gift. It makes me think of
Eric Frohm a little bit in love, who I know you talked to and knew, actually. We didn't even get
into that story, but that's the kind of love that a lot of us, that much of the world is still
trying to learn. I think in those stories that you just told shows that it's actually here,
and it's been here, even in the most painful of times, people have had that, so it's real, right?
Really, what I'm saying, to me, that is why a person like Reverend Lawley,
there are others, is one of the most profound gifts to the United States in my opinion, is
compare him to a son of a lie. They both have deep religious convictions. They draw on them
for different ends and different meanings, and those differences make a difference.
One led to enormous destruction, and responding to a son of Bin Laden by a declaration of war
and going to war, got us what? Got us what? Okay, Hamas commits atrocities. Okay,
go to war. Okay, so now you're killing a bunch of people.
We put those patterns into the world, the ones we are using, so it's just perpetuating it somehow,
I guess. But how do people take a step? I mean, to just bring it full circle,
to try to kind of end. What's your advice, or what's your feeling, or last thoughts just
for this conversation, thoughts about how do we develop that stance, or that orientation, or
the one of love that we're talking about now, or the one of taking a step back, like you said,
and saying, do I know what you mean? What's your feeling? What have you seen that is a good way for
trying to learn that, or help teach that as you've been doing?
Well, one of the laws that helped me to understand, for example,
the commitment to nonviolence, or maybe to passivity, is not a passiveness. It's an
active, engaging install, tempered by certain principles having to do with love and nonviolence,
recognition of humanity of other people. And that takes a tremendous kind of understanding,
or a kind of patience regarding human development and change, and be willing to be patient and work
through things in particular kinds of ways, that is without violence. You know, he told a story,
once about how when he was doing a national movement, they had been on a demonstration,
he was walking back to the church from which they had set out to do the demonstration.
He got separated from the groups. He was confronted by a group of young white guys who were
antagonistic to the margin, et cetera. And so, these white guys, and one of them in a motorcycle
jacket, walked up and spit in his face. So, he asked the guy who was spitting his face and said,
do you have a handkerchief? The white kid said, yeah. He says, may I borrow it?
The white kid gave him a handkerchief. So, he wiped the spit on his face and said,
so you're wearing a motorcycle jacket. Do you have a motorcycle? He said,
yeah, but he says, I ride a motorcycle too. So, then they had a conversation of motorcycles.
That's beautiful. He just switched the contact.
He handed the kid back the handkerchief to him and walked on to the church.
That's beautiful. That's a kind of example of what you describe too in terms of the language or
making the positive and negative or switching the power or definition of the word or the energy of
the situation. It's almost like a literal example of that.
In that situation, what are you committed to?
If you think that having someone spit in your face is the worst of NVIDIA's actions toward you that
justifies your responsibility, for him, that is nothing in that regard. The story of his life was
when he was a kid, his mother sent him to the store. He went to the store. Coming back home,
he's walking along on the sidewalk. There was a car with some young white boys parked in it.
As he got beside the car, one of the boys in the car called him a nigger.
He walked over to the car and slapped the center of it. When he got home, he told his mother what
happened and that he had slapped the kid. His mother looked at him and asked,
what good did that do, Jimmy? He had to walk away and start thinking,
what good did that do? He now had to confront this question of
what kinds of actions beget what kinds of actions. That set him on a road to thinking about
violence and non-violence. His father was a minister, so he's in the church reading the
teachings of Jesus. He goes to India to study the teachings, but he refused to be inducted into the
Korean War. He's put in federal prison. It turns out he goes to India as a missionary to study the
teachings. If he gets set off on this road of what good is violence and what he begins to think
about, how do we grate the cycle of violence? What can we do to grate the cycle? If somebody
spits it in my face, I slip. They feel justified and hit me back, so now we've got this thing to
be a dialectic of back and forth, but what's the resolution? Death of one of the others?
Or do you say there's a different reaction that calls for a reaction that in fact lays the
groundwork for a resolution that embraces the whole rather than denigration or death?
It's that of how might we engage in the world in such a way that we break the cycle of violence.
Well, then you've got to put forward an understanding of people.
You don't engage them. I'm trying to figure out how to talk and follow the past I've been on,
inspired by him, and become such a very close friend of his. I'm still blown away by the way
in which he came to regard me as such a great friend. We spent a lot of time together when he
was attacked by anybody over the course of three years. We became very close, and the family knows
that, and we did. He writes down, at my death there's a series of assailants.
Wow. That's a real strong moment of meaning. Maybe if you could share where we could find out
more about him and this, so I could share it with everyone who doesn't know him.
One of the things I worked on and helped to facilitate is that all of his papers are now
in the archives at Vanderbilt University, and they are all digitized. You can access
paper through the Vanderbilt University Libraries. Vanderbilt.edu and the libraries and
James Lawson Papers. Also, to extend his advantage, is the James Morris Lawson Institute
for the Research and Study of Nonviolent Social Movements. There's a whole story about how that
can be, and working to help bring that about. That's wonderful. Even though I've been reading
so much of your stuff, I didn't know about that yet, so it opens up a whole new thing, so thank
you. I am sorry for your loss, however, I do feel like that was obviously something
has been given to the world through this, that will continue to be given.
We didn't even get into, we didn't even talk about so much, Africana philosophy and all kind of
things from your career, but at least we got really deep into this feeling of love, actually,
was what it ended up coming to, but of philosophy, why it's important. Maybe another occasion,
but I thank you for allowing me to spend time with you and talk about all this for your podcast.
Thank you. It means a lot, really. Thank you for sharing your time, and thank you for all that
you've given in the world and done, and thanks for standing on the sidewalk that day and having that
thought and following through on it of becoming a teacher and a writer. It means something,
and it will continue to mean something. I know you already know that, but you know,
it's good to hear again. We appreciate it. Thank you, Audrey. You take care. Keep in touch.
