imagine two people standing on the exact same street corner.
So there's the same buildings, the same sky,
and it's the same moment in time,
but they're experiencing the same reality,
which is real and is there, differently.
One person sees a route to work, for example,
that they've walked a thousand times
or driven if you're in the car.
Another sees a neighborhood
where they fell in love years ago
and maybe it led to heartbreak
or maybe it led to a bunch of cute little babies
that they're now going to pick up from the nursery school.
It's the same corner, different worlds,
or the same world, but experienced differently.
And this isn't about subjective and objective in any sense.
It's about what I often call two different paths
to the same lake or something very deep
about how we make our way through the world
and how this is ongoing from every moment
we've ever been alive to whatever moment that is
around the street corner to everything that happens after.
And it shapes what the world becomes for us,
but also what the world becomes, just that, what it becomes.
So even though most of us who believe
these kind of statements like all is one,
or we think in philosophy that we're beyond dualism,
we're not dualists anymore,
all of us have still been trained to think
in these either or scaffolds,
these binaries or polarizations,
because it's helped us come into awareness of the world.
So subjective or objective, mind or body,
self or world, real or illusion, me or you,
all of these ways we structure and understand the world
are really deep scaffolds that we don't notice anymore,
and that we even use those scaffolds
to try to talk about having somehow gone beyond them.
So even when we try to escape these things
by saying everything is one or distinctions or illusions,
we're actually still using those scaffolds
because we're assuming that thinking,
this thinking self is somehow outside of all that,
encountering and thinking about whatever it is.
So the truth is actually really much harder to grasp
and it's very layered and multi-dimensional.
And it's this experience that this self
that we are right now, this thinking,
everything I'm aware of right now
is really just the tip edge of a much deeper movement
that is connected to even deeper movements
and so on and so forth.
And the ways that we change this part of it
are through those deeper ways.
And that is how we're connected to one another
and it's inseparable and we change one another
through that as that actually.
So if we keep using these old scaffolds
of trying to be at one with the world or reject dualism,
actually we're imposing that scaffold
on to what we're talking about.
So how do we ease out of that a little bit?
Waymaking is one way I try to do it in philosophy
and cognitive science,
but I wanna try to talk about it here in everyday life.
So what if we don't need to think about everything as one
because that implies there's something other than the one.
What if the problem isn't that we make distinctions?
What if those distinctions are actually sort of clues
or portals or cues or ways that we might begin to know more,
sense more, feel more meaning, connect more to one another,
that it's actually about the way we're approaching
those contradictions or those oppositions
or those polarities that makes them be that way.
So what if the problem is that we think we have to choose
between something like separation and unity, for example,
or difference and sameness when reality is more
like making paths through and as an ongoing, ever-changing,
never has been separated reality.
It kind of is a different way to come at this.
And it can sound very hard to get your head around at first,
or it can just, if you aren't really looking at it deeply,
it can seem really obvious or something,
but it's actually really hard
because what it means is not seeing beginnings and ends
to just about anything.
And that's a really hard thing for us to do.
But I think we might be laying down these ways
for each other to be able to do that.
So each encounter with what feels like contradiction
or irreconcilable difference is actually a chance for us
to expand what's possible and for whatever life
we're able to know as ourselves and to know what self is
from a different perspective.
So it's much more like our body is always us
and we're so often unaware of so much of it.
I don't really say that right.
So it's the same way that our body is always taking its,
so our body is always making way,
but we're never really aware of all of it.
We can't be, it's too much for us to know every single thing
that's happening in our body right now, and that's fine.
But just understanding that that happens all the time
also shows you that it's happening
at a lot of different levels too,
like with the body itself and what it's in.
So way making is this different approach to philosophy
that's trying to think of life as path making.
But also that implies a lot of important ideas
that are really different from thinking of things
as points that can be understood as either or.
It's not about finding true reality.
It's about understanding how we create meaning
and navigate life through the paths we make,
as the paths we make.
You're laying down the path as you're walking it,
and there's a whole lot of analytic philosophy
I could tell you about this idea,
but I wanna keep it at the level of everyday life
because that's where we all live,
even analytic philosophers and cognitive scientists.
Just think about like an actual path through a forest.
It doesn't exist before someone walks it.
We make the path or we fly the path
if we're a bird or an insect or whatever,
but once we move, once we make our way,
we start to create this path and it's real,
and it changes what's possible
for the next person who comes along.
And also for us, the next time we wanna go
to that same place and different paths
through the same forest can be different,
completely different experiences,
or even through the same landscape.
Maybe in one area it's the desert
and in another area it's the forest,
but we end up at the same place.
So reality is like this.
If you can think of it in a little more
multidimensional way, what we're doing here
is opening meaning and sensual connection for one another.
That is the point and the answer of all this.
It really is where you're gonna fill your best
and give your best, and it happens best
when we're not being judged,
but we are allowed to be different
and to experience contradiction and contrast.
And instead of thinking there's some one way
that's beautiful, for example, it's like exploring beauty
as this reality that already is,
understanding we're not hallucinating,
we're not making reality out of nothing,
but it is ongoing that we're making it,
we're making way literally,
and reality is what we're making together and what we are.
So there's no separation, it's uncontained,
it's not contained, it's no beginning or end,
and our language assumes that.
Just by using language we assume beginnings and ends,
so that's why this is so hard to shift out of,
but it doesn't mean our language always has to assume that.
We can shift all of this together,
even the representational nature of it.
Part of doing this is learning to catch
these habitual dualistic, either or polarizing
sort of scaffolds, not judging them,
just noticing them, most of which, you know,
were never our choice, by the way,
we just sort of had to align with them
in order to survive sometimes,
but to go through the world in the way
we were told to do it.
But we began to think of these as paths instead.
And then we began to understand all the ways we're made
and the ways we've made our shaping and co-creating
as more like lines and threads and paths and ways
and moving but connected, never-ending movements
that we can trace.
We don't always trace them perfectly,
and we can never trace them, absolutely,
but we can look at it like that.
To be able to do that, there's a few kind of cues or keys
or let's call them cue keys that I think about
when I'm working with the waymaking approach to all of this.
And I wanna just share those with you.
Their orientation is one, sequencing or sequences is another,
and the perspectival trajectory is another one.
So these are just kind of ways that might be helpful for you
if you wanna begin to understand how to reimagine
what's sensually and meaningfully possible
in your connections with yourself in the world.
As more like paths and layers of paths
instead of either or choices all the time.
And you just begin to notice the contradictions
and contrasts and judgments as areas
that are subject to change
and actually could open you to a new sensuality
and a new meaning that you're learning from yourself
or someone else or just the life that you're part of.
So the first one I said I think was orientation.
And this is true of all different layers.
Mostly I'm talking geographical layers here,
but it's also true of the way we talk
and the way we feel and so on.
As some of you know, all of that's cognitive for me,
but let's stick to this.
So every single sentence or action from you or anyone
who does anything to you is always oriented.
It's always coming from somewhere,
whether they know it or not, or we know it or not.
It's angled, it's pointed,
there's some kind of what we might call intention
in philosophy, though that's a whole can of worms
I won't open, but there's an orientation,
even if it's not a purposeful orientation,
even if it's chaotic.
So if we're thinking of just in a room,
you're always somewhere,
and that can always be sort of measured
as you're standing towards the north or the south
or whatever system people use to assess these things,
but you're somehow faced towards something.
And this is in all kinds of different layers
and spaces in life.
So your orientation means you can only be
in one time and space.
And that means it's actually very generative
because you've had a unique experience
that you can share with others that no one else has had.
But everything you encounter has had that too.
So that means you also have these portals
all around you all the time
for new sensory experience and meaning
so much as you can handle it.
Because this isn't always easy.
So we have to take it slow and be careful
and find ways to handle this together.
But it's true of just about everything.
That's why we make movies and read books.
That's why we write books.
That's why we do philosophy and science
because we're excited by these potentials
that we sense that are there, but that we don't know yet
or that we know, but we haven't put into representation.
We know them because we're so connected to everything
because we're inescapably part of all of this.
The way we can fill into those is by making the path
and walking into it together.
So this orientation is generative.
It's not a constrictive thing.
Even if it does constrict us,
it's actually almost like a signal
that we're giving to one another and to ourselves,
which sort of holds within it a lot of this resonance
of where we're coming from and where we wanna go and so on.
So those two people at the corner are oriented
in completely different ways.
I don't even remember what I said now,
but maybe one's oriented toward picking up their kids
and the other one towards work or something like this,
but that's kind of what I'm talking about.
And we can kind of sense that in one another
before we even talk.
And in the same way,
we can sense a lot of other potential going on
and possibilities.
And when we communicate about this,
we make it visible, representational,
so that we can then have a little bit of agency
about where or what new paths we wanna lay.
This orientation isn't about some kind of bias
or something that we're gonna dissolve.
It's more about just noticing the poise of our life
and where it's heading,
the meaning and sensuality that's tied into that
and taking care with it, ourselves and others,
caring for this.
This is precious, actually.
It's not about escaping your perspective
or trying to crush somebody else's perspective.
Those are really not helpful
in terms of having exciting and exciting and caring life,
a life of meaning, let's say.
But you can sort of start to ask,
how am I currently oriented right now?
Like, what's my poise?
What am I moving towards?
What am I holding as my body?
What is all this directed towards?
It's just an interesting way to start to think about it.
And it's a way to help you start to find habits
that aren't about either or.
Because when you're talking about orientation,
you're not talking about something
that's easily definable or an either or situation.
The second key clue or cube key,
whatever I called it, is sequence.
And this is really important
because sequence implies that it's ongoing.
And this is good to connect to the orientation
because orientation, we're almost taking
like a little bit of a pause or a snapshot.
But this is what I'm always talking about is navigability
and the way you can like look back
and trace how you've come into this orientation,
what's led to it, whether it's your thoughts
or whether it's your actual body
and the movements that you've made.
Those are both one process,
but we sort of think of them a little bit differently
so we can get a grasp of it.
But you can really look back on this
and you can see that how you got here matters
and that it's still part of being here right now.
You don't understand a path by looking at just one point,
whether that's your path or another person's path
that you're interacting with.
So it's good to just in general understand
that this orientation is actually connected
to this long tail, this long sequence for you,
but for anyone you're interacting with
and all of that is creating that.
And so this order, this direction, it matters,
what you've experienced and when you've experienced it.
Even if we've experienced the same thing,
if you experienced it when you were 23
and I experienced it when I was three,
it probably had a really different shift on our orientation.
So we might end up at the same conclusion,
but maybe we've had completely different sequences.
So actually we're experiencing
that conclusion very differently.
And that's very important,
something we take for granted often.
We think we are talking about the same thing and we are,
we're experiencing it very differently.
And we're missing the opportunity to expand meaning
and potential for both of us if we don't notice that
because we usually shut down.
So you might not be experiencing the reality
that you share the same way.
And this is kind of how meaning works.
When we honor sequence, we stop trying to find
some timeless transcendent thing that's in all paths
because that doesn't even make sense
because all the paths are different,
unique experiences towards this meaning
that we're co-creating together.
So this opens your life.
It opens your heart.
It opens your mind, helps you enjoy a good movie
or a good conversation or a good book
if you start to think about it this way.
You don't skip to the end, there is no end.
And you can never find the beginning actually,
but you can get a lot of understanding about the sequence,
about the orientation, about the life that's been lived
and about your own too.
Those paths in the reality can literally be anything
that we make together from all of that.
So the third cue this brings up or the key cue
is the one I'm calling perspectival trajectory.
And that definitely has a lot to do with navigability.
And we can start to get some vision here
about the other two that we've been talking about
and consider it through this bodily movement
and this thinking perspective feeling all at once.
So you're not just standing somewhere, you're always moving.
Your perspective's never actually a fixed viewpoint,
even though we look at it that way.
So this trajectory is a word that tells you
what you're doing is measuring this ongoing process
that even includes that measurement
and can never actually be absolutely represented
or measured or mapped.
So the trajectory is the best assessment
and representation of it to yourself
and to others that you can give in that moment.
And it has momentum, it has orientation,
it has direction, it has history
and this is rich and wonderful,
but it's also just the best we can assess at that moment.
It's always so much more to it than we can actually see.
Itself is this awareness of the ongoing trajectory,
but there's so much more to the body than just that.
And we're trying to constantly sort of bring more
and then also making the path through doing that.
And when we understand that something shifts,
we're not trying to eliminate perspective
to reach some kind of pure objectivity place,
but we're also not saying that there is no objectivity.
We're not trying to dissolve these into one another.
We're recognizing that perspectives
are themselves movements through possibilities.
And this opens other people's perspectives
and it opens you and your own,
while also realizing they're still grounded in that sequence,
that trajectory, that history,
that way making that you've been doing since you were born.
So you're not just floating free suddenly,
you still have all that.
And it's still very meaningful and it needs to be shared,
but you're co-creating this reality.
And there's this real shared process,
this dot of hallucination and it cannot be fabricated.
And it always shows itself,
we can never hide it unfortunately
and it never will dissolve because exactly
because there are no beginnings and ends
and all of this is not and never has been separated.
So understanding this doesn't mean that all paths are equal.
It just means paths are real and we're making them
and we're co-creating them.
And we're just one part of all of that
in this ongoing process.
So what changes when you approach philosophy
or just everyday life with this approach
is that you stop trying to escape your situated existence,
but you don't think you'll ever get to some place
that you'll see everything finished and final.
That's not really the point,
but you do start to see time and space differently
as these paths and trajectories.
And you start to let those sorts of beliefs
and either or and all that fighting that goes with it
hold a little less weight
as you shift into a different way of dancing with it.
It's not what it looks like right now, actually.
The world starts to feel different
and you experience it differently
and you connect differently.
And you can try this out,
just watch a movie or read a book or have a conversation
and just try to think of it this way.
It's not easy, but you'll start to understand
how you can start to see
these multi-dimensional constellations of possibility.
And you can even maybe switch your perspectives
a little bit like a kaleidoscope
just to touch on some other things
that we've thought about before.
So ask what sequence of experiences created this path
or what is making this orientation possible?
Where is this trajectory heading?
Those are the kinds of questions you can start to ask.
And then differences become interesting
rather than threatening.
And they're showing you other possible paths
through the same landscape that you're co-creating.
This applies to communities and societies too
and how we handle all these roads and paths
that we're co-creating together.
We're all path makers in a shared landscape
and we can learn from each other.
We can see how our paths intersect.
We can create new paths together.
We don't need to dissolve differences,
but we honor these paths and we begin to fill into them
as part of the same landscape that is also co-creating us.
And the world starts to kind of unfold
through all these ways that we make.
So think of those two people on that same corner
with their different orientations and sequences.
And it's not that they're in different worlds,
but they each hold a portal to a path
that could be the opening for the other
if they find the place where those paths
can communicate or touch.
Reality is, this isn't because reality
is subjective or objective,
but they're making different ways
as part of the same ongoing way making
that's at so many layers and dimensions all at once.
And that's how meaning happens if we let it.
And this approach is just trying to highlight
and open some ways of doing that.
And many people are trying to do that.
So I hope you'll keep a lookout for them.
And thanks for being here.
This is the last diary of the year.
And I only said I'd do it till the end of the year.
So maybe it's the last one,
but I really appreciate you being here.
And I'm still doing all these videos and conversations,
but other people will be moderating and helping.
So just wanted to let you know that,
but I send you a lot of love and hope you're doing well.
All right, bye.
