Hey everyone. It's Andrea. I'm doing a diary to talk about this word
Aufheben, A-U-F-H-E-B-E-N, because some of you asked me after my last post on the
sub-sec about this word and I just wanted to jump on and give a little short summary
of it. It's a word in German that Hegel uses and I love it because it has a lot
to do with this Hold the Paradox idea which I talk about a lot because this
word can mean to lift up but also to suspend. It's often translated as
sublate. It can mean to push down or cancel out. It can mean to transcend. It
can mean to keep going. It can mean a lot of different things but I think if
you've noticed overall it has a lot to do with movement and this kind of
movement of what Ian McGill Creston and I talk about as a spiral but what often
gets discussed in cognitive science and philosophy and neuroscience as a loop
but it's not actually a loop because it's not a circle. It never comes back
to where it started and starts again. It's not redundant. There are a lot of
redundant regularities in this movement in the same way that there are a lot of
redundant regularities if you push up or push down or move to the side and this
off-haven has this feeling of this constant movement but you're coming
back to where you started but it's not the same place. That's a T.S. Eliot sort
of line coming back to where you started and knowing it for the first time but I
think it also has to do with the Fitzgerald quote that I like to use of
holding two seemingly contradictory ideas in mind at once. For me this word
off-haven is one reason I tried to learn German, moved to Berlin and when I was
studying Hegel which is a while ago now when I went to Humboldt the University
where he studied and because this idea of off-haven for me is a very it's like
hold the paradox but in one word because in a way you're having to hold
these contradictory movements at once but you're also moving yourself and I
feel like this is the way life is. We do have right and wrong. We do have these
different distinctions and contrasts however those are dynamic moving
processes that we've used terms to define in their contrast. So how do we
hold all that at once? How do we hold all that at once? How do we
realize we're part of that even as it's happening? For me this is a kind of
off-haven. It's this movement of layering and sedimentation and rising
up and transcending and also like the tide going in and out at the same time
at many different places along the shore or the cycle of rain that falls and is
taken into the plants and then respires back into the heavens and then rains
again. It's never happening exactly the same way and yet there's a movement
that's going on and depending on where you're gonna look or you're gonna look
from the perspective of the cloud or the plant or the water or which part of
the shore then all of that movement will look like it's going in different
directions at once. For me this is a key practice trying to understand this
movement, hold the paradox. I think it relates to a lot of things I like about
something like Taoism where you have the yin-yang for example where you have a
little bit of the black fish in the white fish eye and the white fish in the
black fish eye and these are in a constant state of movement. I think you
can find this pattern in a lot of different things from the poetry of
Blake to the philosophies of a lot of people I've had on love and philosophy
to talk about this with. So off-haven just is this German word which
means that it's often translated as sublation or you've probably heard of it
as dialectic where you have a thesis and an antithesis and a synthesis. This is
all rather cartooned version of what I think Hegel tries his best to describe
without describing. So you have to read him as a practice because especially
phenomenology of spirit and some of the last parts of science of logic you
really feel off-haven. It can't be said in words because it's dynamic and it's
all these things at once. So some of the best literature, poetry, philosophy in my
opinion shows us how to do this. How to let things be contrasting and opposite
and at the same time held in something that's larger than them. So that's my
impromptu off-haven introduction in response to those of you who wrote to me
and asked for it. Thank you so much for asking for that and thanks for reading
the sub stack and thanks for listening to the podcast and reading my books and
all these other things talking to me about this. I learned a lot from you and
from having to answer the questions. So thank you. I hope you're doing well and
that whatever seems hard today you can realize it's one part of this movement.
You can hold it, hold it alongside whatever you might think of as its
opposite. See what space is holding both of those and usually you can find some
connection to what we mean by love in that space.
