When you categorize the world in that way, when you think in terms of categories, you leave out
the processual relational tensions that always mediates category, categoricity. That within
every binary or binaric formulation are worlds in their becoming. Cultures are holding spaces for
bodies, right? The rituals, the rites of passage. But cultures can also become a form of imprisonment.
So in the ritornello, in the repetition, something crystallizes, but then in this crystallization,
cracks become possible, right? Maybe my father is diffracted in the thick now. Maybe he is here.
Maybe his ghost is how I live. Maybe his ghost is in fungal blooms or in the architecture of
ancestrality. Maybe he is here in a way that I have missed out on because I've been looking at
the doorway instead of the crack on the wall. It's incomplete. And maybe that's my way of also saying
that I think of love as the radical incompleteness of everything, right? That it's
love is the crack that emerges in the ritornello. Just as much as it is the ritornello, right? It is
how we craft embodied spaces, even though there are always violent risks in the imminent fields
of differencing that is ongoing. But it is also how that field speaks to the structures that emerge.
It is also the intimacy between field and structure that says, don't trust your completeness.
Don't trust your ideologies too much. Don't trust the shape that your body has taken.
There's still something else to do. There's still shape shifting to do.
That conversation between field and structure is the radical insufficiency or incompleteness
of everything we presume to be and do.
Hello everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea Hyatt and this podcast is still
forming, but is forming around the idea of life as a journey and one that involves binaries,
but that we can learn how to hold beyond dichotomy. One that takes love seriously
and thinks about what it really means in our lives and our academic work.
I'm talking with Bayo Okomolafe today. He's a philosopher, a psychologist, a professor, a poet,
a teacher. He's also the founder of the Emergence Network and he's written two books. Today we
mostly talk about one of those books called These Wilds Beyond Our Fences, Letters to My
Daughter on Humanity's Search for Home. Because there was some disruption we were supposed to
meet earlier and we couldn't, so you kind of hear that at the beginning. We have to settle
and get our poise. Then we just launch into a conversation and decide not to follow any
sort of script. Not that I ever follow scripts, as you can probably tell. However, we talk about
the main themes of this podcast. Because we didn't have a lot of time, we didn't explain
some of the background to some of the things we talk about. I just want to mention that here.
For the sake of the conversation, I want you to know that Bayo's father was a diplomat
and they moved a lot. He also lost his father when he was young. That's part of the story.
I just wanted to mention it so you're prepared for that. That's what we're talking about when
we're discussing his father. The book is also written as Letters to His Young Daughter. There's
one part in the book where she gets stuck in a room. She goes in and accidentally locks herself
in a room up some stairs. She's very young, so of course you can imagine that's very scary.
This is in India where Bayo lives much of the year because his wife is Indian. Bayo is from Nigeria.
His daughter, his little daughter, gets locked in the room. We discuss that here and how Bayo
found this rickety ladder and somehow managed to find a little window or hole
to get his arm through to help comfort his daughter and also to hold her so they could
tear the door down basically to get her out. I hope you will have a look at Bayo's work.
He writes in a way that really opens up multiplicities, makes us think about the
many other ways there are of being human that we haven't explored yet and how we can hold
our differences and let them be what they are while also understanding that as he says it here,
the cracks are the love and the openings, the portals, the places to move through to
fill one another and see one another differently. I hope you find some of those
cracks that let the light in today. Follow that transformation. Fill whatever you're feeling
fully. Embrace it. Know that you are important. I'm glad you're here. I send you a lot of love
today wherever you are. All right. Here we go. Okay. Hi, Bayo. Thank you so much for
making time being here today. I know it wasn't easy. Thank you, Andrea. Yes, it hasn't been easy,
but it's worth it. Yeah. Well, thank you. I think since we've had a little disruption and that's
an important word, what I'd really like to do is just get right to the heart of it.
This, my research, this podcast, a lot of the philosophy I do has to do with dichotomy and
this idea of beyond dichotomy, holding paradox, which I have a million notes here of how this
could relate to your work, but instead of trying to follow a script, maybe I'll just ask you
lately in your life and even right now, how do those words fill to you the idea of binaries and
those not being what they seem? How do you see that? I think I'll just start there. What comes to
mind? Thank you, sister. Again, I'm grounding myself in this vocation of care that is larger
than care. I'm here somewhere in Great Barrington in Massachusetts, which I flew into just last night
and yes, there is something to be said about binaries as modulated attempts to
ways we organize the world so that it is convenient, it is legible, it is accessible,
it is intelligible. Modernity is a form of organizing. It organizes complexity.
Disorganizing is a form of care. It is an attempt to hold ourselves. It's a ritual.
It's a way to hold ourselves and hold our bodies. We would say that darkness is the opposite of light,
that man is the opposite of woman, that the divine is the opposite of the mundane,
that this is the opposite of that. It's not evil. It's not wrong. It's just a very inadequate
and limited way of meeting complexity. What is obscured, obviously, is that
when you categorize the world in that way, when you think in terms of categories, you leave out
the processual relational tensions that always mediates category, categoricity, that there is,
that within every binary or binaric formulation are worlds in their becoming,
are slaves escaping the plantation, or are things that don't really fit,
which immediately renders every act of inclusion an act of violence.
There's something that is left out when we try to gentrify the world into ontological familiarity.
I speak about onto-fugitivity or onto-spillage to mark the ways that the world is too promiscuous
to fit neatly into binary formulations. Yes. That's very beautiful what you said about it,
being an act of care to think about categorization or binaries. Even right now, I feel like you're
doing so many things. You're in so many different countries, languages, many different use that you
have to be each day. I wonder about that care. Is it necessary for you sometimes to have some
order and some categories for yourself? How do you hold that also with everything you write about,
which is about multiplicities and about opening the space in a way and this other kind of power?
Is that hard for you to hold? Does it help you sometimes to have structure in that way?
Absolutely. There is a word that comes to mind, ritornello.
Deleuze and Guattari and some other continental philosophers used it to describe
this refrain. It's basically a small story that is told to children at night to get them to sleep.
Like a refrain or a little bit different each time, but same pattern.
Exactly. The repetition. My son comes to mind and who is autistic and how we often
depend on repetition in order to shield themselves from the tsunami of complexity.
He is less impervious to than I am. The sensorial onslaught that he is
immediately, his body is aware of. His body is in touch with. I think at some level,
we will always create structure. We will always create categoricity. Categories are not bad
themselves. It's just that they can become carceral. They can incarcerate us. Care can
slowly become, in its embrace, can slowly become a form of asphyxiation. Cultures
are holding spaces for bodies. The rituals, the rites of passage. Cultures can also become
a form of imprisonment. In the ritornello, in the repetition, something crystallizes,
but then in this crystallization, cracks become possible. It's those cracks within binaries,
within care, within formulaic algorithms that presume that they understand our bodies fully.
New worlds glisten. New worlds are always possible riskily in the emergence of a crack.
And yes, I find myself, well, not consciously or intentionally,
but that's only a part of what it means to be present. I find myself dabbling and trafficking
in categories. Right now, I have lots of Canadian friends, Canadian families.
And with the recent imposition of Trumpian tariffs, I found myself dabbling in nationalistic fervor.
Saying, hit back, elbows up. Even though I would never consider myself a nationalist or patriot
in any sense of the word. I'm not even American or Canadian, but I found myself wishing for some
shadowed and frowned moments, like a nation winning a battle against another nation.
We will always be caught up in the vortices of these categories. Yes, it's not ours to
choose all the time, I guess.
Yeah, that makes me think of what you write often about relation or relationality. Things
not being things, but in relation. And that seems to be the way to hold all that that you just said,
because it's that we need categories, binaries are kind of real in that structural way.
And then at the same time, they're not. And everything is messy. And that's a word you
use a lot, dust you talk about, you know, in your books. And both of those are true. But isn't that
that's very hard, isn't it, to hold or to be to live as, especially in these kind of moments,
like the one you just described, which I felt very strongly to having similar kind of confusion
about about those things. And I wonder, is it has it become easier for you over time? Is it always
the same kind of practice that you have to remember?
No, I mean, life itself being practice doesn't have a script, right? It doesn't have
standardized, progressive script, or this gets easier, right? We will, we will, even the fugitive
that escapes the plantation might repeat the logic of the plantation in in flight, in exile,
right? It's it's that life, death, you know, life, death is messy in that way. So I, even though I
speak and wax poetic about emergence, about complexity, about modernity, constituting some
kind of onto epistemological trap in its in its formulations of binaries, and then the need of
the trickster who might be referred to here as the third way, the transversal cut, walking across
the binary and dismantling it from within. Yes, even even emancipatory moments like that
tend to give birth to new binaries and new categories, right? Yeah. And that's the world
in its comings and goings and its fluidity, right? There isn't a destination, a utopian arrival,
a point of conscious wokeness where we summarily get mastery or become masters of it all. We will
be taken and spirited away. And in our spirit, in our spirit in a way, we will fall into traps,
traps of thought, traps of categoricity, traps of being. That's what it means to be alive or dead.
Yes, and I think sometimes we can also feel like we shouldn't be feeling those things like we
shouldn't be feeling this way. And that definitely does something numbing or that gets us away from
from the source or life in a way to that. Oh, I shouldn't feel this way. Sometimes we have
to embrace that we feel this way, don't we? The should is a trap as well.
Yeah, right. Is a moral, is some kind of moral holding space too. So we're talking about layers
upon layers upon layers, machines, morality machines, other kinds of machines constantly
in a palimpsest that is never fully rendered, always interacting with one another.
So even the moment of saying, should I feel this way, that is potentially
a category, you know, invisibly rearing its head.
Yes. And at the same time, there is something about being able to become aware of that,
for example, reading your work or reading other work and starting to understand that we do see
the world through binaries. And then you kind of realize that you always see a contrast. But if
you zoom out, that contrast is within a multiplicity, the complexity that you discuss. And when you were
talking about your son and about this sensory overwhelm, I was thinking of you as a boy,
the way you describe yourself in these wilds beyond our fences. Did I say that right? When
you were talking about the tapes that you listen to over and over after this very moving,
everything with your father is very moving in that book, I find to just bring up love right now.
But you were listening to these tapes over and over and over again. And I wondered in those moments
how you became the person you are now, because in that part of the book, you seem so unable to
deal with all of this multiplicity and sensory overload. Or at least I'm projecting probably,
you want to be alone with your books. And that was kind of how I was as a kid and protected.
And I found myself wondering, how did you become a public intellectual from that place? And I think
as I read through the book, then I started to realize it was this practice of understanding
your habits and stepping out of them and looking at them or something. But I wanted to ask you about
it and just like what came to mind or if that relates to what we've been talking about at all.
That is intriguing. Well, I did try to save my dad
conceptually from his incarceration behind the pearly gates or death or whatever.
And my way of trying to do that was to deepen my exercise of understanding my faith.
I think those are the early days, the seeds of my public intellectual
career, that if I understood well how the world worked, I could build a time machine
of some kind, a temporality machine, a vehicle, a multi-dimensional vehicle that could take me
from the mundane to peel back the membranes of the ordinary so that I could actually touch him again.
Yeah, the more that I did try to do that, the more my time machine glitched and failed.
It didn't quite transport me to the pearly gates. And then I started to recall a lost memory,
so to speak. And maybe the pearly gates were not at a distance. Maybe it is here. Maybe the
afterlife is in the meanwhile, right? And in thinking about increasing or bending space-time
in that way, increasing reality in that way, other kinds of thoughts became possible.
I started to let go gently of the notion of a giant truth, a destination, the jump-off point.
And I started to think about the materiality of the world we're already in, that maybe heaven is
not at a distance. It felt like a rationalizing of my failure, but it worked. Maybe my father
isn't there. Maybe my father is diffracted in the thick now. Maybe he is here. Maybe his ghost is
how I live. Maybe his ghost is in fungal blooms or in the architecture of
ancestrality. Maybe he is here in a way that I have missed out on because I've been looking
at the doorway instead of the crack on the wall, right? Maybe I already have intimacy
with my father, even though it's in attenuated forms. Maybe there's some attenuated intimacy
that I'm already part of the ocean by being the shore. And that, of course, led to a poetics of
relation, a processual philosophy, a social constructivist account of the world that bled
into an agential realism, right? And I started to think in terms of the moment, the now,
our bodies, the imminent, instead of the transcendent. Presto, I'm here in front of you.
That makes a lot of sense because you do say that you got closer to your father.
You were trying so much to find him. He had passed away and you almost wanted to join him.
You were so desperate to... It's almost as if you wanted to find the place where those binaries
met. You also talk about physics a lot in the book. What you just described is more like that
folding of space, that it is a multiplicity and the complexity. I can really see that.
Then you started to understand it's not like a linear thing where I'm going to go and meet
at the point where the binaries touch. Instead, there's all this other stuff, which I've heard
you say before too, that there are multiplicities of being human that we don't know and that we have
yet to explore. That's actually very beautiful. I can see that because you also say it was very
unfair that your father... Sounds like that started to shift or heal or something too.
Is that connected to it? At some level, it still feels unfair.
I don't think there is a letting go of that in any summary fashion.
I said to some friends a while ago, some days ago, that I know that many people, before they parent
children, attempt to purify themselves of their trauma so that they don't pass it across. I think
that's noble. I also think quite controversially that the greatest gift a parent can give their
child is their trauma. It is trauma, which is how bodies are shaped, that becomes this
this anchorage of gravity in a world that is not resolved.
Imagine a child coming through the matrix of a woman's body.
There's no passage through into life without the bacterial microbial gift. It's almost like a
heritage. Like, oh, you're coming out here. Have this. Get a load of the messiness of life.
You will not arrive pure. So that if it were possible to find a modality where we are
completely purged of trauma, completely purged of any notion of woundedness or brokenness,
and if there was such a technology, maybe in an app or in a drink or in a dosage of some pills,
I would not take it because it would mean that whoever is birthed through me is not able to
participate in the world. It's basically co-creating Baldur, the famous Norse god who was impervious
to pain and as a result was impervious to pleasure. There's something about
the transaction. I don't want to use the word transactionality, but there's something about
the contract of being embodied and being alive and being in touch. That means we are also never not
broken. Yeah, yeah, please, please. Oh, go ahead. If you had something else. No, I wasn't sure. I
I trade stuff into a side quest, but I think the main highway of my response was supposed to be
this response to your question that, yeah, I still feel it's unfair. And maybe that is
interacting in my family in some way. I still feel I lost my father too early and he was my best
friend and I wish that did not happen. But at the same time, paradoxically, or ironically,
or however you would have it, I'm OK with that. I'm OK with that unfairness. I'm able to bracket
it long enough to know that it has its place in the world, but it is not the world itself.
Yeah, I think it is unfair. I mean, no one should lose a person they're so close to,
especially at that age. And yet I also really understand what you mean because you do show
that in the book. There's a lot of portals, right? And I think what you describe there is almost like
a portal like this. That same with your father's, with all that pain, if you can look at it in the
way you just described before, it becomes a kind of portal, but it doesn't change the binary. It
doesn't change that the things are what they are. And in your book, you talk about doors a lot,
or their doors or windows, like when your little daughter who the book is to her, it's letters to
her, when she got stuck behind the door and you found the window to hold her. That seems like
another example, in a way, of what you were just describing. I'm not sure how, but does that make
any sense at all? I love you so much for bringing back that story to me, Andrea. Thank you. Of
holding my daughter through the window, but not quite grasping her and her not quite reaching me,
but just the morsel of connection in that moment made things bearable for both of us, I think.
While the doors were being cracked open. Yes, that is a way to see it. It may even be a way to
think about the entire book. The wilds beyond our fences are already within the fences. They're
already here. They're not outside. They have some kind of ambassadorial presence
within the ordinary. There's an embassy of the otherwise that exists in our spaces.
That's very touching thinking of your father with the ambassador in the embassy.
Yeah, exactly. The way you describe it in the book, your daughter is really scared because
she's been locked in a room, but you can just touch her. It's not enough to take away the pain
and the fear, but it's enough to keep her there so she's safe and so that the situation can change.
That feels a bit like what we were talking about with your dad of that space you got to,
that portal, doesn't make it less what it is. That brings up something which I can't remember,
but maybe you do about the saying about, oh gosh, what is it? It's too much to handle. It has to do
with the sensory overload. We walk around the tree, but it's too much for us. We walk around
the well, but it's too much to jump into it. Do you have a better way of remembering that?
No, I don't. You said that was in the book as well?
Yeah, I think so. I think you're talking about you hated listening to the tongue, mother tongue,
but then you wanted to learn some sayings, I guess, when you were writing the book. There's
one saying in Yorubai. Do I say it right? Yeah, in Yorubai. It's about this.
But yeah, that's kind of that realization of you go around the well and you see that it's there,
but you don't go into it. That feels like that what I'm trying to get at is what maybe happened
to you or what can happen to us when we do start to notice our habits and our patterns. Does that
make sense at all? It does. It's that noticing is an interruption of some kind. Disruption,
interruption. That's right. Systems know themselves only through cracks.
It's like a desensitization. It's like, sorry to use this macabre and indelicate
and impolite example, but it's like someone farting. Farting in the room and stinking up the place
and you just resign yourself to it because it's not, and I heard a very comical account of a plane
returning to the takeoff point to the airport because someone was just letting go and was not
fierce. The strange thing about that is that everyone will close their noses and the criminal
will never, there's no Scooby Doo moment. There's not going to be like you did it.
It's everyone is in this together, right? So imagine a room being stanked up,
hurting the language, stank up to the nth degree, but you resign yourself to it not only by choice
or by compulsion or by enforcement, but your body actually loses the taste, the whiff
of the room because you just become out of the room. We always become part of our environment,
but someone cracks a window open or comes into the door and says, what is that awful smell? By
this time, you've forgotten what's happening. You're like, what smell, right? It's that it's
through cracks that systems recognize themselves and know themselves. So noticing is not just
an individual thing. It's a perceptual regime understanding and meeting itself as if for the
first time. Cracks are always impersonal. They're more than personal, more than human.
And maybe going around the well and not jumping into it or going around the tree, I need to
understand what that proverb is saying. I'll revisit it so I can see what I was saying there
or what you're about, people were saying there, is an invitation to notice. Yeah,
it's simply that, an invitation to notice. Do you see any parallels with that and where we are
right now just in terms of what we were both kind of hinting at as being we're in a room right now
and I'm not sure who's opening the window or if there's windows or what's going on, but there
also seem to be a lot of cracks. And how do you see this moment that we're in through that orientation?
Ritornello. It's the circle, it's the concretized crystallizing circle.
Think about a pandemic. It made us ask questions like, what is work though? What is education?
Why do we need to go to work, right? It's that the entire world started to like, okay,
what is normal? What is abnormal? What are children? What are those little things
running around? Because parents were so used to sending their children off to school,
that when they came home in the morning, they came down in the morning to go to work,
they met these little versions of themselves and they didn't know what to do with them. Literally,
there are papers in India and we're in a pandemic in India that were asking questions like, what do
we do with these things that we call our children? They came to interview my wife, who at this point
in time was known in some places for her unschooling work. And so they came to interview
her and said, you're unschooling these little versions of ourselves. What are they? What do
you call them? What's their botanical name? It's very interesting. Of course, I'm missing it up
a little bit. But yes, this seems to be where we are as a species, as amniotic spaces within
white modernity, that its care paradigm, white stability is its care, is flailing, it's dying.
The United States specifically is witnessing an empire in decline, right? And as this space of
care withers and as the ruinage of the Anthropocene becomes more clarifying, more lucid in its spread,
in its pervasiveness, we are doing many things at once. We are attempting to return to what a
someone that I know and care about very deeply, her name is Laura Pena Zanatta would call
rituals of absence. And it's also a way that we're stabilizing ourselves
within a world that is dying. We don't know how to really meet this moment,
but we're also experimenting tentatively, haltingly, surprisingly, riskily with the crack.
And that is important work. That is parapolitics. That is post-activism. Yes, we are at the threshold
of a care that doesn't know how to care any longer. I'm glad you brought up care because
before we go, I want to talk about love a little bit. And when you were talking, I was thinking of
how you've said holding the space for experimentation is what we're trying to do in a way or open the
space. And you just brought up care there. And also reading your book, the one I've already
mentioned, it's so about love. It's love of your dad. It's love of your family. It's love of your
daughter. It's love of your wife. Your wife even writes in it. It's so loving, but in a way we've
been talking about, a very disruptive way, and there's spiders. There's water. There's all kinds
of disturbing moments. So I guess I'm just trying to put that together. We're in a disturbing moment
now too. And how do you see love? What's love going to do for us or what is it right now for you?
Well, that book, These Wires Beyond Offenses, which was the shimmering data point in our
conversation system, ends without ending. It's a truncated ending. I'm supposed to gather nine
hushes or ten hushes. I don't quite fulfill the ritual.
Yeah, I was going to ask you about that. The last four are in the little flower, but that's not...
Yeah, it's incomplete. And maybe that's my way of also saying that I think of love as the radical
incompleteness of everything. That love is decoloniality. Love is the crack that emerges
in the ritornello, just as much as it is the ritornello, right? It is how we craft embodied
spaces, even though there are always violent risks in the imminent fields of differencing
that is ongoing. But it is also how that field speaks to the structures that emerge. It is also
the intimacy between field and structure that says, don't trust your completeness.
Don't trust your ideologies too much. Don't trust the shape that your body has taken.
There's still something else to do. There's still shape-shifting to do. That conversation
between field and structure is the radical insufficiency or incompleteness of everything
we presume to be and do, right? And love continues into my next book. It's called
An Ocean of Milk, a parable of love in three numbers.
And it's basically a pan to this radical incompleteness told through the story of
a trickster that leaves the familia in order to die well. And that's what I'll say.
Well, I can't wait to read it. And that makes a lot of sense. That's the sort of fold and space
time that got you closer to your father. And that's the window that you found to touch your
daughter. And so I see that. So thank you for connecting those dots with the word love.
And thanks for making time today, Bio. I really hope things go well for you today,
and I appreciate you and your work. Thank you very much. Thank you.
All right. Bye.
So
you
