we need to have a community where we can talk to each other about doing these things and when we
all came together for the conference it was so enriching and energizing. I've never separated
my scholarship from my life. Philosophy comes to my life, my life doesn't come to philosophy.
What you are afforded, who is afforded what, who designed the space for who, and I think that that
space can be a physical built, designed space or it can be a socially built normative space like
academia and so I'm really interested in how the discomfort becomes my discomfort or I have to deal
with that discomfort or I have to mitigate that discomfort and that will depend on how have I
been socialized. There is no either or for either of us. It is everything all at once. It is this
and that and the other and nothing is right or wrong. There's richer understandings or more
rigid understandings or so the binaries for us don't exist. So it's not that something is normal
or not normal. It's not something is right or wrong. It's not something that it's either or
it is all. People pleasing is very important, right? Like it's taken a lot to deconstruct.
It's very basic obvious thing that is nonetheless psychologically harmful if you don't ever pay
attention to it and like excavate it and figure out I'm not here to make you feel good. That is
a basic message that I've had since childhood. So I'm really interested in the co-responsibility
of what we're doing to each other and interacting and in just having these reactions of what's
comfortable or not or what's normal or not, which are not to be blamed for necessarily,
but must be, I think, examined. And as a liberatory resistant process,
I'm going to actively make people uncomfortable until they recognize that they are the source of
the expectations that are oppressive. What it means to act like a girl changes in different
context. What it means to act like a girl at a nightclub is not the same thing as what it means
to act like a girl at a philosophy conference. There is no expectation about what girls are
supposed to do because different communities have different gender expectations.
I'm working to relate personally to my work at something even close to the level of what Shay
draws on and does. The closest thing to me was interview study, life world interview study on
hope, trying to deal with my paralyzing climate anxiety as a parent. I'm still working on that,
but I definitely tend to operate on a slightly more abstract level. I will say that being so
immersed in participatory sense making has made a very collaborative style of work.
I would just say that I don't think anybody is wrong.
I don't think anybody is wrong. And I invite you to join us in our shenanigans.
Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea Hyatt. Today we're talking with
Shay Welsh and Elena Kufari. We're going to talk about body knowledge or body epistemologies is
another way of saying that and fore cognition, which I will explain later or which we explain
in the conversation. This conversation came about because of an email list I'm on called
women and embodied cognition. And through that list, I learned about a conference that Shay Welsh was
organizing and Elena Kufari was going to be helping her organize. And she was the keynote for it
in Atlanta at Spelman College about bodily epistemologies and for recognition. So that's
what we're discussing here. Shay Welsh is the associate professor of philosophy at Spelman
College. She's currently the scholar in residence for the city of Atlanta's public art project.
She's written a lot of books. She's also a dancer, by the way. She wrote Phenomenology of a
Performative Knowledge System, Dancing with Native American Epistemology. Elena Kufari is a professor
at Franklin and Marshall College in Pennsylvania. Elena is also well known for her writings and
papers in philosophy and also a book she wrote that's very well known in action or inactive
cognition called Linguistic Bodies, the Continuity Between Life and Language. She wrote that with
Ezekiel de Paolo and Hannah de Jager, two very important people in the field,
which you will hear more about in other episodes. So body knowledge, bodily epistemologies
to put it in a very two short sentence, it's about the body as a source of knowledge. So
we're thinking about the body itself as a way that we come to know the world and to know ourselves
as well. And 4E cognition is very connected to that. I will post a separate little video on YouTube
about what 4E cognition is with a whole bunch of resources of all the amazing people who've been
working on that. But for now, I'll just say that the 4Es, like the letter E, stand for Embodied,
Embedded, Extended, and Inactive. And that's not quite true either because sometimes instead of
embedded, you hear ecological, which maybe you recognize from some of the conversations we've
had about ecological psychology and J.G. Gibson. But also the E is sometimes environmental or
ethical. At least that was brought up in this conference. I also think of the E as emotional
sometimes because we don't think of cognition as emotion, but actually it is, at least in my
opinion. And I think others agree with that too. Although others I've talked to recently, such as
Tim Ingold, doesn't even like to use the word cognition anymore. Maybe because it sounds maybe
like it's in the head or it reminds you of some other discipline. I just mentioned that because
these are controversial terms and there's a lot of scholarship about it. And I will put links to
those on the sub-stack in the description of this episode. And you can also look for that YouTube
video. But the conference we're talking about is about how the body knows. And it's looking at it
from a first-person perspective, which is another theme we talk about often on this podcast.
Taking it seriously, trying to listen to others express their first-person perspective. All of
this in this context of the body, embodiment and knowledge. It's just an assumption that cognition
is in the head or in the brain. And this is saying it's in the body and it's also in the dynamics of
the body within its encounter, its ongoing encounter with the environment, with people,
with everything you encounter in your daily actions. So if you just think about as you move
through the world, how you come to know that world, it's a bodily process. And though we don't talk
about love directly here in this conversation, maybe we will at a later date. I do think this
idea of embodied cognition and feeling as a form of knowledge is an important connection to the
idea of love. It makes me think of Audre Lorde, for example, right now. I think in an interview
that she gave, she said that our most genuine path to knowledge is feeling. And I can definitely see
where that's coming from. And I think a lot of us can in our life, if we really think about
how we understand life and what we know about our life, there is a very real connection and
orientation to understand the world and the body and one another in the writings of both of these
scholars. So I hope you'll look for some of their work and I'm sure you'll find it inspiring.
It's great to have Shay and Elena together here. They're a really good combination as you'll hear
and I'm happy to bring you this conversation today. We had a little internet issue here,
which I somehow didn't really notice as we were talking, but there's a few fluttering moments.
I'm still learning with all the audio and people are helping me, but this is mostly
just a volunteer effort of a lot of different people who help out. So I really appreciate your
support and I hope you'll join the Substack and the YouTube or go to the website and join there
so we can build this up and make the quality even better and continue on. I really do appreciate
your support. I really do appreciate all your comments and emails and anything. This is a
project that's bigger for me than just trying to do a podcast. It's really about
the research and the things I'm thinking about every day and the connections that I'm trying
to make and trying to do something good and find a way to connect love and philosophy.
So thank you for being here. I hope you're doing well wherever you are out there and I wish you
a beautiful day. So I just thought to start for people who don't know about the Embodied Cognition
and the Women's Embodied Cognition group, which you're both part of and we're going to talk about
today and a conference that you recently put on. Maybe you should just introduce yourself, just
give a little intro, say what you're interested in at this moment. Okay, I am Shay Welch. I am
a professor at Spelman College, which is a small liberal arts college for Black women in Atlanta.
I do a lot of different things, but currently I am writing in two separate areas,
both on Embodied Cognition. One of them is on the role of public art in democratic participatory
sense-making and then the other one is on Embodied Cognition related to madness.
I love Shay's work so much. I wish I could say I was during it. Yeah. I'm Elena Kafari. I'm a
professor at Franklin and Marshall, which is a small liberal arts college in Pennsylvania.
I support primarily the COGSI moral psych programs, which are a blend of philosophy
and psych, but I'm in the psychology department. I also teach psychology courses, but I like Shay
and philosopher by training. I am working on a lot of things to elaborate and extend
the linguistic bodies paradigm, but right now primarily I'm engaged in stuff on what
linguistic autonomy might mean vis-a-vis interactions with AI or non-human agents and
gesture work and how the gesture methodology continued work. I would say also more non-human
animal stuff, so not just robots and AI, but also animals and humans and interactions,
so basically interaction dynamics. That's also what I brought out in the conference or wanting
to try to do is explore human-human interaction dynamics in unjust and oppressive situations and
what that might mean for participatory sense-making and linguistic bodies. Okay. For some people who
might not have heard any of these terms, Embodied Cognition and participatory sense-making, you both
said both of those terms and they're very important, so maybe you can both say what they
mean for you. I cheat off Elena. I use her work, so honestly my work is more of an application
of her work, so I let her take this one. Okay. Oh, thanks. See what I did there? See what I did?
I just want to say too, because both of you do have an interactive, interesting relationship
in the text and also in life, so feel free to ask each other questions or bring things up,
because that can happen too. It doesn't have to be me always saying things. Okay.
Okay. No, I like that. I like that a lot. So, okay. Well, I've been 4E. We use that language
in the conference and Embodied Cognition is really a decades-long movement in cognitive science or
philosophy of mind or philosophy of cognitive science or cognitive linguistics, so lots of
different fields pertaining to mind studies that tries to bridge mind-body separations,
is how I would say it in the most general way, and it looks really, I also say just the embodied
cog term looks super different for different theorists and applied folks, so yeah, just like
any kind of exploration of how cognition comes out of our bodily life and it can take different
levels of radicalness of people. I and I think Shay also work a little closer to the inactive
vein of this, which is a little bit deeper in its commitment maybe to cognition as sense-making,
cognition as the non-neutral activity of living things to continue to live.
So that's two of the E's of the 4E that's part of the conference. Correct me if I say it wrong,
but Marginalized Body Epistemologies and 4E Cognition was the name of the conference,
I think. Is that right? So two of those E's we have embodied and inactive, and for those,
is it fair to say that instead of thinking of cognition as in the head and in the brain too,
we're thinking of it as a bodily process just to be really general? Is that okay? Is that for both
of you? Yeah, and then inactive, that gets to the participation and the interaction side of it,
so that it's not just that cognition is in the body sitting there, but there's this ongoing
interaction, continuous process of being alive, that whole process, everything that's going on
with your body and the world around you. Do you want to add or change that? That's good.
Yeah, and I would use that as a segue to participatory sense-making. So I think the
other E's, Extended Ecological, came into the conference a bit, are part of this story, but
if you go from that sense-making in the environment to the fact that we are not just humans,
many kinds of creatures are really social environments, so your environment isn't
just stuff around you, but other beings. Participatory sense-making is an inactive
idea of social cognition, so how do we talk about meaning-making with others? And traditionally,
in philosophy and psych, social cognition means how I understand someone else's cognition or mind,
so it's a lot of thinking about others' minds, and participatory sense-making is focused a lot
more on thinking with others' minds. So how do we actually intervene in or start making systems with
others such that our cognition can't be talked about without their cognition and the dynamic
between? So that can get into the animals that you already brought up and AI that you already
brought up, and there's a lot of questions about where the lines of all these subjects
do or do not cross or end or begin, but Shay, so you organized this conference, so maybe you could
talk a little bit about why you had the idea for this and what it meant for you, or where it was
coming from, why you saw a need for it. Well, the interesting thing is this conference stuff
happens everywhere. This stuff happens everywhere all the time. The problem is it's not done in the
embodied cognition language, and a lot of the things that I fuss about and the reason why I
made the group is because, one, so many people have been working on this all along, and so
it's important for the people who are doing embodied cognition and especially in activism
right now to recognize that the true roots are in feminist and specifically a lot of
Indigenous and Black feminist epistemologies of the body, and also that you don't see a lot of
women and people of color writing in activism, and even when they are, they're not really
cited or included that much. There are a couple of big names, obviously, like Elena and Hannah and
Michelle Bray Mice are really popular, and I think
Miriam Casello is in one of your papers. And so even
Bray Maxine Sheets-Johnstone was doing this a long time ago, but she's not considered an embodied
cognitive person. She's just kind of hijacked in a certain kind of way by certain kinds of people.
It's sort of interesting, right? So before this, I was prepping my class notes, and I
want to read this to you. So the book is called Oppression in the Body. I'm using it in my intro
class, and the author, her name is Carla Sherrell, and the title is called The Oppression of Black
Bodies, The Demand to Simulate White Bodies and White Embodiment. And so she says,
My somatic experience of on and in as I write these words is very different. I have the embodied
sensation of racism on the surface of my body, and not wanting to let it to be in and absorbed
into my skin, my skin forms a barrier. That racism can be scraped off if I can catch it fast enough.
I can do this removal with objects that do not damage but soothe and refresh my
precious black skin, perhaps a loofah or freshly laundered washcloth.
The racism that makes it past the permeable boundary of my skin requires a different
removal process. In the writing, it often shifts sequencing to smaller size and lighter weight,
then out of my hands and feet. I am aware that some of it does not leave my body,
is a pattern somatic marker that I have learned to meet and greet without demanding its removal
or exit. I wish to transform it rather than strengthen its initial wounding purposes that
entered from outside my body. It may have entered 400 years ago, yesterday while I was sitting at
the coffee shop down the street from my home, or a minute ago as I was looking out the window.
She says, I shouldn't have to be doing all of this work, this is not mine.
My anger has arrived heating my ears and buzzing my upper chest.
So, so affective participatory sense making in an embedded ecological, environmental,
ongoing dynamic systemic process has been being written by women, you know, and women of color
specifically, since we have been writing. And I just felt I'm sorry that I took the time to
read that passage, but I literally just prepped the notes on that right before we got on here.
And I was thinking like how explicitly relevant it was to our conversation and that
honestly gets a little tiresome reading all of this work and embodied in activism.
And knowing that I'm coming to it with a full sense of understanding because I have been doing
all of this work on body epistemologies, my whole training, learning from these kinds of and working
with these kinds of women. And that's why it was such an easy transition for me to use this language
is like I already knew it. I already knew it. I just kind of had to pick up the language that
the men were using in a certain sort of respect. So like when I read Hanna and Elena's work and
all of that stuff, like the way that they write it, it's just a natural, more technical scientific
articulation of these body knowledges itself. So I just was like, we're already doing it.
Why don't we make it more explicit and why don't we get together and have these conversations
together? Because while this stuff doesn't exist in the upper echelons and the older,
more maybe prominent generations above us, maybe a generation or two above Elena and me,
the younger, especially the graduate students are doing this work. They're blending and applying
this work. And I was like, we need to have a community where we can talk to each other
about doing these things. And when we all came together for the conference, it was so
enriching and energizing and it was great. And Elena was there as like our expert.
And it was just a wonderful time and like all of the papers and so that's why I was doing it.
And then I think that when I was talking to Elena about it, she was just so incredibly supportive
that it became, you know, sort of a collaborative venture. And I think we're looking into pursuing
more versions of this in the future. It's great that you corrected that, that it's
these ideas are out there in a lot of places. It's just, I wouldn't see them normally in this
philosophical world. So that was really refreshing. But yeah, did you want to say something to that,
Elena, what she just said? I saw you kind of, no, okay. Yeah, okay. So there's so much in there.
And then that quote you read, and I guess to try to make it real, I mean, because I can tell you
really feel passionate about this. I think you've been at Spelman for over 10 years or so,
have you? 14. Okay. So this is not like a new subject for you. And you've been teaching these
subjects. And I looked at your classes, you're even teaching Native American philosophy and things.
You're doing a lot of things that like, that just doing the show, people often ask, where can I
find these things? Are people teaching classes on this? You know, younger people who want to
learn philosophy. So it's great that you're doing it. I do hope it's starting. I do hope this becomes
more normal in academia. However, I'm just saying that you've already been doing this. And I wonder
about when you were both learning philosophy, did you encounter any of this at all? Because
I remember studying it like cultural theory, but we have all these little boundaries and
categories we put each other in, which is why it's even hard to sometimes say you're this or that in
in this world of philosophy, because then you're supposed to be associated with this whole
collection of things that maybe put you into a certain box. So yeah, I wonder how you
developed your own views, if you felt like you were being put into boxes,
if you've resisted those or embraced those or whatever, both of you.
Okay, I'll start. That's an interesting one for you.
Well, I was thinking when Shay was even speaking so wonderfully about these other traditions that
infuse especially some people's approaches to my own very unique grad school experience
at the University of Oregon, where I went to study with Mark Johnson to continue cognitive
linguistics and embodied language work, but did a whole side master's piece that was really on
feminist phenomenology. And it was a place where I could study feminist phenomenology
with Beatrice Tavarska and Bonnie Mann, but I also was in a philosophy of race,
I'm not an American philosophy reading group, way back, this is like, years before 2010,
I'm dating myself, but like, you can see that in the talk I gave to because I went back to some of
that literature, but with Naomi Zach, Jose Mendoza, Grant Silva, George Forlas, there was a whole
community studying those kinds of philosophies at the same time that I was studying philosophy
of cognitive science. And it was like really unique to be able to blend that. And I think,
um, yeah, so I got to experience like this very pluralist philosophy environment. And then I
remember going to conferences, I would often go to like cognitive linguistics conferences and still
do, and those are always happy for me. But I would go to philosophy conferences outside of
this Oregon bubble and I'd be like, I do not know what is happening here. Because this was
a department where half the faculty were women, again, before 2010, and everyone had to take two
feminist philosophy courses and everyone had to take two American philosophy courses. And
some of the American philosophy professors were starting to do indigenous philosophy a bit. So it
was, I think, actually really unique. And there were some, there are other programs like that in
the US, but they are their own. And I know that, yeah, when you then interface with larger bodies,
especially in the US, it is a different experience. And so I went to Europe
after that as my next step and found it very smooth and continued to have a lot of connections
there because it's just a different world, I'll say, for now, both for linguistics and for
philosophy. That was my home. Yeah. It's still rare to find. Actually, I was going to ask,
is there some kind of resource where you could find, for example, a list of
phenomenological feminist philosophers to study? I mean, I think Shay would even probably know
better. She is the queen of the list and the lifters and the communities. Yes.
So I don't know, you do neuroscience, so I don't know, do you know Bec Todd? Rebecca Todd,
she's like huge in neuroscience. And so she just asked me for a bunch of these resources. And I
just sent her, as I did some of the Embodied Cognition guys, I just sent her my bibliographies.
Right. So historically, I have always written, I have always written on. So sort of like there
are a couple of bubbles that do what we do. And so I went to a program called at Binghamton
University called SPEL, which was stands for Social, Political, Ethical and Legal Philosophy,
which also requires it's both analytic continent and continental and phenomenological.
And it was majority women professors. And you had to do non-Western philosophy as well. So
I didn't I originally started at Florida State, which was a philosophy of science,
action theory department. And I had to study Latina, Indigenous and Feminist philosophy
independently. And then so I made the move to go over to Binghamton. So it's sort of like,
I'm sure Elena's work and my work just like bibliographies that has all of these
non-Husserl phenomenologists in it. So I think that we could easily share those bibliographies.
There are resources all over the place, but honestly, like finding people who write on this
stuff and like our recent our recent work. So like a lot of my my last two books have an equal
amount of embodied cognition and inactivism and feminist embodiment phenomenology in it. So
those would be easy to to just share out. So why is this so hard to combine academically? Why is
this so hard to talk? I mean, I don't want us to sound like we're oh, we're so great. We know all
these resources and we know all that we've been reading these things forever because it's not
about that. It's about having a lived experience and then needing to find people who've experienced
something like that who are also trying to work through it philosophically. It's actually about
trying to understand these lived experiences and philosophical life and the things that we're
experiencing every day. So why does that get somehow extracted when we go into academia?
Do you have any insight from your experience with these with working in this way? I mean,
I guess you've encountered pushback or you've just seen how people think they know everything
and they just excluded whatever in their world. It's a complicated question. I think it's a really
complicated question because I think a lot of it I don't want to sound too cynical here. I think
one answer is just like who's doing the work at the highest levels, who's editing the journals,
who's putting on the conferences that everyone wants to go to, who's hiring people, who's getting
hired. That's part of it. Who's getting hired and having grad students and then having
their work continue. And so there's that side. And then I think it is also
hard, maybe particularly in the US, to do more than one thing. So I think Shay and I have bonded
over both getting this message as we go through reviews as faculty. Why are you doing things that
don't fit together? Why are you doing so many different things? You can't possibly be doing
them well if you're doing different things or combining things. I mean, we know that
interdisciplinary programs have a hard time. People love to advertise them. They don't like to fund
them. They don't like to do the work of integrating people and running more programs always takes more
human power. So I think there's a network of distributed power that no one person's
responsible for that is generally making it always a battle to work at the edges of things. So I
always worked at what I felt like were marginalized philosophies and marginalized theories of language
and linguistics and marginalized theories of mind and cognitive science. And so I'm used to it,
but it doesn't mean that there's not costs, frequently costs, actually. And just a very
basic example, like journal reviewers, and one person will be like, yes, the other person will
be like, yes, what the fuck? That's because they're just coming from completely different.
I think it's, you're right, this is so hard to talk about. But I also feel like it's the thing
we need to talk about this whole beyond dichotomy idea. Like it's very hard to understand that we
are coming from different paths. And so we have different perspectives. Have you found that just
can you just address that and that it then opens people up to look at it differently? Is there any
kind of switch that happens to where when people realize that's the process they might like this
reviewer number two, for example, rethink? What do you think, Cher?
Yeah, I mean, so there's an interesting sort of thing where like the reason so kind of like
Alina's putting out, she's always been working on marginalized philosophy. And that's because
she's working on women and people of color who are marginalized in philosophy. And so if you don't
have experience to people who've been writing about their bodies forever, then understanding
how to think about and write about your body philosophically is going to be a difficult thing
to do. Having surrounded yourself with people who do that and who live that and who talk about that
and who you can train with. It's a natural progression, right? But most people, these are
marginalized groups in philosophy already. So being able to work and train with these people
and read their work is a marginalized experience. And so historically, philosophy rests on the mind
body dichotomy where the mind is superior and the body is a hindrance. And so automatically,
if you have women and people of color writing about the body, they're already deemed as not
doing philosophy or not thinking rationally about the world. Their phenomenology is embodied,
which means they can't move past the body to the rational mind. So there's that. And then
that sort of persists, especially in STEM. And so then you have these people coming in with
embodied cognition. And so they're marginalized in STEM because they're trying to say the mind body
dichotomy doesn't exist as if it's a new idea, but they're marginalized in STEM.
So the thing is, is you've got a bunch of guys, usually white guys who are working in philosophy
of mind and STEM, discovering that the body knows these things and then they get marginalized in
these fields. And then when you have people coming in from the area where they're like,
this is obviously true. Where have you been? Then that is sort of marginalized because it's
just a habit to marginalize marginalized people in philosophy, especially, especially philosophy
of mind. So then when you have a marginalized group of people writing about the body and then
you have these other marginalized people coming to it, then they're like, oh, you just don't
understand the body the way that the body is supposed to be understood. Again, you don't
understand the body rationally or scientifically in this sort of way. So then it's kind of pushed
out as not real embodied cognition work. And so that's just a problem of marginalization
and systemic exclusion within philosophy and STEM generally. And so it does become incumbent upon
people to actively search this out and actively search these people out and actively support these
people. Because when you get reviewer number one and reviewer number two, you have to argue to the
editor that reviewer number two is just not reading new work. So reviewer number one sees it.
And so you don't have to convince number reviewer number two, you have to convince the editor,
that reviewer you have to be able to say reviewer number two, I'm sorry, you just haven't read enough
the literature to understand where we're coming from. And your work isn't as extensive as say
reviewer number one in my work. And then make the argument indirectly to the editor about why
reviewer number two shouldn't be considered. And this is going to piss off reviewer number two.
And reviewer number two is going to fight back to the editor. And so then it becomes again,
who's reading, who's judging, who's hiring, who's doing these journals to make the decision about
whether or not people doing these marginalized topics are worthy of being included.
Right. So it's it is the similar problem of just marginalization within the field of philosophy
in STEM. And also the problem of who is the gatekeeper of letting in these people who are
adding marginalized voices to these properly technical fields. Right.
I said we were going to talk about fractals and in a fractal way. And I think that this is a great
example of it of how we're talking about marginalization, which is a word we could think
about or the center or the margin, the edge of the you know, getting there's also words like
disorder. And there's all these words that as you just kind of expressed, get defined differently
by different people. So yeah, this this fractal thing, I think it's very hard to talk about where
is the margin? Where is the center? So to get into that a little bit, I wonder about this question.
How many people do you think think of themselves as normal?
As have had having had a normal experience? I mean, I find this a very hard question,
we might not be able to answer it. But because I think this is some of the confusing and when we
always end up fighting each other in a way because there's you guys correct me, please,
and I'm sorry, I keep saying you guys, please, you know, correct me. But I feel like we all,
I don't feel like normal. And most people don't feel normal, I would say. And yet,
we assume there's this normal world out there. And then at the same time, for that same reason,
depending on how easy life has been for us in terms of the regularities we've encountered,
there is a kind of like protection of what we think of as normal.
So I don't know what do you think most do you think people in general consider themselves normal?
And how is it versus the way they define themselves in the way they think of the
rest of the world thinking of themselves as normal? I know that's kind of hard to talk about. But
do you see what I'm trying to get at?
Elaine, I'm going to let you answer that one. But I'm going to throw in a useful
term to get rid of you guys is y'all. Y'all is good. I am. I like y'all.
So just go right on to y'all and do that.
I said y'all so much when I came back from Atlanta. Do I need permission to say y'all
as someone who has- You do not.
Okay. Okay. Because I love y'all, but then I'm like, and I love y'all, but then I'm like,
am I allowed to just say this? I'm glad we clarified that. We can all use y'all.
We can all use y'all. I think this is really a question for Shay's work, which is so on the
nose about being interpolated as not normal, being normal or not normal, the way that this
shifts in different contexts. I don't really know how to start answering it. I will say that
as we were talking about the gatekeeping and the power structures, and I always wrestle with how
much of this is myth and how much of this is real and how much of our believing in the myth is part
of the problem. When it comes specifically to academic cultures, and there is room,
there is change in them for sure. I don't think there's a dark secret society of people in robes
being like, we shall keep out this and this. I don't think it's like that. But there's much
broader question of do people see themselves as normal? Again, a theme of our conference was
first-person perspective. That was actually a really big theme of the conference and maybe
was in one of the titles initially, or was in the invitation that Shay put out for the kind of work
that she was looking to have done. I think that even just that question of what is a lived
experience of first-person perspective needs more study, and maybe do you feel normal as part
of that? What we talked about in a lot of the papers and talks was about how other people have
a role in the first-person perspective. I tried to introduce this notion of an impure first-person
perspective because of the other that's always involved. This is an old idea in existential
phenomenology, but I think it has a very different vibe when we're taking it through the lenses of
race or gender neurodivergence. I think that there are going to be times and people with
whom we feel normal and then times and places and people with whom we don't feel normal.
I think that the proportion of those shifts has something to do with oppression and has something
to do with who the world is built for socially and physically. But I want to hear what Shay has to say
about it. Well, I'm thinking of it from a different sort of perspective. So,
right? If you would ask anybody if they feel normal, everybody would say no.
Nobody feels normal. Also, to say that you feel normal is to assert in a world where
marginalization is so buzzword that they would be like, no, I'm normal. Nobody would say that.
And also, if you would ask a lot of dudes in philosophy if they think they're normal,
they would say, certainly not. Either I got beat up in school because I was a nerd, or I'm so smart,
I'm so smart that I just can't communicate with the normal people. So, even if you ask people
that we might consider academia if they're normal, everybody would have a good reason why
they're not normal. In academia, I totally agree. But I'm thinking about like, what about all my
neighbors and their political signs of the recent winning party? Don't they take themselves as,
like, they're the norm? I think that this, if you're going to relate it to this,
one of the things that I was thinking about in philosophy is like, if we're thinking about
gatekeeping, nobody says this is normal philosophy. What they're going to say is this is good
philosophy, or this is real philosophy. So, when I've done Native American work and submitted for
grants, the comments didn't come back from reviewer number two, in fact,
that it wasn't normal. What they said was it wasn't real. So, one of the comments was like,
there's no such thing as Native American philosophy. It was never sophisticated enough
as a system of thought to count as a philosophy. This would count more as Native American,
like, the best category for this is Native American religious thought.
Right? And so, I was doing Native American epistemology in an analytic sense,
and reviewer number two says this isn't real philosophy. And so, that's another thing is like,
or it's just not good. It gets, it's messy, right? It's not clean. You're talking about
affect and somatics in a way that doesn't, you know, bring in molecular neuroscience,
right? And in somatic markers, right? When you're talking about intergenerational trauma and body
memory, like this is body memory for trauma is a different sort of thing from body memory in terms
of embodied cognition. It's just not, it's messy, right? So, nobody's going to say this is not
normal. They're going to say this is not good, right? And so, that's sort of the thing. And then,
I would think that when we think about politics, and I have a pretty unique, as a raging leftist,
I have a pretty unique perspective on politics because what I tell my fellow leftists is like,
you're half the reason why we lose is because you say, I'm better. I have the morally right
position. I am morally superior to these uneducated, unthoughtful, uninf, right? So,
there's always this sort of like, it's the same thing with like philosophy. Like,
they just don't get it. They just don't know. They don't have the real understanding of what,
history is, and they don't want to know it, right? And it sounds the same thing in academia.
So, I just don't think, and I don't think I've ever heard anyone say, I'm normal. And I just
don't think anybody would because it institutes a sort of privilege that nobody would want to
step into that position and say, I am the norm. So, are you saying you tell them this is to their
detriment to sound elitist or something? Because I think right now, if just like a man who is
interested in philosophy, I'm thinking of someone on YouTube who's really interested in watching a
lot of videos and learning a lot about trying to understand mind and consciousness and these
things. And then they come and they listen to us talking like this. Wouldn't they also feel that
we are saying everything that they've been watching and learning is wrong and they're kind
of wrong that they don't know about phenomenology? I'm not saying we're saying that, but I'm saying
for their class, they would be taking it that way. If they weren't genuinely sincere about wanting
to learn, they would perceive it that way. What we're saying is, is that the exposure isn't there.
That's all we're saying is that we're talking from a place where it means so much to us that
it can sound like we're, because there's something like hurt involved in it, right?
I guess it's important to say that we're not saying anybody is wrong.
We haven't really gotten into any arguments here. Yeah. The only time we would say they were wrong
is if they read the things and they were like, there is no body, body doesn't know. Then we would,
then we would say you're wrong, but then that's just a whole philosophy of mine saying like,
you're wrong or you read Husserl and you don't think that, or Merlot-Ponty and you don't see
body knowledge, you're wrong. We probably didn't pass that class.
Or maybe just that you've always thought phenomenology is only about Heidegger,
Husserl, Merlot-Ponty or something, right? Because most people might just not have any idea that
there's a lot of women doing it and involved in it. And then you don't say that they're wrong.
You just say like, no, no, but they might feel wrong, I guess, or accused or something.
Well, that's just fragility, right? So that's what we call white fragility and masculine fragility.
And that's on them, right? So if we're very specifically saying, oh, no wrongness,
no judgment. And we, this is a woman's thing too, like, and there were like black women in
philosophy who get to graduate school and well, undergraduate school and have never read black
women in philosophy because they don't go to a program that does, you know, one of my students
is in a program that doesn't have any black women philosophers. And I'm assuming they don't read
black women philosophy. So she's having to find it somewhere else. And not being a black woman and
not knowing that there are black women doing this work is doesn't mean that we're saying we're just
saying that's unfortunate. We can help you find those resources. And if anybody wants to learn
anything about this because they didn't have the exposure, just because traditionally it doesn't
exist in, you know, philosophy of mind, then come on over and we'll teach you all about it.
And then it's very rich, honestly, for everyone. There's so much.
No, I feel attacked. Then that is fragility. And then that's just on them, right, Elena?
No, 100%. And I want to go back to what you're saying about normal and good. Like when people,
so I want to say something about that. And then also relatedly, this inclusivity bit. So like,
yes, they'll say this isn't good, or this isn't real. But what does that mean? If not,
this isn't what I'm used to. This isn't what I was taught that this is. Right. And I run into
that, certainly the sense of like, we cannot possibly change our assumptions about what
philosophy is about what disciplinary boundaries are. Though there is a sense where like, yes,
I totally agree with Shay, they're going to say it's not good, but they mean it's not normal.
It's not normal. And we if we're trying to have any message here, it's about change. It's not
about rejection. And that actually includes like, I am not here for analytic, like, knocking down
other people's arguments. So even the way that I like to do philosophy, and I know Hannah does,
and even conferences and even panels and events is about building community and dialogue,
and embodied interactive experience. It is not about telling people that they are wrong.
That is actually the old game. And that is maybe so like, if you feel like that's what's happening,
that might be like Shay's thing coming from, you know, what you've experienced previously,
it's not about- And fragility is fine. Precariousness and being, I mean, these are all
part of life too. But I think what I'm trying to do here by pushing at this is,
what I think is we have a stance that we either our way has been the right way, or we're wrong.
It's an assumption that people bring to things. And so if sometimes when you hear things that
are counter to what you've been hearing, and the way you just brought up, you want to reject it,
or you think it's wrong, because you think you have to choose. And that initial stance, I think,
is what is being caught into question by a lot of these texts that you have been supporting for the
past decade, and what I think we all need to learn. But until we get over that stance where
it's rejected, just offhand, because it doesn't fit with what came before, we can't open up to
that fracticality and nestedness of all these other ways, which I think everyone's hungry for.
It's just that there's something about the stance we take where we have to reject
immediately. And that's what I'm trying to bring up, because that hurts me a bit that that happens.
Because a lot of these stories and what's in your bibliography, for example, I think a lot of people,
no matter how they've developed, are hungry for at the moment. It's really, really rich with
a lot of that. So I'm just trying to get over that initial,
if you've never heard of this before, then everything you know before is wrong, kind of.
I guess I would just say if somebody's already hungry for it, that they just wouldn't have that
assumption. And I've just not been around anybody who carries that assumption. So I mean, there are
the older the older people like I would say, like scholars in their 60s would be more like,
I reject this because it's not where I'm coming from. But I just don't think that I've ever
interacted with anybody academically who has at least interacted with me. But I guess I just
nobody would come to me with that assumption. I think they would just know better or I would
they just they if they had that assumption, they would just have no desire to talk to me
or to read me. But I just assume that if somebody is hungry, that they just wouldn't have that
assumption. They would be like, I'm hungry for this. I want to hear this. Where can I get this?
If somebody's hungry for it, they wouldn't already assume that they were being told that they were
wrong. I guess it gets to those layers of what's the self and what's the body that you bring up
in your paper and Elena and your talk to I think it's really wonderful the way you're
looking at the difference between the eye and what that really means. Because what you say,
Shay is right. At the same time, it's not a lot of this isn't done in a metacognitive kind of sense.
I guess what I was trying to get at with the reviewers, it's there's something going on there
that someone's thinking through something and then rejecting it. There's some kind of stance,
which just orients us towards things or away from things in a way that's a little bit different than
that we've rationally thought it through or whatever. We might say we're perfectly open to
it and talk in that way, but when it comes down to really letting it penetrate that part of us.
I think that most people say that that's discomfort.
But that's a big thing. People hear it and they feel it.
You have to embrace discomfort.
Yes, but that is as you're saying, it's a hard thing to do. So even if rationally,
you're open to it, the discomfort that you feel is going to have an influence.
Which I'm glad you said that because I think you or many people who write from this perspective
have understood that in a way. What discomfort is, what it means to embrace it.
Is that connected at all to your philosophies or to the marginalized bodily epistemologies?
Do you see any connection to that?
Talk about your eye. She brought up your eye in the cell.
Yeah, but then the discomfort part, I don't know how to tackle that part as much. So I'm thinking
about that. I was thinking about Shay's recent papers actually when you asked that question
about discomfort and it informing philosophy. I don't want to keep going back to the reviewer
question, but I think it's so hard to get into a place of openness and reviewing articles for free
when you're overworked to hell is not that place probably. There are a lot of conditions we need
to have in place if we really want to pursue truth together, whatever that looks like,
as opposed to just doing the jobs that we've inherited in a sense. What was the part about
the eye? Do you think there's a kind of orientation of we have to choose the right philosophy or this
is the right way? Is there any orientation like that or is there overall in academia,
do you feel any sense of that there's you have to choose one way or the other or do you feel
there's a sense of openness like we can have all kinds of many different sorts of epistemologies
or ontologies and they could all be beneficial or is it like this you have to choose one and one
has to be right or wrong? Or just what do you not for you but do you think there's do you think
what yes no why did you I don't personally I just assume that some people and I mean you just have
to be a pluralist if you're trained it depends on your training yeah yeah but then there's
can you be a realist and a pluralist at the same time and there's all these kind of I think you can
I guess what I'm interested in is do you think or have you seen it change over time that
we can incorporate many different for example the eye many different ways of thinking of what the eye
is philosophically and that it doesn't only mean if your paper gets sent to the people who think
of the eye the way that you think of the eye whether or not that paper gets through or not
is there is there a widening of of that or is it still very much you call yourself a certain kind
of philosopher and you need your papers reviewed by those kind of philosophers to get them through
I just had I swear I I always am opposed to this but didn't you just have an immediate thought of
Marie Lugona's impure the impure eye yeah no I mean I just like the world traveling and is it
possible is that what you're thinking shea well no she talks about that impure eye about the eye
having so many different ontologies about I mean I guess it would be as a result of world traveling
in a certain sort of sense but it's in that it's in that book right um it's a different article I
think um it just I guess it just like it's it's really a training thing like to me I'm just like
who who wouldn't but then there are people who do where they're just like oh you have to be
consistent and then the thought of a pluralist is that there the the fact of multitudes is
consistency and so we might think that somebody who thinks that you have to pick one thing
and stick with it what I think is like how how unfortunate how unfortunate and narrow and
unenriched but I mean if somebody felt like it's it's hard to just say I don't know to just be like
you're wrong you know what I mean whereas you know as a pluralist I just say oh you could just
there's so much about the world and the universe that you can get from from recognizing pluralism
is it is a realism um but you're gonna have people in computer science being like uh-uh
yeah I feel like an almost obsessive need when I talk to someone and they're saying something
interesting to like collaborate with them or find the points of connection and I and I just don't
I don't I can't speak to beyond that I also am in a really like I'm a philosopher in a psychology
department I don't think I can anymore talk about the field of philosophy and like what it's up to
these days for people who are entering it like do you know what I mean like it's I've sought out
niche places my whole from the beginning um so I can't speak to the non-niche I guess yeah the
point I'm trying to get at the the bigger point is here our cartoon maybe this is going to sound
terrible but I just want to try to get into it because so body marginalized body body epistemologies
uh for example I grew up in a certain way we don't have to name all of these things but
because of that when I'm interacting with people I realize that they don't what I'm doing doesn't
fit to what they expect a girl to do right and so over time you realize that you're not
normal and just because people are not you're not meeting with what their expectations
uh what they expect those kind of situations where there's kind of regularities in the way
people act whether they really feel that way or not and when you don't act that way you feel
that it's different and I think those of us all of us probably have this at some experience but
there's degrees of it there's degrees out to where it really affects every moment of your life
and there's something about that if you're going to learn how to deal with it and live with it and
be in the world that puts you're not in the center at least not in terms of what's regular
and you have to feel the discomfort and you have to learn how to deal with it and I feel like a
lot of the literature that you just both discuss and your own writing comes out of some kind of
understanding of that that is very rich and that's what I'm trying to open up here so yeah I don't
know what does that bring up for either of you I think that most of the stuff that I work with
doesn't talk about their own discomfort it talks about the discomfort of others
can you tell me more so it would be the idea of my my gender expression is my gender expression
and it makes other people uncomfortable and that is a problem with the other people so like and you
would you would recognize that like what it means to act like a girl changes in different contexts
right so what it means to act like a girl at a nightclub is not the same thing as what it means
to act like a girl at a at a philosophy conference whereas one of them is going to expect very high
femme and the other one is going to be very anti-high femme right and so like so like Elena
and I are going to be more on the margins at philosophy conferences with our you know cute
hair and glasses right because that's not that that's girly and that's not how girls in academia
act whereas you know if you're outside or like girls in ballet are expected to act a different
kind of way than girls who do pole dancing there's just there is no expectation about what girls are
supposed to do because different communities have different gender expectations and so that's the
point about recognizing that other people have the discomfort because your gender expression
doesn't really change unless you're code switching right and then you're just like well this is my
gender expression and it's so unfortunate the other people are discomfort and as a liberatory
resistant process I'm going to actively make people uncomfortable until they recognize that
they are the source of the expectations that are oppressive so I don't think it's been a long time
right so when she's talking about the oppression on her black body in white spaces she's not talking
about her discomfort she's talking about the discomfort of white people who are exposed to
black bodies that aren't conforming to whiteness in white spaces so at least where Elena and I
come from the discomfort belongs to the oppressor and not the oppressed because the oppressed
refuse to think of their body as wrong and choose that to be either or there I think that's a really
good point you make thank you it is about the discomfort of but it does that mean also that
is not uncomfortable or a difficult challenge I think that's going on here is that like you
you are kind of so there is no either or and I don't think Elena whatever either of us are
going to say either or there there is no either or for either of us it is everything all at once
it is this and that and the other and nothing is right or wrong there's like there's
richer understandings or more more rigid understandings or other kinds of things
but that's so the binaries for us don't exist and we're not going to implement any sort of
binary standards either on being or or reviewer number two right so it's it's not that something
is normal or not normal it's not something is right or wrong it's not something that it's either
or it is all it is all and that's what makes lived experience lived I guess in a certain
sort of way I mean Elena or do you do you see what I'm saying yeah I think I mean I think so
I wanted to ask you what you think about um I mean oppression is wrong right and you would say this
and we we are wrong and bad yeah certain kinds of things we still want to fight them um but I
but you I think that's something you so deeply take for granted that you don't feel like you
have to say it but I think um if the other's discomfort what I've been trying to track and
figure out for a while is how that discomfort would feed the system that we're both part of
and then that will come back right and and and affect and constrain the next moves or the next
acts or the next expressions or what is um what is withheld or what is self-silence like we talked
a lot about Dotson's testimonial smothering and self-silencing in a conference several people
were working with Dotson's work on that um so and I also think about um when you were asking your
question Andrea I was thinking about Sarah Hendren's amazing book What Can a Body Do?
How We Meet the Built World I think it's called which it's something I've been teaching at the
end of Embodied Cog and it really uses another e ecological psych and affordances but it's talking
about um very actually a very basic idea from disability studies going back decades but
but new maybe in this context of writing about design in a philosophical way and writing about
design and autism and neurodivergences um is her take that like what you are afforded is all about
who well who is afforded what who designed the space for who and I think that that space can be
a physical built designed space or it can be a socially built normative space like academia um
and but I usually work actually in a much more micro level of like an interactional dyad uh
because of working on multimodal languaging stuff and so I'm really interested in how
the discomfort becomes becomes my discomfort or I have to deal with that discomfort or I have to
mitigate that discomfort and that will depend on how have I been socialized how have I been gendered
right so I am was gendered very normal normal because coming up sort of like this hetero woman
origin like middle class right like this is appropriate this is not appropriate and like
people pleasing it's very important right and like it's taken a lot to deconstruct this very basic
obvious sort of like privileged thing that is nonetheless psychologically harmful if you don't
ever pay attention to it and like excavate it and figure out I'm not here to make you feel good
right but like that is a basic message that I've had since childhood um I don't know quite how I got
there but I think that like that is so I'm really interested I guess in the co-responsibility of
what we're doing to each other in interacting and in just having these reactions of what's
comfortable or not or what's normal or not which are not you know to be blamed for necessarily but
must be I think examined I think that's sorry it's got on the soapbox out of nowhere
no it's not wasn't a soapbox it's just real these are hard things to talk about and
I guess when discomfort gets to this body thing again and the difference between
the body's reaction and what we think of a self or what the eye is those aren't always the same
and but they co-create each other in a sense because I wasn't saying by being discomfortable
you aren't strong or that it's right for you to feel uncomfortable or that you know but sometimes
that situation is that you're made to feel uncomfortable and then you have to recognize
that discomfort in the eye in the self and then you have to fight against it and or and change
so this is a whole process isn't it of the body coming to know itself having an eye then addressing
how others see that eye changing their own definition of the eye changing yeah pushing
against what others are trying to impose of the eye yeah and I want to say I want to just jump
in because the discomfort and how we relate to it was such a theme in some of these amazing papers
that were at the conference on menstruate like interoception and menstruation and endometriosis
and pregnancy and childbirth and um Sophia Gebson's or you're um am I saying her name right Shae?
Sophia Gebson's paper on like where do you feel emotion and what's normal about where you feel
do you and you feel it in the how do you feel in the body like this was a theme throughout this
question of like how important it is to pay attention to what you feel but how dismissed
it is in an institutional setting to pay attention to what you feel or who are you
when you're paying attention to what you feel and that we're not feeling things the same way
like that was a really I went back over because you know we're thinking about some kind of
publication eventually and I wanted to be prepared for this and I was just like there were some
very clear themes and threads and so like working with discomfort or sensation or like sensation
that is not you know maybe certainly informative maybe maybe it's maybe we want to call it pain
maybe we don't depending you know like was a really important theme and that's exactly the
kind of like source for knowledge for embodied epistemology that has been dismissed and left out
and dismantled you know and I think or not just like sort of like not included and people were
bringing it in and like all sorts of ways across I can think of at least four or five talks well
that's what I love about Shae's or I don't know who decided for the title but bodily epistemology
right this is really rich if you especially if you look at what you wrote in your paper Elena
and what you presented of the body not necessarily being the eye and overlapping always with the
self there's a lot of nuance in there to figure out but the sense of feeling is a kind of knowledge
right and that doesn't mean that the eye knows or has recognized the body's knowledge
right and what would it mean for that to happen and like what does it mean to build build on that
build treatments on that build theories on that or even in our own life I guess that's what I was
trying to get at is we come to this that the body is in the world in a particular way it has a
knowledge of the world and it's being treated in a certain way and that's an ongoing and active
process and then the eye gets created for us or we create the eye this process is going on
and all of this is bodily epistemology at the same time it's not ever not that I guess
but tell me a little more before you have to go about the conference itself and
we're talking about feeling and the body and because you know there's so much stuff online
now but you actually were there in person most of you right what was the feeling of it and relative
to these themes of women and different stories did you learn something yourself from
the coming together there sounds like you did
I guess oh my god so so much yeah shake yeah no I mean I guess like being in that environment
and having those conversations is not different for me it is what I've been doing my whole academic
career kind of my whole life what was fun and exciting about it was seeing the way these
different kinds of things were being mixed were being mixed in with the inactivism right so
so inactivism would say that the body is the knower is the eye always and so when people
separate those things they just they just misunderstand or have been taught that the body
isn't the eye so that's that's just sort of the the basis of inactivism is the body is the knower
and so the eye doesn't come to know the body the body has always been the eye
but people have been taught mind body dualism and you have to undo that that mindset
um which is why inactivism is so uh appealing to people who have been doing
marginalized body epistemologies all along because the notion of body epistemology
doesn't come from embodied cognition body epistemology has always existed within the
literature that we've been doing so I took marginalized body epistemologies from
um all of the things that have been done forever I specifically used the term body epistemologies
from all of these things and then added it with 4e embodied cognition so it's showing that two
separate worlds are coming together and so like we had so many things on pregnancy and indigenous
philosophy and um marathon running and like all of these different first person perspectives that
was me like very technically blended in with an activism and so it was just it was cool to see
other people doing what we had been trying to do and then doing it well and doing it on so many
different topics that we were like aha this is not something unique this is something that is
growing so it's not something that has it's something that hasn't existed before but is
coming into existence and people are coming together to do those things and that's what
we were doing so it was it was fun right it was fun to see all the different ways that people
were doing this so you know what did you think absolutely just what you said and and when you
said an activism the body is the eye and the knower I mean we were really pushing and problematizing
that for an activism too with these perspectives and that has to happen in that conversation
right it's not that these things will come together and nothing will change and they'll
just perfectly add up but actually I think there's a good deepening and a challenging
specifically for theories that I've been talking about the body or the organism in a broad sense
even while being open to scale and open to different lived experiences and open just to
different there's a way to being open to different in the abstract and then dealing with it in the
concrete in particular which I feel like was really being brought out in the conference and
it was definitely fun and it was amazing vibe shades students current and past are amazing
and and it was also just amazing to see so many come back like and be like yes I'm gonna I keep
I'm keeping on with this work and I'm going to bring it back home it was really cool to see that
too and and really an honor to get to be there for that and to meet them well that's beautiful
to hear but before we go I was going to ask both of you I was going to ask if you're living this
if it's really your life and it matters in the way that you're living your life and shay has
already answered that I think yes because it doesn't seem there's you know you seem confused
even if that there would be a distinction between these things which is wonderful but I do wonder
about that because you know it's not I wonder how this is for your daily lived sense of self in the
world interacting with the world if you just if you see your philosophy as your way of being
or if you separate it still or I don't it is my way of being especially if you notice I write
about everything that has to do with my life I don't write about anything that doesn't have
to do with my personal life and I'm never going to write about anything that is not
immediately coming from my life so I've never separated my scholarship from my life
and my life has always been the basis that philosophy
is philosophy comes to my life my life doesn't come to philosophy if that makes sense
has philosophy been helpful for you and we can't get into it but you write about
borderline personality disorder and I hope at some point you'll talk about that because these
papers are just incredible now but I guess I wonder does it I feel like I'm doing other people
a favor yeah I don't yeah 100% I don't feel like philosophy has given me anything I feel like I'm
bringing philosophy things where I'm like look doesn't this make your life better by knowing
and how do you know that it didn't did it make your life better or it's just
I just I just I'm like oh look I like this way of thinking now I'm going to take things about my
life and give it to other people and be like cool huh and it's going to be in a shared language of
analytic philosophy because that's that is the thing it needs to be in a shared language for
other people to understand it so I'm not using analytic inactivism to understand my experience
my experience I'm using analytic inactivism to help other people
understand my experience but in the way we've been talking about that that even seems collapsed
because you're living it I guess it's almost confusing in a way because it is your bodily
epistemology and so even when we're talking about it we're separating it a bit because
with language but you're living it right and yeah and so it's not only that you're showing
other people but you're living it in a way that's hard to talk about yeah I mean it's I think it's
easy for me to talk about I don't think it's for me I'm not confused about it and I don't think
it's hard to talk about it might be hard for other people to take up but then again that's that's
their discomfort or hard to not hear it through our perspective other perspective another perspective
because there's something very radical about what the way you're living and the way you're writing
that when you try to fit it into the way other people might be living and writing which is
sometimes removing self from the process in order to be able to process it is different so it can be
it can feel very striking but for you it's what you're doing is what I'm saying Elena
why don't you what do you think about all this yeah maybe Elena doesn't feel like it's as natural
as I think that it is no I mean I think it's great to hear Shay's account and method and I meant to
ask Shay when we were together how she writes so many books I still plan to ask her this and get
get advice on it but I think I don't yeah so I am not I don't I'm working to relate personally to
my work at the like at something even close to the level of what Shay draws on and does I think it's
a very implicit for historically it's been very implicit for me like why I have an abstract and
intellectualized why I have the interest I have why I work the way that I do it's something I'm
still trying to like reflect on and explore the closest thing to me was this kind of like interview
study life world interview study on hope trying to deal with my like paralyzing climate anxiety
as a parent but it was a it was certainly work that is messy and bringing a lot of things together
in a way that I'm not sure makes sense yet and so I'm still working on that but I definitely tend
to operate on a slightly more abstract level I will say that being so immersed in participatory
sense-making has led me to very collaborative a very collaborative style of work I guess and
that's important to me and that's also something that's not always translate well in in philosophy
although I think that's changing quite a bit I think so too and I would love to now to ask you
about language but I'm not going to because we need to go I hope we can put it on pause and
talk in another time and talk about your your specific writings but for now I think we at
least introduced a lot of the themes of the conference and talked about them in a way and
I just want to say thanks to both of you for your different approaches both very
moving and effective I hope everyone will go read your stuff now is there anything in the end
thank you want to say that we didn't make clear before we go I would just say that I don't think
anybody is wrong I don't think anybody is wrong and I invite you to join us in our shenanigans
wonderful thank you thanks Andrea and thanks Shay
all right all right thank you both okay thanks
