Hi everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy.
The paradox we're holding here today is harmony and weirdness,
specifically harmonizing the Tao and the weirdness of the world, which are both topics of writings
and books. Weirdness of the World is a book title, actually, by my guest Eric Schutzgabel.
Eric is an analytic philosopher and a professor of philosophy at the University of California
Riverside. He's also the author of A Theory of Jerks and Perplexities of Consciousness.
So just those titles probably already tell you a lot. I'm not sure if you've listened to my
conversation with C.T. Noyan, but these two philosophers, C.T. Noyan and Eric Schutzgabel,
have been two of my favorite to read over the years because they always get me thinking deeply
and yet they're also real craftsmen in their writing. In this conversation, we discuss
everything from robot consciousness to the love darts of snails to triads to axiology to
the philosophy of opening. It's always a pleasure to discuss the wonderfulness of being weird
and also to hold that alongside ideas about the Tao. So those are two words I know well.
I hope you indulge in some weirdness today and it's definitely one of the best routes to love.
Loving what is weird can really open you up to the world in a new way. So be and do well out there
and here we go. Hi Eric, thanks so much for being on Love and Philosophy. It's wonderful to meet you.
Nice to meet you too. So we're going to talk about harmonizing the Tao today among other things that
will hopefully lead us into a few other ideas relative to your work. But just to start, how
did you come upon this phrase harmonizing the Tao? When did this become an idea that you wanted to
explore? Well, I've always been interested in classical Chinese philosophy, at least well since
undergrad, and it is a central idea in classical Chinese philosophy, especially my favorite Chinese
philosopher Zhuangzi. But you also see it in the ancient Confucians and it's generally
part of ancient Chinese thinking that there is this thing, the Tao, which we can talk about
what the Tao is, and it's good to harmonize with it. So it goes way back into my roots in
classical Chinese philosophy. I wanted to ask you about that. How did you come upon that as an
interest? Sounds like it started young. As an undergraduate, yeah right. So when I was an
undergrad at Stanford, I took this amazing class with PJ Ivanhoe, who was a professor there at the
time. And I just fell in love with the classical Chinese thinkers. And then when I went to graduate
school at Berkeley, Kwong Le Shun was there and he also studies classical Chinese philosophy.
And he was delighted that there was an incoming student. I mean, most graduate students in
philosophy in the United States don't know anything about classical Chinese philosophy.
He was delighted there was someone who already knew a little bit about it and was interested in it.
So he kind of took me under his wing. I TA'd for him and gave him comments on one of his books.
And then PJ Ivanhoe had liked one of my undergraduate essays and asked me to turn it
into a publication for an anthology he was working on. So it was actually my first publication was in
the area. And I started learning the ancient Chinese language and I was thinking maybe I
would do a dissertation in that. I ended up not. But ever since then, it has been
continuing secondary interest of mine. I occasionally publish articles on it and
regularly teach a class on it, even though my main research is in moral psychology
and philosophy of mind. I wonder about that. Was that attention? I mean, you said there's
not a lot of people in the States who go into Chinese philosophy. That might be changing now,
but I wonder in your experience, did you ever, it sounds like you had a very fortuitous experience
in the sense that you kind of flowed right along. You were harmonizing with Adele, so to speak.
But that's not what I usually hear because I was also interested in it when I was younger and
I found it very hard to find a way in philosophy to do that. So I just wonder about that. Did you
feel that tension between traditional, especially analytic philosophy and these
interests in Chinese philosophy? Kind of yes and kind of no. One of the nice things about
PJ and Kuang Loi is they're very analytic. Well, nice thing to me, because I'm an analytic
philosopher, right? Nice thing to me is that they're very analytic in their writing and
thinking style. So, you know, it harmonizes with the style of philosophy that I'm comfortable with.
So I was very fortunate to be supervised by two of the very best kind of analytically trained,
analytically thinking classical Chinese philosophers just because of the universities I was at.
So in that sense, I didn't feel a tension. In another sense, right, there's
always been a little bit of, classical Chinese philosophy has always been marginalized in the
Anglophone tradition. And I think these days, people more than in the 90s, when I was in
grad school, professional philosophers in the United States recognize it as
potentially interesting tradition that has something to contribute.
But even so, they don't really know much about it. So you're always,
when you're talking with people about it, you're always doing a little bit of introduction.
It always seems a little foreign and alien to most, not to everybody, but to most philosophers in
the traditions I work in. Yeah, it can even be intimidating just to try to say the names.
I find that right now that I feel a little bit nervous to even try to say them, even though
I know them. But, okay, let's talk about harmonizing and Dao. We brought up both those
words. So maybe Dao first. What I know we can't give, you know, it's kind of everything and nothing.
But what should people know about that word relative to this discussion?
Right. So the word means different things to different thinkers and different traditions.
But the way that I want to use it, that I think fits nicely with my kind of secular 21st century
Anglophone perspective in general, is the Dao is basically everything. But it's not everything
conceptualized as a collection of things. Rather, the emphasis when you're thinking about
the Dao as being everything is the processes and patterns.
Right. So what is the Dao? It is the spinning of the earth, the coming and going of the seasons.
It is the way that trees grow and die and shed their leaves. It is the way that people interact
harmoniously or unharmoniously in society. It's all of that stuff conceptualized as the
regularities and patterns of things. I wonder, is harmony always harmonious?
Or is harmonization always about harmony? I mean, I think you say sometimes that, you know,
conflict is the harmony. So how do we unpack that a bit? Because it can just sound like,
oh, we're trying to find this very perfect balance, which is almost like a stasis state.
And that's definitely not what I got the impression you were discussing.
Right. So yeah, there's a bunch in there. So we might have to do a little bit of it
at a time in your question. Right. So let's start with a stasis state,
because I think that's one important difference between especially Zhuangzi style approaches.
And Zhuangzi, for those of your listeners who don't know, is one of the great ancient
pre-unification Taoists, along with the better known Laozi, who was probably a mythological
figure. And people might know the Tao Te Ching. Right. So alongside the Tao Te Ching, the other
pre-unification really ancient Taoist text is the Zhuangzi.
So and in that text, there's a kind of canonical seven chapters, which are called the inner
chapters, that are seen as the most reliable kind of core Zhuangist point of view. And we don't
know whether Zhuangzi actually was a historical figure who wrote those seven chapters or exactly.
I like to kind of think of it that way, but that might be a little bit of a fiction. Anyway.
So Zhuangzi, stasis is not what's up with Zhuangzi. Right. The coming and the going.
And one of the big differences between a kind of Zhuangist perspective, I think, and a nearby
perspective that you see in the ancient Greek tradition, especially Aristotle has typically
interpreted, is you have this idea from Aristotle and virtue ethics that there's a thing called
human flourishing that we should strive for. And flourishing involves being ethically good
and being creative and being productive, maybe being beautiful, maybe being athletic. We can't
have all of these things. Right. But in a way, it's a static picture. Right. You develop toward
an ideal and then you hold that ideal form as long as possible. Right. Whereas for Zhuangzi,
death is itself part of what's being celebrated. Right. The Tao includes
the process of dying. And if you die in the right time and in the right way, then that's
appropriate part of the Tao that is to be as celebrated as being born and flourishing in the
middle of life. And likewise, things like disability, I think, are celebrated by Zhuangzi
as part of the wondrous diversity of the world rather than kind of having in at least the cartoon
version of Aristotelian flourishing, you kind of have like a single ideal of the perfect front of
most wise person with all the virtues. Right. What about the Ds? You mentioned death and disability.
There's another D in there that you talk about in the writing. I can't remember. Diversity.
Diversity. Right. So, yeah, that's messier than that Aristotelian or even Platonic. I mean,
of course, there's differences in that picture. Right. Yeah. But sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt
you. Oh, no, that's fine. Yeah. I mean, I think one of the distinctive things about the especially
Taoist version of harmonizing with the Tao and especially within the Taoist tradition Zhuangzi
version is that. Well, if you think about the idea of harmony already builds in this idea of
difference, right, you don't have harmony if everyone's playing the same note. Right. Part
of harmonizing is the instruments and the players doing their different things.
He celebrates the weird and the wonderful and the misfits. The inner chapters especially are just
filled with goofy characters like this king who has no holes in his face, no eyes, ears, nose,
mouth. Right. Then he's like, what's going on with this guy? Right. Or, you know, some guy who's,
you know, he's totally bent over and disabled, but he's got like the spiritual insight.
He's got all these. It's great you bring that up because when I was thinking about that connection
with science fiction, I mean, it's too much to jump now, but there's a similar sort of freedom
and beauty in this idea, which I'll just kind of pinpoint for now. But you were talking about the
harmony and that's different from the melody, right? What's that idea in there that we are not
the melody? I think that's important, too, because that kind of gets at what you were just trying to
talk about before I interrupted you about everybody needs to play a different instrument
and maybe sometimes even it's dissonant. So what's that idea that you're not the melody?
You say that a couple of times in different pieces. Yeah. And I don't want to lose track
of part of the initial motivation of your earlier question about what is that conflict
conflicts in harmony. But let's get to the melody thing, right? So one of the things that I think
is invited by, say, an alternative views, but especially, I think, consequentialism,
which is the idea that you should try to maximize good consequences, or at least that was ethically
good is maximizing consequences. That invites you and, you know, consequentialists can do various
things to soften this, right? But at kind of first crude pass, it invites you to think, OK,
this is the way that I think the world should be, so I should do whatever it is, maximizes
good consequences for the world. So everybody becomes, in a certain sense, the decider for the
whole world, right? So if you have a button that you could press that would radically change the
world, and when you do your calculus, you think, ah, the odds are we'll change it for the better,
then you should press that button, right? And so should everybody else who might have different
calculations, right? And it creates kind of
certain kinds of risk, right? So if everybody were in a position to risk the entire universe
for something they think is good, then even if 99.9% of people think, you know what, the odds are
that this isn't good, so don't press the button. If there's one person who does their calculation
and says, oh, yeah, actually, the risk is worth it, then the button gets pressed, right?
Yeah, we don't want that button. We might have that button, unfortunately, but yeah.
Right. So that's the idea of being always the melody that I worry about, right? There's something
admirable about, as it were, shouldering the burdens of the world and trying to do what's
best for the world as a whole, and in some sense, treating yourself as the decider.
But I think there are also downsides to that way of thinking, and another way of thinking that's
more modest is to think, okay, the world is already flowing in certain ways. Not my job
to direct it. I'm not the conductor. I'm not lead violin. I'm not the lead guitarist, right?
My role is harmonizing, so I'm playing the triangle in the background or whatever along
with this awesome thing that's going on, and I want to do it in a way that helps it become
even more awesome, but I don't need to be the one in charge. How does that open us to better
understand what I was originally getting at, that harmony, value pluralism, or you brought
up consequentialism, also deontology, the difference there? Because I was thinking of all
the instruments and that we're all in different positions, and this can be very hard to hold this
tension that we want to do the best for the harmony or for the melody. We want to do the
best for the melody, but we're all going to have a different even kind of experience of what the
melody is and what our part is. That's a hard thing, I think, to really get a grasp on,
but isn't that part of this difference between traditional value, propositional philosophy?
Yeah, so I am a value pluralist. I think there are many things that have intrinsic value.
I also think there are many melodies and harmonies that are going on simultaneously,
and so I harmonize in one way with the world when I do my thing, and other people harmonize
with the world in a very different way when they do their things, and that can all be
wonderful. So if I harmonize with the world by, I don't know, playing jazz piano at home,
or by coming to my office and having conversations with people like you,
that's my contribution, and other people, they go to the Renaissance Fair and they participate in
that kind of weird, amazing thing, and that's not my thing. But that's great, and other people
do other things that I can't relate to at all. There are whole worlds of competitive sports that
I have no idea about, and there's a whole something wondrous about all that.
But of course, they can come into conflict with each other, so any ethics needs, I think,
some way of thinking about what to do when there are conflicting demands. So if my mother is asking
me to do one thing and my wife is asking me to do the opposite, then I can't fully harmonize
with either of their requests, and I need to think about, okay, what pattern, what unfolding
patterns in the world do these different requests fit into, and which ones do I, which one do I
prioritize more, which one seems healthier? Is there a way to kind of harmonize with both through
some kind of compromise action? Is there a way to recognize that actually disharmony
in the short term can be part of a bigger harmonious picture? You don't want to necessarily
disagree with everything everyone says, right? Sometimes you need to fight back, and that can
actually be part of a larger, more valuable harmony that emerges over time. So there's not
going to be, I think, part of at least Zhuangzi's ideal is that there's not a formula
for answering all these kinds of questions, but there is kind of a mood or a spirit of
flowing along with things, acting in a way that is harmonious and spontaneous and kind of respects
what's awesome in the world. It's more process, more pattern, so that gives us a kind of,
what does that give us? A kind of flexibility instead of the deontological rule-based take or
the consequentialist where we almost have to assume there's going to be one consequence for
everyone. So what kind of space is that open in your opinion? You could even, I think you talk
about the university as an example or the distant planet or something. Why would this be a nice
approach for a distant planet or the university? Right, so what I think of as the distant planet
thought experiment is this, and this is a way of getting at what philosophers sometimes call
axiology, which is the study of or thinking about value. So here's the thought experiment.
So imagine there's a distant planet, it's blocked by the galactic core, we'll never interact with it.
So what would you kind of hope that that planet was like? Would you hope that it's a sterile rock?
I mean, I don't think so. I mean, there would be some people who would hope that, but
that's kind of dark, right? I think most of us will hope that it's not just a sterile rock,
but that it's got life. And hope for just microbial life? Or would you hope for
something more complex? Would you hope for plants and jungles and animals
rowing around and, you know, the diversity of forests and reefs and all of that, you know,
not too much like Earth in some alien key? I think most of us would hope for that, right?
Would we also hope that there is one or more species or entity type that is capable of
philosophy and art and sports and falling in love and science and all of that? Yeah, I mean, I
would hope. I think the planet would be missing something if it didn't have that too, right?
So I don't want to totally replicate Earth, but, you know, something like that I think I
would hope for. And I think most people, not everybody, would also hope for that if they're
kind of benevolently hoping this planet into existence would be great. So that's one way
of thinking about, okay, what has fundamental value independent of our interests? And I think,
you know, and I wouldn't want it to just be a planet where everyone was an Aristotelian
front of most, right? I want to like a diversity of stuff. I would want all kinds of wild and weird
things. And it would be a disappointing planet if all humans were the same and all animals were the
same, even if that sameness was that fit some kind of ideal, right? And it would be a disappointing
planet in a way too, if there was no conflict, right? There's a richness that comes out of
diversity and conflict that I think we would be missing if we had too simplistic a planet,
right? So think about a kind of flourishing world like that as a manifestation of
Dao, and it's going to involve entities that die, right? It's going to involve prey-predator
relations, probably. I mean, maybe there's a way to imagine a planet that doesn't have that. I'm
not sure, right? So that's the kind of thought experiment that I want to invite as a way of
thinking about axiology. And then you think, okay, bring it back to Earth. What kind of
planet do we want Earth to be? And not in a consequentialist way figure out how to press
a button to bring that about, but think that Earth already has a lot of elements of that
and could potentially have even more of that, have even more of a flourishing Dao.
And in what ways can I participate in that, contribute to that, help it be even better,
help other people participate in it, contribute to it, and improve it?
So that's the kind of overall way of picturing the
axiological and ethical ideal of harmonizing.
So we want all that diversity and death and disability, actually, because that's sort of an
assessment from one position, and from another position, it's actually the way that we're getting
all that good stuff that you just said, that seeming chaos, that all those different instruments,
creating new kinds of music, things like that, which doesn't fit very well with something like
the traditional, we make some rules, and then everyone has to go only by those rules.
Is that connected to the weirdness? Because you're obviously a well-known philosopher
for many things, and who knows how many we get to talk about today, but one is
this word weird, the weirdness of the world, and do you see a connection there in that
holding all those tensions, letting all those things be, and the weirdness of the world?
Yes. Yes, I do. I mean, that's one of the things that I love about Chuang Tzu is his celebration
of the weird. Being weird in a somewhat technical sense, something is weird in
the way that I mean it if it doesn't fit into our ordinary understanding of things very neatly.
It violates common sense. It violates our expectations about how things normally go.
Right, so the wonderful thing about Chuang Tzu's writing is he's got all these weird
characters and plants and animals even, and part of the wondrousness of the world is that it has
these weird things, that it defies our understanding, that it's got a diverse set of events and
entities and processes that we can't really fully grasp, and one of the things that I
think is worth doing is appreciating the fact that the world is more wonderful and wondrous
if it doesn't all fit into the deep packages that we understand.
Yeah, I like that you use the word awesome a lot, and you seem to have a lot of joy in
the world, and I feel like your embracing of absurdity is somehow connected to that. Am I
wrong or am I? Or not absurdity, but this of the weird, which I know is-
Yes, right. I think one can react to
the fact that the world defies our understanding in one of three ways. I mean, you could
deny that and say, no, I understand it. Here's my answer to everything, right? Or you could say,
yeah, I don't understand it, and be distressed. Or you can say, I think, I don't understand it,
and there's something awesome about the fact that the world defies my understanding.
I want to invite readers to the third reaction, which I think is not well represented among
philosophers. I think Zhuangzi is one of the few philosophers who appreciates the fact that the
world defies his understanding, as opposed to being a distressed skeptic or a dogmatist who
says, no, here's all the answers. Yeah, it's wonderful you brought that up because I was
thinking of that, how that's connected. The weirdness is almost a way to hold the tension
or hold the paradox, I like to say that a lot, or those options. Because, okay, the world is
really overwhelming, even in all its beauty. I mean, sometimes it's just too much beauty and
crazy, amazing forms. How can you even go shop and look at the shape of the broccoli? I mean,
it's incredible, and that's too much. But then on the other hand, so you do want order and stuff
like this. We're thinking of it as if we're swinging between extremes, but there's maybe
another way of thinking about it. When you were talking, I was thinking of the triad, there's a
quote in one of your pieces that you use about forming the triad. Do you know what I'm talking
about? Yes, I know what you're talking about. Because I think that the pure Zhuangzi is pretty
radical, and there is an element that needs a little toning down. He's wild, right? In the good
and the untamed, and maybe we don't want to be quite as wild as Zhuangzi, right? So there's
another thinker of the era who offers a different picture of harmonizing with the Dao, and
I think that my preferred picture is some kind of compromise between these two thinkers. And this
other thinker is an ancient Confucian named Shunzi. So Shunzi has this picture of the world in which
the world is a triad of heaven, earth, and humans. So what he means by heaven and earth is pretty
close to what we mean by kind of natural phenomena, right? So heaven is the pattern of the seasons,
the fact that the rain falls at a certain time. Earth is things like, you know, plants and trees
and clay and the basic way things work, right? So the wilderness is composed of the processes
of heaven and earth interacting with each other. But then there's a third corner to the triad,
which is human society, right? So on Shunzi's view, the ancient sages, ancient even to him,
and, you know, he's working in the third century BCE, so very ancient. So the ancient sages
discovered the rituals and patterns and customs that allow human beings to get along harmoniously
with each other. So a noble woman should act this way, a farmer should act this way,
a merchant should act this way, right? So we've all got our patterns and our roles
and a harmonious society. Everyone kind of fills their roles and fits into their pattern.
And that society also harmonizes with heaven and earth, right? Especially like the farmer needs to
plan at the right time and so at the right time and you need to build houses in a certain way
if they're not going to fall down and if rain's not going to get in the roof and that sort of
thing, right? So Shunzi has this picture where harmonizing with the Dao is playing your part
in this well-ordered harmonious society that is in turn harmonizing with heaven and earth.
Now that's a little constrained, right? Especially Shunzi really emphasizes, you know, kind of
really emphasizes, you know, kind of playing your role in society and conforming to traditional
rituals and that's a little bit of a straight jacket, right? So I don't think we should be
Confucian traditionalists.
Yeah, that's where the wildness comes in.
We need that Zhuangzi wildness to recognize but I think there's a real value in Shunzi's picture
in thinking of belonging to a society and having certain roles that you play
as part of a valuable way of harmonizing, right? So I'm a university professor,
right? So there's certain things that I should do to kind of in the harmonious way of being a
university professor and that includes treating students a certain way and, you know, grading in
a certain way maybe but then on the other hand, right, maybe Zhuangzi wants to like defy the
usual grading conventions and maybe give everybody A's, right? Whereas Shunzi would say no,
there's this tradition where people have to get different grades, right? How exactly that all
plays out is complicated, right? But some kind of compromise between this
Shunzi in valuing of a harmonious, well-regulated orderly society and the Zhuangzi in wildness.
So that's the weirdness too because there's something I feel like in your writing you're
also saying we want to be able to hold the space and let things be weird. We want
our common sense to be violated up to a point or to be, I mean violated is a weird word, but
we want to be surprised in a sense. We want, you know, these things that you're saying.
Is that part of it too? Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. I mean I think the fact that we
do not understand the world is amazing. One of my favorite examples of this is garden snails.
I just have a certain affection for garden snails. In my chapter on the weirdness of the world, I
have a whole chapter about garden snails, right? If you wanted to, we could talk about how weird
snails are. Especially their mating is really strange. Yeah, you should tell people. I mean,
I'm sure they can find it, but it is pretty wonderful actually. I mean, if you want me to
give you the lowdown on the garden snail mating, we could do that right now. I'm sure you have a
couple sentence summary by this point. Well, what's amazing is that it's so hard to summarize in a
couple sentences because these snails, they've got 60,000 neurons in their central nervous system,
right? An ant has a quarter million, right? So they've got these tiny little central nervous
systems that are mostly in ganglia that are clustered around their esophagus. So it's not
even clear that they have something worth calling a brain, right? And they engage in this seven hour
like really complex mating process that involves like shooting love darts at each other. These
are the these calcium, this mucus covered calcium arrows that they shoot into each other and then
they're simultaneous. This is love and philosophy, so this is very pertinent actually. Yeah, love darts,
right? And they've got and they're simultaneous hermaphrodites and they don't have very much
vision at all, so they've kind of got to simultaneously insert their genitalia into
each other and they circle and that's complicated for them and they circle around each other,
tasting each other's slime trails and it's like really complex seven hour procedure, right? And
these entities are doing this with 60,000 neurons and so that's wonderful already and amazing and
weird, right? But also one of the things that I want to think about is do they have conscious
experiences? Is there something it's like to be a garden snail, right? So some philosophers and
biologists will say yes, there's something that's like to be a garden snail, just like there's
something less like to be a person or to be a cat, they have experiences, right? Others will say
that there's nothing it's like to be a garden snail any more than it's like we normally assume,
although some people question this to be a plant, right? So they're kind of just mobile plants
basically and I think we don't know the answer to that question. It depends on what theory of
consciousness is right and we don't know what theory of consciousness is right. We don't know
if consciousness, if having experiences depends on something like being able to conceptualize
yourself as a being who has experiences, right? Some people think that in order to have experiences
at all, in order for there to be something it's like to be you, you have to have a subjective
perspective, an understanding of yourself as a subject, an understanding of yourself as an
experiencer, right? Every experience on these kinds of views comes along with a kind of
reflective knowledge of itself, right? So if you require that kind of fairly sophisticated
apparatus, probably garden snails don't have that, right? But you might not
experience might not require that. Experience might be a much simpler kind of thing and as soon
as you have sensation basically that's integrated with other cognitive processes, you've got
experience and then snails maybe have that. So yeah, so I got these garden snails and they're
in my yard, they're eating the daisies and I have no idea whether they're conscious or not, right?
There's like this mystery of the universe, right? Right in my backyard having very complicated sex
and yeah, it's kind of like wonderful. You know, of course this is, I mean we already,
we brought it up and it's part of your writing consciousness and it's a whole, I mean that could
be hours and hours but it does really bother me that we use this word in such different ways and
I mean those snails are alive so why and they're obviously sensing even no matter how we use that
term. So isn't that a sort of consciousness? I mean it's not being conscious of your consciousness,
it's not being self-aware but why, how do we just jump past that? I don't, I never understand in
terms of phenomenal consciousness. I feel like phenomenal consciousness is talking about that
but we mistake it as knowing that we're conscious or the snail knowing that it's conscious. Do you
have any good advice for me of how to really disentangle that because it really bothers me
and I've read all these texts but I still, it still bothers me. So I myself lean gently
toward a relatively liberal or abundant view of what kinds of things are conscious and I like
snails so I kind of want to include them in that but let me articulate the alternative view which
I think is uh might be true and it's certainly worth taking seriously and I kind of touched
quickly upon what I think is the most attractive way of conceptualizing why consciousness might
be much more sparse than we ordinarily think and that's this. So conscious experiences
have at least in the typical human case as conceptualized by some thinkers
but that's already two important asterisks. The following two features, they're subjective
in the sense that there's always an experience, every experience has an experiencer,
there's a sense in which consciousness is always presented as you know for me right it's not just
that there's you know a flower but there's a a subjective perspective that I bring upon the
flower it's like I'm I'm experiencing the flower right so the consciousness has this kind of
flower right so the consciousness has this kind of subjective forminess inherent in it
and it might be that in order for an experience to have an inherent forminess I need to have
a concept of myself as a subject doesn't necessarily need to be in words right maybe
an infant could have it maybe a dog or a monkey could have it right but the kind of sense of
ah I'm a self and here's the thing and there's a difference between the self and the thing
right so subjectivity in that sense often is thought to belong to conscious experiences
and similarly what philosophers sometimes call luminosity right so a lot of people have thought
again in the typical case and maybe it's not right right but a lot of people have thought
that every experience comes along with some kind of grasp upon itself right so if you are
experiencing a bit having a visual experience of a flower there's some sense in which you know
that you're having that experience in in the process of having that experience or at least
you're in a position to know that you have the experience in virtue of having that experience
but in order to but in order for that to be true you have to be the kind of entity
who can self-ascribe experiences who can who understands what an experience is again maybe
not verbalizably right but if it's true that every experience comes along with some kind of
understanding of itself or capacity to understand itself as being experienced then again there's
like some cognitive sophistication some ability that seems to be involved in that to understand
yourself as an experiencer and the world is containing experiences so if you accept those
two features as as being inherent to all experience then it looks like maybe you need
a fairly high level of cognitive sophistication in order to have experiences and maybe it's limited
to social mammals and birds basically and once you go beyond that you're not having like a lizard
does it have a concept of itself as a subject does it have a concept of itself as having
experiences you know you can that might be what about a cell much of a stretch i mean i think i
think this is a little neither right on this view right so that so i'm just trying to articulate i'm
not saying this is right no i know i know you don't necessarily believe it but yeah you articulate
something different even in the book about weirdness but yeah right yeah but i really see
that weirdness as a way to hold this stuff sorry go ahead oh no i just yeah the idea is it's an
exercise to warm yourself up to the to how someone might reasonably think experience
is limited to a fairly narrow range of animals yeah and and i i appreciate that you articulated
that because it's very important and that's a very important view but i i feel like it assumes already
a relationality with a body's relation relationality with itself which
isn't relationality i feel like you can have relationality and therefore consciousness without
it being of the same position or entity in question you know so yes like a an infant or
whatever they are conscious i mean they're alive in my in my opinion because to try to
break apart the the idea of a of a an entity that's sensing as that entity to break that
away from consciousness for me at that very basic level feels a little bit ridiculous
and um it but it also feels really understandable because we don't we come into knowing ourselves
right and that's what we think of as consciousness but that happens like way later and it happens
through relation um and i'm i'm bringing all this up because it does remind me of some of the things
in your book the weirdness and and i i feel like that's another way to hold hold that but first
i'll just stop and let you correct me if you think i should be corrected about that or or how you see
just life itself and the capacity for anybody to be in relation to make its way through an
encounter to sense as like how you can separate that from from a consciousness in this in the
sense of the most basic sense on the glasgow scale or you know so i think that one
thing that makes some people hesitate about this but makes other people go not hesitate and maybe
go to more radical conclusions is that fungi and plants also seem to sense in slower motion
but there's all this interesting research recently on how trees communicate with each other through
root networks and mycorrhizal fungi and all that kind of stuff and bacteria
are pretty complex in their interactions with each other more than maybe had been appreciated
a couple decades ago and could say even a toy robot if it gets camera input into its eyes
and then is programmed to respond in a certain way to that input want to say that thing senses
right so you end up whether you go for life or something like sensation you might end up with a
pretty radical view of like what things are conscious so you might end up saying yeah well
trees have conscious experiences too and so do simple robots and so that's different that's
different so do groups of people i mean the weirdness right it's always going to be weird
as you point out i think that's very important but that's exactly the thing that i think gets
confused a little bit is is that for a tree or something to be sensing and conscious doesn't
mean that it has to be conscious in our experience of consciousness which is what usually what we
mean of being aware of ourselves that's a very nuanced thing i think but if you just think of a
body sensing as a child is or something went in relation it doesn't have to be aware of itself as
that body and also the human body is a completely different kind of body than a plant so why would
we think that a plant's gonna have anything like our consciousness our experience of consciousness
so for me it's like we're already imposing all these human definitions of what it means to be
a sensory body onto everything and then of course it's crazy to say a plant is having a human
experience i mean that makes no sense but it does drive us crazy that when people say that
because that's what we assume do you know what i mean and also like with the robot to me that's
a pretty easy one i mean people think it's not so easy but there's no affordances that are pointing
back to that robot they're pointing back to whatever created that robot maybe we get to a
point where there are affordances specific to that to that robot but i feel like you know all these
complicated questions about what life is of course get get involved here and it's not easy in that
sense but in the sense of just a sensory body it doesn't seem that complicated if we can take away
this human lens that everything that's conscious has to be conscious in the way that a human is
does that make any sense to you um i would i think there's an ambiguity in the way that you
phrase it i'm not sure exactly which side of this ambiguity you come down and i have a guess but
so when you say something isn't conscious in a way in the way that a human is a tree isn't
conscious in the way that human is you could i think everyone would agree with that right
if it's conscious at all it's kind of it's going to be very different from us um
does it have experiences
in the sense that philosophers sometimes articulate by using the phrase there's
something that's like to be the tree right is there something that's like to be a tree
or multiple things that it's like it doesn't have to be one thing right but is does it have a
a flow of experience however alien from humans it is does it have a flow of experience or can
you think of sensation as something that happens even without a flow of experience
so you could say okay yeah there's a sense in which trees have sensations but a lot of people
would say no but they don't really have a there's nothing it's like to be a tree they don't really
experience things even if they sense things in a certain way they're encountering the world and
so as to continue encountering the world that's all i mean of course they don't have i mean we
this is why it's so complicated because we think of senses through our human body and so on but
and it reminds me of your other beautiful piece which i hope we get to about the golden rule and
extension and so on but yeah i'm not trying to put myself in the position of the tree but if we were
a tree body you know it's just a different way of relating with the world just so as to continue as
the tree i just think if we can get to the most basic of that that's and uh that's what i think
we mean i would mean by um being conscious of the you know as a tree but it has nothing
like it's not what i mean uh by being aware of myself as a human being and that is really
really really hard to tear apart because as soon as we use those words we're thinking of the tree
as experiencing the world as we experience it it's i feel like it's um part of that practice
that you talk about in terms of extension here um something complicated has to happen there before
we could even really understand how to dissociate those things right yeah you can also think that
just the question does a tree is there something that's like to be a tree doesn't really have
experiences or not no matter how alien you could also think that question is in some sense already
a mistake to phrase it in that way as though there's a yes or no answer to that exactly that's
the triad i was trying to bring out right right so i think for every question there are at least
four answers you could say yes and you could say no right and the way i was articulating it
assumed that a yes or no answer does a tree really have experiences would be would be right but
there's also always some in between like well kind of kind of yes kind of no can't really quite
say either of those answers is quite right and there's also always a fourth option which i call
gong which is to like bang a gog and say it's not yes it's not no it's not in between the whole
question is broken from from the start and you kind of think in some different way rather than
thinking in the way that's presupposed by the frame of that question yeah so you just have to
get really kind of you have to understand that we're actually using language which was invented
through human relation and experience and like you have to keep going down the rabbit hole
you know until you can begin to kind of imagine or extend yourself into thinking of a different
kind of body which is having a different kind of encounter with the world which we would use words
like sense and experience to talk about so one way of thinking about this gong option right would be
to say if i were to ask you is our prime numbers red you could say yes they're red or you could
say no they're blue or you could say well it's kind of in between they're kind of purple right
or you could say and here's the gong option you know that question is just like not the question
you should be asking that doesn't really make any sense right so yeah so i think it's totally
reasonable to think that the i think any of those answers for a garden snail or a tree i think all
of those four answers are on the table it could be in my mind right that a garden snail or a tree
really has experiences of course they'll be alien from us i mean how can you have love darts and not
have experience it's blank right there's nothing going on inside that's the no right or you can
say well kind of like does experientiality have to be like yes or no right maybe it's somewhere
in between i've got a whole paper about this i call borderline consciousness right or you could
say hey look just the question doesn't itself doesn't even make any sense when we ask whether
something has an experience we have all these presuppositions built in our concept of what it
experiences like for example we might think you know when we think about it in terms of there's
something that's like to be uh an x right maybe we're already presupposing that there's a connection
between this what it's likeness and having a kind of self-conception and all that and and and the
concept is a kind of inherently problematic and we should probably just maybe get rid of this
whole concept unless we want to limit it to cases like humans that sounds like to go back to the
harmonizing with the dow that sounds like that either or again and the third space would be
well let's look at this question and what is it it's language and where is it coming from
and how is all that stuff built together and then you kind of do open up this weird
space which i feel like is a the space of where perhaps new things could come from it that that
justified doubt that you talk about or is it dubiety dubiety is that is that related here at all
does that give us a little bit of a a third space to kind of step that might end up being a portal
into a different understanding yeah so um yeah the one of the main themes of my recent book
the weirdness of the world is what i call the universal dubiety thesis right all of these big
picture claims about consciousness and cosmology are dubious right we don't know where the truth
lies among various possibilities all of the possibilities are bizarre they violate or defy
common sense uh in some sharp way you can't really escape that i think once you start
thinking about these concepts carefully right but we and we don't know where the truth lies
among these various bizarre options so that's the dubiety claim and then i think that there
are various good things that come from recognizing our incomplete understanding of the world
and some of those are traditionally recognized that it's good that you don't claim you know
things if you don't actually know them right but then there's also maybe those less recognized
the world is more wonderful in a certain way if it defies us and the world becomes richer for us
for us if we don't understand certain things about it right the the world has is more full
of possibility if it's possible that the snail has experiences and it's possible that it doesn't or
it's possible that it's some borderline case or it's possible that the just the very conception
of experience is already so laden with suppositions that we should maybe move on to some other
different way of thinking about things right all of those as once we recognize that all of those
are live options now my garden is richer with possibility right yeah it's like a whole other
universe it's like a science fiction book yeah there's that's real there's a universe of
possibility in there that that if i kind of already think i know everything uh doesn't exist
so is this a reason to do philosophy is this a reason to read science fiction and is this
a reason to do philosophy is there a connection there at all like yes yes yes to both questions
yes to all three questions one reason to do philosophy and i call this the philosophy of
opening is so here let me contrast the philosophy of opening and the philosophy of closing so in
the floss so imagine you've got you enter a philosophical conversation thinking there are
three viable theories theory a theory b theory c right if you if you're trying to do the philosophy
of closing what you're doing is trying to close off say possibilities b and c and say ah theory a
that's the correct theory right and then you've closed off these possibilities and you've got this
thing which is good you know the theory is right right but the philosophy of opening says hey
here's another way to learn maybe theory d is correct maybe theory e is correct so you add
to your sense of live possibilities possibilities you hadn't previously considered
so maybe you hadn't considered the possibility that the very question of whether consciousness
exists in a snail should be gonged off the stage or you hadn't considered the possibility it could
be a borderline case and it assumed it has to be yes or no right as soon as you add those
possibilities into the mix if you do if those possibilities deserve a certain amount of your
credence then you've opened up your sense of how the world could be rather than closing down
so i think one thing that philosophy can do that science fiction also is really powerful at
is expanding our sense of what's possible knocking us out of our presuppositions about
okay here's how things have to be i feel like i understand this right let's be imaginative
theoretically and about maybe what could exist in the future or what could exist technologically
right and the right kind of imaginative exploration can open our sense of possibility
for the world and that is i think an important i think that's both intrinsically valuable and
instrumentally valuable it's intrinsically valuable because the world is better the the
this planet that we are we're on is better if it's inhabited by entities who are struck with wonder
at the various wild possibilities that could be out there right rather than kind of dogmatically
with their noses down on here's my truth we're just wonderful but it's also instrumentally good
in the sense that i think but we're not always what we think is true is not always true sometimes
it is sometimes it was it might be that a was right all along and you know by adding d and e you
you added confusion and those were wrong but often you know maybe it turns out that d is right
and if you're not opening yourself up to possibilities then you've you've you might
be just heading down a path without without realizing that the that path is is is not where
you should be headed yeah and maybe when things change it'll be good that you had already thought
about those other options even if b is right for now um i just had a discussion with kevin kelly
you know kevin kelly he's a wired magazine co-founder technology guy i don't know him
yeah i think you'd find him interesting because he's a big sci-fi fan and he was talking about
how a lot of he was he's kind of predicted a lot of the things that have since happened in
terms of technology and he was telling me a lot of it comes from reading science fiction because
he already knew what a computer should be like before you know there was such a thing and so on
and he said we should sort of cite our science fiction i wonder what you think about that and
if that strikes a chord in you at all in terms of how your reading experience of science fiction
which i'm assuming you had young i think i even heard you say you did when you were a kid and
then you picked it back up with egan maybe um yeah well how does that does that feel like it's been
important to your work that you've done yes right so i've definitely i'm a fan of science fiction
and i think they're the mode of exploring possibilities that you see in science fiction
is has a similar spirit to the kind of philosophy that like that i like to do which involves
exploring possibilities absolutely i think that philosophers and others should engage with
science fiction and cite it if that's if that if that's the direction their lives are taking i
don't want to be a prescriptivist well everyone's got to go read science fiction right but if you're
interested in this kind of uh opening your mind toward wonder and thinking about possibilities
that you haven't really considered before then science fiction is a great tool for doing that
and opening to the weird in the way we've been talking about i think it's it sort of
gives it a little more what's the word uh like credence or something that you could understand
it as a way to get ideas open open the space in the openness way that you just described
yeah right so one of my favorite books that i've read recently is kazoo ishiguro's quara
and the sun all right so i haven't read that yet i love that author though but yeah he's a wonderful
author um and uh he occasionally writes science fiction as well as writing you know non-science
fiction literary fiction so he's got this wonderful book quara and the sun which is told entirely from
the point of view of an artificial friend a service robot who's conscious seems pretty clear
right that she has all these experiences and she is utterly devoted to the well-being of the girl
to which she's been assigned as a friend and she completely treats her own interests as secondary
to that she's wholly defined her interests not wholly but almost entirely defined her interests
in terms of the well-being of that friend and it's such a lovely portrayal of a kind of devotion
which is in a way beautiful but also in a way so limited right and i think as a reader you want to
say clara you matter for your own sake too that's fascinating you are an individual who is an equal
of any human right but that would never occur to her and it's told so perfectly from her perspective
that she never voices that thought that's the kind of the reader at least me you know i'm like
desperate to to to assert that thought for her i can imagine that tension just knowing his other
work i'm sure he builds that tension very beautifully right right so but you also write
science fiction don't you yes i do i do yeah so and i'm interested also in you know these these
questions about about we might think of it as robotic existentialism right like what
if we are going to someday and maybe we will and of course it depends on what theory of
consciousness is correct you know right whether we will or how soon right but if we someday create
robotic entities that have inner lives and experiences probably not quite like ours but
maybe in some important ways like ours you know then what is the meaning of life going to be like
for them and we shouldn't just assume that it's going to be like what it is for us
and we shouldn't just design them so as to maximize our interests they will have interests
of their own that are worth considering though one of the wonder one of the many
wonderful things you can do with science fiction is start to think in a more sophisticated way
about this this possible future toward which we're heading yeah as you were telling me the
example that reminded me of that extension i mean maybe you want to give a little brief idea of it
but you're kind of saying okay the golden rule is good or put yourself in the shoes of others
is good but another idea is that you can use this idea of extension so the people closest to you
you sort of you can probably describe it better but you think of what it might be like for those
people closest to you um like instead of telling the king to put himself in the position of
you know whatever someone he's going to punish think okay well what if it was your son or
something like that and when you were talking about the robot that's kind of a reverse extension
isn't it a little bit or some kind of way of through science fiction giving us that yeah so
right so the idea of extension and i yeah in in some of my recent work i've contrasted it
with the golden rule so the golden rule says do unto others as you would have others do unto you
and it's very similar to this idea of imagining yourself in someone else's shoes right and then
you kind of do for them what you would want if you were in their position but there's something
about and there's as as a wonderful rule and there's something i really like about it but
there's also something just a little the great rubs me just a little the wrong way about it
which is it kind of takes your assumed self-concern as the basis of morality right so you kind of
imagine yourself in someone else's position and then you say if i were in that position what would
i selfishly want or what would i want for myself right so there's a kind of like
imagining your own self always involved in this so it puts it puts yourself at the center of
ethical thinking if you're always doing it this way and mongsa the ancient chinese confucian mongsa
has this different way of thinking about how to expand your concern for others and that is
to base it in immediate concern you have for those nearby so is this wonderful example he says
maybe the most famous passage in the mongsa is he says that anybody who suddenly came upon upon a
child crawling at the edge of a well and about to fall in would feel this moment of alarm and
compassion and they wouldn't do it because they want to get in good with the neighbors by rescuing
the child they wouldn't do it because they would be annoyed by the child screams as he's dying
at the bottom of the well right they wouldn't do it because they want to be famous or anything
like that right it's just it's a pure concern for others that manifests in this kind of spontaneous
response right so mongsa thinks that we have with respect to nearby others whether they're
physically nearby like this child about to fall into a well or whether they're
kind of relationally emotionally nearby like you're close in we have this spontaneous concern
for them that doesn't involve us at all mongsa is not saying imagine yourself in the child's
shoes and about to fall into the well and what would you do right there's no none of that self
reference there's this assumption of of this immediate natural concern we have for others
and the way to develop morally foundationally for mongsa is to expand that to more distant others
to notice that others also maybe deserve that concern right so he has this wonderful dialogue
with this king who feels compassion for this ox is being led in front of him and is about to be
sacrificed and killed to consecrate a bell and this king is this terrible vicious king who's
you know going you know invading his neighbors and killing the civilians in the neighboring
territory and mongsa says and the king at one point says how could i care for the people you
know like he just assumes like he doesn't care about peasants right and mongsa says hey look
you had concern for this ox just certainly you could have concern for a peasant you just notice
that when the thing is nearby you're concerned for it so just extend that concern that you felt
for the ox to the peasants beyond the wall right to say that you could have concern for an ox but
not for a peasant is like saying you can see the tip tip of a hare but not a cartload of firewood
of course you can have concern for peasants you just need to reflect on it imaginatively extend
the local concern for you what you have nearby to the more distant cases right
and that kind of extension he's not saying imagine yourself as the peasant's shoes
he's saying notice that a peasant also would be afraid of death just like an ox and if you're
concerned for the ox you should be concerned for the peasant too right so there's no imaginative
self-transformation involved in in mongsa an extension which i think is nice because it
kind of takes you it makes you less central to the picture i like that a lot because it feels
like we're going into that third space or something and noticing our continuity with
what's around us in a different way which feels very important to me but i i asked you like a
science fiction a way to do this and i asked his philosophy a way to do this you said yes to both
and we don't have that much time left but i did want to bring up you've done this whole other
you know you have this whole other world of thinking about ethics and actually doing a
lot of you know studies and things about ethical concerns and some of what we're talking about here
when i think about that work that you've done seems almost contrasting which might be wonderful
in the in the overall melody you know but because you know for example you found that
ethicists aren't necessarily more ethical i mean i'm generalizing a lot but like a vegetarian
uh ethicist isn't necessarily more ethical than i don't know you could probably describe it better
but somehow there's there's a contrast there in terms of it feels like we're doing all this
philosophy in order to become more ethical or improve our life or something and then
the studies that you've done that's not really the opening is not really opening it doesn't
feel you know it feels almost more like what you're describing as closing so how do you hold that in
your ideas of all this yeah so i've done this series of studies mostly collaboratively
with my former student joshua rust um done a series of studies on the moral behavior of ethics
professors and what i found over and over again with a couple exceptions is that they behave
basically the same as other professors right and other professors is the right comparison class
because they're similar educational backgrounds similar socioeconomic status and that sort of
thing right you look at how ethics professors behave on a variety of measures and how other
professors behave basically is the same so it doesn't look like the life of studying ethics
is having much impact on how people actually behave and i find that a little disappointing
now some ethicists when i talk to them about this are like well you know it's an academic endeavor
and we should expect it to an ethicist to be good at writing papers and teaching classes
but like why i think they'd be better in real life and you know i i can see how someone might
think that but i also think look if you spent your life studying the ethics of aristotle and
kant and mongsa or whoever you're studying couldn't that have some kind of positive
ethical impact on your life and if not has something gone wrong yeah it's fascinating
i'm remembering what you say about the veg like on the one of your questionnaires you ask
is vegetarianism better or should we not eat meat and people will say yeah we shouldn't eat meat
it's probably ethical to eat less meat or something and then you ask okay what did you eat for dinner
and it's like oh i had meat and that seems that kind of i think is an illustration of what you
were just describing but also as you were talking i'm thinking okay well what about
harmonizing the dowel if we maybe maybe actually or or being the tree or all these other themes
we've been talking about maybe what what if you bring that into that world because even those
studies in the way you just described it are set up in a very dichotomous way of you're going to
say yes or no and yeah everyone's already educated in a way so in a sense like the critical thinking
is a part that's probably actually changing the way you behave towards others so these yes no
questions maybe aren't reflecting that so i mean does that make any sense to you if you tried to
open up into the third or thinking about it in this more daoistic way it actually might just
be they're being inconsistent when they say they had meat but not necessarily less ethical
yeah um
the world is complex and so i think you can say and i you know i'm an example of this actually
right so if i had been a participant in my own one of my own studies the one on or one of the
ones on meat eating i would have said yes regularly eating meat is not morally good
eating meat is not morally good and yet i actually eat eat pretty regularly right so i myself an
example of the kind of phenomenon that i'm criticizing so i want to own up to that
and i want to say that in some sense
it makes sense to have high ideals and recognize that you don't live up to them rather than
rationalizing and defending yourself always right so there i think there's a tendency for people
to say oh well eating meat there's nothing wrong with if they if they eat meat and they don't want
to give it up right there's a tendency to say oh so there's nothing absolutely there's nothing
wrong with it and then they come up with the same thing and then they say oh well
there's nothing wrong with it and then they come up with the story but i think sometimes what we
should do is say okay look you know that story doesn't necessarily work and shouldn't we recognize
that we're not ideal and we maybe aren't harmonizing as well as we could or should
with our ideals but also you're not the melody i think it's great you brought up yourself because
um just interacting with you a little bit we don't know each other but i i have a sense that
you're actually just you really care about your family for example i've seen and you have this
you have this space of care that's very obvious about who you are and you can fill it in your
writing too and i would imagine that that comes through the way that you are in the world in the
sense that you are noticing which is a philosophical practice and all that kind of goes into all into
what you're really asking in those questionnaires but it's not reflected in the questionnaire
because it's a dichotomous yes no thing and um because you know like like what you're saying
about like uh that everyone's going to have a different instrument some people maybe
should be vegetarians or should is a weird word but maybe that's the right choice from some
positions and others not and maybe it is either or or maybe you do need to hold that tension in
the way we've been saying we're both aren't always right or always wrong but you know there's a
different way of thinking there that i feel like you're trying to open up with the weirdness and
the harmonizing the dow and you know does that make sense to you at all it does i mean i want
it i was doing that i'm doing this ethics professor stuff and it has to be simplistic because if you're
going to do like real scientific psychology you need clear measures clear dependent variables it
needs to fit a fit onto lines where where you can you know come up with averages and do statistical
tests and i want to participate in that way of doing science because i don't think anyone had
ever before josh and i did it and anyone had ever done that with the question of do ethicists behave
ethically so let's like get some numbers and do some t tests and stuff like that right so uh but
yeah of course it's simplistic and while not wanting to be self excusing too much and saying hey look
you know it's fine to eat the meat of animals because that's just part of how i am harmonizing
with the dow it's not my priority to to shape that side of my life in that direction right
while not wanting to like let myself off lightly with the rationalization at the same time i do
think it makes sense to say we need a certain kind of forgiving ethic and one of the nice things
about this harmonizing ideal harmonizing idea as opposed to with an idealized consequentialism or
idealized virtual ethics so you can say look there's only so much you can do you're only
playing one note you have a limited life and you've got to make choices about where your
priorities are and what respects you're going to live an ethically good life and it's not realistic
to think that you're going to be ideal in everything so you need to make
choices and find your own way of participating in uh this awesome thing which is this amazing
planet full of cool impressive wonderful incomprehensible stuff yeah well said i have
to ask you about love before we go and yeah it does it is a word that comes up in your work
in all kinds of different ways which is wonderful uh as a philosopher in the way that you use it but
in the context of this conversation what what does that word bring up or when it comes to this idea
of the melody and the harmony and so on do you do or care care is another word that you
that you use a lot that's very connected do you have any thoughts about connecting those dots at
all yeah i haven't written much about love one thing that i'm attracted to is
is some version that's close to harry frankfurt's idea of when you love someone or something or some
process that involves wanting it's wanting thing good things happen for its own sake right for the
the sake of the beloved so i like that idea a lot and i've thought about a little bit in the context
of love in marriage or conjugal love right and what's involved there's this kind of
i think almost paradox not quite a paradox in the marriage vows in the sense that you are promising
to love someone forever in the sense that you're promising to build a life jointly with them where
what you want is their good for their own sake and how can you promise that when you're
25 years old because who knows what your lives are going to become and love for a spouse is
going to have to be contingent upon their
developing in a way that harmonizes with your values and your life projects and it
if you go different directions which of course you could then it can no longer be that so
so the marriage vow involves this kind of trust in the other that they are already firmly enough on
a path that you can join with them together right so even though there's a contingency
that you can only continue to love them in the in the in the frankfurterian way
if they retain certain features right at the same time you're trusting them to retain those
features and you're committing to to harmonize and build a life together with them that retains the
features that on the basis of which you can continue your love i think that speaks very
beautifully to the weirdness actually because yeah it is i think it is a paradox that we
decide when we get married that we're going to be with someone and we're both going to let be
changing because we have no i mean yeah you could marry when you're 25 or 55 still in five years you
might be completely different you might be different people because of everything that's
happening so you're holding the space where you're going to be yourself changing and you're going
to love another person who's changing and you're going to be this third entity together and so on
but if you enter into that with an understanding of the weirdness you know in the way we've been
talking about the way you write about of that you can't fully everything that's true is going to be
a little bit strange that seems like a beautiful way to think about love in a sense i hadn't thought
of it till now but yeah you can't fully anticipate it and you can't totally keep it inside the box
in a way the marriage vow is a leap into something that you you know
is too complex for you to understand it and fully anticipate and there's something beautiful about
taking that leap yes definitely and i think just the fact that you could harmonize
just to come back to that or that you could even experience the dowel extent in this extended way
that we've been talking about through that relationship is actually very potent and if
if people if you can stay with it and and and be part of that it is i think you know really worth
it but yeah i don't know if you have any final thoughts or anything you want to say before we
go i know we have to go now but i just want to say i really appreciate your your work and all
these things that we've opened up here and there's plenty more that you've opened up for me too so
thanks is there anything before we go that you want to be sure we say or talk well i've enjoyed
this conversation and i hope that the world has become more wondrous for containing it i i think
it has for sure i mean if if only because we learned about love darts from snails then you know
yeah but there's many other reasons too thank you eric thank you so much i hope you have a good
good day there on the other side of the world yeah all right bye bye
thanks for listening everyone hope you enjoyed that hope you're off to something weird now
please support the show in whatever way you can it really helps i'm doing this in a weird way so
anything you want to contribute any ideas you have
for how to keep this going i welcome them and i appreciate you all right bye
