The question arises, are we really distinct from the machines that we create ourselves?
We are fully embodied beings.
Everything that is visible and that is movable and that is sensible in our experience is
the living body.
So it's not something that we can separate from.
To a certain extent, a book is a kind of detachment of thought, of thinking, and externalization
and sedimentation into some written text, printed text.
You could get the idea that the mind is something external because it can be in a sedimented
form and symbolized form, it can be externalized.
Progress replaces the ancient history of salvation, and we are constantly switching
between a narcissistic grandiosity on the one hand and a self-content, a self-disdain
even on the other hand.
So we are constantly switching, oscillating, and this instability is visible in our relation
to AI.
We identify with the thoughts because we forget that in order to think, we first have
to be alive.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
I'm so glad you're here.
This is a conversation with Thomas Fuchs, who is a philosopher and a psychiatrist at
the Universität Heidelberg in Germany.
This university, which is in this fairy tale looking town you may recognize with the castles
and the water and the beautiful colors, and it's a place where famous philosophers walked
and famous scientists.
So he's following in that tradition.
He's a Karl Jaspers professor there, and he's written a lot of very interesting books.
The one we're going to talk about today is In Defense of the Human Being, and there's
a word I want to highlight from the beginning, which we discussed.
This is a very beautiful move that Thomas makes in his writing, where he talks about
intersubjectivity as conviviality, which is what we're going to talk about as kind of
the cure to the oscillation or the even rather bipolar swing between self-hate and self-transcendence
or self-aggrandizement that seems to happen in our lives more and more, at least in our
societies and the way that we're interacting with one another.
And I want to bring up this word conviviality because it's actually easy to not hear it,
what it really means, but con means with or together, c-o-n, the root of it.
So it's with life, with living, with one another.
It's a way of thinking about life as shared and the body as a particular sensing of shared
living.
It's conviviality, it's coming into awareness of the with-ness of our living.
That's different than there's this life and there's this life and there's this life and
all these lives and they're trapped.
Instead, this is life, which is complex, multidimensional, but continuous, and these sensory bodies are
a way of being with that life and coming into it and coming to know it.
We feel pulled in directions that don't allow us to appreciate what it actually means to
be a human being.
This incredible, wonderful experience we're having doesn't actually get fully experienced
because we are confused by the oscillation of hating what it means to be human or being
rather repulsed or disgusted by what humans do or by our own inability to live up to certain
kind of imagined standards as a body.
Or the opposite of that, we get a bit carried away in the aggrandizement whereby there's
a power to be felt in connecting with life and feeling as if we are ourselves responsible
for that wonder and wanting to take all of that power as if it belongs to our body.
So there's an oscillation between wanting to rule the world and wanting to escape it.
It's our sensory body that allows us the conviviality, the inner subjectivity.
Another interesting point in this conversation is the theory of mind is not what we think
it is.
What Thomas says is really quite interesting and it's kind of his answer, in a way, to
a lot of the binary polarized decisions or dichotomies that we get sort of oscillated
between these days.
The conviviality, maybe you can hear it in a different way because when I hear that word
as an American, I sort of listen over it.
It sounds like a little happy word, but if you really look into the roots of it, viv,
this living life and con with, and it already has an inner subjectivity to it, we're a
certain sensory form of life and consciousness.
And wow, I mean, isn't that amazing that we are that, that we are coming into awareness
of that, that we are with life in that way?
That's the heart of inner subjectivity, although, of course, there's many academic and much
drier ways of talking about it that are also good to explore, but I want to start with
that feeling and the livingness and being with the livingness and appreciating the story
of self, but realizing it's perhaps like training wills towards understanding that
we're experiencing the presence of life as ourselves and that that is our connection
with all that is living.
We are with it.
We are with the living.
We are convivial.
So that's just to take us into this conversation with Thomas Fuchs, who is a philosopher who
works with embodied cognition.
And he's also a psychiatrist, he is wearing a lot of hats.
And we talk about how that itself is a bit of a practice of this conviviality and inner
subjectivity, the kind of transcendence that doesn't require one to reject or escape from
the body.
And this conversation is about thinking of a new kind of embodied understanding of what
it means to be human.
If you want to hear the rest of the thoughts about all these issues that just came in prompt
to you, then you can check out the research diaries on the YouTube, but for now, let's
go into the conversation.
I do want to say thank you to everyone who has sent emails or support.
Thank you for signing up for the Substack, the Love and Philosophy Substack, and anyone
who's listening who hasn't signed up for the Substack or gone to the YouTube, I hope
you will know.
And I love that we get to connect.
So I'm sending you a lot of love and philosophy.
Hi, Thomas.
Thank you so much for doing this.
It's great to see you.
Hi, Andrea.
Today, we're going to talk about your book, In Defense of the Human Being, which I just
love. There's so much in here I want to talk to you about.
But for the general audience, just to start, why does the human being need to be defended?
Well, the idea of the book is that the defense of the human being is necessary in several
respects, which have to do with the current development of technology and science and
communication.
So there are various fields in society where the traditional image of the human being
as embodied being in the world with others is questioned.
That was kind of a big question for me to ask you right off.
Yeah, that's a really big question because it opens up all kinds of fields that are
touched in the book, of course.
Well, the first field is the development of artificial intelligence, where the question
arises, are we really distinct from the machines that we create ourselves?
And are we kind of machines ourselves with which run by algorithms?
And that's at least what do we find in ideas of digitalization, proponents and some
for example, in ideas of Yuval Harari, the historian with his book Homo Deus.
The second field is transhumanism, the idea that we can transform our own bodies into
some kind of cyborgs or other kinds of machines and that we can ultimately upload our
minds onto digital computers and and and gain immortality through this.
This is, of course, an extreme position.
But on the way to this goal, there are many possibilities of optimizing the human being
enhancement of changing the human nature into something new, into something similar to a
cyborg. And then there is the development of virtualization in society.
So the increasing disembodiment of communication, the increasing leveling of the difference
between reality and virtuality so that people can no longer distinguish between reality
and simulation or between truth and fake, between appearance and the real communication
and the real encounter with the other.
So all these developments question the the image of man that was based on the idea that
he that the human being is a person.
The person means an embodied being that is related to others through his or her body
and that is not located somewhere in the brain and that is not equal to some neuronal
algorithms that run through the brain.
So this traditional image of man is something I want to defend, but not only in the
traditional sense, but in the often of traditional humanism, which was rather anthropocentric,
but in the sense of a new humanism, an embodied humanism that sees the human being in
constitutive relation to the environment in relation to other living beings and in
relation to the ecological environment.
So that would be a new kind of humanism, but it is still based on embodiment.
I started with a really big question because it seems almost obvious that we would
defend what it means to be alive and to be and human.
But to be honest, your work is one of the only ones I've seen that actually notices
this and takes a position of life being something wonderful, which sounds almost hard
to believe or too simplistic.
But what happens, it seems, and what you show in the book, it goes to two extremes where
either the human is something we're contemptible of, either through our own feelings,
personal feelings of contempt, or through what we see that the human has done to the
natural world, for example.
And then on the other side, there's this glorification or almost as if we could be
omnipotent or powerful, usually through technology, as you were just expressing.
And you go into so many examples.
You talk about, for example, Greek tragedy or Dostoevsky or Nietzsche, all these
philosophers dealing with this feeling that we have of either contempt for ourselves or
wanting to be overpowerful or feeling how powerful life is.
But we can't sit with it in the moment, as you're suggesting we do in the book, with
life and with presence.
But instead, we must somehow, through technology, make it perfect.
Do you see this as a theme that's been around as long as humans?
Is it part of us or what's going on there with this seeming dichotomy?
To a certain extent, it may be part of us because we're beings that have an
instability, so to speak.
Being human means to have an eccentric position, so to speak.
That's what the German philosopher, Helmut Plesner, called it.
Eccentric means out of the center, being able to decenter oneself and seeing
oneself from the outside, so to speak.
This makes us able to transcend ourselves and to enter genuine intersubjectivity.
On the other hand, it also enables us to imagine ourselves in all kinds of ways,
greater than we are, to transcend ourselves towards superior power and superior
possibilities that obviously fuels human broke, human and technological progress
over the last centuries.
But in my view, this development has really gained an impact since modernity.
Since modernity, we have kind of lost our centeredness in the world and have
become homeless, metaphysically homeless beings, so to speak, with the increasing
retreat of God into some outer world, so to speak, and increasing loss of
religious background, we have become metaphysically homeless, and we try to
compensate for this through our own empowerment, through our constant striving
for more progress, more growth, more wealth.
So the earthly progress replaces the ancient history of salvation.
And since then, we are constantly switching between a grandiose image of
ourselves, a narcissistic grandiosity on the one hand, and a self-content, a
self-disdain even on the other hand.
That's what you pointed out before.
So we are constantly switching, oscillating between the grandiosity on
the one hand and the self-content and self-insufficiency on the other hand.
And this instability is invisible in our relation to AI.
AI is on the one hand, something which we think of as the ultimate progress,
the ultimate God-like power that we acquire through creating something
like superior intelligence, even superior to ourselves, creating conscious
beings somehow, that's at least the idea.
On the other hand, it puts us into a relation of inferiority.
It leads to a shame of ourselves because we are only earthly bodily
beings that are not able to compete with our own creations.
And in this narcissistic instability between self-grandiosity on the one
hand and self-inferiority on the other hand, we are constantly oscillating
and trying to cope with this instability.
And I think we have to overcome this narcissistic image of the human being
and acquire something, a modest self-image that on the other hand, doesn't
lead to the idea that we would have to, well, that earth would be better off
without us, so we have to abdicate our own rule and we should rather be
replaced by a superior intelligence.
And that is, of course, the depressive view, the pessimistic view that is
somehow represented by post-humanism, for example, and we have to find
a new equilibrium, a more modest position, a more modest image of
ourselves as human beings in relation to the world, to the environment.
That is what the book aims for.
Yes.
I think a lot of us can understand contempt for the body in a sense, or
that the body doesn't do what you want it to do or look how you want it to look
or compare well with others around you from your perspective until you want
to escape it, and there is something about technology that feels inviting
in that way, I think on a basic level, people can understand that.
But what I feel in your book and in a lot of your other work is this, I
think you talk about it as inner bodily resonance in some places, life itself
as being the experience and really being in the body and realizing this
amazing sense of the body, how could we really think about embodiment in
terms of what we've opened up so far about the body itself as maybe the
center of these different problems or beginnings of this or the place where
it will be resolved?
Embodiment has a manifold meaning and we should distinguish first between
two ways of thinking of the body.
The usual one is a more or less dualistic way of thinking of the body as
something that we have and that we kind of as an object, as an instrument.
So we think of ourselves as somehow being located in the brain or being
a kind of a soul-like consciousness that is located in the body and uses
it as an instrument and tries to modify it, to optimize it, to change the
body image, so everything external that the body can show to others and can
show, so that would be the more or less dualistic way of thinking of the body.
But what is before that is of course that we are living bodies, that we are
embodied and that is experience that is not easy to grasp because it doesn't
mean that we are in our body, rather that we inhabit our whole body, that
we are our whole body and that every experience is based on this very vital
feeling that emerges from our whole body.
The vital feeling means feeling of being alive and that accompanies all our
actions, perceptions, thoughts, and feelings, but that is deeper, well,
embodied in grain, so to speak, in our body because it emerges from the
constant interaction between the brain and the body as a whole.
This vital feeling, which also continues in certain drive states like hunger or
thirst or strivings, which also manifests itself in basic moods that we are in,
the basic moods that we ask for when we ask, well, how are you at the moment?
Then we look at kind of express our constant, our momentary mood and say,
well, I'm fine, that's okay, so we express an overall state that is in
fact our own bodily state and this very basic feeling of being alive is what
fuels every other, well, expression of ourselves, that what fuels every other
experience and action and it is deeply immersed in the body, that is something
that we usually are not aware of because it's always in the background of our
experience.
Can we say it is the body?
Is it in the body or is it the body?
Because...
No, it is the body.
Okay.
It is the body as a living body.
It is not something that we are within the body.
There is no, we are not existing two times, so to speak, we are not double
persons, so the ones that are visible and then there is another person within the
visible body.
No, we are fully embodied beings.
Everything that is visible and that is movable and that is sensible in our
experience is the living body, so it's not something that we can separate from.
And yet with our language and the way that we come to as that lived body, that
whole living experience, we become more and more aware of that experience, which
is ourselves.
And there's something about that, which you've already talked about a bit, this
almost, it's not that we've got two of us, but we are in a way setting ourselves
against ourselves as subject and object in a kind of pattern, even though we're
always this whole lived body.
I find this very hard to talk about, which is why I'm going into it because it
gets very confusing, but I think what you're showing in your work is this is a
wholeness, a continuity of living and experience, even though we might not have
full awareness of that.
That ability to sit and realize the feeling of being alive is quite spectacular.
And we're not often doing that, are we?
Yeah, no, certainly not.
We are usually immersed in the environment, engaged in our thoughts, in
our projects, or in interaction with others or with the world outside.
That is all fine, but we lose in this involvement, in this engagement, we
sometimes lose the anchoring in our live body, which nevertheless is of course
always the basis for this engagement.
And we think that we are kind of be of mental or spiritual or other kinds of
beings, which can exist even outside or without the body, but that is obviously
not possible because our feeling of being alive is based in the organism as a whole.
The idea that we are different from our body is the product of our capacity for
reflection, and that is of course something particularly human as well.
We are able, as I said before, to kind of step out of our embodied center
virtually and think and see ourselves as if from the outside, which is the
possibility that opens up the understanding of others.
Understanding others means stepping outside of my own center virtually and
taking the perspective and the view of the other, and this is what enables the
young child at around eight or nine months of life to take the perspective
of others in joint attention.
And gradually the child realizes that it is also seen by others, addressed by
others from their point of view, and if the child realizes that, then it can kind
of internalize this external perspective to look at itself from the outside, so
to speak, and to address itself, to gain a relation to itself, and this is the
basis for the development of reflective self-consciousness.
And this reflection creates the appearance that we are somehow, that we
could somehow detach ourselves from our embodied center, because we're thinking
and thinking, imagine we're moving in imaginary worlds, we can imagine all kinds
of places that we are at, that we are at without changing our location as living
bodies, and that creates the idea we could somehow detach ourselves from the body.
We could be even souls or other kinds of mental beings that could leave the body.
This was development since antiquity, you find it in Plato, you find it of
course in the development of Christianity, and it has reached a certain
climax in Descartes, which is famously the climax of thinking of the human
being in two kinds of substances.
We have overcome this dualism to a certain extent, but we still think we
could be kind of detached subjects where the body is only an object of our
interest, of our aims, of our goals, and that we could use it as a kind of
instrument, and it's hard to overcome this dualistic completely.
We are very much shaped by it in the Western world.
Even our language, the way we talk to one another, it's rutted in that
mindset that it's hard to realize you're using that mindset as you're using it,
at least in my experience in English.
So there's the added complication, which you've talked about in other books, where
it feels like it's in our head, which we then associate with the brain, and then
we think, okay, everything is in the brain, which also isn't true, but it is
easy to do because this process itself gets us to identify with our thoughts
as if we are our thoughts.
Does that make sense?
Do you find that?
That makes sense, yes.
We identify with the thoughts because we forget that in order to think
we first have to be alive.
That's of course a reason why we shouldn't, we shouldn't remain in the
field of thoughts for too long time.
That's even what Descartes recommended to Elizabeth of Palatine when she asked
him about the mind-body problem.
He recommended not to think too much about the question of how the mind could
be related to the body because it's a very complicated question, and he
recommended that you should rather rely on the process of life, rely on everyday
living, and that shows the unity of mind and body because it's hard to conceive.
Well, I think it's impossible to conceive if we take a Cartesian basis, a Cartesian
presupposition for it, but at least he was quite clear about the need to come
back from the region and the realm of thought into embodied life because
otherwise we do not experience the unity.
The unity is the primary experience, but it can only be lived in the
everyday interaction with things, with the world, with others, and I think
the more we use our embodied capacities, for example, for playing instruments,
for singing, for dancing, for interacting with objects in a skillful way, the
more we do that and come back from the region of thought into real life, the
less are we in danger of getting trapped in the mind, so to speak.
I think a lot of people understand that if you have a certain thought
process and you get stuck in it, especially if it's one that's negative
about yourself, if someone says something negative or if we can't do
something because we've taken this thought to be ourselves, then we do get
into that state of what Dostoevsky writes about where there is a kind of
burden, a burdensomeness to being present to your thoughts in that way, or
we just want to escape into something that's bodyless, which we associate
with our technology because it's almost as if we create these models that are
the perfections of us that actually don't work or have any use unless we are
using them, but then we associate our perfection state with that use of that
technology, so this looping that we've been describing starts to get very
confusing, doesn't it, because then we think somehow that we can get out of our
body and become this distilled perfection that we've put into our
technology, which requires our body to even make sense, but it starts to get
very confusing. Yeah, the burden of the body that you address is of course that
is vulnerable, that as bodily beings we know that we are vulnerable,
that we are exposed to possible dangers, and that we are of course exposed to the
ultimate danger and the ultimate certainty, namely to die, and mortality is
something that becomes clear to us through reflection. It's not the immediate
feeling because the immediate feeling of being a body is the vital feeling of
life, and there is nothing mortal in it as such, but the mortality is of course
part of our fate as organisms, as living organisms, and since we know that the
organism is vulnerable and mortal, this is the, well, obviously greatest burden
that our bodily existence brings to us. I think striving for technological
progress and self-optimization of the human body is ultimately aimed at somehow
overcoming the mortality of the body that fuels this constant, well, striving
for technological progress in the end, and a certain humility towards our
embodiment would also be a kind of remedy against this constant overburdening
of ourselves with the aim of getting rid of the body. I think that's a useless
and illusionary endeavor, and we should rather be content with our body, with
our bodily existence, because it is the one that makes us, well, that creates
the freedom of human life and also the richness and the wealth of human life.
And you show that we've maybe tricked ourselves a little bit too, that we feel
so almost disgusted with our vulnerability or the fact that we lose
someone or that death exists, that we become afraid, these things, and then we
try to escape it into technology by becoming the technology, but you show
that's a bit of a trick because in the same way we've gotten caught up thinking
we are our thoughts when actually we are embodied, you're not going to download
your mind into something that's emerged out of your interaction with the mind,
so to speak.
Yes, absolutely, because the technology creates the impression that our mind and
our, well, our experience is ultimately something like information processing,
kind of combined algorithm process, algorithmic process, and that we could
exist without the living body just as information and artificial intelligence
with all its fascinating progress has also created the idea that the impression
that mental processes could be just purely information processing, but that
is obviously wrong because what AI uses and CHAMPGBT uses is our already, well,
performed and experienced thinking, so our thinking is sedimented in all kinds
of electronic and paper copies, so in all kinds of data of written language, this
is the sedimentation of our lived experience, and AI kind of, well, lives
from this or gains from this sedimented basis of our thoughts, and the thoughts
that we find in AI agents such as CHAMPGBT are only meaningful for us and
not for the systems, but we tend to forget that all meaningfulness of these thoughts
or sentences or texts is created primarily through our own embodied being,
where everything that is meaningful is related to the, well, to the organism for
whom there is something like good or bad, attractive or repulsive, an advantage or
a disadvantage, so the basic meaning of all these texts is ultimately related to our
own embodied sense of life, although there is no other source of meaningfulness in the
world, and then when we understand the texts that AI systems produce, then again,
they become only meaningful for us because we have certain interests in our lives,
because we have certain goals, we have problems, we have all kinds of things that
we have to solve and that we want to know, but all these interests, all this striving,
all these goals are ultimately related to our own living embodiment because only from
there do the values, the goals, the wishes, the interests arise from, which lend meaning to texts.
Exactly, the same way we confuse our thoughts with being us, that we think we are our
thoughts, it's a similar pattern, I think, that you show that we then confuse our technology as
ourselves, as if they're all nested into one another and you can't take them apart, however,
it doesn't feel that way, in the same way that it feels like we are our thoughts and we forget
our body, now it's becoming, we feel like we are going to become our technology and forget the body.
Yes, in both cases, there's the similar, well, there are similar illusions that are created
through the thought processes and through the externalized thought processes. Well,
all these kind of books here behind me are, of course, externalized thought processes of people.
It's almost like trying to download ourselves into a book, right? We can't,
it's no different, is it really? I mean, it's really the same kind of thing of thinking we
can download ourselves into other technology, isn't it? Absolutely, there's no principal
difference and it can create the impression that mind is something that is external and
detachable from embodied experience, because to a certain extent, a book is a kind of a detachment
of thought, of thinking and externalization and sedimentation into some written text and printed
text. And then you could create, you could get the idea that the mind is something external,
because it can be in a sedimented form and symbolized form, it can be externalized.
But this is, of course, wrong, because this book, without any human beings on Earth, doesn't have
any meaningfulness. As a book, it doesn't really exist. It's just an object, a physical object that
has no meaning whatsoever. Only in the context of human beings that can, well, take this book,
read it and lend meaningfulness to it, it can become real meaning, whereas before it is
at most a potential meaning. I think this is wonderful because the book itself is very potent
when we have these human bodies, because in a way, the books that you've written will be read on and
on and there is a transmission there that's going on. But it's very much nested in that body,
lived, bodily experience. So I can see how confusing it can get that we think we've put
something into the book and that the book itself now has your thoughts in it. But I think what you
do and where you answer this for people is with the idea in your book you lay it out in a particular
way and through intersubjectivity and second person. So maybe we could try to unpack that a
bit for people. I guess what we've been talking about is more, so first person is like the lived
experience, how we feel when I'm, if I identify with my thoughts. And then we create this other
world we've been talking about, like the books and so on, which is a more third person shared
world. And they're not distinct, but we talk about them like that. And we often forget there's another,
there's something else in there too, right? And what is that?
That is the second person perspective. Yeah, we haven't talked about that so far in more detail.
Well, of course, first person perspective and subjectivity wouldn't be able to develop
into our human existence without the other, without early interaction between bodies that
Melo Ponti has called intercorporeality. And we do not talk here about language already,
but we talk about the very basic interaction with others that gives us and gives the baby
a sense of being open to others, of being with others, of being in a constant resonant relationship
with them. So resonance means that the bodies interact with each other in a way where
expression and impression constantly transition into each other. And where I feel the other's
body with my own body in bodily resonance. And this is the basis for empathy, for bonding with
others. And for all processes that we have already addressed before, like joint attention,
acquiring the upright gait, acquiring language. For all these socialization processes,
intercorporeality is the crucial basis because without this, there would be no capacity of
imitating others, of empathizing with others, understanding others, and ultimately understanding
their language gradually. So intercorporeality is the basis for our sociality. And the second
person perspective is precisely the one in which we experience each other as embodied living beings
with a particular expressiveness. So we don't look at others from a third person point of view
as bodies in the sense of the physical body, the physiological body, in the way the doctor does it,
or a physiologist, or a neuroscientist. These are third person views on the body as an organism that
can be investigated in all kinds of ways. But that is not the attitude that we have when we
experience and encounter each other in the second person perspective, where the other is not somehow
behind his gaze or behind his face, somehow inside the body. But the other is, of course,
the full bodily being that we also experience ourselves to be. Also for you, I'm not somehow
behind or in my body, but my gestures, my speaking, my voice, my gaze, all that is me,
and I'm not somehow a second person inside. And this attitude experience, we experience each other,
and this is the intercorporeal or second person perspective, where the other is a you as a full
bodily being, and where I experience myself as the other's you as a full bodily being.
So this is the crucial basis of all kinds of intersubjectivity, even the basis for,
well, virtual digitalized intersubjectivity, which gains increasing
the increasing importance, of course, today, and which somehow more or less replaces our
embodied interactions to a, well, sometimes problematic extent. But even then, even if we
interact with each other's other only by written text or by email, then we ultimately rely upon
the possibility of meeting and countering the other as the full embodied being at least once
at the end, because otherwise we wouldn't rely on the written text. We imagine and we anticipate
the other as the full person behind the text. It's that nestedness, again, that we take for
granted in the same way our thoughts don't make sense if we're not the body having them,
but we forget the body. In the same way we confuse ourselves to thinking we are our thoughts,
and then we can confuse that with images or technologies and how that's almost taking us
out of our actual capacity. And this reminds me of your From lecture. You won this
really prestigious prize in Europe, the Eric From prize. And you talked about these issues in a
different way, that we've identified with our images or we've started to glorify the images or
this technology and we've lost touch with our own basic humanity. I think you almost compare it to
a kind of narcissistic state that we've somehow fallen into these tendencies of us to mistake
ourselves for our thoughts, ourselves for our technology. When we start doing that to one
another, it seems to become even more, what's the word, numbing or something?
At least we tend to miss the other in his bodily presence and
current concepts of intersubjectivity, which we find in social science, social psychology,
also in neuroscience, based on the idea that the other is not accessible to us,
that the other is somehow a being that we have to or a process that we have to infer
from external science. That is the well-known concept of theory of mind, which is
pervasive in the social sciences. That is the idea that we have to have a theory of how others
function, of how others think, of how others work, so to speak, because there is no way of access to
the other. Because he is a mind in this concept, he is behind the body, he or she is inaccessible
to us and therefore we need to develop a kind of concept of what others really are behind their
visible behavior. That is the concept of theory of mind and this is of course a very strange
concept because it puts us into a position of a scientist who has to kind of detect a foreign
species and to make sense of what the species does, as if we would hypothesize and put and
experiment with other people and find out what they really think and what they really feel.
This is obviously not our primary relation to others. It can be helpful in the case of,
for example, a lack of immediate communication, as for example in a poker game, where everybody
tries to hide as much as possible every feeling, every expression, which is a very artificial
situation of course, and there you can of course use something like an inference-based approach,
what could he have in mind, what is his strategy and so on, but that is a very artificial and
special situation. In everyday contact you don't need such a stance of an observer or a scientist
or a poker player to kind of make find out and infer what is going on in the other.
Our primary relation to others is always inter-corporeal and we couldn't live with each
other if we wouldn't experience each other primary as living beings or as I also call it in
conviviality. Conviviality means that we are living beings, like other living beings,
that we share basic experiences of embodiment, of feelings, of how it feels to move,
how it feels to be tired, to fall asleep, to wake up again, of how it is to feel hunger,
to have need for nourishment, of even how it feels to be vulnerable and even how it is to be
mortal. All this is what we share with each other and with other living beings and this is our
primary attitude towards others. We do not experience others or other living beings as
strange objects that we have to make sense of and that we have to find out about what is going
on in them. We are in conviviality with each other. That is our primary relation, our primary
attitude. This is a powerful thing. If we can come into our body and realize there's another
living body present with us, it's amazing how it changes how it feels to be alive that we are
life nested within life and so taking another body seriously as real is kind of part of that same
process of not doing what you just described of thinking it's all hallucination or thinking we're
all stuck inside of our bodies. I guess it goes kind of both ways. It reminds me of something you
say in the book of how right now we regard our third-person models or the books we were talking
about or something as real or the electron is real and maybe sometimes we also think our own
experience as an eye, the subjective experience is real, but we forget that what we're doing now,
what life is, this relation, conviviality is just as real. We don't even think about it or put a
focus on it, do we? Is that the answer you're offering, Thomas, in a way in the book is
first of all to notice this and in noticing it we have to kind of come back into our body. Is that
kind of the portal through which we can maybe realize we're not our thoughts to stick with the
theme of what we were talking about? Yes, that's the solution that I propose to many problems that
we experience and that we encounter in current society. Develop this in more detail, of course,
but the solution would be that coming back to bodily presence with ourselves and coming back
to bodily presence with others is the ultimate, well, ground of experience of reality and this
experience of reality is kind of threatened through many developments, through the idea
that we are our thoughts, through the idea that we are our brains or through the idea that we are
ultimately algorithms and could be uploaded onto other substrates and so on. This ultimate reality
of immediate bodily presence is a solution to, I think, too many problems that we encounter in
current society. I agree, but it's hard too, isn't it? I don't want it to seem like this is easy.
It is hard to come into awareness of yourself. This isn't the easiest process to become aware
of yourself. It can be overwhelming. It can be very hard to know how to deal with the fact that
you now are aware of your body. So how do you see ways we can help each other do this? In the book,
you say all these problems we face in terms of environment or mental states,
they're going to have to start with us inhabiting our bodies. So this is kind of the hard work
that we're going to do, but how do you see the ways we can help each other in that second
person's space? We have to create enough options for being together, which is not a matter of course
today because people become increasingly lonely. In the development we observe in most Western
societies, an epidemic of loneliness was the title of a book that was edited by the General Surgeon
of the U.S. last year. Our epidemic of loneliness, that means we are losing the embodied experience
of being with others in a shared space, in a group, doing things together, experiencing joy together
in exchange, in immediate contact, in shared practice, but we are increasingly moving into
some kind of virtual interactions and virtual spaces where the other is not present in the
immediate, in the atmospheric sense of what it means to be together in a shared room,
in a shared environment. And this loneliness is increasing and what we need is the constant
experience or a repeating experience, being together in a shared space where we can touch
each other, feel each other, that would be a first requirement. And then what we have to
kind of cultivate again is the experience of how it feels to be bodily, the experience of being
bodily in all kinds of sensual ways, feeling embodiment in the lived presence of meditation,
for example, or feeling your embodiment in contact with nature where you
mindfully experience how nature is related to your own body because that is one of the most basic
ways of embeddedness in the world, feeling the similarity and feeling the
the
embeddedness in nature. The conviviality, exactly. So this is something that we
lose, that we often lose in our constantly accelerating society and the constant striving
for self-optimization and we can ourselves and make us mutually attentive to how it feels,
of how it feels like to be really present. That is what we could help each other to
regain the feeling of being really present. But that is, of course, something that is
in contrast and in opposition to the constantly accelerating speed of communication, of mobility,
of economic processes, of technological progress that characterizes our Western society.
So we need something like a balance between the two principles of time, so to speak, the linear
principle of constant acceleration of the linear flight of time, so to speak, on the one hand,
and the more cyclical, repetitive, rhythmic, and present forms of experience of time
that are more adequate to our basic processes of life. This balance is something that we can
help each other to acquire in our interaction with others.
I like the idea of time in this nestedness that we've been talking about, this getting away from
linearity. You also talk about that in terms of time and that can be helpful for us to also
locate ourselves as part of life and a continuity of life. And as I was reading your book, I was
thinking realizing the second person stance, which I don't think is a public kind of idea,
but starting to take that in a public sort of way that that's real, that interrelation is real,
trying to talk about that in an everyday way also helps us not to confuse our algorithms and our
models and our technology with ourselves and the way we were talking about before, because then we
can see that those are like the books, right? They're ways we're trying to share our experience
with one another in that relation. Before we go, I have to bring up the word love, so I don't know
how this relates to trying to understand these themes and how is this theme related to your own
path in life and how have you kept yourself aware of that second person
interrelation in a world where you could have gone either way because you're in philosophy,
you're in medicine, and there's always the pull to take the third person
or the first person rather than the second person perspective.
Absolutely. Yes, precisely being in an interdisciplinary field, kind of a living bridge
between a philosophical, more reflective stance or attitude towards the world on the one hand
and being a psychiatrist and psychotherapist with an attitude of a second person togetherness
A lot of people praise your work to me because they know that I know you and they often say
that they really respect that you've stayed in a lot of different fields and tried to
maintain that. Is that part of how you've been able to maintain that position?
Yeah, precisely. I would say despite the difficulties that you encounter, of course,
with such an ambivalent path through life, precisely through that you, of course,
gain the best of both fields, so to speak, and can combine both fields in a new way.
And I always realized that there is a danger in losing one pole of my existence. So I always
tried to balance these two poles because I realized that I don't feel well with either of
them alone and that they both are fruitful for each other. So I gained so much for psychiatric
work, for psychopathology, for psychotherapy, through thinking about the human being in a very
foundational sense. I gained so much in understanding and being able to help people understand themselves
and better than they do. And I gained so much the other way around for philosophical thinking about
the human being through the experiences of suffering people. How is it to suffer from
depersonalization, feeling alien to the world? How is it to suffer from depression,
feeling constant rigidity in your body and the embodied relation to the world is somehow
interrupted because the body becomes a rigid, constricted object. So how does it feel then
to experience the lack of attunement to others? All this helps you to better understand our basic
condition as human beings and this is how psychiatry influences, impacts on my philosophical
thought. So there's such a rich mutual advantage, so to speak. There's such a rich, fruitful exchange
between the two poles that I would never have liked to miss one of them. As you're talking,
I realize that's actually an example of this in practice because it can be so easy to go
into your thoughts if you're just studying philosophy in the way that you brought up with
the Descartes analogy. But then similarly, if you're only dealing with the subjectivity of it,
this can also become something like the burden of the Dostoevsky. So thank you for that. And
I guess just last question, this is love and philosophy. So we've been talking about it the
whole time in a way, but love, what is the second person in a relation, a kind of expression of what
we try to point at with that word, would you say? The word love relates to this attitude
of an engaged kind of science, so to speak, because it views the science as not something
which can be done from a detached and unengaged point of view, but it looks at
science as something which changes our knowledge of the world through engagement.
The traditional view of science and even of philosophy was to bring the subject into a
position of autonomy, of independence, of detachment from its object. So the object could be
that was the idea, recognized and investigated. All the better, the more
observer, the more the scientist is detached from it. So all the engagement, all emotional
involvement should be overcome. And there is another notion of knowledge, of recognition
and that is the one that we need in contact with nature, that is what I call conviviality,
but all the more we need it in contact with other human beings through recognizing,
understanding the other is only possible in a relationship of loving engagement,
and where the other shows him or herself to you as a convivial being, as a co-human being,
and thus becomes understandable and becomes visible, becomes accessible to you in his or
her core. That is a completely different notion of knowledge. The knowledge theory of an embodied
view of science, of psychiatry of course as well, the knowledge theory would be a loving
knowledge theory. Maybe I can just leave it at that.
Yeah, that's perfect. And I think that's what people pick up on in your practice of the way
you are coming at your work as you're approaching it from that point of view,
which is not always easy, but I think something I want to say thank you for
and that I know a lot of other people really appreciate about the way that you've made
through all these different subjects. Is there anything we need to touch on before we go that
we didn't talk about that you want to be sure we say or that gets in here?
No. I'm fine with that. We have many very deep issues, but there might be others, but nothing
that immediately comes to my mind. Yeah, I think that's good for today. I just want to say thank
you, Thomas, and I really appreciate your book and I'll definitely be recommending it, of course.
I hope you have a good day there.
