I also just look forward to sort of having a real conversation with you and letting it
go where it wants to go.
I want to venture into the unknown without any expectation as to where you're going to
take us.
I guess we should say hi.
So hi, Mike.
It's great to see you.
Hello.
Thanks for being on Love and Philosophy.
Happy to be here.
So maybe for those who aren't reading your popular sub-stack or haven't heard from you
or about you and all these other worlds, maybe we could just give a brief introduction of
who you are or what's going on in your world at the moment.
Who am I?
I think I'm somebody that recognizes the, I think, is the most profound central insight,
right?
That love is, I mean, I think a lot of people think this is just rhetorical flourish, but
I would suggest that there's a rigorous way to talk about this, right?
Which is that, and we should talk about this today, which is that I'm somebody that believes
in love.
I believe in that, right?
And I say that even as somebody who establishes myself as a naturalist, right?
I do no violence on science.
I don't make a claim to the supernatural.
I don't believe that love, I believe we constructed love, right?
And like together.
But it's real because we made it, just like we've made a lot of other things that are
real.
And there is some accident, right?
An cosmic accident, some transition that happened in the past where love became possible
through the emergence of some contradiction that never resolved itself.
That a contradiction that began and expanded into a self-propelling harmony, right?
And I think that that love, that central love has something to do with truth and understanding
like the ability to recognize that my son's walking behind me.
Hello, hello, David.
And so speaking of love, yeah, exactly.
The ability to recognize that what is possible to imagine what can be separate from what
is.
And in that construct, right?
That we can get into the sort of the dry epistemics of it.
We can talk about game theory and information theory and complexity theory, and we can get
really empirical about what that means.
And my poetic take here, I think, does no violence on any of that.
I think it recognizes the beauty of emergence and irreducible complexity to use the language
that scientists might to describe what I'm talking about romantically.
And I think it's very romantic that you can have this stance that you love the truth and
the pursuit and the discovery of it.
When you ask me who I am, I think I'm somebody that recognizes that fundamental thing that
must be true, that love exists, and that it's the reason for why we even want to know in
this place and why we're here.
And there's your purpose if you're looking for it.
There's your face of God, right?
There's Spinoza's God staring you in the face if that's how you would like to look at it.
You don't have to.
There's certainly other different frameworks and models and schemas of understanding.
All of those same things.
We just danced in with the science of it for a second there.
And here I come back to because I'm here and I'm thinking about it and I have to ask myself
why do I care?
And that's why, because the truth is important.
And it's important because love exists.
That's who I am.
Yeah, I definitely get the feeling when I read your writing that you really care.
It's really coming from a place of care.
And it even feels kind of emotional at times, you know, you don't shy away from that word.
It's intended to be.
It's intended to be emotional.
Because I think that's like a fundamental part of the human condition, right?
That's the grand praxis, right?
My attempt at a literary theory and style and argument, I mean, it's a praxis.
It doesn't really fit in any of those categories.
It brings those categories of argument and narrative and facts and logic and the domain
of reason.
It tries to bring them together into something that's where there's a tension.
There's a tension between all of those, right?
Like in one direction, you know, we can worry about demagoguery, emotion.
Emotion can feed these destructive forces, right?
But I argue that the productive tension is resolved, that emotion should serve truth.
That you should, that when you can align the pursuit of truth with a feeling of joy, with
purpose, of a feeling of belonging, and you can disalign, you know, the forces of chaos,
of darkness, of disconnection, of loneliness.
And you can use that, right, as a basis to understand, to tell a story, to tell a story
that makes sense about like why we're here.
That's the grand praxis.
That's what I'm doing, right?
That's my purpose at Notes from the Circus.
So I'm not trying to hide it from anyone when people ask me, I mean, there's something
that may even sound manipulative or propagandistic about that.
And okay, but I'm being very clear about that's what I'm doing.
That's my stance.
It's like what I believe.
And I think that the work that I'm doing has to embody the tension if you really believe
in it, right?
And so that's what I try to do.
I want to know why you started Notes from the Circus.
When I read your first post, I think I'm remembering this correctly, definitely it was one of your
early posts, then you were talking about accepting your own limitations or something like this.
Is it an ongoing everyday process?
Was it part of starting Notes from the Circus and holding your limitations?
How does this in your own life, how have you waded into these waters?
Yeah, I mean, there's sort of a kind of an existential thought that I've had about this,
right, as one, I should note that to my great surprise, Notes from the Circus is like growing
like wildfire, and I kind of didn't expect that to happen.
I would have done it anyways, like for me, I'd step down as an executive at a big Silicon
Valley tech company.
And people can go on Google and they can find me on YouTube talking about my professional
pursuits if they want.
I'd prefer not to take too long of a cul-de-sac here on that.
But I stepped away from that world and it gave me a lot of time to think, you know,
when you have nothing to do, what else to do other than think?
And so that's what I did.
And I recognized that there was a lot of threads in my thoughts, a lot of contradictions that
I felt.
Some of those things, the reasons why I'm not a tech executive anymore, I guess, at
the end of the day, and why I'm not, you know, talking to recruiters anymore about becoming
one again, was really just about this sort of sense of like this exploration of what
is my authentic self, what would that mean, what would that mean if I think about it?
I have all these thoughts, I have all these beliefs, like I built up myself a deep understanding
of philosophy, of science.
I've tried to use these cognitive tools to stitch together a perspective, a position,
one that I'm like intervening with now, right, in a more public way.
And hopefully people see it in an honest way, not in a pretentious way or a sense that like
this overwhelming and sort of overinflated ego sense that I'm right, that I'm right
about everything.
I'm not sure that I am, if anyone would accuse me of that.
But just like that personal project of just like being honest with myself, this was an
exercise of being honest with myself.
And so I'd probably have still written every single word or some version of it.
Obviously, when you have an audience, it does affect you, you do think about what you're
saying more, there's always obviously a worry of audience capture and feeling because there's
that temptation when you start writing and you see that this post gets thousands more
views than this post and there can be this sort of seductive sort of pull that if I write
more like that, it will bring in a flood of readers.
But then you have to ask yourself, right, is that I made that point and it resonated
with people and something about that matters, something about that matters, there's meaning
behind that.
People are, they're voting with their attention.
Then I have to ask myself, right, is that what I think people should focus on?
Should I give them more of what they want?
Or should I continue to stick out this sort of steady path?
This is what I believe.
And maybe there'll be times where people really like what I say and there'll be other times
where it seems very controversial and some people think I'm saying the wrong thing at
the wrong time or the right thing at the wrong time or whatever combination or whatever critique
people have on me, but still we're kind of recognizing that that friction, that's how
meaning's made, that's our reason for being, that mystery of why do we disagree?
Why is it that you see the world this way and I see the world the other way?
And I thought it was appropriate to say this thing and you think it's inappropriate for
me to say that.
Let's talk about it.
That's to me is the, that's the point, right?
And so I think I come to this from a perspective of like, I don't know, there was a possibility,
I guess, and I was open to that possibility that maybe my sub stack would have a few hundred
subscribers and that would be it and it wouldn't grow from there and that would be okay.
And I'd still spend the next year of my life writing all of this stuff, but you know, it's
resonated with people and like people are inviting me on podcasts and people want to
increasingly ask my opinion.
It's definitely resonated and I think a lot of it is that you are in that honest space
or at least trying to be, right?
It's not like everyone all the time is able to surf this tension that we're talking about
perfectly and this balancing of wanting to be liked and seen and of course, I mean, you're
not writing it just for yourself, you want to share it and then also not writing to that.
What would be the point of that if it was writing it to myself?
Yeah, exactly.
Sometimes the artist kind of image is like you just do it for yourself in your own room,
but I think, yes, there's a way you might do that to work yourself out, but you want
to connect.
Yeah, you want to connect, right?
It's an act of faith.
It's an act of faith.
Yeah.
You're saying, you know, I'm writing it and I'm saying, look, this is me and I'm being
very vulnerable.
Like I'm sensitive to the fact of like how pretentious like my stance could come across
to some people.
Like I'm putting myself up on high here and kind of talking down to people and saying,
you know, I have this real moral center that I feel and it pulls me towards it.
And when I take that moral feeling seriously, it leads me to condescend to you, to tell
you that I think that you're doing something wrong, something bad, something that I think
is going to hurt people.
And I see with all my cognitive tools and all of my sense of what is right, the fact
that I think you're making error and that that error is consequential and that it can
hurt people.
And so I condescend to you and I can understand how from that perspective, someone
can look at me and be like, what an asshole, what a self-important asshole.
He thinks he knows everything.
Which I don't.
I just think I'm right based on what I know.
And I'm being honest about that.
Yeah, which is why I sort of brought up that you have seen a lot of different paths.
But when you were talking, I was thinking about needful freedom.
I think it's a Hans Jonas idea or this kind of sense of precariousness that you I mean,
it's part of that tension of that living in the in the tension.
I want to talk about needful freedom.
I'm glad you brought that up.
I think it's like a really beautiful concept.
I mean, it's a concept that's at the center of my critique of libertarianism, right?
Because I think that, you know, the concept of needful freedom, I think, is really gets
to kind of, I think, you know, the essence of what I'm talking about, that tension where
I think love is meaning, meaning exists.
Yeah.
But I mean, like when you when you confront the libertarian stance, and I mean this in
a philosophical way, I'm not I'm not saying small, big L libertarian.
I'm like, actually, I'm saying I'm trying to use it in the most philosophically neutral
of ways for our listeners.
And I recognize there's people have different meanings of that word.
Some people think that that word is it means conservative or whatever in the American
discourse. But but in the philosophical sense, right, this sort of sense of I have a right
to be free. Right.
It's this sort of like core sort of stance, the sort of I didn't the stance that kind
of says I didn't ask to be here.
I wasn't I wasn't no one no one consulted me.
Like, therefore, my right, my my right at my apex, my my inheritance of existence should
be that no one coerces me, that no one stands in my way, that no one that no one attempts
to change my behavior.
I mean, what a what a petulant place to stand, right.
And the grand, you know, and sort of the needful part, it's the inner subjective needfulness
that is the human condition.
Yeah. So, I mean, they so they they aspire to total freedom, like the kind, you know,
the kind that that is not representative of any tension at all.
But it's actually they they advocate for entropy for the removal of all structure for the
things that that's the frameworks that support understanding that that support connection,
the things that like bring us together because a world without structure, without rules,
without shared commitments is not a utopia of individual self-determination, but a void
where nothing holds.
It's the absence in the absence of order.
Nothing can be built in the absence of obligation.
Nothing can be sustained in the absence.
And just try to connect this back to the broader point about love.
Right. And in the absence of love, because love itself is the kind of freely chosen bond
that that that like describe what meaning is in some way, it's like hard to put a word
around it. Right. And without that, right, freedom collapses into alienation, loneliness,
separation. You're the only person alive with all the opinions in the world.
The most devastating question that I think the vastness of space and the cosmos will
give back to you is who cares?
I think that's the that's the insight, right.
That's the insight. That's why the libertarians wrong.
You can see this, right.
And it's why democracy is right.
It's why the liberal idea and the Enlightenment, I mean, that we can critique it.
We can see that a lot of the Enlightenment philosophers that kind of gave way to some of
the hyper rationalism that I now critique.
But they understood something important.
They they it was it was the first time that we sort of politically tried to embed into
our structures of government.
This very idea that we're talking about a pursuit of truth, a recognition that no one
person can hold it.
And if that's true, because because truth is discovered in the intersubjective space,
then our politics must.
Represent that.
Democrat democracy, democratic deliberation, the collective pursuit of truth.
The the the the the the the attempt to balance competing needs and competing views on the
world towards some greater coherence, towards some greater purpose.
And see that what what is what is more just than that, right, as the background framework
for a secular.
You you brought up liberal, this word liberal, and, you know, in some of your writing, you
you you're talking about being, you know, being a liberal or this liberal ethic or
epistemic liberal ethic or and I'm interested in that word in your life, how you've
Yeah.
Yeah, I feel like you've moved through a process with that word.
And as you said, everyone hears that word differently.
So maybe we should try and focus on that word just a minute, because I know right now a
lot of people are hearing it in all kinds of ways, and it's actually very important,
especially for those enlightenment ideas you're starting to talk about there.
Yeah, thank you for that.
Right.
And I think it's a really important question, because you're right, it is a it's a word
I choose to use that word with all of the baggage that you're referring to, aware of
that baggage or where and in a sense, right, I'm doing something, you know, I'm trying
to do a radical thing, you know, holding that tension, that precariousness.
Yeah, I'm holding that tension.
But I mean, this is important.
And we should talk about this, right, because that's part of my like, grand praxis, right,
the sense that I know that I'm deploying the friction.
I know that that's going to elicit the sort of weight.
You're a liberal, you know, or or whatever.
It's like you sound like people have said that I sound some people on the left.
I've noticed have said I sound like a conservative.
I sound like a moralizing sort of center right conservative.
And I know what they mean when they say that.
And I'm not affected by that, by the way, because I think that there's some reasonable
insights to be found and say a conservative philosopher like Leo Strauss.
I don't I wouldn't say that I'm a Straussian.
I think he says something right.
And I think that that connects back to everything I've said about like culture and its place
and the way that it connects us to our politics and the way that it connects us to power.
And so I think that, you know, in that and and yeah, like if if if say,
you know, more left wing people would see me, you know, reach for a conservative philosopher,
someone that's sort of been like a red flag or something.
It's like a red flag.
It's what are you it's like it's what are you saying?
Right. Well, I mean, I think if Strauss were here today, I having read him, I think he would
I think he would have voted for Kamala Harris if we want to get like real like practical about it.
So just if if if what he said, he believed, right?
He wouldn't he certainly would not have voted for Donald Trump.
So I think like these are the these these sorts of these sorts of things, I think,
are important.
Like this this demand for intellectual honesty, right?
Like with the idea of liberal even, I mean, is it every time you use that word, you have to
show your past dependency and where it's coming from?
Well, I think I think well, look, I'll just I'll just start.
I'll just start where I am right on liberal.
And you can maybe if you want to push at it and tease at it, you can for me to describe liberal
in its most, I think, precise and compelling way.
And I want to be compelling.
The grand praxis is that as I think you should you should center it on the tension that it
navigates, the balance between freedom and obligation between individual autonomy and
collective responsibility.
Liberalism isn't just a set of policies or a political stance.
It's a method.
It's a framework.
It's an epistemic commitment to a society that preserves both the stuff that we just
talked about, needful freedom and the structures that make it possible to pursue.
A liberal is someone who believes that people should be free.
But also understands that freedom cannot exist in a vacuum.
Liberalism isn't libertarianism, which treats all constraints as oppression,
nor is it authoritarianism, which treats all which which which I would say seeks order
at the expense of agency.
Liberalism stands in this fragile space, in this contested space between both extremes,
insisting that true freedom requires coherence, institutions, shared truth, and good faith
disagreement.
This is why we believe in freedom of speech and the right to protest and the demand that
that we choose our own leaders.
A liberal believes in the rule of law, not as an instrument of control, but as the necessary
scaffolding that makes freedom real, that gives us a basis to resolve our disputes without
violence.
A liberal believes in pluralism, not just as a passive acceptance of difference, but
as an act of commitment to constructing a society where different people with different
values can live together without falling into chaos or coercion.
A liberal knows that democracy is not self-sustaining, that it requires civic virtue,
it requires institutional legitimacy.
And this is like my biggest intervention right now, this epistemic crisis I talk about in my
cognitive revolution that I push for and the basis of my epistemic ethic, which is that it
requires a shared reality.
And one that we all think matters.
I think a liberal knows that the market is not self-regulating, that it should serve human
needs rather than humans being made to serve the market.
I think a liberal understands that rights are not self-executing.
That they require constant vigilance, adaptation, and the reinforcement against the pressures of
power and entropy.
So I would say, when you ask me what does liberal mean to me, I think it means that above all,
a liberal sees the world as something to be built, not something that simply exists.
Liberalism is an ideology of construction, of institutions, of consensus, of meaning itself.
The reactionaries and the nihilists reject this responsibility.
One is yearning for a lost order, the things that we've left behind, the things that we've
built on top of, they want to cut off the top floors.
And the others embrace and collapse.
The liberal insists, I insist, we must build.
So to be a liberal then is to take responsibility for the world.
Not just as it is, but as it ought to be.
It is to recognize that the no order is eternal, that democracy is fragile,
and that human flourishing is neither inevitable nor automatic.
It is a commitment, despite uncertainty, despite imperfection, despite the ceaseless
pull of entropy, to the work of keeping civilization possible.
That's what liberalism means.
I think what you just did was kind of demonstrate this holding the paradox or this holding the
tension or needful freedom, which is what we started with.
Liberalism, the way you just painted it, is understanding that we are with each other,
intersubjective, that is what life is.
And so there needs to be some balance between these things you just talked about, such as,
for example, order and chaos, and that over time, through our interactions together, through
the governments we've built, we've found ways to do that.
But today in the world, it seems that there's a kind of a push that says we need to get
rid of all of that.
You write about the Enlightenment or a lot of different political, historical, I guess
the right word, events that sort of guide us to where we are.
But I think you also talk about how we've kind of had this forgetfulness of time.
Yes.
And all that stuff you're writing about, I don't think is really something that's being held in
the common understanding today, let's say, right?
So what you just described about the liberal and this holding this tension,
it seems richer and deeper if you have an understanding of that history and of that.
These things aren't just ideas.
I mean, it's beautiful what you just said, but actually this comes through a lot of practice,
a lot of people fighting, literally dying, trying to figure out how to be able to say
what you just said, that that's actually the case.
Do you know what I mean?
I do.
And as you said, I have written about this, not just from the perspective of
sort of, I mean, look, I think that for me, and this has kind of been my recognition,
right? What the grand practice means, I realize how heady of a term that man's,
and I know that at one point it was used by some Marxist theorists and stuff as well.
And I'm kind of just like stealing it for myself because I'm not a Marxist,
just to be clear, everybody, if someone accuses me of that.
Although I think that Marx, I think Marx and Marxists make important interventions
that need to be responded to as part of-
Do something similar with that term in liberal and the way that you hold it, right?
Socialism and so.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think that, I don't think like capital by Marx is an offensive text.
I think a lot of people would be surprised to hear me say that, right, as a liberal.
Um, it's, I think a lot of his insights are playing out in front of our eyes right now
with Elon Musk and Doge and all this. But, you know, yet I still disagree with him,
not because I think he misunderstands the nature of capital and its propensity to concentrate and
its propensity to become power. I think Marx gets that right. I think what Marx gets wrong,
right, is that he's trying to unify something which is un-unifiable,
right, which is the sort of the diversity of normative horizons among different human
experience. And so this idea, this idea of central planning, this idea of socialism,
this idea of trying to privilege the collective over the individual rather than trying to find
tension and then trying to bring reason and in this sort of belief of like universal objectivity,
the same, the same mistake that these, a lot of these libertarians are making just in a different
way and trying to force it down everyone's throats. It's not surprising that, that communism
led to what it did because in trying to hold the tension, even if you believe in it,
it ultimately forces you to abandon your humanity because there's a contradiction that's
not resolvable there. To stay human is to allow the contradiction, to allow a little bit of the
chaos because it's through that. So you mean to resolve the contradiction means
letting your humanity go, is that what you're saying? Yes, yes. Okay. So I thought you said
holding the tension means forgoing your humanity. Yeah, I think this is the problem. I think this
is the problem. Marxism has a materialist philosophy at the end of the day. It thinks
that the material conditions, it makes a belief, it has an epistemic belief that the problem of
production, the problem of the basic provision of human necessity can be solved through the
the provision of reason and the tools of reason and technology. And in that sense,
they're not even wrong to say that, right? I make this argument about these not even
wrong arguments. I think the Marxists are right in a sense that that's true. But once again,
the tension is like the way we go about it, right? There's like rhetorical things that you hear
people say, right? It's that the meaning of life is the friends that you meet along the way.
Well, I mean, that's the problem with Marxism. It's like it doesn't want you to go off the beaten
path. It wants you to play a symphony, to speak to the structure, right? This is McLuhan, right?
The medium is the message. The socialist state becomes the message. This is the problem. The
liberals want to avoid this. Liberals want to allow a little bit of chaos. The liberals want us to
you know, I mean, this is controversial to say, but to allow the space in which, yes,
some risks are taken and some of those risks lead to human suffering sometimes, but those
necessary risks that sometimes cause us to fall flat on our face or cause us to experience tragedy,
that's the place where meaning is made, where heroes are made.
And so, this is why I'm not a socialist, why I think Marx gets it wrong, right? And so,
it's not about some belief that like capitalism is good. It's not some Randian belief and the
virtue of like unbounded self-actualization. That's not the counter-argument to Marxism.
I mean, that is what Rand was doing when she wrote that. That was her counter-argument to
Marxism and it's insane. It doesn't make any sense. It makes the same mistake in the different
direction. It just finds that same sort of normative tension and then tries to collapse
it in a different direction that pulls us to a fundamentally unhuman place, selfishness,
narcissism, destructive in its own way. So, Marxism, epistemically destructive.
Libertarianism, emotionally destructive. That's where I think the liberal shows up and says,
no, these two things need to be reconciled. So, our response, the liberal response,
if you want to get very practical about it and talk about political theory, is that we need a
frontier, a place where people take risks, where entrepreneurs build new companies and try new
things. But we turn to the Marxists and say, you make a good point. The market will fail some people.
So, we'll have welfare states. We'll have free healthcare, free education. We'll do these things
because, Marx, you're right. The market won't do these things. The markets won't provision
public goods. So, we'll have taxes and some people will be more successful than others.
And we'll change these policies over time and we'll see how people think about it and we'll have
elections and people will make different arguments for the things that we should prioritize on
and the things that we should care about. And we'll vote. And people like me and people like
you will sometimes win the argument and sometimes we'll lose. But hopefully we'll find meaning in
that. That, well, I was wrong. I wasn't able to convince people. But what a beautiful thing that
we had the conversation. And so, we take a step forward and believe in moral progress and believe
that mistakes can be rectified. That new knowledge can be obtained. That the act of building goes on.
And sometimes we make a mistake. And what more could be human than that?
Well, that's that precariousness again. And that's where life is living at that,
whatever, the razor edge or trying to surf all of these different things.
And what you're saying, even if people don't want to call it liberalism, it seems to be what we need
to hear and what makes sense. How do we recognize that we do need those kinds of structures and yet
also that we need the frontier? But we're not there right now. I mean, people aren't necessarily
aware of all this at all. I mean, I want to talk about the cognitive revolution and I want to talk
about the crisis, but there's also this idea of neutrality. So there's holding the tension,
but that can be very much confused with, okay, I recognize both these sides and I'm going to be
neutral, which can also become manipulative. What does that mean to be neutral?
I don't think it really is existing. It seems like an empty question at the end of the day
to even say that. Like neutrality. I had a debate last night on a podcast. I was arguing with a
Jarvin supporter, Curtis Jarvin supporter. The conversation about bias came up in news
among journalists and I asked him, well, what is it that you want them to say?
I mean, that question sounds like pedestrian, almost sounds vapid. I think it's actually
profound. When someone says to you, you're being biased, they're responsible. What do you want me
to say? Because there's like a hidden, there's a normative embedding in the charge that you're
being biased right now. Well, okay, you're right. I bring with me all the contingencies of my
existence, everything I know, my opinions, my feelings, what I think is important, what I
think you should pay attention to. Yes, I'm biased and I'm not sure how, what unbiased even
means. It actually seems like an insane concept when you put it in those terms that you don't
stand anywhere. It means having a path that you've been on, which we all have. But people talk about
being neutral is what I was saying. And you write about this too and the semblance of neutrality and
this kind of... Well, this is an example where I think I am at a completely different place from
the effect of altruists, from the William McCaskills of the world, from the Nick Bostroms.
Even, you know, I think Sam Harris's like moral landscape. And I think, although I think,
I want to give Sam some credit here. I think that he kind of does recognize some of these tensions
in his work and he does try to grapple with them. I don't think in as convincing of a way as I do,
I mean, but I think that, you know, I think he recognizes some of these tensions.
Sorry for Sam, if you ever hear this, sorry for the pretension. So, you know, and yeah,
the reason why I brought up Sam, and this is clearly a reason why my subconscious brain took
me there, right? A very important point, right? Which is that, you know, Sam talks about, right?
Like, he kind of like, he tries to grapple with Parfitt's insight, right? The repugnant conclusion,
and he tries to sort of see a way, you know, there's a construction here that
is rational, that exists in the purely rational realm. And I don't think it's convincing, right?
I don't think, I think it's, I kind of feel like it's Newtonian mechanics to quantum theory. I
think that like within the limit, like Sam Harris's moral landscape actually works quite well for like
most things. It's not, it's not an offensive framework, right? Like, I'd rather people believe
that sort of metaphysical, meta-ethical intervention than most others. But I think that,
but I think that there's no reason to stand there, to just give, let the last part give way,
right? To say, no, no, it's like, there's something else there, right? It's, it's
collapse it down. Just one more, let one more, like one more, like part of the, the domino fall,
let it, let it, let it reach its natural conclusion. Let's be, let's have a coherent
meta-ethical framework here to talk about this in a, in a sense that, that doesn't do any violence
on anything we already know about science, about reason, about, you know, the contingencies of our
existence. Just go all the way. I mean, I think I, look, if I, if I had to guess just as an aside,
like why I think someone like Harris, and this is me talking, speculating about his psychology
and what he cares about a little bit, and that's always a little bit dangerous to do. But I think
that, I think there's this fear. And I think, and I think it's, I think the fear that he has
is the one that I'm actually saying that you don't have to be afraid of. The fear of nihilism,
the fear of relativism, the fear that if anything goes, nothing matters. I think, I think when I
listen to Sam and his sort of, and I hear it as an intervention against moral relativism,
I think, I think that, I think he makes an error in thinking, which is that, because I don't think
I'm a moral relativist. I don't think anything I say is relativistic, yet it doesn't, it doesn't,
it doesn't have to, but I don't build on a foundational axiom. I show that, that most of
what you're trying, everything that we're going for in terms of what makes an ethical moral person
arise naturally in the harmonies of the tension. So we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't have to,
we don't have to find, we don't have to demand the, the, the brute fact, the absolute truth
that, that, that, that the moral truths that we're seeking, we're sitting there right there
in the center of Hume's guillotine, the tension between what is and what ought to be,
it's emergent, constructed such as it is.
I can understand why that semblance of neutrality would have brought all that up about here,
but also I-
What's really important, you, you get the thread, right, of why I went there with your question,
because I think that when you ask about neutrality, I think it's this, it's this weird thing, right,
is sort of this categorical thinking we have, the, the schemas we have of understanding, right,
this epistemic object that's sort of represented by this idea of being unbiased.
What does that connect to? What is the relative meanings of that? And I think it's hard to place
inside the conceptual framework that I'm talking about. It kind of forces you to be like,
because there's, there's, you know, someone might have just heard what I said and they might be
screaming, he didn't answer the question. He didn't answer the question. He went in this
different direction. But what happened there wasn't that I didn't understand the question
and that I was trying to avoid a direct answer. I was trying to suggest that, like, but then this
framework of understanding, which is why, you know, we brought up Newtonian mechanics versus
Einstein before too, right, Newton's laws of motion versus Einstein's relativity,
that there's this sort of interface between those ideas.
It feels like what we're trying to do, what you're trying to do, what you're
doing is opening the space of tension, which doesn't mean, but you're also saying we still
have to take a stand. And those two things are not things that go together easily for people
that you, that you could understand that there's many, many ways to see something
and also still take a stand towards one way. Right. And so sometimes this becomes the neutral
space that we're supposed to have a neutral space. And we sort of step out of all the stances
and every our whole development, because we all have a stance, but we try to pretend like we're
not going to have a stance. And this gets confused a bit with something like meditation
or these kinds of practices we do, or we try to get into a more, you know, presence state,
which that doesn't actually contradict this, but it can seem so. And I think that being up Sam
Harris and that whole way that he's trying makes a lot of sense because he's trying to hold the
space. I think he acknowledges this point though. I think when he talks about it as a navigation
problem, I think he is understanding that point, like that there is sort of like,
you know, we're here right now, right? Whatever we, whatever it is, whatever your sort of like
existential theory of like time is, whether it's presentism or the block universe or whatever,
right? We're, we're standing somewhere, whether we wanted to or not, right? To kind of go back
to the sort of immature criterion stance that I, that I spoke to before. It's like there's,
right? This is, this sort of like dances around this sort of romantic versus cynical ideal too,
because like at some level, like the libertarian's right. I didn't ask to be born. I didn't ask to be
here. I didn't ask to care about the things that I care about. This is, this is a state of being,
right? A state of being here, right? The contingency of possibility is bound up
in, in all of that. This, this sort of like transition point, right? From the descriptive
to the normative, like the, the, the problem is guillotine. This is, this is, I think my insight,
right? And, and we, and we go down all these different paths, right? We're talking about
a certain element of this now, but we really just, we're coming up against this sort of these
categories, these categories of the descriptive and the normative, like ultimately as in sort of
like a broad epistemic sense. Now we're talking about, and we're talking about like our actions,
like where do we stand? But where you stand is with the cards that you were dealt,
right? To, to, to make it a poker analogy. You're sitting at the table of life and the dealer
puts some cards down in front of you and now you have some choices to make. That's where you stand,
right? You may have been dealt a bad deck of cards. Maybe like you're, you were born with illness
and, and, and, and, and, and maybe your life is short and maybe your life is like painful,
but there's an opportunity, right? There's an opportunity to find meaning, to find meaning in
the struggle. There's this, and I, and I think it's not surprising that that's where the most
meaning is found. It's why the movies that move us the most, right? Are, are the ones of,
of, of tragedy. It's tragedy's meaning. Because it's, it's not that, it's not that we want
people to have a tragic fate. It's that people will have tragic face. And when that happens,
it will force us to confront the meaning of life and what things really, really matter.
It provides a mirror that we need to see. It, it, it provides us an experiential window
into our normative horizons of what's actually possible
when nothing seems to be going right. When material conditions are moving against us,
when the storm emerges, there's meaning in surviving that and, and rising to the challenge
and proving that we can and necessitating. Realizing that we need each other to go back
to the love idea too, that mindfulness comes out. Yes. This is, this is also related to the
problem of evil, right? And why, you know, I think the confusion enters there, right, as well,
right? This is why I think cognitive revolution, which is what you, you have a manifesto for a
cognitive revolution, because what we're doing in this whole conversation even, and what you're
presenting, I think, in a lot of your work is a kind of a different way of thinking,
which doesn't start from the either or and doesn't, it allows categories without necessarily
taking them as you have to choose between one or the other in every single instance.
At the same time, however, the path dependency is very important in your work. This historical
element, which I think can get left out too, that, that we are coming from particular paths
and those matter and they don't, they shouldn't be forgotten, right? I think that's also something
important and I guess to try to make it obvious to people, like, what's the crisis here now?
What comes to mind is your writing. Yeah, this is, this is, this is my,
and this speaks to my main, my big criticism, right, of the political left and why they might
see me as a conservative. I don't think, I mean, I, I mean, I'm a liberal. I think I'm a liberal.
I think that all of my interventions can be defended from inside the liberal tradition.
Um, I'm not a cultural conservative. In fact, if, if anyone hears me thinking that we need to turn
back the clock on culture, I mean, I hope they hear what I'm actually saying about, about,
about construction and creation and, and moving forward. Cause I am certainly not saying that
there is a, there is a space for a progressive cultural ideal in my, in my ethics and sitting
there right in front of you. But when I, when I look at the, the political left, I don't, I don't,
I actually see them doing something that's in some time, in some cases authoritarian, right?
I think that, I mean, right now, and I want to say this, I, I've gotten very emotional
about thinking about how scary it must be to be a trans person in the United States today.
How like going outside and, and recognizing among other things that there's a lot of angry people,
a lot of resentful people that now probably feel emboldened to let their bigotry show through.
And this has already happened. We're seeing it happening. And that makes me, I mean, it makes me
I mean, it makes me weep. I've literally had tears in my eyes thinking about it.
I also think that there's a, there's an uncomfortable truth here and it just has
to be said. And, and, and I made a promise to myself, I'm just going to be my most authentic
self and not tell people what, what I think they need to hear, even if it's hard to hear.
And they just, and it can, things can be hard to hear. It can be hard to hear the truth.
Right. Right. I've had to hear some really hard truths about myself. Some people have had to say
things to me that I didn't want to hear. And it was painful. I think that, that the point I want
to make here is that the truth is that we have a project, right? We, we, sometimes we do have to
stand up for ourselves. We do have a responsibility for ourselves to represent ourselves, but also to
do so empathetically. So when the person says, well, isn't it unfair that this person that now
identifies as a woman transitioned a month ago and is 35 years old and now competes in a women's
sports league. I have these intuitive feelings that, that there's something about that that might
seem unfair, that there might be some biological advantage that that person has. And to be shouted
down to be, to have your social media account, you know, suspended temporarily or otherwise for
expressing bigotry or transphobia for making that observation. I think you've gone to a very
dangerous place. I think you've, you've become an enemy of reason. You've become an, you've,
you've forgotten your place, your, your, your commitment to others, that yes, that you have
your contingencies, that there's, there is something unfair about feeling like
you were born in the wrong body. Like how can, what a, what a horrible feeling that any human
could have to, to feel like their sense of meaning, their, what, what, what they think is,
is meaningful that's connected back to their identity can be so out of line. I can't imagine
that. So there's no transphobia in anything I'm saying. This is a statement of love,
but it's recognizing that sometimes that in order to find that balance, in order to live in that
world, sometimes you do have to see the people that you threaten and understand why you're
threatening to them and maybe not take it so personally. Maybe they're afraid. Maybe, maybe,
maybe, maybe they have latent, maybe they have, I mean, I, I, we've seen this and this is, let's
just be radically honest about this as well. Like we know that a lot of homophobia problems from a
fear internally, from, from latent feelings that some people have of, of, of like, we've seen this
as psychology is well known that some gay men and some lesbian women become very homophobic
as a defense mechanism of their own internal cognitive dissonance of their own feelings for
members of the same sex. So this is why empathy is always better because to get through to someone
like that, what's, what's really tragic about that person is that they're, that that person
might actually be bisexual or they might be homosexual, not in all cases. I'm not saying
that's the case, but we've seen this, this story happen time and time again with famous people,
with, with, with conservatives, with, with reverends, with pastors, and some of them commit
suicide when they're outed. And it's, it, it, it speaks to sort of the responsibility that we have
no matter how unfair our lot in life is. And so this is why some people think I'm a conservative
or I, or I'm, we're making a culturally conservative message. I'm, I'm just saying the
most humane thing imaginable about how humans need to relate to each other in order for us to have
moral progress. Let's talk about, let's talk about why that's such a problem for people,
because I think that gets to what we're trying to talk about here. This is actually a really
good subject where, I mean, exactly the person who's feeling that way could actually probably
experience their sensuality and their life and their body, no matter if they're bisexual or not.
But if they didn't have that reaction, they would actually have a better reality to live. But
for some reason, instead of holding the tension and being able to kind of
understand that a lot of people have a lot of different experiences and they might not be like
ours and we can hold this tension, right now it seems there's a polarization. You have to
fit someone into one category or the other. So in the case that you just described, for example,
if you make a certain statement and you use language in a certain way, you get categorized
into this whole category of, of what you must believe or think, right? Instead of being able
to, to hold that space. So there's that on the one hand, where there's this kind of extreme
happening where we try to push each other into extremes when we're judging one another.
But then at the same time, there's that neutrality we were talking about where to avoid that,
people sort of try to assume a semblance of neutrality or they speak in a way that sort of
holds the paradox and lets them look okay for whatever side might be reading it. There's this
idea of calling the balls and strikes that you talk about in one of your essays. You know what
I mean? So that's also happening. So, and I think it's both a symptom.
It doesn't exist, right? Calling balls and strikes, right? I mean,
Did you talk about that a little? Yeah, I mean, look, I mean, yeah, I mean, I, I,
I'm a mad dog cumion, right? Epistemically. So I don't think there is an objective place to stand.
And I'll defend that. And I, and you see it coming through on my work everywhere. This,
this insight permeates everything I say. It permeates that essay very particularly,
which is this idea that like, whenever you're, whenever you're, you're taking score, whenever
you're putting points on the board. Well, I mean, there's, you have to do that in relationship to
rules and those rules are always constructed, right? So what is a ball or a strike? Well,
they're, I mean, in, in American baseball for people who don't, aren't baseball fans, right?
What's a strike? Well, a strike is defined, it's defined two different ways. There's a,
there's a sort of a technical strike that can happen. Whether, and, and that is defined
simply by the condition of the ball traveling across the plate within a defined zone of,
of, of valid play. And that if that happens, regardless of whether or not the batter swings
at it, that's a technical strike. There's another strike in the sense where you swing at the ball
and miss a swing and a miss. And that's a set of rules. It's a set of axioms that if this happens,
we will accumulate this value. The strike count goes up. But I mean, the strike zone could be
sized differently. The rules could be that you're allowed five strikes instead of three.
Um, there's a bunch of arbitrariness in there that we don't think about, but we have this tendency
to think of that it's objective, that it's ordered, that if everything would just be like that,
but like the fatal conceit is there. Why is it three strikes, not four? Why is the strike
zone this big and not smaller or not larger? So you're calling balls and strikes, but
so you're calling balls and strikes, but according to what rules, the rules that you made up.
And how does that relate to the current sort of crisis that we're in in the sense, would you say
that that's part of the norm now to, well, could I say that you seem to be playing by
the rules, but you've-
I think the rules are contested. The rules are contested at a fundamental level, right? Even
our founders recognized this, right? Thomas Jefferson recognized this when he said that
the laws and customs and constitutions must go with the times and must, and as human sentiment
and morality evolves, so too must the laws and the institutions, right? That is the liberal ideal,
like we do have the ability to amend our constitution. We do have the ability to
make new laws. You have to remember that our system is not static. It never was meant to be.
We have many amendments, right? We have several dozen amendments to our constitution. We haven't
amended it in a while, but the point is that it was meant to be amended. The founders created
a framework for doing so because they recognize that, well, they recognize we might realize we're
wrong and we have to make changes, but we also recognize that doing so is very dangerous,
that there's a difference between passing a law on what taxes should be, whether we should pay
20% or 30% of our taxes to the government, and when we change the rules around how we decide those
taxes, when we change the rules about who decides and when, and what constitutes a legitimate act
of authority, those are far more dangerous things, and that's why the constitutional
amendment framework requires so much more consensus than just 50% plus one.
So it's an attempt. It's an attempt to thread that needle. It's not saying that rules are bad.
We need them as Hobbes brilliantly laid out in his intervention of the Leviathan.
Yeah. When I was reading that article I brought up about the baseball or calling balls and strikes,
I had the feeling there that you were saying people are aware of all the rules and of the
many different ways they can be perceived, and they're sort of staying in this seemingly
neutral ground or making statements- Seemingly doing all the work there.
Well, it is, right? Because that's the point. It's when you do recognize that the tension is where
life is. You can also take advantage of that, is what I'm saying, that you can sort of sculpt
the messages so that they can be read in many different ways, or you can say just flat out,
I'm doing this by the rules, meanwhile your actions are doing exactly the opposite,
or vice versa. You could say I'm exactly what you're going to do, but in a tone that makes
people think you're just kidding or something. There's all these kind of ways that I feel like
people are playing with this blurred area of the tension that we're talking about that have become
really quite dangerous, right? Yeah. I mean, I recognize the
pretension of this, but that's what my grand praxis is, right? It's a theory of
communicating these things in a way that they'll be persuasive and understood and rigorously
defensible. Why don't you say what you think the crisis is, or why do we need this revolution,
and then maybe we can actually talk about your praxis? Yeah. Well, the crisis is an epistemic
one. It's a crisis of a lack of shared understanding about the world. Jonathan
Haidt and Yuval Noah Harari are examples of great public intellectuals that describe this problem
and the nature of this problem a lot, right? The anxious generation in Haidt's case and
21 Lessons for the 21st Century and Harari's case are great trade books for understanding
the nature of the crisis. I think they do quite a good job at that. I think ultimately,
you know, we have to reckon with it. We have to reckon with what we now know. We know that
we've created an information ecosystem. We've fundamentally changed something about the human
experience in a dramatic way with social media and the internet. There's this sort of, I think,
attempt to sort of construct a sort of an ontological understanding that's very deceptive,
right? This sort of sense of, well, I can just put down my phone. I can just choose to have an
account on TikTok or Instagram or neither, and maybe on Mastodon or on Blue Sky, and that we sort
of, like, take comfort in this idea that the choice is possible, but what is choice if not
acted upon? What is choice if the default always wins? There's clearly a sort of, there's sort of
an unexplored tension there in our own intuitive understanding about our relationship with
technology. And my intervention is that, you know, I think Harari is right. I think we are about to
destroy ourselves if we don't do something about this. And so that's the nature of the problem.
We've created all these different systems of understanding, and I don't think,
and I think most of them serve the few, not the many. And that's this fragmentation of reality.
Like, I think, you know, Alex Jones at Infowars, I don't really see anything that he's doing as
anything but serve his business. Using demagoguery, using cynicism, like, just producing
bullshit right, left, and center that is just, like, tailor-made to make you angry and make you
afraid. And because you're afraid, you keep checking back for more because you have to know
more about the nature of this danger that you feel so viscerally now because you've been
warped into this sort of, into this distorted understanding that has lit up your lizard brain,
lit up your amygdala, and made you feel anxious about everything. And that this demagogue,
Alex Jones, has somehow managed to convince you that he's the only one with all the answers.
Well, I mean, I think the nature of the crisis is right there. You've lost your capacity to
trust the goodwill that most people are just doing their best, that the journalists of the
New York Times really is just trying to report on the news, that the teacher is really just trying
to teach your kid how to read, not trying to indoctrinate them with gender ideology,
that this basic act of faith that we can actually just, we can prove it to ourselves.
I know that if I get on a plane right now and go to the reddest of red states and go into a little
diner and sit down with people, I think they'd see that I'm a nice guy, that I don't look down
on them. And I don't think they'd look down on me seeing my face and hearing my words
and just sort of recognizing that, yeah, we are all just, there is, we can prove this to ourselves
empirically if we must, that we are all just doing our best with the information that we have.
And so the nature of our epistemic crisis, it's right there, the lack of connection,
the walling ourselves off from different perspectives.
And how is this connected to technology? You already raised it a little bit in your writing,
you often talk about how we confuse technology and Talios, or yeah, the technology is not the end in
itself, but we kind of confuse that, or a lot of us even sort of live our lives through these
parameters that seem technological. How is that connected to how we've gotten here, do you think?
Well, I mean, it's because it doesn't allow the tension. I mean, a computer program is
deterministic. It's a function. A computer program is just a function, like in calculus.
We'll do the same thing every time given the same inputs. And maybe that's true about
physics and reality too, but even then we don't have to necessarily despair, right?
I don't think it is true about, I mean, there's always this entropy or this idea, evolution is
about the mistake or the chaos or the entropy. But it's becoming more like that through our
habituations through technology, weirdly it seems. Well, I mean, maybe, but at some level,
at some higher plane of existence that maybe this is already all written, maybe the block universe
does exist, maybe Hugh Everett was right that the wave function doesn't collapse. And maybe
that's the way it is. And maybe the only sense of choice we have is what Sean Carroll calls,
like the self-locating uncertainty, like maybe that's where the tension exists. I don't know
that's true, but my goal is to be intellectually honest and consider all perspectives.
Yeah, I understand that. But in this world right now where technology is not the talios,
how is that confusing us in the sense that we seem to be, I don't know, you talk about politics
of power and politics of distribution. It just feels like either people don't feel motivated
to try to change this or you've said fear a few times, or people feel afraid of the precariousness
involved in trying to speak this way. And some of your writing, you're just saying this is how
it is. And I think that's why- It is precarious. So are the contingencies that had to come together
for us to be here right now, right? But isn't that part of why people want to just give themselves
to the AI or why even a lot of people in the world right now that have a lot of power seem to think
that democracy is wrong or empathy is bad or meaning shouldn't matter. We should just go with
the algorithms. Isn't that safer? Well, if you want to convince me that that perspective is
unconsciousness, is suicide, then I offer no rebuttal. I agree. I mean, that's my point.
That's my point, right? I know it's your point, but I feel like people,
it can seem for the everyday person that this is... What you open up and you show, I think,
through caring and through feeling and through the love, is actually this is an existence that
we want. And we want to remember it. And we want to look at the history that's created this because
it's rich and it gives us meaning. And it's a change in the way we think. But when you just go
into your technological worlds or just most of the worlds these days that people are interacting
with, there seems more of a push towards just give over your freedom so you don't have to feel
needful anymore. Do you know what I mean? And I guess I'm just trying to open that up a little
bit because it's a very powerful force right now, this idea that we just have AI governance.
Yeah. Is it fear-based? Is it because we're all so afraid to die?
It's fear. It's fear because we're assaulted with all these things that we're told to care about.
We're beyond our cognitive capacity. We're over-scheduled. We're anxious. There's too
much news flowing at us. Our world's really complex. We've created this highly sophisticated
technological civilization. And even the most disciplined mind in the world can't really make
sense of it in whole, which is what I don't even try to do. For people who come to me and think
that I know everything, I am literally saying quite the opposite, that I am very aware of my
limited epistemic horizons. I'm really aware that the true complexity, the true
superstructure of civilization is actually beyond my capacity to contemplate. There are too many
variables. There's too many things moving in too many different directions. And so how do we deal
with that? Well, we deal with that in abstraction. We deal with that in trying to find the greater
truths, the greater patterns, the organizing principles, the ones that are as simple and
right in front of our face as possible, and then trying to apply that approach, that approach to
sort of start with abstraction, start with abstractions that lead us towards justice,
that are easily applicable, that can be adopted in a way that ladders up to something that's
greater than its full. And that, to me, I think is the most beautiful insight. And that's even
possible. And actually that I think we can see that that's true, that that is in fact how
civilization has worked. I don't seek to apologize for the fact that I'm an
intellectual and that I'm part of a tradition that I think is at the center of what built
civilization. Big ideas, philosophers, the idea of a republic, of building something like that.
I mean, it comes from Plato. It comes from a thinker. It's these abstractions, these cognitive
tools that we build for ourselves that we can use as a way to navigate our world and to evaluate
evidence and try to figure out what we should do with it. How reason can, when mixed with empirical
inquiry, can lead us away from danger and yet also understand that we can never quite eliminate
danger and that we're skating on a razor's edge and that there's a lot of meaning to be found
in that pursuit, even knowing that it will all one day end. And that makes it even more profound
that we're here now and that we have some responsibility to fill the space
because it's so empty and there's so much space to be filled. And so I think, sorry, you want to
ask me something? I was just going to say for people who think that humanity itself or that are all
this feeling and all this richness that is what we're celebrating here or what is part of that
tension holding that people just think, oh, that's just an optimization problem. We just have to kind
of get rid of that. Do some people think that way and how do you think that developed? Is it fear
based too? It's a mistake that happens with science. It's the scientism problem, right? It's
because science has been successful at mapping the natural laws of our world. It has to be said that
the scientific method is our greatest achievement. It's our greatest intellectual
achievement. I mean, who can debate that? It's not debatable that the scientific method is
our greatest intellectual achievement. We walked on the moon in a space suit with a life support
system in it that fed it oxygen on a surface that has none. We brought our atmosphere with us.
Build a rocket engine that allowed the lunar module on the Apollo 11 to descend safely to
the surface of the moon. I mean, my God. I mean, the awe that we did that with a basic idea,
with this idea that with empirical inquiry, we can figure out how to adjust the knobs and levers
of physics in just the right way that that lunar module came to a rest on the surface of the moon.
And then Neil Armstrong descended that ladder. I mean, if you look at that and you're cynical,
you're cynical about what is possible. Because I think that that moment is, I mean, even thinking
about it now, we did it so long ago, nearly half a century ago, we made that achievement. We haven't
been back since, but that's not true. There were several more Apollo missions. I think Apollo 17
was the last to visit the moon. It's moving. The soul is meaning. It's all coming in. So you're
saying, because for me, when you tell that story, that connects to everything we've been talking
about. The feeling, the soul is meaning, what you're moving towards when you talk about a
cognitive revolution. But you're offering it as an example. So we think because we had all those
feelings and that powerful experience through technology, then we just need more and more
and more of that technology. Well, I mean, to use the example of going to the moon,
you can look at that two ways. You can say, wow, look at that technology. Look at the Saturn V
rocket that launched the Apollo mission into space. Look at the lunar module that was,
I believe it was built by Lockheed Martin. It was the subcontractor that built the lunar module.
This brilliant achievement in technology, you can just look at that and be like,
maybe we can build more things like that. It goes back to Jeff Goldblum's character in
Jurassic Park, right? That the scientists who sit around wondering whether they could,
didn't stop to ask themselves whether they should. The real meaning was that we walked on the moon,
that we were able to do that, that we touched the stars.
The technology was the tool that extended our humanity, not the telios that, oh,
now the end is to become a spaceship or something.
Yes. And that is, I think, the most devastating insight as we move into this age of AI.
And it's at the center of what AI risk is. It's not even that the robots will enslave us.
I mean, I think that that's, I mean, that's a risk. I mean, we can talk about it. I don't
think that risk is zero. But I mean, the real risk is that things that think for ourselves
will wash over our capacity to make meaning. I thought we stopped becoming human at all,
that we become unconscious, that we become intelligent automatons.
And I think we've already done some of that to ourselves with social media.
Think of what's happened. And the cognitive revolution is turning back towards that darkness,
seeing that chaos sort of closing in, the cold logic of technology, the algorithm trying to
balance itself, trying to drive towards this efficiency. Doge, the Department of Government
Efficiency. Efficiency of what? Efficiency to what end? What is the goal?
Well, it's this optimization. That's what I'm trying to ask you. Why do you think
so many people who once didn't feel this way, not too long ago, but have now sort of put their
energies towards that? I don't think they have a reason.
I think they're too afraid to ask the question because I think they're afraid of what the answer
might be. Yeah, it seems to be that same fear, right? It's almost as if because we're going to
die, we want to become something that doesn't die. No, but I would say they don't want to ask
the question because they're afraid of what the answer might be. What's the question?
The question is, why are we doing this? Asking that in a real fundamental way. This goes to
business ethics. It goes to, it explains, I think, why a lot of tech oligarchs have adopted this
ideology. Because if you're Mark Zuckerberg, I'm sorry to say, you've built technology.
I don't think Mark Zuckerberg's a bad person. I don't think that when he set out to build
Facebook or Instagram or any of these things that he meant to contribute to the mental health crisis
that Jonathan Haidt has well documented that is connected to the use of that tool.
I don't think he meant to do that. But you ask the question, what is the purpose of this? Why do
we continue? Why do we add this feature or that? I mean, we know that suicide rates among girls is
continuing to rise. And the psychological research thinks social media, they think it's Instagram,
and they think it's TikTok. And there's not much debate about that in mental health circles.
There's not even that much debate about it inside of meta. I mean, there was a that that
leaked whistleblower who leaked that internal report from inside the company. They came to
the same conclusion inside with their own researchers. And whistleblower had to leak it
so that we could all see what they knew. Well, myopic vision of only see what fits with
the current program or that linear kind of, we must always grow mindset.
The logic of technology. It's beautiful. But I mean, it's never the starting point. The second
you make it the starting point, you give up choice, you give up human choice, because
it's like we said, that the function will always resolve to the same result given the same input.
So you've given you've given up freedom. The second that you decide that that's how you
that you you want to shape the world, that when you want to give up that sort of
democratic deliberation, you've given up. But people don't seem to think that's what
they're doing. You know, it's not in everyday sense, nobody would really want to live in Twitter,
where half the time you're talking to robots or bots or algorithms or you know, like,
we don't really want our life to be like that. And yet, we seem to be entranced by
the optics of all of that. I mean, do you think technology could be used towards your praxis? I
mean, could we does it really have to be the way that it is right now? Can technology as a tool
be something more like the spaceship and the story that you told again, in the sense of extending
what this cognitive revolution could be? Or is it is it just so
entrenched in this optimization beyond that humanity?
Well, the cognitive revolution is a it's a what I said, I gotta be intellectually honest,
I'm not going to hide my methods from anybody. And maybe this will get clipped and people will
say that I'm evil. But like the cognitive revolution to me is it's a it's a form of
mimetic warfare on behalf of truth. It's about it's about saying, hey, right, like,
shit matters. Even the smallest shit matters. And there's nothing pretentious about saying that.
There's nothing and there's nothing. And there's nothing embarrassing about getting emotional
about that. Because at the end of the day, that's all what's true. We care more about our family
than what happens with Tom Cruise or, or, or, or, you know, the the Royals or any of these things.
I mean, these things can contribute to us. But we all believe this is true. We care more about
our children than we care about anyone else. And so in the cognitive revolution, we're saying,
look, like, we're going to we're going to own that we're going to we can build we can build
mythos is around that we can get romantic about that. And there's nothing. And people might say
to themselves, well, this is just all bullshit. It's not really true. The universe is lifeless
and cold. And well, okay, then, then leave. It's like the cognitive revolution is embracing
everything that is to be human, define meaning to feel and to feel okay about feeling to realize
that it matters because it matters to us that that that that fundamental sense that I like,
like roses, or I don't like roses. Well, I mean, it's just, that's, I think we all know this,
I think we all knew this is true. I think this is what even, you know, philosopher like Dan
Dennett, who recently died, right, was trying to reconcile with science, with his compatibilism,
this sort of recognition that we do, we do stand in this, in this place. And we can decide that
this is all an illusion, that we're just tricking ourselves. Okay, I mean, I mean, that's it's
certain. That's certainly that's certainly a valid matter. We can, you can you can slide into
solipsism if you want. Or go into any of those other existential directions that that convinces
you that you shouldn't care about anything. But like, the fact that there is a capacity to care
that we're even there, I think is profound in and of itself. So I'm not sure why anyone would
choose anything else other than the faith to embrace it. I hope people listening don't don't
choose that. And I think oftentimes we think we part of that it is that either or mindset of
that it's, that's a choice versus, you know, these are the things because this fear in this
stuff that we're talking about, I mean, some people just don't understand, or haven't been
given a chance to understand how rich life can actually be when you do practice these things,
part of your practice, right? Or, you know, for example, taking the small acts,
thinking of the small acts and being who you are. I mean, these things sound so cliche, but actually,
if you're given a chance and the safety to explore that you do realize it's a different kind of
existence. But it looks very different from what people imagine when they look via technology,
for example, at someone who's rich and famous and these kind of things that we hold up as what we
want to be in the world. But those, those images and those people could also be just as suffering
just as much from from a lack of this kind of practice too, right? And that doesn't mean
they're having a better life necessarily, even if they have better optics.
And this ultimately comes down to, I mean, this isn't a good point that'll let me explain
what I mean when I say I think about myself as a prosecutor, right? Acting on behalf of the people
who would undersign the values that I represent, right? Is this acknowledgement that this isn't
memetic warfare? It is. I'm fighting a war. Can you unpack that just a minute for someone who
doesn't understand this memetic or because that's also from a very particular kind of,
we don't have to talk about Renée Girard and all that, but just for everyday kind of.
I mean, look, I think that fundamentally my point is, is that you have to move people emotionally
in order to get them to care. You have to relate to them. Like when we say meet someone where they
are, I think it's a profound insight. You have to kind of go into their world and show like why ideas
matter to all the other things that matter to them. And so when I say I'm a prosecutor,
I'm saying, hey, I know there's all these things that we all care about. We care about
love and our family. We care about all these things. So all these things that we like say
that we care about and things that we say we don't like. But I think there's some universal
principles and I try to build them up in first principles. And I say, I'm representing this.
I'm representing this point of view. I've done the work. I know everyone doesn't have the time
to do the work, but I've done the work to look into this and think about it and synthesize it
into an argument. And I'm going to put it out there. And I think it's profound.
I think it's emotional. It's deep. I think so. Anyways, maybe you'll disagree,
but maybe you'll read it and you'll say, I'm really glad you said this. And this was very
clarifying for me. And so I'm going to share this, what you said with other people and maybe they'll
think the same way too. And maybe they'll share it. And maybe these ideas will go into someone
and maybe they won't agree. Maybe they'll think it's stupid. But maybe a few of those lines
where I try to tug at your heartstrings will live inside your brain and elicit some cognitive
dissonance. And maybe when you see that poor homeless person being accosted outside the pharmacy,
maybe, I don't know, maybe having read it, maybe even thinking that I'm sort of a
self-important blowhard. But I don't know, like maybe that one sentence sort of just made you
think, well, that Mike Brock may be like a self-important asshole, but I don't want him
to think that he's better than me. So maybe I'm going to actually intervene and do something
about this. So, I mean, yeah, I know what I'm doing and I'm being honest about it.
I'm forcing you to think. I don't want you to like me. I don't want you to agree with me.
I'm doing something that I think is profound. I'm trying to make it hard to ignore me,
whether you agree or not, to create friction, to force you to confront these things.
So that's my practice. That's my theory. It's my theory of change.
And what's your motivation? What do you, what's really moving you when you do this every day?
I believe in creation and the beauty of it and the possibility of it and the temporal nature of it
that starts with the contingencies that came before and the possibilities that will come after,
even beyond my own brief span and the sense of awe of thinking about it and the vastness of it.
And the vastness of it and feeling like I can do my own little small part. That's,
that's the soul is meaning constructed. Is that love? Is that connected to love? Meaning and?
I mean, that's the greatest, I think that's the greatest love possible to think that what,
what, you know, love is about understanding, right? It's about connection. It's about shared
experience. And everything I just said is trying to enable those things. It's trying to make the,
it's trying to enable the possibility of those things, to enable the possibility of love
and the tension that must be maintained because if the tension fades into chaos
or into the cold logic of reason, the tension goes away and meaning disappears.
And so I think of what I'm doing as an act of love for that reason.
Yeah, it feels like that. I think some of the best parts of it, reading it actually feel very
visceral like that. Very loving, but emotional, but also just very clear. That's not such an easy
space to hold. How do you keep yourself healthy? I mean, is it too much for me to ask that? Because
you're holding a lot of things and it's a precarious place. There's, there's the danger
that you could start thinking of yourself as a guru that keeps going at this pace where everyone's
coming to you for answers. And then there's also the, the risk that, you know, you're getting
criticized a lot and you're that kind of thing. So do you just, how do you from yourself stay in
the love spot? Well, anyway, you know, I think my close friends and my family hearing you say that,
I already know what they would say because I've always been the guy that has never had any real
compunction about being the only person in the room with my opinion. I, there's a cockiness to
my personality that I, that I embrace and I admit, and I wrote a piece on it on being an asshole,
right? But I mean, it's, I, I don't, I hope people see that my propensity for being an asshole,
which, sorry, sorry. I'm sorry. My, my propensity, I needed to, I should have had that on do not
disturb. I apologize. Can you hear me? I hear you. You were talking about your propensity to be an
asshole. Yeah. My propensity to be an asshole, to just sort of be like, fuck all of you, you're all
fucking wrong. And just kind of just, you know, and, and you, that, when you do that, that has
a social cost that I'm aware of. Sometimes it means you don't get invited to the party,
but I can look myself in the mirror and I can say, I thought something was true.
I wanted everyone to know it, not because I want to be right, but because I think I am.
And that, and that, and that, and that, and that difference is important.
Yeah. Some of the best philosophers are also the ones who can say that they are wrong or that
whatever. I mean, do you also have that ability to-
I mean, I've changed, I've changed my mind on some of the things that we're talking about in
the last few months, right? I mean, I love, like the fact that I am no pro, I don't get worried
about being wrong is, is because I'm curious. I, if there's holes that you or anyone else wants to
poke in anything, I have to say, if you think there's some profound weakness, some profound
oversight that I'm making, some false belief of coherence where no coherence exists in my
intervention, then by all means point it out. I think that would be very interesting and,
and generative potentially. It could, it could, it could make the argument better if we were to
explore some of those things. So like I, or, or it can collapse the entire enterprise. I don't know.
That's always a possibility. So- Can it though, because that's why I'm, one reason I'm asking,
because what you keep coming back to is practice or praxis. And that's a, that's a way of being in
the world. That's not necessarily stuck to one category. We all, we all have a praxis.
We all have a, whether we name it or whether we name it or not, I'm just trying to do the work of,
of what most people don't, which is try to lay it bare. The praxis itself, if it's actually grounded
in trying to be honest with yourself, trying to get to the truth, if you can some, that's a hard
space, right? Like walking that razor blade, surfing that space. But if you're really staying
there, then there's not, it doesn't make sense to talk about your philosophy collapsing because
that kind of is the revolution that you're trying to get us going here. It's, it's a different way
of, it seems to me that you're trying to introduce a practice that is about thinking a little bit
differently and approaching the inner subjectivity differently. It's not even new. It's not even new,
right? There's a sort of a enlightenment, revanchousness, revanchousness about it,
right? You're continuing the lines or something. Yeah. Yeah. I think that, yeah, I sometimes joke
that I'm a liberal revanchist, right? Where I'm saying, I think a lot of what I'm saying, I mean,
there is hints, you know, there's, there's hints of it and, and enlightenment thinkers. I think
some of the stuff that shows up in even some of the Federalist papers, right? And Jefferson's
thought around civic virtue and I think it's, you know, Thomas Paine, right? The age of reason.
I think that I'm not bringing some new insight that no philosopher or no thinker has ever had
before. I think my innovation, if there is an innovation here, is about sort of like saying,
okay, like science, you've got it right. Cosmologists, I think you're closing in on
the right track. Darwin understood correctly that life is not designed, that it comes about
through this process of natural selection that like we are here. I'm, I'm just simply acknowledging
what thinkers far smarter than me have all said and I think established are true to at least
levels of, of coherence that if we even want to get even more technical about it, if we use
Bayes' theorem and just think to ourselves, what is it that is probably true? Well, I'm saying,
okay, we know, we all know this, right? And this is true. We watch it, you know,
I'm simply saying, okay, let's, let's contend, let's reckon with what we already know and take
it seriously. I'm here to tell you what should already, I'm here to tell you what should already
be abundantly clear. The simple truths all around us reveal things that are blatantly obvious.
That's the first sentence of the manifesto of the cognitive revolution, which everyone can go read
in full. But I mean, if people just listen to this and they haven't read it yet, it sounds from our
conversation as if it's some huge kind of thing. But what you're trying to do really is, is what
are you trying to do? I mean, I don't want to put words in your mouth, but for me, it feels like
you're trying to say, be yourself, say what is true. I think the reason why this is resonating
with people, despite all of the philosophical density of what I'm saying is it is simple when
you look at it. It's one of those insights, the best insights, I think, the ones that you realize
that you kind of knew all along, which just didn't have the words to name it. And once you have the
words to name it, well, then you can relate that idea to other ideas. You can do abstract reasoning
on that idea once you have a sort of coherent definition for something. That's a conceptual
shift. It's not that I'm not a scientist. I don't put myself on the same plane as of Hume or Kant
or Bentham. I'm not so pretentious as to think I'm at that level. I think though that there's an
interpretive fabric to all of these things that I'm trying to
show that I think is possible. A secular mythology, if you will, that can be constructed
without doing violence on any of these insights, but showing that these insights, in many cases,
that appear contradictory, like postmodernism and naturalism,
they're not in contradiction. They're dialectic. So that's my project.
I feel like you cut through a lot of kind of bullshit and you just say what someone might
say is the elephant in the room or something like that, but what people are also really,
really hungry to hear. However, if you really read into your blog, you can actually find
the past dependencies of the liberal mindset that you've talked about earlier.
It is philosophy. It's a philosophy blog, but I think it's also history.
As it turns out.
This is a philosophy blog. You'll see that if you go read it. It comes up as it is constructed.
We all need our motifs.
It's wonderful. Yeah, I know you need to have these refrains, but what I'm trying to say is
people sometimes write to you like, oh, what are you doing? What are you saying we should do?
You're saying how it is and that's a big service, but now what should we do?
But I think once I started really looking into your writing, one thing you're doing,
one service, at least I think you're providing, is sometimes a historical one. It's showing,
you said mythology and narrative, but you sort of tell the story of, hey, look,
this is how we got here. It's actually very moving and meaningful. A lot of people sacrifice their
lives. Hundreds of years have gone into this, into what we actually have right now, which we
take for granted or we don't just state in these everyday moments. Do you see yourself as doing
that too? Yeah. Look, I'm an atheist. I identify as an atheist and I lay out in very clear terms
and my philosophy section around what the contours of that atheism are. I'm a strong atheist even
in the sense that I reject the supernatural out of hand. There's actually, despite all my
mythology and all my talk about meaning making, there actually is no room for supernatural
intervention in anything that I say to be clear. However, it doesn't change the fact that when I
go and visit Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia and I walk there, I feel something.
We decorate our graves. We put our names on tombstones and we mark the dates of birth and
the dates of death and we create these milestones. I think that that's meaningful. I think that that
was the past trying to tell me something. That seems like it was a letter to the future
and I think we should read it and take it seriously because there was some war widow
who kneeled on that grave and placed a flower down and maybe there was a child there
that didn't fully understand what was going on. They didn't know that their parent wasn't coming back.
I think that matters. How can it not?
How can it not?
It does matter.
Sorry, I got emotional there.
No, I think it reminded me when I read your piece about sacrifice and telling the truth.
I can't remember the whole title. I can put it in the show notes, but I actually got choked up
reading that because, and I think it's for a similar reason, you know,
connecting. It's like you remember to open this part of yourself that is a real part of yourself
that's somehow connected to all that, to all those people who died, to those children who went through
who knows what. I mean, we do fill it and some of what I was trying to bring up with that,
I think it's hard to fill that. It can be to open to that and it gets to that fear and all these
other kind of emotions that do come along with it. But I would so rather be feeling that way
and connected to the world in that way than really, I don't know what else, right? That's
meaning for me. Isn't that soul?
Yeah. The soul is meaning. Construct it such as it is.
As it is. But I do feel like we want that and we know that and we still are that and maybe,
you know, remember that.
Well, I think that that's the subtle insight, right? Like, it's not eternity that we're aiming
for. It's for filling the space because it's so empty and that's enough.
The space is empty.
Eternity. Because at some time, based on our best cosmological models,
based on the expansion of the universe, the rise of entropy,
eventually the stars will eventually stop shining. Some of them will collapse into black holes,
others will collapse into small white dwarf stars and they'll burn for tens, some of them
hundreds of billions more years. But eventually, the universe will become dark. Eventually,
it will come to what scientists called a heat death, where no information will be possible,
where nothing can happen, where nothing will move, nothing will change. That day will come.
Our science seems to point pretty definitively to that. But there's a space in between there
and that moment before that multi-trillion year asymptote towards a universe where no
meaning is possible. But even then, we can zoom out again. The universe is the tension.
The universe is the tension between creation and chaos. The accident, the big bang, the
singularity, the first movement, the accident that made all this possible. It gave us a space. It
gave us a delicate one. One that's so precarious, so unbelievably precarious
that you have to sit in awe of it and it kind of makes you cry when you think about it.
Yeah, and it makes you feel weirdly how much is possible, how amazing it is actually that we even
can be in these bodies and just sit and experience this and realize how that we actually can connect
with other people and we are part of this narrative and this mythology.
By the way, I feel like Carl Sagan, in some sense, practiced a kind of a version of this
praxis that I'm espousing and maybe Christopher Hitchens in a different way.
We remember these figures because they found a way to make these intellectual interventions
emotional. Sagan had all these beautiful things he said. We are the way that the
universe has come to know itself. What a beautiful observation. I couldn't agree more.
Hitchens, that's a very interesting pairing of Sagan and Hitchens because that's really holding
the tension there. Yeah, I think Hitchens embodies something. I know there's a bunch of people
jumping out of their headphones right now because, of course, he defended the Iraq War
and he's associated with a neoconservative position. I'll defend Hitchens for a second
here because I think he was wrong about the Iraq War, but I think he was wrong for, I think,
if we're intellectually honest, for the right reasons. I believe he did think that Saddam
Hussein was one of the most evil dictators on the planet. I think it repulsed him,
the ethnic cleansing that Hussein meted out among the Kurds in the north and the
Shiite minorities. I think it really bothered him. I think the positively fascist
rule of the Ba'athist party in Baghdad, I think it really aided him. I think he convinced himself
that there was some virtue in bringing an end to that regime. I think that's the difference
at the end of the day between virtue ethics and consequentialist ethics. He was a man of virtue
and sometimes he took positions that when challenged against the contingency of the world,
didn't turn out very well. But so what? We've done that as a species our entire life. People
have been wrong. I think Marx was wrong. I think Marx and I think Marx was wrong for the right
reasons in the same way. But I think Hitchens loved humanity. I think the idea that that man
wanted to hurt anybody and wasn't really just part of the project of trying to bring an end to hurt,
even if he was wrong about how to go about it, or even if he miscalculated about the dangers of his
methods. I think Hitchens was wrong, but for the right reasons. And if we can't acknowledge that,
then I don't see how we reconcile anything. If we're just going to put someone into the category
of being a bad person because they got it wrong, because they made the wrong calculation. And yes,
we all understand the warning that the road to hell is paid with good intentions. We understand
that, but sometimes we just don't know where the road leads. Sometimes it's beyond our epistemic
horizon. And so we have to forgive ourselves. So the connection with Sagan and Hitchens is that
they're operating from a place we might call love then. It's really beautiful. You say that
about Hitchens. I've never heard anyone say that about Hitchens. And I didn't necessarily mean
all the controversy about the war, but his kind of stance in the world can seem
argumentative. Because he's so smart and he's always coming, coming, coming back.
And I often hear people talk of him almost in a prickly kind of way that you wouldn't
necessarily associate with love. He said it himself though. When I said that I seek
not to be liked or loved, I just seek to not be ignored. I think Hitchens said almost exactly
that at some point. And you think that's a statement of love or something?
Yeah, I think it is. It's embodied in this idea about sometimes telling people what they need
to hear rather than what they want to. We recognize this. Good parents recognize this.
Good friends recognize this. That you're not doing someone a service by aiding them in their
own delusions. You're not doing them a service by not trying to show them the truth when you
know that they believe a lie. So of course it's an act of love.
I think Hitchens was attacking ideas and he was attacking people that he didn't believe were
intellectually honest. And I think he was right most of the time about most of those interventions.
I think that his controversial intervention against Mother Teresa, for example, do people
dispute the facts of what he laid out there in the missionary position, which was a very
provocative book. But I think there is a serious case there as he documented, I think. And that
might be very uncomfortable for Christians to hear, but it's also uncomfortable for Catholics
to find out that some of their priests are pedophiles. I mean, I'm sorry, but I think he
was trying to draw attention to something that was real. And if you get hung up in how offensive it
is to say something like this about Mother Teresa, well, it's okay. Do you think I'm wrong and why?
You at least owe me that. So I think it did come from a place of love. Because if he's right about
that, then she was metting out suffering for people who did not deserve to suffer.
It just makes me think about that we are multiplicities and that even Mother Teresa
or Christopher Hitchens, you, me, we all have multiplicities within us. And that kind of needs
jerk reaction to just have a saint or a bad guy, a bad person is also maybe something that
all of this is asking that we rethink and that that kind of love holds the space for, I guess,
perhaps. Yeah. I mean, does anyone really believe Christopher Hitchens was malicious?
Or do you think that he really loved ideas and thought that there were truths that people wanted
to know? I mean, what were examples of him being malicious, at least in the sense of he knew he was
saying something he thought not to be true in order to hurt someone for the purposes of hurting them,
but not to try and offer some corrective? I don't see any evidence that he ever acted that way.
Well, I think this is the nuance. I actually met him once and he is a very,
yeah, he's likable or he was likable. I mean, I think what you're saying resonates.
I think he loved people and loved humanity. I think that was very clear.
But he's also very argumentative. And I think that's what we're trying to separate here that
sometimes being argumentative gets you put into the category of something the opposite of Carl
Sagan, where he's clearly talking in a way that's supposed to be harmonized.
Sagan was actually quite argumentative when he came up against anti-science and
anti-intellectual views. And while we don't remember that much of him, I think he had a
sort of hitchiness quality to him. There are some things that he said. So I would say that
Sagan did have the capacity to be rude against forces of disreason and had actually some pretty
negative things to say. Some people quote one of his last books that he wrote before he died that
kind of, I think, predicted the collapse of morality in our modern information economy.
And I think he had quite strong things to say about anti-intellectualism,
things that you might consider rude if you're one of those people that distrusts intellectualism.
When people say this, can't we just go along to get along? Well, no, that was never the answer.
The answer is there was always a tension that we always have to work things out. That's not
what we're going to do. We're not going to go along to get along. That leads to tyranny. That
leads to unconsciousness. That leads to our collective death. That seems very much in
contrast to what you're bringing out with Sagan and Hitchens where it's towards order, but it's
towards multiplicity. We see this principle all the time. You can find it. It appears to be a
universal principle, the tension that we're talking about. Even in the most
pedestrian of thought experiments, you see a little child standing on the road and there's
a bus barreling down and you run out onto the road and you push that child as hard as possible. Maybe
you break their arm. The trolley problem. Yeah, but that's the point. That's the Christopher
Hitchens. That's making the argument. That's making the intervention even though it's going
to cause pain. It's a principle that stares us in the face no matter which way we look.
It's the tension. You're reminding me of being a teenager and reading and that feels like a
different universe somehow of the Hitchens world. If I think of some people who are
in control of the world or in control of countries or in control of whatever,
what's the contrast there with someone who's trying to create tension and chaos?
Someone could say they're also trying to do that. In the Twitter world, let's say, they're trying
to do something similar to what you've just described with Hitchens, which is two different
worlds, but I wonder how you would see that. I don't know if I'm being too galaxy-brained
when I say that I see them as the same thing, but maybe I can color my argument a little bit more
to try and support that thesis that I'm describing. The same epistemic concept in both cases,
which is I think that all the great artists created a bit. We see this all the time that
sometimes creative genius is not recognized at the beginning because it seems so disruptive,
it seems so subversive, and then things then become cult favorites and they become more
popular over time as the initial shock, the cultural shock of it being so different and
being so chaotic of moving us out of our spaces. These acts of creation ultimately do start with
this almost childish, I'm just going to fucking throw this rock at the window and see what people
do. I think that's the tension again. That's a different orientation though than just trying
to cause chaos just for causing chaos. That's the argument. That's the purpose of the argument,
is throwing the rock. It's saying, well fuck, why do we think this? Why do you think what you're
saying is true? I don't say this to offend you, I don't say this to make you feel stupid,
but it seems to me that what you're saying is wrong. I feel like if I'm a
morally responsible agent and I care about other people, then I should intervene now and tell you
that you're wrong because I think it would be a good thing if you stopped convincing other people
of that wrong thing, that I don't think advances are common interests, that ladders up towards human
foraging. Don't I have a responsibility to do that if I believe that's true? Or do I have some other
undefensible stance that I want to protect your feelings, that I don't want to expose you to a
momentary sense of discomfort, to expose you to the pain of cognitive dissonance? That's centering
the importance of ego and narcissism as a principle. How can that be true? How can that
be love? It shows up in addiction. We talk about enablers. It's there. That's the tension. It's
everywhere we look. It's everywhere we look. In all these contradictions in our life, it's that
the tension is something that has to be experienced, that the knowledge to be found of how to resolve it
is sometimes in the conflict that we are sometimes too afraid to confront and spend too much time
trying to avoid. Is the difference though coming, is it kind of an orientation or a stance that
you're trying to get at the truth and you're trying to, you really do see that about people
because I mean maybe everyone feels like that, but I also see how if we talk about something
like technology again, how that kind of spirit can just be manipulated, right? When you think
about trolls or something where there's just people trying to create the, again, there's the
semblance or illusion of argumentation that also has a kind of more like this, what you're talking
about with the chaos of perfection, right? Where you're just, those feel different and I'm not sure
how to separate them because- Well, chaos and perfection are at different ends,
right? Of the entropic spectrum, right? And I mean, I guess they kind of, and they loop back
and kind of become the same thing at a certain point, which is kind of-
There's this disruption. Right now we see a lot of disruption on
purpose. Flood the zone or this kind of take everything down, destroy it all.
Yeah, and I think this probably needs to be said then, right? Because once again,
there's this really hard to talk about dialectic even there, right? That needs to be confronted
that a lot of the chaos that's being thrown up, a lot of this zone being flooded in some sense,
right? I have to concede that there might be some necessity of some of it, that it's forcing people
like me, quite frankly, to show up and say, okay, nothing makes sense to you and nothing makes sense
to these people who are buying into all these bullshit narratives because it seems that, yes,
to give the reactionaries a little bit of credit and what they're saying, and I will
deign to disagree with them. I mean, I'll deign to agree with them on this point
that the elites did get somewhat out of touch, that they did get too technocratic,
that they did stop justifying themselves. They did stop explaining why their institutions
were so important. They stopped doing that. They started doing something far more dangerous.
They started intellectual gatekeeping. Cancel culture is part of that. Cancel culture. Cancel
culture is a form of intellectual gatekeeping. It's a form of saying that we've made a decision
on what is true and there's nothing more to be said. Like when I hear left-wing social justice
activists say to me when I ask them basic questions, basic ethical questions, for no other
reason that I'm curious about what motivates them, not because I seek to challenge them.
I hope I've shown people that I have a high capacity to respect people's normative
foundations wherever they lay. I don't mean to convince a social justice activist that
their moral purpose shouldn't be to try and dispatch bigotry from the world. I think that's
a noble goal. I support them in that. I think that we should find a way to do that. The question is,
how do we be effective at that? And it seems to me that having the conversation is
and in creating common understanding that yes, and I can imagine, I can imagine the,
because I've had these conversations with feminists, academic feminists, and I've had
them yell in my face and I've had them say things to me. It's easy for you to say that I should go
and convince this conservative that I should have a right to terminate my pregnancy because you're
a man and you're white. And there's, this puts me into this sort of curious stance of who am I
to say that you should have to argue for your own interests? Who am I to say that you shouldn't just
demand that that person be deplatformed and their social media account canceled? Who am I to say
that? Well, I am who I am. And I'm going to say the things that I will. You don't have to agree
with them, but I think that I observed something very important, that every social movement that
was ever successful sought to have people understand. I think Martin Luther King sought
to have people understand when they showed the pictures of the Black children living in squalor
in the way in which they were dehumanized, that the act of educating people and making them
understand where they're coming from, that yes, a woman that cares about her bodily autonomy would
try to make other people understand why it's important to them, not say that that's not my
job to make you understand this is my right. Well, okay. But I mean, isn't that the totalitarian
impulse, the same one that motivates those who are also not seeking to have you understand where
they're coming from, like why they believe their God commands them to do this? Aren't you just the
other side of this polarity? Aren't you the one that's walling yourself off from the possibility
that greater understanding is possible, that we could have moral progress, that there is some
compromise to be had? And you tell me that I don't am somehow mansplaining when I say that.
Okay. I think this has to do with that path dependency too, and that right now the way the
field is, because we don't hold the tension and understand the tension, and because we also seem
to have some kind of amnesia about everything, we don't actually understand each other's path
dependencies of how we've gotten there. So a woman, for example, in that situation, I can understand
it because you're coming with this whole lifetime of having to explain or whatever, and now you
kind of maybe you got to a point where you could just live in this kind of way. So maybe you go
overboard or I don't know, but you know, we could talk about men too in the manosphere.
And this might be hard for them to believe or to believe, but I'm in the same boat as them,
because I feel. We open it up, it's not either or. We could all have different stories that
are like that, right? But that's not what's held, because you do have your own path dependency,
though. Maybe you would actually connect you with that person, actually.
Yeah. As a lifelong democracy activist, at least since I've been in my 20s,
I can't believe that I'm sitting here telling people that they should care about democracy.
So I can relate to the idea that a woman can't believe that she has to talk about her bodily
autonomy. I get it. I get how frustrating it is to feel like you have to have the conversation
for something that seems so obvious to you. I mean, everything I'm talking to you about seems
so obvious to me, but I'm not sitting here saying, like refusing to have the conversation
and saying, it's not my job to explain why it's so obvious that we should have democracy.
But that's what a lot of left-wing social justice activists say. That's how they argue. And yet
they're so angry that people like me say this to them. And it's one of these things that I find
really frustrating because I am very much not their enemy. It turns out that I agree with most
of what they believe. And yet they're so hostile to me and accuse me of being a right-wing
conservative. It's like, what are you talking about? It's not mature. I'm sorry. It's not
mature. There does. This is me. This is where I'll be a little more Hitchin-esque and say,
you need to grow up. There's some nuance there that people hear from different ways because
in a way, what I hear you saying is that's the power in a way that you have this history and
things are obvious to you. But also before that reason, you can open people up to it,
right? If you can state it, for example, in the way that you do in the blog where you just
say, this is how it is. How is that different from being accusatory or judgmental, I guess?
Well, because the intention matters. The method matters. The context matters.
Like when I say what I'm saying to a political feminist, and I hope people can see that
I am a feminist. If anybody thinks that they can find some sort of patriarchy in my thoughts,
please write an essay and send it to me and I'll read it with great interest and with as
much introspection as my mind will allow. But when I say something like that,
I think I'm making a very big epistemic point. It's like you have a set of beliefs
and other people have other ones. And what are you saying here? You're saying I demand that they
know what they don't know and it's not my job to make them know. So I seek to exclude them from
society instead. What is constructive about that? I don't know how that general principle turns into
moral, social, or political progress. It seems destructive at its core. And so when they hear
me sometimes agreeing with the right about wokeism or something like that, that's my point. It's not
that I have anything, it's not that I have nothing but disapprobation and in some cases hatred
for the positions that are being advanced by the reactionary right on these matters and others.
But when I agree with the critiques of wokeism, it's that. I'm saying that. It's like I'm saying
why do you demand people know what they do not know? If that is your thing, if that is the weed
that you have up your ass, then your imperative is clear. It is your job to be a teacher,
not to say it's not my job to convince you. That is the abandonment of your own agency.
It is the abandonment of your own interests. It is the apex of spite.
So yes, left-wing progressives don't like me because I say that and it makes them think I'm
a conservative, but I don't know what the fuck they're talking about.
Yeah, sometimes the power of the anger or that these things can require such risk and such,
putting yourself out there that sometimes we might get linked in with that anger in a way that becomes
dismissive or unhealthy or not seeing. It's like instead of actually moving towards the cause,
you're just linked to the anger. I can understand how that happens, but I guess what I want to look
at is how, for those people who don't think we should have any of this democratic stuff that all
of this process is part of, for those who think that that's not working anymore, it's not worth it
with the values, for those people who don't think we should have any of this democratic stuff that
is not worth it with the values, we don't need meaning, we don't need empathy, whatever,
that we just can have a kind of more oligarchic or dark enlightenment or something, or just more
AI governance. Because I don't want to caricature them either. They probably have a certain
stance too, right, and a belief. Can you help me understand what that is?
Yeah, but even now I'm not mocking these people. I'm saying what I think they need to hear,
not necessarily what they want to hear, like something that I think is true, that I think
that their moral calling, based on what they say,
the only way it can be practically implemented is through persuasion.
And so I say, why don't you be persuasive rather than dismissive?
If that's mansplaining, if that's not being aware of my subject position and the ease
which they think I'm able to say that versus them, maybe that's even true, but sometimes you need
outside perspective. Sometimes you need somebody who's outside the emotion of your position to
help show you some objectivity. I think that's true of me as it is of anyone else. There's been
many times in my life where I was just so angry and it took my friend or my family to say, well,
shouldn't you look at it this way? Isn't there another way that you can approach this? Maybe
this person thinks this because of this reason. Well, when someone says to someone like me,
check your privilege, they're giving the opposite of accepted advice. It's just not
an epistemically coherent concept, which by the way, isn't to dismiss the very interesting
realities that we should deal with, our unspoken biases, our latent prejudices,
these things which are very real that we have to contend with that if we're intellectually honest,
that we should be clear about. But our goal is to attack those prejudices through truth seeking,
not to cut off the conversation at the first sign of disagreement.
You hear that and you say you have the luxury to think that because of your subject position.
I mean, I don't know what to do with that. I don't know what that means. Maybe that's true.
Maybe I do have the luxury to think that because of my subject position. But we can read Aristotle
here and recognize that the truth value of the statement exists independent of the person.
So if you think I am wrong and that my wrongness stems from my subject position,
then the very least you owe me is to show me how that's true because I'd like to know that.
Maybe not owe you, but that's the whole point of the dialogue. I mean, to me,
I don't hear you saying that you're disagreeing with the anger or any of the feelings of the
experience, but that you want the dialogue to happen. It's not just to be dismissed,
oh, you're just never going to understand because of this and this. One should embody that perspective.
That goes to the heart of the cognitive revolution too, right? I'm not going to explain
it to you because I don't think you can ever understand. Well, okay, well, what a cynical take
on the nature of meaning because I think meaning is shared understanding. I think it is the
understanding that we don't just understand in this sort of solitary sense. We understand together
and we build on that understanding and that gives us meaning and purpose and connection.
So this idea that I seek not to explain this to you because I think you can never understand,
well, that's an abandonment of the faith, the faith that's necessary for civilization.
And it's also kind of a rejection of you wanting to connect with them. I mean, I see this whole
manosphere thing and all that goes into that. And I have nothing good to say about the manosphere.
Right, but it's a similar thing. It's just the other side. But I mean, there's something about
when one is turned away and disconnected, then one is all the more ready to kind of become part
of a very certain kind of group maybe that does accept them. Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think that's exactly dead on. I don't think I have any reason to disagree with your
characterization of that's what's happening. And it's what the cognitive resolution is addressing.
It's these people have lost a sense of connection and purpose. They don't know why they should care
about being part of a community because they don't recognize the community as being part of them.
And that is where I'll give the populace, the right-wing populace, the point that yes,
I think that, and this is at the center of my intervention, right? It's at the center of my
treaties of purpose that I released yesterday that I've been working on for a while. Yeah,
we did exactly what the Christian apologists accused us of. We hollowed meaning out of the
center. We tried to replace it with science. And that was never possible because science was a tool,
not telos, like everything else. And we made that error. And now we're over-correcting against it.
And it may lead to our doom. And so it's time for us to get serious and realize that the next step
is having some very serious conversations about why people are so mad.
Yeah. And realizing that that inner subjectivity, that very rejection or disdain is actually setting
up future parameters, which will look like it. So the more we engage in that kind of behavior,
the more we're setting up possibilities for that happening in the future. We're creating these
paths. And it is inner subjective. We are co-creating it, even when we're having those
kind of terrible, whatever those terrible fights are. And often the most meaningful creation
happens at those moments. But it's when those moments change, isn't it? I'm getting so excited.
I'm throwing my microphone around. But it's when those moments, it's not by continuing that habit
and pattern, that something creative happens. It's that somebody decides to shift out of their
habit, isn't it? Yeah. It's a hard thing to do, but then revolutionary.
It's the moment of revelation. It's the moment of what you had some social
psychologists call hyperrenormalization. The moment where you gain these sort of new conceptual
tools, these new words that explain things that you didn't have a word for before, but felt were
there. And you're like, wow, that's how it all connects. And there lives the sense of awe,
the sense of creation, the sense of change that leads to action or the act of construction.
It's almost like your paths have kind of opened up a portal between
one another. So now you both have wider paths or more options when that happens.
And it wasn't possible without the disagreement. The disagreement was the contingency for creation.
Exactly. It was the only way that those were going to finally align a little bit.
But you still didn't answer my question about... I promise I'm not trying to be evasive.
Okay. I've asked it a couple of times, but maybe I haven't been very clear about
the people who think that AI governance is good or that democracy and values and these kinds of
things are not working anymore, which as you laid out, there's a lot of truth in that things need
to shift in terms of a lot of these issues. But I guess what I'm trying to better understand,
just I'm really struggling to understand, is how do I put myself in the position of someone who's
actively, in this moment, actively destroying those systems? What is their motivation? Because
right now, yes, a lot of things need to change, but the way they're changing right now feels...
It hurts me in the way I think what you were saying about going to the cemetery.
I see that people are in states of chaos, a lot of people losing their job, a lot of people...
There's all these crazy things happening and I'm trying to understand from the position of the
people who think this is correct and good, what is that? Are they motivated because they think,
oh, we just have to have some pain and then we're going to have some kind of AI utopia or is it much
more just bad actors? Yeah, I guess I feel like I have answered this question, but I don't blame
you. Obviously, I think this is sometimes is the problem of being in a place where I am right now,
where I've drowned myself in my own conceptual understanding. In this point, I recognize those
people who, to use your example here, AI and using it as governance, there's this seductive idea.
Let's just say the seductive idea. The seductive idea that someone might have is that an AI-run
government would be more fair, that it would evaluate, it would mete out justice fairly and
objectively and that there would be less chance for human error because there was less chance
for human error, that there would be something more generative about this project than is
currently possible now. You might think that, but it's an epistemically dangerous conclusion
because it falls down in the most devastating of ways when you start to think about the
implications of it. The first is our cognitive horizons. In order to be responsible citizens,
we have to be able to understand the world in which we live. We have to understand the rules.
Those rules have to be cognizable to humans. They can't be beyond us. It can't be a mystery
why the giant AI in the sky makes the decisions that it does. It has to be transparent. It has
to be contestable. There has to be the potential to say that this rule that you have, this decision
that you keep making, is leading to all this unhappiness over here and wouldn't it be better
if we did it this way as well? Then the assumption that the AI would just know that, but then Hume's
guillotine comes back in and it's, well, okay, but you think that the AI is going to generate
its normative positions on its own and that those will represent us? Really? I mean, there's
bureaucratic inefficiency and then there's sometimes there's bureaucratic kindness.
When you've gone to the DMV two or three times to get your forms in order and then eventually
the kind clerk just breaks a little rule here to make your day a little bit easier and stamps the
form. That's not something that a robot that's told to strictly follow the rules will ever do.
To give that little affordance, that human touch, that connection of, fuck it, your happiness right
now and your stress, your child who's at home in between chemotherapy sessions and here you are
standing at the DMV for hours trying to fix your car registration and I'm just going to be like,
fuck it, maybe risk getting in trouble with my job and I'm just going to stamp approved on the
form here for you. I mean, that's the world I want to live in where there's a possibility space for
things like that because that's meaningful. It's an expression of love that transcends the cold
rules of logic and law. It's a domain of prudence.
Do you think there are people who clearly are making a choice against that kind of a world?
Isn't that what you see with Elon Musk and Peter Thiel and Curtis Yarvin? That's what I see.
It looks like that but I guess that's the question. Are they really thinking of it that way?
Has it really gone to that point where it's just we don't need meaning anymore?
Well, I deduce that they're doing it. I deduce they see the world that way whether they recognize
it themselves because if they don't, then I demand that they explain to me what the normative basis
is for their statement of efficiency because efficiency doesn't mean anything without its
normative embeddings. What am I optimizing? Is this more efficient in terms of money?
Like getting high return on investment, getting more money out than more money in and maximizing
the space between those two values. That's a form of efficiency, I guess. Energy is another.
But there's this other entire space. My wife likes to see Broadway shows and operas and live
performances. What does it mean to have an efficient performance, an efficient orchestra?
What does that mean? Explain it to me. And if you can't, if you don't have an answer,
then when you say to me that you just believe in making the government more efficient, that's
just what I believe. I think it's better than this messy democratic deliberation that you talk about,
Mike. It's okay. Maybe that's true. But what is it that you're optimizing for? Please tell me
because I haven't heard it yet. And I've read your thousands of pages of writing, Curtis Yarvin.
I've read William McCaskill and his Effective Altruism. What are you optimizing for? Human
flourishing? The maximum number of humans that could possibly exist in a far off future? Why?
I mean, it's just, that's it. In my secular mythology, that's the temptation of Satan,
right there. To basically go down that path and never answer that question. And just let the
logic of technology and reason lead you to the conclusions it was always going to lead you to,
given the starting point. Yeah, because it's algorithmic. That reminds me of what we were
talking about before. And it's what I was trying to bridge, actually, is that mentality of block
out everything that doesn't fit to the current business model, the linear business model.
You were talking about Facebook, for example, as an example of that. And I do kind of wonder if,
in the tech world, if that kind of mentality, really setting up our thinking, which is kind
of the opposite of the cognitive revolution, but towards that kind of safety. Because if you do it
for 10 years, where you block out everything that's dissonant, and that is efficiency,
in a way, just block out what doesn't fit and persist with the smooth route and, you know,
that can become, yeah, I mean, that can become your mindset.
I'll say something really, really both controversial and profound. And I believe this.
This is what I believe. And it will be, some people might nod along and some people might be like,
well, that's an insane thing to say. But I don't think of Elon Musk as a conscious person.
I think he's gone to sleep, captured by his own algorithm, staring into X every single day and
having this funhouse mirrors version of reality reflect back at him. That blinds him from what's
so blatantly obvious that he's wrong about a lot of things. And that he is leading us and himself
into danger. And I think we all know that it's not going to end well for any of us, including him.
He's become unconscious. And that's where the path of efficiency and believing everything
as an optimization problem leads. It leads to consciousness. It leads to, I mean, like I said,
I'm an atheist, but I use this as, you know, a mythology, a tool. I think mythology is a tool.
I think it's a tool. It's the glue between our emotions and our reason. I think that's
what mythology is. And in my mythology here, that's Satan. He's been seduced by Satan.
And he's doing the evil work of Satan. And I say that as an atheist, not as a Christian,
but within my own framework. And I think that that's how I view him. Do I think that
redemption is possible for him? I don't know. Who knows? I hope so. You have to hope that anyone's
redeemable. But I mean, he's not conscious. He's an automaton operating according to the rules of
logic, not according to the wisdom of the tension that exists in between. And I think most people
know that. And I think it's actually why most people don't like him. And I think that they
sense that even if they can't put it into words. I think most people kind of recognize that. You
see this. It's not that people don't think it's cool that he's trying to go to Mars.
It's that it seems like he's leaving us all behind.
It's a powerful and definitely controversial, but I think needs to be said this feeling that
you just expressed. Because two things come to mind. One was what Sam Harris wrote about
Elon and how when he was wrong about COVID, he kind of just shut off, right? He just
stopped. And that fits very well with that mentality that we were talking about of efficiency and just
completely disregard anything that might question you that is a kind of algorithmic way of thinking.
You can see this too. You can see the petulance with which he acts when he's confronted.
Even the automaton-ishness. And this is kind of at a different level almost where
there's, you know, it's weird to feel empathy for someone who says that empathy is the problem,
if you really said that on Joe Rogan. I don't know. I haven't actually listened to it.
Yeah. It feels like you're watching something very unhealthy unfold. And when one watches-
I think I'm watching Satan. I think I'm looking into the eyes of Satan. Not that Elon Musk is
Satan, but that in this secular mythological framework of what Satan and evil is,
it's the darkness of entropy closing in on us. And it shows up in this way, this seduction of look.
The algorithm is so beautiful. It explains everything. And as some philosophers and
thinkers have said, that something that explains everything, well, I think you know how that ends.
Yeah. Also, you've brought up Hume a lot and that is a lot. And I think there's something of that
in this too, where we think, okay, Elon has actually done amazing things. He's an incredibly
amazing entrepreneur in a lot of ways. And so we think, oh, that's how it is. So he must be
now right too, right? Yes. But I've allowed that affordance. We know that science is capable of
all these things. We landed on the moon. But the question was, did we want to go? Should we go back?
Those are the important questions in life. Not that we can. It's whether we should.
And in our capacity to make meaning and then trying to reify that meaning in the real world
through the merger of creativity and invention.
Absolutely. Elon Musk has done great fantastic things using our beautiful conceptual intellectual
tools of science and science and inquiry and engineering and mathematics and all of the
social structures of institutions that allowed him to form corporations, to be protected by law,
property rights. Right. All the stuff you lay out in your blog, right? This whole history that we
are now perhaps doing away with. And he sees himself of having transcended all of that,
but he hasn't. He hasn't transcended any of it. He's standing on the shoulders of giants
and looking down and saying, I could have gotten here without any of you.
And I look up at him and I say, well, if you think that, then you've clearly been tempted by Satan.
And Satan has convinced you of something. He's convinced you of your own ego.
He's convinced you of your own independence from the contingencies of your own existence.
And to go there is to go into nothingness. It's to become unconscious. It is to die.
Because who cares if we go to Mars, if there's no one to go, or if no one wants to.
Or if we don't feel love and we don't feel that what we felt when what you described happened
when we landed on the moon. And the thing is, I want to go to Mars. Listen, I want to. I think
there's great romance in us colonizing the stars. How could I not think that? But I want to go there
with purpose and with heart. And like you said, with love. With meaning. And I want it to matter.
I want it to matter when you look back and see the little speck in the sky and say,
see that right there? That's that's soul. That's where the solar system is. That's where humans
came from. Yeah. And that wash of love that we all have heard the stories of, of the first people who
went to the moon and they saw the earth from above, or even now when you go and you see how
delicate and incredible it is that that that's love. And that that feels very different from
this algorithmic way of thinking that we've been sort of talking about, which I think people don't
realize that that can be that can happen without that can happen in small ways. Right. You talk
about that, too, of democracy ends with these very small steps that we can very slowly actually
become kind of algorithmic in that way and lose lose touch with this meaning and love, which is
actually what we want. It can lose our way. We can we could forget this. We could forget this.
There's this really beautiful line in the movie Interstellar, Christopher Nolan film.
And I don't know if Nolan wrote this or one of the other screenwriters came up with it,
but it's a really beautiful point that, you know, the the joke, right, Newton's third law of motion
in the movie that the only way that humans have ever figured out how to get somewhere is to leave
something behind. Well, I think that that encapsulates a really beautiful, poetic way
of describing sort of the nature of meaning and our contingencies that, yes, when you stand there
on the surface of the moon and look at the earth and look at look back, look at what you left behind,
it it gives you the reference point for the distance that you've traveled and the sacrifices
that you made and the resources and the time that you spent getting there and contending with that.
And you did have to leave something behind to do that. And that's that's beautiful. That's the
that's the texture of life. So you think that could be happening now that we could be
leaving some things behind that we're going to finally be able to see for the first time fully
in a way. Isn't that where we're doing that? I hope so. I hope that we can come back to earth
and appreciate it and love it and, you know, revel in it after this. I hope it's a kind of
perspective taking and not that we then just lose touch completely and drift into the
cosmos or something. I guess it could go either way, right? That's part of why we need
all these kinds of revolutions, so to speak. And this is this is what I think I think this is
my argument, as pretentious as it is that that the cognitive revolution I think is
it either happens or it doesn't. And I don't know if I don't know what is to become of us
if we will even even if we survive in our bodies, even if our even if there is some
unbroken continuance of our biology into some future forms from transhuman future.
I know one thing for sure. The cognitive revolution doesn't happen. We won't be human anymore.
Yeah, and I yeah, love is part of that. It's definitely what we want to choose. I think
it's weird when you were talking about that story earlier with Elon and stuff. I was also thinking,
you know, this revolution that we've talked about, I've talked about it in different ways,
but you're calling it a cognitive revolution. If someone like Trump or Elon actually did
reconnect, right with these very simple small acts or your kind of praxis,
I just want to say, can you can you just imagine sorry, but this is just the point is,
can you imagine how much real power they would actually have if they could operate out of love?
Because at this moment, they really have the attention. And in a way, they're squandering it,
right? Or they're collapsing whatever respect or meaning or love is in that. But if if they
actually were acting out of this space, that's actually an incredible amount of power if they
really were acting from love, if they really change that. And it's like incredible that they
could actually they could actually do something very positive. And yet it seems just so far away
from where we are now. Yeah, I mean,
Elon, if you're listening now, here's what I'll say to you.
You have done incredible things. You have accomplished more in your life than most humans
in human history. And no one can take that from you. Not my distaste of the moral choices that
you're making. Not my disagreement with the coup that I believe you're helping try to carry out
in this country that I love. And this project of self government and this American experiment that
I would very much like to see continue and you do not seem committed to participating in.
But I would say this, I would ask that you remember that you remember the nature of your
opportunity. That despite all the people who have said that you wouldn't do it, or you couldn't do
it, of all the times that you're almost near bankruptcy, and yet the society around you gave
you the loans, gave you the subsidies, your investors gave you the money, and they took a
chance on you. And that the way you repay them now, the way you repay the risks that society took on
you, such that you could create something better for the world is now repaid, not with a humbleness,
not with a thank you, not with a thank you for taking a risk on me. Thank you for helping me
reach my potential. Now you climb yourself to the seat of power in my country. And then what do you
say to me? You say, fuck you if you don't like me, but I'll take it from here. Well, what more
disrespect could you show society and civilization? That's offensive. It's vulgar. How can you not
see that, Elon? It's not about saying that you don't deserve the credit. It is all the credit in
the world. You're the richest man in the world. You have more money than any human alive. Fine.
Why isn't that enough? Why do you demand now to silence those who disagree with you? What if the
people who disagreed with you had silenced you long ago? What if they had told you how insane your
idea was for an electric vehicle revolution and shut you down? Well, you seem to have learned
nothing. You've gained the world. And as far as I can tell, you've lost yourself. And you've put
the rest of us at risk of losing ourselves collectively together in catastrophe because
you have become so consumed by your own ego, by your own sense of bravado, your sense of superiority,
the belief that you think you can't be wrong, but your own AI, your Grok3 AI, when analyzing your
tweets, as I saw two weeks ago, found more than 50% of your tweets to be lies. And the thing is,
I don't think, Elon, that you are being honest. I think you know that a lot of those things are
lies because they contradict things you've said before. And I don't think you're an idiot.
I think you think the ends justify the means. And there's never been a time in history,
in the history of politics and morality and society, where people who thought the ends
justified the means ever led us to a good place. It always has ended in tragedy. It has always
ended in death and regret and pain. So if you're listening to me, I ask that you hear me now.
And try to find your heart. Because it's sorely needed right now. If for no other reason than to
save your own soul. Because right now you're asleep and you need to wake up. That's my message to you, Elon.
And I'll just add, Elon, that I wish you could just get off Twitter for two weeks. Just stop
with it and try to love the world again. And let the world love you in a real way. And
love it back. Just try. Just try it. I don't know.
Thank you. Yeah. And I hope whoever hears it, I think needs to hear it. Because it makes me
feel emotional. It makes me feel like we have so much potential as humans right now in the world.
And yeah, if we can just reconnect, the more of us the better with that meaning and love and
realize it matters, then actually, yeah, I mean, going to Mars might be, we could have many more
moon landing moments, right? Not going to Mars, but even just who knows what's possible, right?
With that kind of power. That's like real power. It's beautiful to think about. But let's do it
together. Exactly. Let's do it together. Well, thank you. This has just been amazing. Is there
anything I don't, I think we should just go now as I feel so emotional from all that. And I just
can't, yeah, I just want to let it be. But I want to give you a chance. Is there anything like,
we didn't talk about that we should add, we should say that- Yeah, I want to give everyone
a piece of advice. And this was a piece of advice that a philosopher, Vlad Vexler,
from the UK gave me, personal advice. And I think it's brilliant. And I think it grounds you and
giving you a sense of purpose of how to move forward today. This is the time. This is not
a time of judgment. It's a time of confusion. It's a time where everything is up in the air,
and nobody knows where this is going. This is the time to take risks with yourself.
But to take the most virtuous of risks. To be your most authentic self every minute of every day.
Because who knows what happens next? Maybe we're on the verge of the Third World War.
Maybe it gets that bad. But the point is, simple, the simple insight that like, to live without
regrets, to live according to your values, to live every day as your most authentic self,
authentic self, to call out the lie when no one else will, to show that act of kindness
when you see that person in distress. These small things, these are the backbone of democracy.
The belief, the faith that when we all work together, we all look out for each other,
we can resolve our differences, we can sit down and have a coffee,
and then we can have elections. And sometimes we'll get our way, and sometimes we won't.
The way we all get there is by first being our authentic self, and do it every day,
every minute of every 24 hours. And I think that's the advice I'll leave everyone with,
and that's the kernel from which I think we can have our cognitive revolution.
Yeah, that was good to say. That is the revolution, and let's all join it.
All right, well, gosh, thanks for spending three hours with me.
It was great. We can do it again.
We can do it again.
Yeah, maybe we should do it again soon.
There's lots of stuff to talk about.
I know there would be many subjects that we didn't get to, but that felt very powerful,
and I think a lot of people, yeah, I just, I think you gave something to some people.
You're welcome.
