isn't it? Linguistically. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Hi, Nico. Welcome to Love
and Philosophy. It's great to see you today. Hi, Andrea. Thanks for having me. Such a fan.
So we're going to talk about something we haven't talked about ever on the show, and
that is hyperscanning. I don't think many people will know what it is. So just from
the start, maybe you could help us understand a little bit, if you don't mind. What is hyperscanning?
Yeah, my favorite topic. So it just means that we record to the brains of two people at the
same time. That's sort of like the umbrella term. Then you can get like, more nuanced in
saying, it's also people that are interacting. And we want to overcome in my sort of broader
project, a couple of limitations that I've seen in that type of methodology that belongs to social
neuroscience, mainly, in that the metrics that have been used, and that have sort of like made
up the field and sort of like make it stand for what it is nowadays, they're a bit limited in
trying to point towards synchrony. So the coordination between people, but in a very sort of,
let's say, simplistic way, right? It's like, if you think of interaction, it's not just that you
move in the same beat, and then that constitutes your relevant marker, right? But it's, there's
more factors, I think of it like more as a choreography, right? And so there, you also have
other layers on top of the beat, right? And maybe sometimes that loosens or tightens, and
definitely shifts, right? So we want to acknowledge all of that in this very novel type of
methodology that is brain imaging, just simultaneously so, and people that are, yeah,
interactive. So for people who've never, don't know what brain imaging even looks like, I mean,
yeah, are you just taking pictures of people's brains? Or, I mean, sort of? Yeah. So, could you
try to set it up a little bit? Sure. What do you what do you do when you do an experiment, for
example? Are you a neuroscientist? Is that how you would define yourself or a psychologist or
both? I usually like to think of myself as a biologist. Biologist, okay. Yeah, yeah. With a
philosophical bent, maybe. Okay, so when you're doing these experiments, what does it look like
just in general? Like if no one's ever seen it before, just describe the room. I think the most
typical scenario would be a somewhat clinically looking room. So maybe, you know, all white, or
all gray or something like that. So kind of like very hygienic. And then if you want to have two
people interacting, then you'll have sort of an isolated room for that within that larger lab,
where they can, you know, be isolated from external noise. So in the case of EEG, it looks
like a shower cap with electrodes, usually 64 placed through that cap. And then that one is
really great in doing literally snapshots, as you were pointing out, but at a very high temporal
resolution, right? So you can kind of get a video in a way. And then the spatial resolution will be
a bit limited. So you will get the outermost part of the brain with that one, mainly, and not dig
deeper into the volume of the entire brain, right? And then if you move into other methodologies,
that inverts slowly, where you get like really static pictures. But maybe, not maybe, but you
trade that off with volume, so you can see structures in 3D. So yeah, it depends on what
paradigm you're testing, whether you want to go with one or the other, but it's usually in that
clinically looking room. And you'll have people wearing or being maybe inserted into a tube,
which would be the other extreme of the spectrum of methodologies, namely fMRI,
where they barely can move. But we gain this insight that's volumetric into their brains.
So yeah, you pick your poison. And you're looking at the brain activity, we don't have to get into
how all that happens with the blood flow and everything. But we're looking at the brain and
its activity. But hyperscanning is different, because it's not just one person, which is what
we all assume. And that's pretty much all I ever did. And that's kind of the norm, you know,
you're just one person. So how are two people, we're looking at two brains at once with the
same stimulus? Or how would you describe? Yeah, yeah, that's a great question. So I think it comes
in all sort of flavors. For instance, right now, we want to replicate a study made with fMRI that
came out last year by Sebastian Speer from Princeton, that explored interacting diets,
so pairs in somewhat naturalistic conversation, right? So imagine the tube, so you're basically
immobilized, but you're talking with one another, you can't really see each other, right? Because
you're both stuck in tubes. So that detracts from the ecological validity, we call it, you know,
the fancy term to say like how representative of daily life that is. So we want to replicate that
with a method that's called fNURSE, which is mobile, and it still offers sort of a midway
between EEG and fMRI in terms of spatial temporal resolution. So I was just describing to enhance
that ecological validity that's somewhat limited in the published article on that project. So
you kind of, yeah, as I was saying, you have sort of a trade-off, right? And in that kind of paradigm,
we're basically saying, you know, if you're talking with one another, at least you need to be able to
see each other, right? And then if you want to be even more naturalistic, maybe you can go into
proxemics or haptics, right? People sort of like touching or like getting closer or more distance
from one another. And that will certainly exclude already fMRI, because you can't really do any of
that within the tube. But then maybe you want to even move past fNURSE into EEG to be able to
interact even more. So yeah, it really will depend on the limitations of the technology,
what kind of paradigm you can even think of to undergo without risking to have too much noise
in your signal. You can think of the oscillations like in a lie detector for the audience,
you know, going like all over the place. And then that basically means that your data once you want
to do some calculations to make sense of it from a mathematical point of view, you can't because
they're so spread out, so sparse out everywhere that you can't pinpoint statistically meaningful
markers from that data. So you kind of have to leverage that. And what are you trying to
figure out here? I mean, what's like, maybe we should talk about IBS or something, because
we can just assume we're trying to understand how two people are in relation together somehow,
and what the brain activity is doing at the same time. And the main idea is we're two people in
relation and we're looking at how our brains, what, synchronize, I guess. Would you go into
that word a little bit? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So that's sort of the hallmark metric of these
simultaneous and interacting studies, which in a nutshell just means co-occurrences, right? So maybe
that part of your brain is activated while that part in my brain is also activated,
whatever that part is. We'll skip that, the neuroanatomy for now. So what has been cool
for the past 15 years to realize is that IBS, as you named it, inter-brain synchrony, has been
shown to, so the co-occurrence of activations in areas during these experiments, has been shown to
be meaningful for a bunch of cognitive and interactive phenomena, like, for instance,
enhancing just mere comprehension between two interacting parties. So that tells you already
that there is some kind of interplay at the neurobiological level that is accounting for,
or is in part, a meaningful substrate to the phenomena, right? But we haven't moved past that,
and I want to overcome just that simple synchrony understood as co-occurrences towards a more
sophisticated mapping of each function in time and in space. That's basically the whole gist of it,
right? It's not just the canonical, reproducing canonical work that asks, you know, are these two
individuals in sync? But actually, are there patterns that change as they talk and move,
perhaps repair, you know, during a misunderstanding? You know, that's going back to the analogy of
moving beyond the beat, you know, which is like perfect coordination. Let's get it deeper into
the real choreography, right? So that's basically what we want to do by making use of geometry
to detect deeper patterns in the activations that we record with these electrodes.
A few of the conversations here, like with the neuroscientists, Bec Todd, for example, and others,
we talked about this kind of third entity idea, which I think relates very well here, right,
to this synchrony. And that comes from dance, where the bodies are synchronized, so to speak.
I mean, in a way, we can think of it in a really obvious way, that when you dance, you have the
music and you're sort of synchronized to the music. And so the bodies are synchronized,
I guess we could think of the brain as, you know, somehow sync, you know, in sync at the same time.
But it's wonderful. This is a great paradox holding for me, because we all understand that
in a way, and it can be beautiful to think, oh, we're having a wonderful conversation,
and our brains are in sync. We can't get into how limited all of this imaging technology is,
but we decide what we're going to look at. And we can look at what parts are going to be in sync.
And there might be so much else that's changing all the time and not in sync.
Yeah, exactly. I love how you phrase it, because it is indeed holding a paradox. I was just
yesterday talking about the same topic, and it feels like to me, like the intuition that I have
with this, because I don't consider myself a philosopher, but some of the ideas that I've
had to incorporate, so based out of need to make sense of, to make a deeper sense of
deeper sense of the topic at hand, right, with everything that it involves from a philosophy of
science perspective, I had been thinking of, you know, the agential cut that one makes,
and it's inevitable. So why don't we empower ourselves and, you know, own up to it and say,
okay, this is the agential cut, you know, I'm not gonna discourse this away in a neatly packaged
paragraph in my paper. No, I'm actually gonna improve on the methods that are the for me the
constituent part or one of the certainly one but maybe the core of what scientific praxis is,
right? So holding the paradox sort of like motivating at all. And I want to not dissolve
that in just words in my in my research, right? I want to I want to that potential of the paradox
to sort of like shine through the entire research. And so, as you say, that we have so many limitations
with the tech. But we can certainly try to make sense deeper of what we have with those limitations.
And I think I think it's fair to say that, you know, hyper scanning is learning how to walk,
if anything. You know, it's very, very young as a sub discipline, let's say. It's not even a coherent
discipline as of yet, right? That might even be a bit generous on my behalf, because I like it.
But it's not, you know, there's not even agreement on what's what constitutes synchrony. For some,
it's like areas in the brain, as I was saying before, for some, it's spikes in the oscillations,
which is a completely different thing to consider. Certainly related in the same locus sort of
neurobiologically speaking, but completely different measure methodologically seen.
And so I'm even like motivated to to try to write, call everyone on the hyper scanning front
to write a consensus paper, which most certainly won't have a consensus, you know, but that's the
point of it. To to sort of make a snapshot, you know, of I guess it would be next year, 2026.
What is synchrony now for us? And then look what and then maybe in the future, you know,
we can look back and say, oh, wow, okay, all of these assumptions wrong, and some of them
may be held true. I think that's a that's an interesting exercise to do. But I like the idea
that you play the limitations of tech to the maximum, you know, and, and see see what's left,
you know, it's not that those things have to be either or either. Right. I mean, there's also a
way in which there might be many different kinds of synchrony, depending on where what the experiment
is. There might be a definition of secret synchrony that's very general that could apply to all those,
but each experiment is going to probably have its own definition. And you probably have to take
whatever the experiment is as part of the definition that that still feels like a little bit hard to
hold. Or does it? Yeah, no, I think that's that's true for me as well. I think you need to
for so many other disciplines as well, you kind of like need to be content with certain narratives
or certain stories that can be also just standalone and meaningful in being that, you know, that's
certainly progress in on its own right. Right. But I think in trying to tackle something like
interaction, especially so because in the future, I would like to apply this to mental health
intervention. I think there's so many intimate nuances and responsibilities also in treating
those topics that deserve a more refined take and not just, you know, your one research article,
right. But like actually a body of frameworks that coalesce together to make it context sensitive,
you know, ethically grounded and ultimately useful. Yes. And also you did a paper with
some people who've been by Elena Koufari. And I know you've you're working with Hannah DeJager.
And I know you've brought up Prisma in your paper. And yeah, this which is a kind of a different way
of thinking about experiments to, you know, the way you describe the experiment at the beginning
we could have a very different setup where, you know, you don't just have the scientists sort of
watching pictures of brains. Maybe there's some way to think about what's going on there
because that's what we really care about, isn't it? Like, you know, you brought up mental health.
These have very real implications, which with all this kind of talk and all these big terms that
we're using, we can forget that all of this is actually towards the fact that in everyday life
interaction is so important and our health is so tied to it.
So yeah, how do you think about that notion of synchrony in that kind of bigger way?
I think the main driver within that complexity for me is what I just mentioned in passing,
namely the responsibility, right? If you have someone who's willing to seek a change that's
good or foreseen, hopefully good for them in their life and you're reaching out for someone to take
on that sort of co-navigation, right? Then there's a huge sense of responsibility there, right?
It's not just whether your method is ethically grounded, but it's a personal, very intimate
journey that you take on. So I think it's only fair to bring together all of these
complex considerations because the journey by definition, by default, is complex, right?
So I think it's only living up to that complexity, really, the fact that it's complex,
maybe to the point of being a little messy too, right? But that's what drew me to neurophenomenology
and within that, talking to different researchers, I think a lot of these ideas have resonated
very well with Elena and Hane, who were introduced to me, by the way, by Nara Figueiredo first. So
she was the first point of contact, I would say, for me with Prisma.
She's doing very interesting work too, yeah. Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Elena actually introduced me to her because they did a paper, right? Rather recently, yeah.
And Senteza recently, yeah, which I've always pronounced Synthes, but someone corrected me
recently. Yeah, so I didn't, to be honest, I didn't know about Prisma until Nara introduced
me to it. I had, of course, read Linguistic Bodies, but I didn't know the core of Prisma
as a methodology of its own. It's pretty new anyway, so.
Yeah, that's true. And maybe fast forward with the four of us, sorry, I was excluding myself,
are trying to extend Prisma, which is basically a method. I'm probably gonna
butcher it if I try to explain it in detail, but let's say that it's a phenomenological methodology,
right, for interacting groups and where the participants are considered co-authors of your
experiment, if you will, right? And there's feedback loops that assure that they have that
role. And so we want to extend Prisma. It's one way of saying it into hyperscanning,
or we could also say we want to expand hyperscanning towards Prisma. It can go either
way, but basically it's a way of grounding the search for a method that's neurophenomenologically
framed via the neural substrate. And I think the broader implication or aim is also to build
on the science of participatory sense-making, right, to leverage all of these tools that have
been coming up by these great researchers and sort of like point it at neuroscience.
Yeah. And this, I mean, for people who don't know, this is not exactly an easy task to bring these
things together. And we're trying to find ways to really look at what's happening, you know,
that we're not just in the lab and then we're in real life, or there's not just philosophy where
we think about what mind and consciousness are and then the way we study it in the lab.
So this interaction that you all are having, I find really beautiful in that way, because
hyperscanning is a great place to try to work this stuff out. It's got to be messy.
And I actually just took part in a Prisma with Hanna in Austria not too long ago. And I was
really surprised by it because I hadn't thought a whole lot about it. I'd heard of it through,
you know, her work. Just briefly, for those who haven't heard, you really are the experiment.
So I was the experiment with three other people and it's hard to describe. It's a very different
setup from what I'm used to in neuroscience, where everything is like you described at the
beginning. So I love that that's even getting brought into the idea of hyperscanning and that
maybe the technology has to kind of somehow come into that space. But also the philosophy has to
kind of opens up another way of thinking about what science, the rigor is still going to be there.
Have you had to hold those things in your work?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. And again, I really like this concept that you brought up,
the holding paradox, because I think that's, for me, maybe the second order sort of reason
or motivation of why to do this or why to attempt to do it, right? The primary motivator, of course,
is care, right? But a second order one is that I think if we do not, you know, steer
ourselves in holding that paradox meaningfully, then we will tend to gravitate towards what I
call unnamed centers, right, of attractions or attractors in a landscape of, you know, discourses
as researchers, as, you know, knowledge creators, what has been called, you know,
social materially augmented research. I think Tom Fraser from Okinawa has called it like that,
right? Because we have all these tools to sort of like pinpoint at concepts and then sort of
augment them. And I think the risk is that those centers that we cannot name can fill
your own discourse of considerations, you know, or the considerations of your own praxis if we leave
that unchecked, right? So I think that's why I think the, you know, becoming, cherishing the holding
paradox, right, is, I think, important to me as a secondary sort of motivator and an insanity check
in and of itself because if left unchecked, as I was saying, I fear that, you know,
something else will trickle into your discourse or the discourse of your praxis, right? And I
think in, as I was saying before, like, in topics like these that deserve a specific kind of very
detailed and nuanced view, that's crucial then. Yeah. It's wonderful you brought up care alongside
that because that's basically this show in a way. I mean, I actually think what you described as,
you know, holding the paradox or holding these contradictions, seeming contradictions or seeming
opposite sides without trying to decide one is better than the other and without trying to, like,
ignore one, you know, in the way you were talking about is a kind of care. I mean, you have to sort
of, that is a space of care, which is why it's so hard. That also reminds me of other parts of your
work where I think you're also, through care, through affect and emotion, even if we want to put
it in the kind of more scientific language, but I feel like it's coming from that space of care,
you're also trying to hold these and just to go back to that idea of synchrony, where it's not
so simple. We aren't just holding this space where we all line up perfectly and everything's aligned
and so we all fully understand each other and that can be an image of it, but in your work,
you're also always bringing in the tension and the rupture and the fact that the point isn't just to
match to each other. As you were saying before, we're sort of aligning and how are we, you know,
kind of moving through this together in a way? Can you talk about that a little bit? Is that
important for you? What does that bring up? Yeah, no, that's great. I think the crux that I see
in trying to create this participatory hyperscanning, if you will, is precisely
overcoming these linear views of the perfect mirror image in interacting parties.
But I think it's very intuitive to see the benefit of recognizing that, for instance,
misunderstandings under a perfect mirror image, there would be noise, but it turns out there are
signals. There are meaningful signals instead in everyday life, right? So why don't we
operationalize them within our experimental paradigms as such instead of regressing them out
of our math? So I think that's sort of been the crux in the sense that that's where I want to go
at. We're not there yet, but that's also what I see as the core of what will constitute an improvement
in how we do social neuroscience as a whole. And then based on that, I would hope to
start decomposing different pillars, I would say, of interaction, right? To see how in the same way
that we're saying there's no perfect mirror instance of these phenomena within interaction,
there's rather phase transitions. You flip states during a conversation,
and so you need to think less about an average harmony, right? Or a mean harmony, and you
need to think more of transformations. Let's say this is the imperative voice. I apologize for that,
but that's just me saying, you know, I think that we should do this.
Part of this whole relationality we've talked about, there's two. And so there's the self
navigation, which you might think of, like we are ourselves trying to navigate through whatever
is happening. But we've been talking about this relational thing. So you brought up some terms
there that made me think of like a manifold, or that everything can kind of be seen different
ways, you know, according to what we're trying to study or look for. So does that relate to what
you were saying about it's not just about, you know, matching to each other? Because I'm trying
to get towards your geometric way of thinking about hyperscanning. Because for me, when I was
reading about that, it opens up more like a manifold or like a constellation, instead of this
linear kind of way that we've thought about it before. So because it might not be just a
dyad, it could be a triad or whatever. I mean, this generative systems, you know, come in many
forms. So do I read that correctly? Are you trying to kind of constellate what is linear?
Absolutely. I think I might have used that word in the past, actually.
I didn't even know if it was a word, but I use it all the time.
Yeah, I think at some point, I wrote something about cognitive constellations.
Oh, wow, you have to send me that if you find it.
I will, I will. But it felt like a nostalgic echo, you know? I will dig that up. But yeah,
absolutely. I think, you know, this goes back to active inference in an action, I think.
So you co-predict and co-regulate, I would say that those are the, you know, respective
take-home messages from those frameworks for this. So, you know, understanding each other,
it lives as a thing of its own between us, right? So I think via geometry, we're trying to formalize
that, right? And seeing not just that there's a perfect sort of like coordinated pattern,
but actually one that's mutating in real time, spatially and temporally in our brains.
And more importantly, in the sort of third brain that emerges between us,
and we can see is a certain moment in time that we can, you know, describe neuro-phenomenologically.
Neuro-phenomenologically.
That's a big word, neuro-phenomenologically.
Yeah. At the discourse level, with the proxemics, with the haptics,
etc., whatever you choose to have in your multimodal paradigm, right? And mix and match
that with your neural signals, then it will be certainly meaningful whether your network is
perhaps more local or globally spread between us. You know, are we in agreement? Are we in
disagreement that time, you know, and then it suddenly changes? So I think to me, that's the
only, you know, or the most natural way to move forward with the current tech we have for that.
And thinking that, you know, if we assume that this is true, that we co-predict each other,
and at the same time, we're co-regulating each other and interaction is its own thing, then,
then we need to dig deeper and not just take these snapshots that show us, have shown us
important correlations, but are limited in showing us these more mechanistic implications
of these modalities.
That reminds me, you write about time and temporal things a lot, and, you know,
related to emotions, because what you just said on this whole constellatory cognition,
often when we're communicating together, you know, we might be in sync in some parts,
but maybe I'm, maybe I'm reliving something based on the words that you said. And I know you talk
about something like temporal aiming where, so my trajectory is I'm aimed towards my past,
and I'm kind of thinking about something in the past, and maybe you're looking towards the future.
And so maybe there's a part where we're synchronized, but we're really aiming temporally
in different ways, which can cause trouble. And that seems incredibly complicated to try to
actually model in science and visualize. But I feel like you're trying to move towards that
with the geometric idea or with this constellatory idea, right? We first have to kind of imagine it
before we can start to model it. Is that fair to say? Are you thinking about that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, I think, I think that's a fair description for sure,
because these spaces are oriented, right? And so it was Mao, who we've interviewed before,
who came up with temporal aiming while we were writing our paper that got accepted, by the way,
at the International Workshop of Active Inference. So we'll be presenting that in
a couple of weeks. Thanks. And so I think it's a work in progress for sure, but we've already
established that, you know, for our model, it will make, it can only make sense if we take into
consideration these, as you exemplified, retrospective and prospective orientations
that you will have in holding the spaces of, you know, knowledge about the other and yourself in
relation to the other during communication or interaction. So that'll be a big one to
formalize further and put to the test empirically. That's wonderful. I'm really excited about that
just trying to think of, you know, even if we just try to think of this as like a landscape,
that we can always take many different paths. And how do we visualize that? And how do we,
you know, even put math on that, just to model it so we can all kind of look at it, you know,
and see that maybe we're not always in the same place. And I find that really inspiring. I don't
know if there's anything about the geometric evaluation method relative to this kind of
inner brain network stuff that you want to say here. I can just point people to the paper, but
it is kind of a new way of thinking about all of this, right? About how would you, I know you can't
summarize it. It's very hard. Most people don't even understand active inference, including me,
probably. So even though I've studied it forever. So, but yeah, like for people who, you know,
are just curious, like what's different about this? What would you, is it this opening of space?
Yeah, I think it's, it's giving us a glimpse into how it might be, you know, more biologically
realistic, realistically depicted account of interaction, right? So it might in and of itself
be its, you know, own sub-subdiscipline perhaps in the future, or as we're playing
a bit around with Elena and Hanna and Nara, maybe framed within participatory sense making,
or maybe, you know, our collab, our collaborator Guillaume Dumas just came, just brought out,
you know, generative account of neurophenomenology. So maybe we steer it also more towards the machine
learning side of things. The future, of course, will show what ends up being the space of,
you know, probabilities that ends up coalescing best with a method like that. But I think it's
fair to describe it, as you say, and sort of already from the get-go, from its inception,
it is intended to be responsive and attentive towards the co-regulation and co-prediction
of beings. So I think, yeah, even if I do say so myself, I think it's a promising avenue
in regards to making interaction be lived up to in the lab, right, instead of just, you know,
being explained away by, you know, your consensus on neuroanatomy or sort of relinquished from the
lab entirely via just being limited to discursive practices that don't get to mingle that intimately
with neurophysiological studies, right? So we're trying to merge them or to integrate these
approaches and advance a fuller account of interaction. And as we were discussing before,
because of the importance that it holds in therapy or parenting, you know, even broader in society,
right? So I think that's the general direction, yeah. We were talking about, you know, holding
the paradox or holding these seeming opposites. And if you can kind of visualize or imagine some
sort of shared generative manifold that might even be Mao's kind of terminology for it or yours,
I don't know who says what and what papers are where, but you can, you know, if we start having
ways to visualize this, maybe we can start to understand that, you know, we might be sharing
the same space and synchronizing and also experiencing that same space completely differently
at the very same time. It feels really important. And it also feels important to other parts of
your work when you talk about asymmetry or when you talk about neuroprotective rituals, for example,
because, you know, another weird thing here is that every brain is different. So
even when you're setting up the hyper scan, you really actually need to kind of be able to
configure it completely different for every brain. So there's all these levels of this holding of
paradox. But do you see that connected to, for example, how you might help someone with
who's struggling, you know, with mental illness or something? Absolutely. That's the entire sort
of intention behind that. Now that you pointed out, pointed to the neuroprotective rituals,
that's actually a term I came up with very recently in our conversations with Mark James
from the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology. Yeah. A lot of our work sort of
seems motivated by similar sort of intentions of care, although our works don't intersect
formally yet. I think we're all trying to reach towards each other, you know? Yeah, I agree.
Trying to find each other. Yeah. And neuroprotection as a thing exists, of course. It's
sort of a medical, technical term. But the neuroprotective rituals is something that we
came up with, Mark, during our conversations. And it's sort of hinting at possible solutions
to issues such as, for instance, chronic inflammation of the brain, which usually happens
as a response to some external agent or, for instance,
stress, which can be, as Agustín Iváñez showed last year, I think, in Nature,
can also be produced by social inequality, right? So if you point your research at something like
that, you can certainly try to help people and overcome the situation where the brain is just
under constant, you know, disadvantage to not say, you know, under constant sort of pathological
even influence, right, by circumstances that we all share, right? So I think that's where
the notion of like having rituals which perhaps can not just recreate, but even complement and
enhance therapies that are metabolite based. So something that you ingest, right,
or something that is sort of done to you as a passive client or patient, which is sort of
passive is in the definition of patient, right? So something that you can, you know, actively
seek. And so that's, I think, how we want to close the loop there in using interpersonal
synchrony, right, as a more global sort of account of synchrony within which inter-brain
synchrony is one of possible synchronies to entrain, you know, autonomic, effective
cortical systems to be more adaptive against these stressors, right?
When you were talking, for example, I was thinking of how lonely people feel
when they don't seem to be experiencing the world the way others are.
Right.
You know what I mean? You know, whatever kind of, if you want to call that an illness or a
misalignment or whatever, even though they are sharing that space. So there's rituals tend to
bring us into shared space, I guess, right? But if we could also understand that we're coming into
shared space and we're all going to experience it differently, it's not an either or, then it could
be really helpful because you don't feel so lonely because you're sharing the ritual, which
is what rituals help us do. And then at the same time, it's okay that you're not experiencing
exactly the same way as someone else. Like that becomes almost like a world, you know?
I find that really exciting, right, to think about what that could do or help.
Yeah, I think that's great. It sort of made me think of Michael Levin, who you've also
had on the podcast.
He's also trying to open this manifold.
Exactly, exactly. And for me, it resonates with ideas of his where, you know, I don't know where
he said it, but he was speaking about intelligence, right? And how it is shared by definition in the
sense of it being something or was it consciousness? Regardless, he was speaking about how we as agents
sort of tap into it, right? Almost as something that feels like a phrase like that, as if it's
something else, right? Or something beyond ourselves that we access to, but it's really just a way of
saying that it's biologically realistic as a reality, as an aspect, right? And so I feel that
when we talk about rituals, maybe people tend to think of what could read this as sort of
an exercise of sociology, and it can, but I think it's not just that. I think it's saying that,
you know, the space between agents is socially distributed as a biologically realistic
thing, right? So I think that's where we're tapping in with the neuro side of things, right?
We're trying to understand how the unfolding inside of a system is indeed
capturable in a meaningful way, right, by interacting agents. In our case, we're limited
to diet duos right now, but at some point, we'll definitely have to scale this up to collectives.
But yeah, I think it's both, right? It's sort of the sociobiological view that all of these
matters are distributed, hence the possibility of modulating their intrinsic dynamics
by different methods, right? Not just the metabolite route in the institution, right?
But other ways are possible, too.
And even just seeing the diet differently, you're already doing something there. You're not just
assuming the diet, you're doing what you brought up at the beginning of, you know, seeing that
you're using the diet, but you could be, you know, a constellation. And also when you were talking,
I was thinking of that cognition or consciousness or that understanding that we've kind of tapped
into it, as you put it, is also just kind of the tip of the iceberg of actually what cognition is.
I mean, you know, when we become aware of it and when we're thinking about it,
that cognitive light cone to, you know, talk about Mike Levin or something, that too is nested,
right? And the same model could kind of help us understand that too, because it's quite a
hard thing to really take in without going crazy. I mean, that's that old Fitzgerald quote, right?
How to hold two opposed ideas in mind at once and still saying. But I'm hearing a lot of,
I'm hearing a lot in everything that you're saying, and I'm wondering about you and your
path and how you got here. Like, how did your relationality, you know, how did you get here?
Yeah, yeah, sure. I can try. It feels like I should, you know, start like autobiographically.
But yeah, I think that might perhaps ease the narrative, the autobiographic part in relation
to that sort of curiosity, I guess, and the loving to learn type of, you know, epistemic stance,
I guess, that I do, you know, perform on a daily basis. That was definitely, you know, scaffolded
on top of, you know, what my parents or our parents, because I have a bigger sister, older
sister, offered us, right? They were really doing cool stuff, right? My mom, a cello player,
my dad, a theoretical physicist, very open disciplines, but very focused disciplines,
too. Right? So holding paradoxes, so much discipline, and yet, yeah, yeah. And then,
and then, but I think throughout that, all of that discipline, and like, you know,
the learning to love, sorry, the other way around, loving to learn, although that also kind of like,
you, you find, you know, throughout all that discipline, you also find your desire,
right? And, and what do you want to apply this to? And I think that's, that's also something that I
that I talked with Mark about a lot. So there's certainly, you know, episodes in life where you
thought, okay, this is, you know, unacceptably, you know, under determined from the perspective
of science, something like, for instance, mental health intervention, where even one of one of my
collaborators, dear Leonard Shilbach has, you know, admitted that, and this is a, this is a
term, a technical term, you know, that a lot of work in that area in cognitive neuropsychiatry
is based on what's called, referred to as a clinician's intuition, right? So I think it's
just not enough, right? We need to double down and drill down, you know, on, on, on what is
underlying all of this, because of what's at stake, right? And so I think all of that sort of
curiosity that comes from a really nice place, you know, from my life history, and a bunch of
influences, I felt sort of, you know, that I had to direct it to something that actually matters,
because if not, then I feel that, you know, the exercise of critique, or the exercise of, of
traversing data spaces, are both in and of themselves, you know, just stale, right? But
I think combined and geared towards something that is of benefit for someone else, that is sort of
like golden, yeah. It's interesting that I was thinking when you're about therapy, I mean, of
course, most therapists are, are doing their best, I guess, you know, but what we were talking about
before, we're all coming from a certain path. So it's that, it's that same, what you're trying to
do with your work, I can see how it could help with that. Because if the therapist and the person
who's, you know, in the therapy, if there was some way to understand that you're not just making your
best intuition, or that you are, but, you know, you're pinpointing that you're saying that, and
maybe there's some kind of resource for how to, I don't know what, try out different ways or, I mean,
I guess what I'm trying to get at is, you know, these things are also kind of powerful in their
immediacy, these kind of relationships, like with the therapist, or, you know, when your mom, she
probably practiced so much, and it's so disciplined, but then there's this immediacy, and the people
just fill it. And it's like, you know, we don't want to, we also don't want to over structure that.
So have you had, do you see what I'm saying? Do you ever feel that kind of tension where
you want to let the magic happen too, right? That's true, yeah. How do you, I find that a very
hard thing to, in this, what we were talking about with this, for example, participatory sense-making
meeting, hyperscanning, how do you not over-determine it, or under-determine it, to kind of think about
Hannah's ways of talking about love, you know? Yeah, yeah, that's so interesting. I think I would
even, you know, content that we're in an era where that is actively being done, right?
So you reduce mind to brain, you reify signals from the brain that's being read and used as a
proxy to describe the mind, right? And around that, there's certainly, you know, forces building
what I guess, you know, Foucault would have called, you know, biopolitics, and Chan,
Bill Jong-un, called psychopolitics, and perhaps we could call it neuropolitics nowadays, right?
Where our attention and emotions, etc., are, you know, being commodified. So I think what you're
pointing out is not just, you know, a question mark to contemplate, but to actually act upon,
you know? Definitely. And, you know, I'm not talking about, you know, futuristic risks,
but, you know, something that we can actually trace, right? So I think maybe that will
have to be studied in groups that have to do, you know, with regulatory frameworks and policies.
Thinking here of something that's instantiated in a, perhaps in a legal way, right? But I think
that's my way of saying this whole sort of perspective on how these
milieus, these different spaces of knowledge about ourselves. It's not a question of whether
they are connected or not, right? They're already being made use of in a connected way,
right? So I think we need to pay more attention to them. I don't know if that answers the question,
but I went to that place. No, it makes sense. And somehow I was also thinking that maybe you
learned how to hold these differences growing up the way you did with having the hard science
and the art and maybe seeing that both had parts of each other in them or something. Does that make
sense? Yeah, absolutely. Do you think that's helped you bringing this in? Yeah, yeah, totally,
because there's like this sort of functionalist view, if you will, like how things can actually
matter on a math point, from a math point of view, but there's also the participatory. And I think
there's some flexibility that you need to traverse those perspectives, right? And I don't think either
is the full picture, right? So I think that's actually sort of where I sit most comfortably
in trying to juggle both. Yeah, you probably learned it in your existence as a kid. Because
I've always found those worlds, people seem to think they're so different, but they hold similar
constellations. They just do things, they do the things differently, but both have kind of the
rigor, for example, and the expansive, you know, soul, soul part too. Yeah, absolutely. But taking
those both seriously at the same time, as we've said, is hard. But just to kind of come back to
hyperscanning, just to end, I'm going to ask you an impossible question. How does this relate to
the way that we do care for each other? Can something come from hyperscanning that helps us
widen the circle of care? What do you really feel about that? You know, does it help us? Could it
help us? How do you see it? Yeah, great question. Thank you. So if we're holding the paradox,
I think what geometric hyperscanning can offer us is to name, you know, the moments of matter
and human connection. And by doing so, we can make them tractable for care. Do you have any
kind of connections to love or anything about that word that you might want to share at all?
Yeah, I think I'm feeling like I want to tell you, but perhaps not the listeners.
That's fine. Okay, I can go ahead and stop it then. So then you can feel safe. How about that?
Thank you. Yeah, that's okay. Hey, everyone. We stopped recording there and didn't actually kind
of say bye. So I just thought I would say bye. Thanks for listening. And if you want to support
the project, this endeavor, it would be much appreciated. Just sign up for the sub stack or
do the buy me a coffee, which is new, but no one's used it yet. Or send an email and tell me what
you'd like to see more of on the show. Whatever, anything you can do to support this help us
would be really appreciated. All right, hope you're doing well. Bye.
