Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea. Today you're in for a real treat
because you get to hear Mirko Prokop, who is a PhD student finishing his PhD in philosophy. You
might remember him from the conversation he had on this podcast with Mike Wheeler. He's a guest
host sometimes and he's doing this interview with Zekiel DiPaolo. That name, Zekiel DiPaolo, may
sound familiar to you because I've discussed his work here quite a bit. Zekiel is one of the
foremost philosophers in inactive cognition, which is part of 4e cognition, the number four
with the big E after it, which you've also heard me talk about here. The E's stand for words such
as embodied, extended, inactive, ecological. As we also talk about here on the show, there are many
computational theories of mind. Those have been sort of dominating philosophy, or just the way
that we think about the mind for a long time. A group of people have been working hard to bring
the body back, so to speak, and help us understand how our bodily movement and our interaction in the
world is already cognitive, how we experience a mind that's not just in our brain, it's in our
body, it's in our interaction, it's inactive. As Zekiel and Mirko talk about here, you're making
yourself, you're making the environment different, the environment's making you different. It's this
ongoing multi-dimensional happening in all sorts of ways, and it doesn't fit easily into the usual
either or categories that we use or have used historically to talk about what mind is.
So Zekiel is one of the people who's been working hard to articulate this a bit differently,
to understand what this is, this interactive nature of us co-creating one another, and the world
co-creating us, and so on. So there's this word autopoiesis, which you'll hear Zekiel and Mirko
discuss, which was proposed to describe this sort of self-producing process of a living system,
and it leads into the idea of autonomy, which is sort of like the rules that we set up as
our own activity. I know that can be a little bit confusing, but the point is just how are we
separate from the world and also in this co-creative interaction with the world? I
know it can sound a bit abstract and it's hard to talk about precisely because it's so close to us,
this intimate ongoing interaction, this condition of being both an individual and part of the world
at the same time. So bringing forth the world that is your world, but also the world outside you and
being brought forth by that world and also all the worlds of all the cells and all the other
beings that we depend upon and live with. So we're trying to see all of that in its ongoing
dynamic process and sit with it and take it in for all its beauty, but also acknowledge that yes,
this is a bit overwhelming and life is a bit overwhelming and this whole process of sense-making
with one another can also be at times and Mirko and Ezekiel talk about that experience too.
I should also say that many of the themes that are part of this come from work of others such
as Umberto Maturana, but especially Francisco Varela and Ezekiel and Evan Thompson, who again
was another guest on the show, have just released a book, an annotated edition of a book of Francisco's
called Principles of Biological Autonomy. So you'll hear Ezekiel and Mirko mention that at
the beginning. You'll also hear Ezekiel and Mirko mention Hannadier Jaeger, who is another
philosopher who has worked closely on these ideas of participatory sense-making. That phrase came
up, for example, in my conversations with Beck Todd, Shea Welch, Elena Koufari, and others who
are working in the same tradition. So hopefully all of that's starting to rhyme a little bit or
make a little more sense. Hannah's work on loving and knowing is becoming an inspiration for this
show in a way. So Shea and I have had some conversations and one of those will post
next week. So it's wonderful that these nest together here in this conversation.
If you haven't read Ezekiel's work yet, I highly recommend it. I hope it brings something good to
you. It's late here. It's been a busy week. The sun was shining today. It was really crisp. The
air was not too hot. Just a glorious day, really. Everything bright and green, and I feel really
thankful that I get to experience those days. Life is not so easy all the time, but there's a lot of
beauty in it, and I want to send you some beauty if it's in my power at all today. I think this
conversation is beautiful. So I didn't make it, but I send it to you. All right, be well.
Hi, Ezekiel. Thank you so much for taking the time to speak to me and come on the podcast.
My pleasure. As you know, I've been really interested in your work for quite some time,
and trying to keep up with also the current research you're doing and the inactive approach
which I hope we get to talk about some of these things, but I wanted to start and go a little bit
back to maybe the roots of the inactive approach and the roots of your own thinking in the work of
Francisco Varela and especially his book Principles of Biological Autonomy that you've recently
re-edited, re-published together with Evan Thompson, which is great because it was since
the publication in 1979. I think it was out of print, actually. Yes, it was very, very hard to
get that book. I never owned the copy myself. I had a photocopy that I got when I was a student,
and then when I tried to buy one, the copies were so expensive. I was also because I was getting
into Varela's work in my masters, and I was looking for a copy because I always wanted to read
books, and I was like, yeah, that's too expensive for us. That's true, that's true.
I'm curious to know about your first encounter with the book. If there's a moment you can pinpoint.
Yeah, this is a good starting point because I wasn't aware of this work until I started doing
my PhD at the University of Sussex. I was doing my PhD in what was then called the School of
Cognitive and Computing Sciences, which was a very special place because it was very interdisciplinary.
You would share offices with psychologists, linguists, roboticists, AI people, and so on.
And one of the founders was Margaret Bowden. So many people there
enjoy some sort of challenging and free discussions and debates, let's put it like that.
It was then that people started to mention ideas such as autopoiesis. I believe it was
Mike Wheeler, actually, who gave a seminar introducing the concepts of autopoiesis,
autopoiesis for the under fives. That was the title of the seminar.
At that point, I was already reading some of Matthew Brown and Varela, and it was a bit of a
bet. I had to imagine that I had to go through this very difficult convoluted language, obscure
prose, because probably at the end of it, the ideas there would be a payoff, or I would be
transformed by the process of reading it in such a way that things would make sense to me. I wouldn't
say that they made total sense to me, but I could see the potential. Then I started just tracing
anything I could get by these authors. Then, of course, the library at Sussex had a copy of
Principles of Biological Autonomy, and that's an interesting book, because
you cannot really guess from the publication dates, because
Autopoiesis and Cognition, the book written by Varela and Maturana, appears in 1980 in English,
but in fact, it was written before. It was written in the mid-70s, more or less.
Was it in Spanish, the original?
Yeah, there was a version in Spanish, the Maquinas y Seres Vivos, published in Chile,
but there was a version in English before the Spanish version in terms of reports of the
technical reports of the biology computing lab in the University of Illinois.
All of that seems like, okay, well, this idea seems, all these books that appear more or less
at the same time, but in fact, Autopoiesis and Cognition is a bit like a first stage,
which in the book Principles of Biological Autonomy, Varela picks up on that. In fact,
several of the first chapters are kind of repeating, going over again with slight
changes, but going over again the main points of the theory of autopoiesis.
But at that point, there's also, in Varela, there's a need to move in other directions.
He had interest in trying to formalize some of these ideas using formal systems, mathematics,
and so on, category theory. I think he wanted to apply this in a more open-ended manner,
because the theory of autopoiesis was becoming too self-unclosed. I would say,
this is my opinion, in any case, not everybody will probably agree with it,
in the sense that it was talking to itself in circles and circles and so on.
Varela had a more, I would say, exploratory spirit as a scientist. I think he wanted to look at
examples in biological systems, such as the immune system, neural oscillations,
things like that, and the biology of the cell and the extracellular matrix, things like that.
The book is this moment of departure from a more abstract beginning.
This doesn't mean, I mean, Varela was also an experimental neuroscientist, and so was Maturana,
but the theory itself was rather abstract, and putting them together back into work.
In doing this, he also kind of sets on his own course, and towards the end of the book,
you start reading something about naturalized epistemologies and things like that that are very
reminiscent, with hindsight, that are very reminiscent of what we talk about in the
inactive approach over the last couple of decades. That's a little bit about the book,
and of course, for me, it was very inspiring. It was not the mathematical part because I was
not really able to apply it directly. I mean, I could follow it, but it was not like, okay,
it was too abstract. But the third part of the book was quite novel to me, because he was seeing
autonomy as a generalization of the idea of autopoiesis, which means
like the self-production of a living cell, the self-production, self-distinction of a living cell.
He says, like, well, there are many systems that are similar in what they do in self-individuating
in different domains, and yet he was very cautious of applying the idea of autopoiesis directly.
To systems like many people were very tempted to do, like, you know, the recurrent patterns in
family relations, for instance, there will be people, psychotherapists who say, well, the
family is an autopoietic system. He said, no, this is not precise. We need another concept.
And that was his proposal in this book, The Concept of Autonomy, which then is very influential
later on down the line for inactivists. So yeah, I think it was time for this book to become
more available again. And the idea came to not just reissue the book, but essentially
introduce it with some essays and lots of marching annotations, about 200 of them,
that connect the ideas in the book with later developments in Varela's work, but also
you know, contemporaneous interests and concerns in biology, in ecology, in psychology, neuroscience,
and so on. So that's the purpose of the new edition.
That's great. I think it only came out a couple of weeks ago.
Indeed. I only got my, if I can show it, my personal copy a few days ago. I mean, I don't
know what it took so long, but this stuff with the annotations on the side to
clarifications and things like that. I only had time to read the introduction
and also the nice foreword by Amy Cohn, Varela. You and Evan Thompson in the introduction
talk about this as a kind of an active text, or maybe you can think about the book as
interesting, many concepts that have become really central in the inactive approach.
First and foremost, the idea of autonomy. Can you give a rough maybe explanation of the idea
of autonomy and also how it relates to this idea of organizational closure or operational closure?
Yes. Yes, sure. Okay. Well, as I said, the idea of autonomy is a generalization of idea of
autopoiesis. Maybe if I say what autopoiesis is very quickly, it would be easier to understand
autonomy. So autopoiesis was proposed as a kind of organization that a system can have such that
it continues to produce and maintain this same organization. It's a bit of a circular idea.
But with that, the point was to try to capture the constant self-production and self-distinction
properties of living organisms. We are made of stuff that is constantly flowing through our bodies.
And at the same time, we're not just simply made, like produced, but we also distinguished
from the environment. In the case of a single cell, there is the production of this
membrane and the cytoskeleton and things like that. And even now we know that there are
processes that are similar to some kind of immune system at the level of a single cell and so on.
All of those things are trying to work such that the cell doesn't quite dissolve into the
environment that's become indistinct. So as I was saying, this is a very interesting and
powerful idea that comes from a tradition of systems thinking in cybernetics.
And for that, I use the word organization, essentially what matters here in the autopoietic
theory that an organization is what is conserved and is tied to the identity of the living
organism. Identity in several senses, but maybe the most important one being that the identity
of the organism as such that we know that it's the same because it's conserving its organization,
kind of a token identity. But you might say, well, isn't the organism constantly changing?
Indeed. So what's changing is not the organization, but what they call the structure.
So they present these two concepts, structure and organization as dual concepts. One kind of
hits the other to be properly defined. So say, well, you know, changes in structure can happen
all the time, provided that you remain autopoietic, then there's no problem. So all the phenomena of
life that we normally are interested in, like growth, reproduction, cognition, and so on,
these are manifested as changes in the structure, plastic changes in interactions with environment.
What characterizes the organization is what sometimes is called organizational closure or
operational closure, which is this self-reference that I was saying earlier that the organization
is such that the processes that form the organized network operate in such a way that
they result in the reinstanciation of the whole network. I mean, there's some circularity there.
That's the idea of closure comes from mathematics. It doesn't mean that the system is closed to the
environment. So autonomy essentially is matching that story told, not necessarily at the level or
in the domain of molecular interactions that happen in the level of the cell, of the living
cell, but told in other domains. The interactions between antigens and the immune system and the
immune system with itself can also be understood as a closed network that is sustained in itself.
This is an idea that then Varela connects to existing work on immune networks. That was very
interesting and quite radically different from the traditional perspective. You could apply this idea
in different places. What Varela proposes is what he calls the closure thesis. It says, well,
in order to tell that a system is autonomous in this technical sense, it's enough to see or to
ask whether the system is operationally closed, whether we find in it this organization that I
was talking about that is circular. So that's a little bit rough. There are lots of technical
details, but that's a little bit the rough idea of autonomy in this technical sense. I have to
emphasize because, of course, the idea of autonomy is broader than this. I think it also has been
developed in many different ways. I guess we will talk about that as well. I was interested
in that because in the book The Embodied Mind, which was, I think, in 1991 with Varela,
Evan Thompson, and Eleanor Roche, it introduces first this idea of an action and the inactive
approach, which is then in the last two or three decades been developed in various kinds of ways,
but they actually don't explicitly, I think, mention this idea of autonomy so much.
I would be curious to understand a bit better the relationship between
the autonomy perspective on organisms and the kind of
way that it implies of how we think about the relationship between
the environment and so on, and this idea of that in the inactive approach is called bringing forth
the world, right? Indeed. Yes, yes. Okay, so it's a long story, but a couple of things to keep in mind.
As you said, I mean, The Embodied Mind, which is like the founding text of an active approach,
appears in 1991. It doesn't mention the idea of autopoiesis at all. I don't think it even
appears in a note. I don't know. And it talks a little sometimes about autonomous systems,
and you might be forgiven by imagining that, okay, maybe Varela left all that autonomy stuff
behind him and then just moved on to something else, but that's not quite true. I mean, in 1991,
he also publishes a paper called Organism, Meshwork of Selfless Selves, where there,
it's almost as if there are different births of inactive thinking. One is the one that faces
the cognitive science audience and neuroscience audience and say, look how we have missed
understanding cognition from a dynamical embodied and experiential perspective,
and how important it would be to continue the project of phenomenologists like Maurice
Malopanti in the context of a cognitive science that is dominated by computer metaphors.
Okay. And so there is that. And then there is Varela also writing on his own in 1991,
and then in 1997, again, a whole sketch of what I often sometimes call inactive theory.
So you've got an active approach, but there's a theory within the inactive approach which puts
together these concepts, autonomy, sensemaking, agency, blah, blah, blah. And he was already
sketching that relation. And the two things can only make sense together because you may read
the embodied mind and think like, so what do they mean by bringing forth the world? Do they mean it
purely in epistemic sense, in a sense of, for instance, yeah, we have different views on the
world. If our sensory systems are different, we want to see different things, if we even see
things. Well, there's a bit of that. But if you put that in connection with the other stuff that
Varela is working on, at the same time, you realize that there's a stronger claim. The claim being
that I'm going to speak very, very bluntly. The whole of cognitive science got its problems
wrong. The problem of perception being the reconstruction of objective features of the
world that then I have to process and then that fits into some representational economy in my
brain and so on. He says, organisms don't do that. Organisms are constantly acting in the world,
constantly doing stuff. They're not in the business of reconstructing objective features
of the world. They can essentially survive and do very well by tuning in their dynamics,
their embodied dynamics to the dynamics of what's relevant to them. And in doing so,
they're not just selecting what's relevant out of the whole possible interactions that they could
have. There are only a few that matter to them. They're also changing the world. They're also
introducing changes by acting in the world. Ideas that much later, not much later, a few years later,
became more popular in biology in terms of niche construction, for instance. The environment is not
independent of developing populations. Well, for the next approach, bringing forth another way of
saying the environment and the embodied agent are codependent. They're mutually defining and
changing themselves ongoingly. And if you get that problem right, then the whole approach implies
maybe looking for other things than necessarily what's happening, whether the brain is representing
stuff or reconstructing the world. Maybe the brain has a different business that is doing something
else. And that was, if you like, the key idea of the embodied mind. That one, and also the idea
that you have to bring lived experience into the fold. You can't just simply later figure out
whether this is connected to the way we actually experience our lives as embodied beings. It has
to be there from the beginning in terms of shaping the questions we ask, shaping the methodologies
we care about and so on. But then the other stuff is also there. And I think what happens later,
and one of the last papers that Varela wrote in the early 2000s, just before he passed
with Andreas Weber, it's a kind of attempt to bring them together. So the idea of
autonomy comes back again. Autopoiesis, autonomy, and idea of sense-making. If you like,
the bringing forth of worlds that is an activity more than something that happens in my head.
And combined with new actors, to put it like this, like the philosophy of Hans Jonas,
which is quite important and so on. So that is the chapter that brings the lines back together,
that apparently, if you only read the embodied mind, you may not see how everything is connected.
So I read this paper called F slash Act. I don't really know how to pronounce this by you.
Just facts.
Which I think for me was really helpful in clarifying a little bit this stronger sense
of an action that you were talking about. And I think you mentioned in this paper also
this idea that you find in Varela's other work in the 90s, apart from the embodied mind that
you mentioned, of this kind of, I think you call it like a dialectical tension between
ideas of self-production and self-distinction. And I think for me that was really helpful in also,
I mean, it's challenging to think about this in the right kind of way because you're so used to
thinking about the organism and the environment on one side and the idea of them in a sense
co-constructing each other is... Yeah, it's challenging, but after a while by looking at
concrete cases, by looking at... As I was saying, if you look at it in biology,
it seems less challenging because you actually see beavers building dams, changing the landscape
and so on and so forth, and then growing in that changed landscape. Of course, that happens over
more on... It's not just the one organism doing it, so it's cumulative.
So, you start seeing... Once you accept the idea, then you start seeing it, it pops up in many
places from human relations to microbiology. Now, indeed, when... I think in the 90s, there was a
re-edition of the Spanish version of Theotopoiasis' book, the Machinist's S.E.S.V.E. book,
the Spanish version of Theotopoiasis' book, the Machinist's S.E.S.V.E. book. At that point,
both Varela and Maturana wrote their own introductions, their own
forwards to the world with their own reflections and so on.
Varela does say something like what we were just saying. We started with an idea that
he still thinks is correct, but it could be easily interpreted in very internalistic ways.
Like, okay, I'm self-producing and I just get my nutrients from the environment and that's it.
And I reject the rest and my mind is essentially how I cannot distinguish hallucinations from
perceptions because all is happening inside me. And he said that that criticism was kind of right
because it was easy to get that idea, which is not what I intended. But he says that since
working on an inactive perspective, he wanted to emphasize that there's this historical
co-dependence between agents and environments that are mutually defining and building themselves.
So, and then that later work, the work that other people have done, myself included,
have emphasized that relationality. So that if autonomy becomes relational autonomy,
because it's constantly being enacted. That is the nice thing about the word
and action because you're not just enacting a world of meaning by engaging the world in
certain ways, thus transforming it and be the whole transformation being significant for your
own viability, for your own continuity. You're also enacting your own body. You're enacting
yourself. You're constantly, by doing whatever you're doing, the body becomes or is in constant
becoming itself and changing and transforming itself. So you see that we start with ideas that
seem to be very locked into a world where things are the way they are and they cannot change.
From there, using the power of some of those ideas, start putting them in a different
configuration such that we can understand change, transformation. And in human cases,
we can understand how we become together with others, how we participate in ongoing
transformation, mutual transformations and things like that. So that is a little bit of a sketch
of a trajectory of inactive ideas. Well, since this book we mentioned the embodied mind and
later work, it's an opening up of that initially very self-enclosed idea of production, which
in some writings, I talk about the dialectics between the two conditions of autopoiesis. I
said you're making yourself and you're making yourself different from the environment.
And I say that those two things are not independent because the conditions that
would best satisfy self-production would be that every relation with the environment is
useful. Everything is food, so to speak. But if everything is useful is that you have to accept
any interaction with the environment, it's like you are essentially open to the environment.
And the opposite happens if you want to do self-distinction the best possible way,
you just build a wall around yourself and do not allow any influence on the outside. But of course,
it will die because you cannot get the energy and the nutrients. So each of these two requirements
is pointing in opposite directions. And what you need to do is to see this as a dialectic and the
step that overcomes this tension that keeps the distinction, it doesn't erase the distinction
between the ideas. But now the ideas are working in a new plane, in a new mode. And that
I propose is the inactive idea of agency and adaptivity, that you're using the environment
constantly to build yourself. And in doing so, you build this self-distinction, but you're
also open. Adaptively, you're trying to conserve certain paths of becoming.
And that is a little bit the resolution of that initial dialectical tension.
At the more existential phenomenological level, this is this idea from Hans Jonas,
this idea of needful freedom, but at the same time, I think Andrea also talked about this
in another episode. I think for me, this was really helpful because it really links the idea
of autonomy directly to a notion of becoming in the inactive approach. And I think that's
one of the themes of your more recent research from what I could tell is that you're trying to
also make sense of this idea, how it relates to the idea of a body, what a body is,
which is actually very hard to say, although there is all this literature in the body called
the science. So can you talk a little bit about this? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, you're right.
I think that, well, you just said it, the question, what is a body? When we ask that
question in the context of embodied cognitive science, you don't find many clear answers.
That is something surprising. I mean, in other areas, in other areas of inquiry,
there may be some better answers, but it's almost like embodied cognition was trying to say, well,
it's almost obvious what a body is. Come on, it's our anatomical physiological structures,
our biological body, our sensor apparatus, blah, blah, blah. Well, yeah, but that doesn't,
in my opinion, go deep enough because you may speak of a body of anything like this. A typewriter
may have a body in that sense because it has a structure and so on, and it may interact with
the world. I don't know. So I think the inactive theory, as I was saying, gives us a lot of
tools to try to work out better approaches to a more principled conception of bodies,
bodies in the plural, I would also say, because we end up proposing that we don't have just this one
dimension of embodiment. We do have an organic dimension in our physiology and so on.
But we also have a sensory motor dimension. We are active in the world. We have powers. We can
do things. We are sensitive to things and so on. And that seems to be
not reducible to the biology because, for instance, you also depend on the environment
for the possibilities that you can, the affordances you have, the obstacles and so on and so forth.
And then we have a social, intersubjective dimension as well. We are, again, these
dynamics of affirmation, recognition, distinction. They're also happening in this social domain.
So we speak of these dimensions of regulations of embodiment or dimensions of embodiment.
And the fact that tells you that it's a good proposal is that these dimensions are sometimes
at odds with each other. You may consider that for health reasons you should go on a diet
or something like this. But that's something that comes from our linguistic
knowledge. We know about it. We're told. Some people give us good arguments. We recognize
that that's a good argument and realize reflectively that we should do that. But
the sensory motor body doesn't really agree with that. When we see the ice cream, we want to have
some ice cream. It's hard to... Or breaking a bad habit because it could be unhealthy,
like habit of smoking. So that is a total sign that it's quite right to see that the body is not
just this unified thing. Even if you want to consider it's a process, it's not just this
unified, but it's an entanglement of different kinds of autonomy. That is what we propose.
The idea of autonomy comes back as a proposal. This is a theory, of course,
in the sensory motor domain. So we have sensory motor agency, and it comes back in the interaction
domain and the linguistic domains. That is a little bit of the inactive trick. If you like,
you just see whether in the new domain of interest, something seems to be conserving itself while
other things change and see, propose, see if it's possible. There's evidence that
that which is conserved might be conceived as an autonomous system.
So becoming involves all of these dimensions. It's just not the one dimension.
Here you mentioned Hans Jonas, which is also very useful also to distinguish these forms,
transitions in forms of life, from basic, needful freedom to animal life or mobile life,
essentially, that can, you can perceive, you can have different dimensions for your emotional life
and so on and so forth, to human and so on. So you see these transitions there, but another
another interlocutor for me has been the philosopher Gilbert Simon Don,
with his theories of individuation and so on, which, of course, is quite complex and maybe we
shouldn't go into that now. But essentially, there is a confirmation of this notion that becoming
is an entanglement of dimensions of becoming. And when you talk about bodies,
well, the first problem is that you should not try to reduce the idea of a body to any one
of these dimensions, as if one was more important than the others. I have said many times that,
yes, you need an organic body to then become a sensory motor agent and you need to be a sensory
motor agent to interact socially. Yes, but that's chronology, that that's not as relevant as what
happens afterwards, when all these dimensions are mutually transforming each other, so that
our physiology is very much dependent on the jobs we have, for instance, on the urban environment
where we live and whether we have jobs or not. So that affects our body chemistry,
affects our immune system and so on. So we constantly, all these dimensions are shaping each other.
And so becoming, what does it mean? It's not simply to highlight this process that bodies are
unfinished. They're always in the process of arriving, but never arriving. They're always
like, okay, let's go to this point, let's go to this point, but then you have to start again.
But it also speaks to, if you like, the more human dimension of becoming, which is the more
existential, you know, whether you feel that you're living the life you want to live, whether
you live in a place that gives you the possibilities to do that, whether you can set
yourself goals that you can try to achieve or whether that's very hard. And then I've done some
work on that existential dimension to show that most of the times we think about it in a very
individualistic sense. But in fact, becoming, to make things even more complicated, can only
happen, human becoming can only happen in a community with others. It's also an idea that's
really at the roots also of Varela's thinking, no, in many ways. In many ways, yes. Yes, yes,
because Varela was also very concerned with such things as, well, communities appear in many places,
even in the early book, because he talks about observers, but then he says, in fact, we should
say a community of observers. He keeps realizing that he has to bring the community because the
community will set a set of rules and norms and interests to which you, as a researcher,
would have to somehow connect, either by saying, I follow this or either by saying, look, no,
I think we should change by being critical of them. You can also, but not by being indifferent.
So you are shaped by the community, which is also an idea that Simon Donne has.
Human individuation happens at the collective level. We become individuals thanks to the
collective, not against the collective, which is the traditional way of thinking. It's like, oh,
you've got the individual and the collective. The collective was only the source of obstacles to
your individuality. I mean, the collective is also the one, the source of your desires,
of your drive, of your powers. They also come from having developed in this collective.
So the idea becomes quite rich, and that starts to connect, opens up what was originally
an approach concerned with the study of the mind, or maybe life and mind,
to find connections with several interesting questions in the humanities, in social science,
in medical sciences, and so on and so forth.
Yeah. I mean, you and together with Hannad Jäger, I think this idea of participatory
sense-making, which Andrea also has talked about with other guests in previous
conversations, I guess is the inactive attempt and version to understand this
social dimension and the way that it's entangled with our organic and sensorimotor dimensions of
embodiment, as you put it. And you think in the book Linguistic Bodies that you wrote together
with Hannad Jäger and Elena Koufari, talk about this primordial tension, as you call it,
that is implied by this notion of participatory sense-making. And I find this really an interesting
idea. So I was wondering if you can say a little bit more.
Yeah, sure, sure, sure. So the work we've done with Hannah on participatory sense-making is,
it was, if you like, the first connection that we could establish between these ideas of autonomy
and embodiment sense-making with the social domain, with the, let's put it in the
say interactive domain, where more than one agent is involved in affecting each other.
And so what we proposed there in the context of debates on social cognition
was that at the root of our interactions, there is a way in which we are constantly affecting
our sense-making. And sometimes it could be an indirect way, like in an interaction I point
to something and you understand that as maybe look in that direction,
and then you see something you were not seeing, some influence in your sense-making.
Two more sophisticated ways in which we can create something together. We're working on a project
together and it's hard to tell who is the author of these ideas, because we're constantly being
developed together. So we did apply the inactive trick. So we said like, okay, we have our autonomy
of these individuals and so on, but when is it a social interaction? Well, we suggested that the
interaction itself, the dynamics of interaction, momentarily takes an autonomous dynamics too,
an autonomous organization too. And then we ask, well, if that's the case, we should have
experiences where the interaction wants to go on despite everybody wanting to stop it.
And we did find those experiences, like the typical case of the narrow corridor situation
with two people walking in opposite directions, and then by miscoordination or maybe by
coordination, you end up doing this sideway dance for a while until somebody says, oh, you first.
Well, that's a case in which the interaction, something is becoming self-generating, at least
for a moment, temporarily. I'm not saying interaction is an agent or anything like this.
It's just this temporary organization. So we then proposed that a social interaction
should be defined as a situation where we as participants can maintain our autonomy as
participants. We are not negated in the encounter. And also it's not just simply that we're sitting
together ignoring each other, but somehow the flow of these dynamics, of these relations,
at least momentarily acquires a life of its own. And in sociology, there were lots of support for
the idea of interactions having a life of their own. So what is the primordial tension?
Okay. So the primordial tension is exactly, if you like, that tension between these two
forms of autonomy, that of the participants and that of the in-between, the encounter.
It's not necessarily tension between people participating. It doesn't have to be a negative
connotation to this idea of tension, but we are individual cognizers embodied,
cognizers wanting to do things, to do stuff. One of the things we're doing is participating
in an interaction, but I may find myself, I don't know, maybe I like to drink some tea now,
but I kind of just go and prepare the tea now. So the interaction that we're having now is regulating
that desire to say, no, later, you have the tea later. Or in the middle of interaction,
we may have dissonances because I look at somebody behind you that I know of and you
might interpret that as if I'm not paying attention to you. Well, in fact, I am listening to you,
but that change that was part of my own sense-making, noticing somebody,
has had an influence on you and has an influence on the dynamics of interaction. Perhaps from that
point on, you start thinking, suspecting that I'm not really taking you seriously in what you're
telling me, just because I had that moment and so on. So the primordial tension is that tension
that we have to navigate to work through this potential misunderstandings, this potential
dissonances, lack of coordination. And when we do break down the interaction,
we have to bring the resources to try to repair it in some way. And that is essentially where we
actually learn something new. Interaction is telling us something like, oh,
sorry. The typical thing is, sorry, I thought that whatever. I thought you meant something
else. I thought you wanted something else. And then you recover that. We do it linguistically,
but it could be in a dance. It could be people dancing tango that that happens to.
Yeah. So the primordial tension is always there. But in the book Linguistic Bodies, what we propose
is to start from there and start developing a dialectical understanding of this tension
that takes you to increasingly more complex forms of social agency. Each form of social agency
reproduces the original tension in a different way. It resolves it, apparently. But then you
realize that, oh, from now on, there is another tension and another tension. And eventually you
go from basic participatory sense making, mutual influence in our sense making, to things like
acts that regulate how we interact, like gestures and so on, partial acts, we call them, to
ways in which we regulate how we use those acts with familiar interact participants or unfamiliar
ones to the formation of dialogue, the logical structures, mutual recognition as participants
in the dialogue. And eventually, you know, the possibility of reflecting and utterances
in the dialogue. You say something and I reflect something about what you say, either using the
same words or just in the tone or in my response, there's a connection. So the dialogue becomes
like a braided history. And that brings several interesting things, consequences, like the
possibility of personhood, essentially. Personhood as such becomes theorized in an active approach
at that level, when we can recognize each other and we can reflect
because I can reflect utterances, I can also reflect my own utterances. I can eventually self-talk
and have this self-control that is not just simply
self-regulation, like the, you know, the blood temperature is self-regulating. No, I mean,
I have a power which is imbued with social normativity that then I apply to my own
imbued with social normativity that then I apply to direct in my becoming as a person.
So that's why we are persons. So that's, I'm sorry, in the end I ended up talking.
I think we should maybe at some later point do another conversation.
One thing that you or this idea of this tension, I think it connects very well to a comment that
I think Shay Welch made with Andrea in an earlier podcast where she made this interesting point that
sometimes it seems like you're actually communicating better with people that have
sort of different styles, different perceptions, different ways of being in the world because
of the effort that you have to bring into this interaction. And I think Rebecca Todd
at this point said that, you know, this also shows the importance of love in conversation
and communicating success. This idea that I think you find also in the work of Erich Fromm,
for example, which I really like that, you know, love is this ongoing practice of trying to engage
despite breakdowns, despite tensions. So how do you think about this since this is a podcast
also about love and philosophy? Oh, absolutely. Well, I think that's absolutely right. This is
also stepping a little bit into the ethical territory. What should be your attitude if
you want to participate and know the other? You can't come to this interaction with insufficient
openness to the other. You must let the other have their space, their say, and so on.
Even if that takes a lot of effort, okay, because that typically will take a lot of effort because
you think it's so easy, like, well, you know, I'm open-minded. And then imagine you have to
talk to somebody who says, I'm not open-minded. How are you going to be open-minded towards that
attitude? And then you have to really try. Okay, so essentially, what I'm trying to drive out here
is that if you think that our understanding and our becoming advances in communities and through
participation, if you like, one basic ethical attitude that you have would be to always attempt
to connect and attempt to be open. But that in itself will introduce new tensions.
And this is, I mean, Hannah has looked into this engaged and engaging epistemology,
precisely calling it loving and knowing. So you should then say, well, I'm not trying to
overdetermine what's happening here, like coming with preconceived ideas about what you want to
tell me, who you are, what you're saying, the meaning of what you're saying. But at the same
time, you can't just simply say everything is fine and disappear into the others that are around
you. So again, you find that tension, which is analogous to that original thing we talked
about, the self-production and self-distinction. In a sense, you are in these interactions forming
yourself, producing yourself, if you like, as a human being from all these relations.
So you must be open to them and you must be open to change and maybe change in directions that are
maybe scary. But at the same time, you should also be able to affirm your direction. So becoming is
not some simple change. It's affirming or attempting to direct your process of becoming
in a good way. And what counts as good will be a difficult question to ask, but it cannot just be
simply good for you because of how you depend on others constitutively, you know, existentially.
Maybe the flip side of this as well that I think also came up in this conversation that I mentioned
earlier, which I think they call the study of complexity, fatigue, that maybe sometimes
you're too open to everything at the same time. Exactly, exactly. Very overwhelming. And I mean,
I know this from my own experience as someone who I think needs a lot of time to like digest,
agents digest different viewpoints, but I'm also always open and wanting to engage and finding this
right balance is really difficult. It is obviously difficult and there's no recipe for it. That's
the difficulty as well in the sense that, yeah, you can get some advice about like, oh, listen to
what the others has to say. Do not interrupt. Fine. That's fine. But these things never do away
with the possibility of full breakdown and misunderstanding that that can happen at any time
and not because anybody wants it. Often it happens when everybody's trying to avoid it.
That's also one of the reasons why it happens. It's paradoxical.
Um, now, uh, so what, what does love have to do with it? What's got love got to do with it? Okay.
I think, okay, there are many, many different connections, but one is that this, this open this
that, that, uh, but would direct you to what it's like good ways to know
others and to know anything really is it has the same structure as, as the one we find when we
love, uh, somebody or sometimes more generally could love a place you could love, but in love,
you do have that basic existential structure of, uh, dependence, openness, but also tension
and constant becoming constant negotiation and constant change.
And there must be something that pulls this process forward because sometimes it's just
too much work. And what is it? I mean, well, I think it has to do with the fact that you're
into it, that in this complex relations, you're also changing yourself to the kind of person you
want to be. When it goes like in that direction, sometimes it may not be like that, but sometimes
you see that as a possibility, as a potentiality that then you, you become the for the person that
you desire to be, uh, through this, this, this complex forms of relations. So that, if you like,
that can be extended to all forms of engagement with the world, engagement with nature,
engagement with communities and so on and so forth. And that does not mean, please,
this should be obvious that everything is rosy and great, you know, because suddenly we are kind of
open and ready to love everyone. No, no, it's on the contrary. It's what some of the more
difficult forms of interaction, um, and sometimes it just doesn't work. That's the thing. I mean,
good knowledge, like, like that, that what Shay was saying, also the effort you put into understanding
somebody, just sometimes it does not work. Uh, and it breaks down and that's it. That you, you,
you tried, uh, maybe the things need to change in order for that to happen again, maybe try again
later. I was wondering how you think, um, how this connects to another theme that I'm very
interested in that I also came up in my conversation with Michael Wheeler, which is
the idea of authenticity and also being sort of yourself. Yeah. Very big term. Absolutely. Uh,
well, again, it's a really good question and I wouldn't have a, like, uh, absolutely clear answer.
I mean, I have a certain directions because these ideas of becoming that we were talking about
uh, already kind of suggest to you that authenticity is not quite rightly conceived as,
as a way of being true to something static, you know, because there is nothing, nothing static.
I mean, so, so I'm constantly changing. It doesn't mean I'm inauthentic. No, I mean, obviously it's
attention. When you may be authentic is in that process of becoming your, your in a way involved
in it. You just simply not being pulled and pushed, uh, without you ever bringing yourself
into it critically, reflectively and say, maybe this is not quite right. These things are
manifested emotionally before the manifested consciously as, as, as ways of thinking, but
emotionally, you know, that you're not living through a right situation. Something doesn't
fit. What is authentic is not necessarily also the self, although that's how the language works,
unfortunately, but what is authentic is the form of life and in your situation, not just you.
So it has to be authenticity also has to be considered relational in relational terms.
And then you look at authenticity also is historical because in past societies,
authenticity was not such an issue because you had your place in the world, you know,
medieval times or ancient societies. And to be authentic would be to be to play that role.
You were a farmer, you were something else. You were a soldier and you just did that. The role
defined you. Uh, it's just that it's become an issue, you know, with enlightenment and maybe
even earlier in the sense that the individual was put at the, at the center of the inquiry.
And then we became very conscious of ourselves as individuals. Um, what is interesting is that
I like, for instance, I think it was Oscar Wilde who said that,
um, I can't remember the exact quote, but it's something like, uh, to be true to yourself,
you should, uh, constantly engage in new artificial changes all the time. You know,
that is the way to be true. You don't need to conserve anything. You need to keep on changing.
Um, I wish I had the exact quote. Uh, so that is, um, that is interesting because it also
speaks of, uh, uh, an openness of, if you like, the human essence, proxically being something
that is not fixed. Uh, there's a becoming and, and in the article about inactive becoming,
I talk about several philosophers who have been looking at becoming, you know, from renaissance
philosophers like Pico della Mirandola, uh, mid 20th century, uh, psychologists like Gordon Alport,
uh, people like Paulo Freire, you know, his critical pedagogy and Marxist philosophy and so
on. And so each of them is telling you something about becoming that is right, but it's just them
is telling, pointing to what's missing in the, in the other one. Uh, and eventually you come to,
to a conception of, of becoming that I think is quite rich based on ideas of Simon Donne and
things like that. How do you think about this, um, in, in an academic context or maybe in a
reflective context where you have to engage with other people's ideas, uh, critically, but also
stay true to your own ideas. It's sometimes very difficult because of course there's so
much information. There's so much to read and you find yourself sort of repeating what other
people have said and not really sure is that what I think or is that what, what they, so,
and I know one thing I find inspiring about your work is that whether or not someone agrees with
it, you know, you, you develop your own kind of positions also often against mainstream
positions, um, exposing yourself to this kind of criticism. Um, and that's not an easy thing to do
and you have to, I think, have also trust in your own thinking, but there's always, of course, also
the possibility that you're wrong and that you're, and so I was wondering how do you, how do you deal
with this? Do you have some kind of advice for, for people? Um, I think it's, it's, it's, it's a great,
uh, question and I, and I think you have to navigate it in each, each circumstance.
Circumstances will be different. It's not like a general thing, but one thing that I think
might be general and helpful is to, um, to stay true to the, to your questions, to stay true to,
maybe your question keeps changing shape because the formulation, the things you learn
help you formulate it in a different way and so on, but it's something that is, is driving
your interest and your questions and so on. And, and, and that you end up knowing these questions
so intimately, you know, you want to know really what this means, that there is no,
let's put it this way, that there is little chance that you will be overwhelmed to the point that you,
that you abandon them. Uh, they can change their shape, but if your question is, is, is sincere,
authentic, uh, you, you, you will not be overwhelmed so much by the information. You, you may then,
if you do it more consciously, you may then understand better whether the information is
really that useful for you or not. You say, well, this seems to be,
about the same issue that I'm interested in, but after reading two lines, I realized that they mean
something else. Do I need to really learn all of this? Maybe not right now. Maybe, maybe, uh,
you seek everything, the things that connect most directly to your question and speak to you.
And you postpone everything else. You know, of course, the problem is that there are other
requirements in an academic life. Like you had to be scholarly, you have to know lots of stuff and,
and write lots of papers. Fine. That is difficult. But if you at least want to make sure that, that
you're true to your path, to what you want to do, um, keep asking, you know, what is the best way
keep asking your central question or questions and then say, here is something that connects to it.
Often it's very clear. It's not intellectual. It's emotional. Often it's very clear. You,
you just read some old philosopher that you've never heard of. And you suddenly come across
a paragraph and say, wow, yes, that's exactly the right way to put it. Who is this guy?
And, and those things are emotional. You just feel them like this aha moment. This, this,
this thing that, that hits you. Um, other times the opposite is happening. You're dragging on,
you're dragging on. It's like, why am I even reading this? Okay. Well, perhaps it's not the
right time. Somebody told you it's relevant. And maybe, maybe they even did it right. If it's such
a difficult thing, perhaps you should keep your questions alive because the real problem is
that the whole machinery often will just simply kill your inquiry, will kill the spirit with which
you started. And that is a very common problem. If you keep to the track that you see as the one
that is interesting to you or important to you, um, you, you will be likely to be doing the right
thing. Um, of course that doesn't mean your questions kind of change. It doesn't mean that
you cannot learn new things and new, new ideas. That's fine. But it's the same thing. You're
enacting, you're bringing forth your academic world, so to speak. And therefore you have to,
to do it right. Not just you, you know, maybe with a community of people, you have to do it
right by being truthful to what's really important to all of you. So, uh,
I know that that's not very practical advice. Oh, it's super helpful, I think, and important
also to remember. Um, I was just wondering, are there questions for you that you would say maybe
they've somehow been left behind a little bit that, that are driving you in the background,
but you're, you would like to spend more time thinking about in the future or are thinking
about at the moment? Oh, oh, I'm sure there are that many. Yeah. Undoubtedly. I think
I mean, too many. We didn't mention the word dualism in this conversation, but the inactive
approach, it should be clear, it rejects dualistic ways of thinking. Like, oh, you have this on the
one hand and it's very different from that. You have rationality in institutions on one side and
biology drives perception on the other. There may be differences, but there are not big walls.
That's the thing that, so everything interacts. So, but I'm interested in like, well, okay,
what kind of ontology is the right ontology for, for serving as the basis for this way of thinking?
I mean, of course, it's kind of going to be a kind of process relation on ontology and so on,
but then how does it extend to other questions such as the, these ontological ideas will
connect to, you know, problems such as, you know, environmental emergencies or politics or
science, you know, what the problems in science and quantum mechanics, what's going on. And so
I see all these connections that I find interesting and I've done some work on or
have conversations about all coming from this very basic question is like, what kind of universe
is this that we are able to continuously do this creative stuff that, that seems to be unfinished
and that when we do stuff is changing. So interesting. I like to understand that better.
Wow. Okay. Yeah. That's, that's a big, big task. I guess you still have,
you asked for a question. It is a big one. Yes.
I think we probably have to come to an end soon. It's my attention span is running out,
but is there anything that we didn't mention that you would have loved to
talk about? No, no, no. I think we cover a lot. Happy. Thank you so much. Okay. Thank you.
