Hello everyone, here I am walking down the street and you can see some Christmas lights
in the United States.
They all go up right after Thanksgiving.
This is my diary for December 5th, Friday.
I'm a philosopher, for those of you who don't know, and I've been doing these diaries every
Friday for the past few months because I was asked and I promised to do it.
So this is my diary for the 5th, and for this day I am going to post the video of me writing
rambling on actually a bit about a conversation I had with the neuroscientist Lynn Nadel.
And again, if you've followed this project, you've seen he and I talk a few times about
the hippocampus and memory and navigation and that's what this is about.
So it might be a bit nerdy and maybe only certain people want to listen to it, but that's
okay.
It's a diary, it's a research diary, and it is about all the themes of all these other
conversations and videos, but maybe just a bit more nerdy.
You can see the intro for a conversation that Lynn and I had about his paper about
action at a distance, which is already going to be available.
I think they're putting it on the YouTube, if you're a member, you can watch it now,
but it'll be available to everyone at some point.
And it comes out as an audio podcast in a couple weeks too, so would you get a sneak
peek here?
Or at least of the part of the podcast that is the research explanation or the thinking
through the ideas, because as you know, I've been putting together this philosophy.
So thank you for watching and I hope you're having a good day or night wherever you may
be and happy Friday.
I can't believe it's already Friday again.
This week just flew by, my goodness.
Well, let's keep going, okay?
Bye.
Okay everybody, so today is another bonus episode with Lynn Nadel, psychologist and
neuroscientist.
And I think this is the fourth talk.
We've had more than that, but this is the fourth one that's publishing.
And as you know, I'm crazy about the hippocampus and he's a really important researcher in
that field.
So we've talked quite a few times about a lot of subjects.
He's not the only hippocampal area researcher that has been on the show, but he's been on
the most for sure.
And I really appreciate him.
And today is a really interesting one because we talk about all kinds of subjects that have
a lot of deep roots.
And I thought to begin, I would just tell you about some of those roots.
Those of you who don't want to hear all the philosophy and neuroscience and hear me talking
through some things as I want to do today for my research, you can skip ahead.
Since this is basically a podcast exploring my ideas and research, which are all inspired
by all of these people, and it's important for me to go through all this.
For those of you who want to hear the rest, then I want to talk about this idea of transcending
the here and now or the present moment, because that's a big part of hippocampal research.
For example, when there's lesions with HM and others clive wearing important people
and patients, people have given a lot to hippocampal research.
Often when they have trouble, they end up sort of living in the present moment, which
might sound wonderful, but it's not because it's a very limited.
It's like everything is refreshing every 20 seconds or every two minutes even.
But still, it's refreshing.
And that means that you don't know where you are.
Suddenly it's like waking up over and over again or just kind of being in a little bit
of almost dream state where you kind of feel like you know what's happening, but you don't
really. That's how they describe it in a way.
So how does this relate to space and to memory?
This really intrigues me. It's a lot of what I think about and also just those words, space
and memory. Those are words that point to something that we all recognize and have in
common. But we have to detach ourselves a little bit from those words because we're
already sort of nesting a lot of our ideas together when we talk about those words.
We're describing a process that's already all of that.
And that's part of this holding paradox idea and why it's so hard to talk about, especially
with something like memory, because we've broken it into all kinds of different ways of
thinking about it, episodic or declarative or associative or working memory, all these
different ways we've thought about how to understand the way it manifests, the way a
process manifests by which we are able to understand that we're in a continuous ongoing
process and we can use whatever we've been through in the past towards whatever we're
going to be going through in the future.
That's really what we're talking about when we're talking about memory and where that's
happening is what we're talking about with space. But it might not always be geographical.
This is what we're starting to learn. Of course, we're always in a geographical space, but
There's many layered spaces as that geographical space, as our body, as our body encountering
everything it encounters. There's conceptual space, for example, when we're measuring
it, it's all one ongoing thing, not even one. It's all ongoing, not one and not two.
When we study it, we might study it like conceptual space or virtual space or these different
areas where we spend a lot of our time. If you think about it when you go on the computer,
you're sort of in virtual space. But of course, you're also in geographical space and emotional
space and all these other ways that we've divided it. But if I want to know something
about the way your body is reacting when you're clicking through websites or moving through
the social apps, those are kinds of spaces or landscapes, I call them, which have particular
regularities in which your body is interacting with as you go through those spaces just to
speak of it as if it's geographical.
So these are all kind of nesting together and maybe memory is the word that we use to
describe our awareness of those habits is a kind of a nice way to think of it, which
I bring up here with Len a bit too, but they're binding us, but they're not really binding
us because it's all one ongoing process. But when we study it, we can see these habits
that are going through our body, but also that we really see in the hippocampus with
the action that we encounter. So when we're talking about the hippocampus, which is this
You have two of them in both sides of your brain in the temporal lobe, the hippocampi.
They're definitely doing something very important relative to your sensory body and all that
you're encountering and how that aligns with all you've encountered before as your body.
And maybe that's not about storage in the sense that like your hippocampus is putting
something in some little suitcase somewhere in your body. Maybe it's more that it's an
ongoing process of such amazing intricacy that we can't really get it yet, but that
actually your body itself is that storage, storage in quotation marks, such that somehow
at many different dimensions, your body and especially your central nervous system with
the hippocampal formation playing a very big part of this is somehow reading all that sensory
ongoing encounter all as one and aligning it with all that you've become as you've been
moving to where you are now. So I know that's really hard to understand, but it's just thinking
of memory not as storage, but maybe this process that's like liberating us in a way from being
bound to the present as those people who've had hippocampal damage are, you know, where
they just keep refreshing. We still have this continuity of connection of communication
with our body, which it represents or not doesn't represent, but is everything we've ever been
through. So remembering the past, imagining the future, those aren't actually maybe so
different for the, for the body or for the hippocampus. And there's a whole lot of research on
both of those relative to the hippocampus. So that would be a whole other discussion, but you
know, this is kind of habituation from all you've been through to all you might go through. And
of course, it's not just the hippocampus, it's, you know, doing that, but it's playing a very
big role, which we see in studies and which we see in the cells, the way the neurons fire. And
it's pretty exciting. So maybe memories are communication with ourselves. That's how I like
to think of it. And we experience it as thinking or as action at times, but it's not only like we
think of our memory as what we remember as remembering our, our first love, our first kiss,
you know, those cookies, our grandmother made us whatever it might be. But that, and that is part
of it. But also we're remembering all the time as our body, just the way we can move around and
know how to do things. And that's also memory, but it's not that kind of memory that most of us
think of all as old memory. It's, we experience that thinking, but we're also part of a nested
ongoing remembering, but also in imagining, predicting, you know, all these words we use in
various areas of neuroscience that I'm trying to start to understand as one ongoing process, or a
lot of people are trying to do that. But we're trying to articulate it in a way such that it's
not about finding little stored things in the body so much as understanding these habits that we
create and understanding how that becomes something like thinking and the ability to
communicate with your own self, to be aware of your own past habits and experiences at many
different levels, many of which are these episodic memories of remembering your first love,
remembering a poem, whatever, you know, there's semantic memory too. So there's a lot of different
ways to think about this, but this is why I brought up this idea of constellation cognition or this
metaphor of the kaleidoscope often, because it helps us to get out of this way of thinking in
contrast only and instead think of all these different layers and dimensions of an ongoing
process that's going on that our awareness, our communication with ourself can switch through
and understand in different ways instead of either or formulations. That's why I always
use this Gregory Bates and it takes two to know one, because even when we're communicating with
ourselves, there's already a third, there's all of it, there's this part of us that's aware of
ourselves and there's what we're aware of and all of that actually is coming through our
conversations, our encounters with the world, with all these other beings around us. So you can't
really take all this away and that's why we talk about relation so much on this podcast and
participatory sense making and all of these forms of bodily cognition and also why computation
is so important and why we need models and ways to represent and think about all of this together
because wow, what a process. But anyway, those positions allow us to have other kind of positions
of three like past, present and future or body, brain and world. So this is about action at a
distance. So let me think about this through an analogy that might seem a little bit strange, but
just bear with me and I'll try and bring it around because it is part of the paper that Len and I
talk about, which is called the hippocampal formation and action at a distance. So I want
you to imagine two particles, like whatever you want to imagine as a particle, I don't care,
and they've interacted and they've become so connected that they're instantly in sync.
One changes and the other changes no matter how far apart they move because somehow they've gotten
into the same rhythm. And so it's not about how far away they are so much as that their bodies are
as particles, their particle bodies are in complete synchrony with one another, even as they travel
across the universe. And this is called quantum entanglement. And of course, I'm giving you a
very cartoon example, but actually we know it exists. It's a really hard thing to say exists.
Even Einstein didn't like to admit that this exists. He called it spooky action at a distance,
which Len talks about as well, because it just seems so weird to suggest that information or
some kind of influence could leap across what seems like space for us, great distances,
maybe even faster than anything else like light or something. So when we measure a property like spin
or one entangled particle, then we find out the other one that's entangled with it already knows
that so to speak. It's already also reacted as having known that even if it's on the moon
and you're here. So this isn't about signals traveling, it's about they're in a similar state
and that state changes so they both change. It doesn't mean they necessarily are exactly
the same. It just means they are in constant communication. That's that word again.
It's almost like a translation that's happening at some kind of speed or some kind of immediacy
that we really don't understand yet, or we don't know how to put into math at least.
And we talk about that as quantum. And of course, that gets all kinds of wonderful
connotations to think about quantum. But it is mysterious and memory is also mysterious.
And the way that we remember and imagine and the way this is also kind of immediate, right?
And we know that the hippocampal formation is part of this. So it can seem kind of crazy to
think about these together. And I'm not saying the hippocampus is quantum, but who knows.
But and Len's not necessarily saying that either. But I guess what is happening is that there are
these connections that we've broken down into memory, space and time. But if we kind of unstick
ourselves from those words and understand this is an ongoing process, then we might begin to
understand that the hippocampus can tell us something about that. At least our research
about it is opening ways for us to think about how we're performing this action at a distance in a
way. Because we go to a coffee shop that we don't see. We step out of the way of some kind of car
or something. We make a plan to go home for Christmas. And without our hippocampus,
we wouldn't be doing all of that. We would be reliving the moment. And we might still have some
ability to communicate with our old habits that we made before we had whatever, before we lost
our hippocampus. But we wouldn't be able to attach anything new to that. It's almost like a golf has
opened up and we can no longer align what's going on now with everything in our body that's happened
before. So that's that permanent present tense that Lin talks about and that Sukokan talks about
with HM. And it's trying to figure this out. How do we bridge these gaps between where we are,
where we want to be, who we are right now in this moment. Which again, aren't really gaps. But when
you have something happen to your hippocampus, then you notice that it was doing something that
now has left something that can't be done, which is kind of feeling like a gap in the way that I
just described. So how does that have anything to do with entanglement? Well, entanglement defies
what we think of as space and time. And so does memory. And that's hard to talk about in the same
way. It's hard to talk about entanglement, especially because it's so intimate to us.
And it's so rich with research and data and possibility. And yet we can't quite get a
grasp of it. I think Lin is offering in this paper a bit a way to think of memory as a kind of
mediation in the way that we're assessing it. Again, it's not like actually something we can
separate from all this, but it's a mediation that is that kind of bridging between past and future
and present. And I think that's a really interesting way to think about it, even if
you only want to think about it like that metaphorically. But it does challenge our
intuitive sense that there's something stored and stuck somewhere that we pull out and read and all
of this in the same way that two particles being on opposite sides of the earth that still know
what one another are doing challenges us. And Lin doesn't say this, but I think his paper shows
this actually, that it seems to force us to believe that this is ongoing and inseparable.
And we can actually separate our remembering from our bodies and what our bodies are encountering,
which we would call space and time. And again, Lin doesn't exactly say that, but I say that in
my work and I build on Lin's work because I see it in his work and he gets it and he hasn't said
I'm wrong. So yeah, you'll hear us talk about it. We've been talking about it, what, this is like
the fourth hour and there's many more. So it's ongoing. But one thing Lin does talk about is
Kant. I like Kant a lot. He's a philosopher. Some of you probably know all of his work better than
I do, but some of you might not have heard of him. He's a German philosopher, maybe one of the most
important. And you probably all know I love Hegel. So let's connect it to Hegel because those two are
very connected. But Lin really likes Immanuel Kant and let's just like step back for a minute
and think about him. So he argued that space and time are not things existing out there,
like independently, or at least this is how people take it. But remember all that stuff I just said
too, because we're changing, we're moving, we're learning since Immanuel Kant. But it's a very
important idea he had that space and time aren't out there. They're not a priori is the kind of
word. I mean they are a priori. They're immediate. They're intuitive is more the word he might use or
some people might say mental. But as I was just telling you, maybe those aren't separate. But
for Kant when he was trying to understand them, he was separating them. And he was going against
what most people usually say, which they're something out there. And then you have the in
here which processes it or whatever. So he was basically saying, you know, that out there is
actually immediate. I'm just talking off the top of my head, by the way, so you want to check all
of this. But this is just as I understand it, after having just read Lin's paper again,
which you can see I've marked all up, try to take a picture of it for you. It's a good paper. Anyway,
try to stay focused here. But this so this I priority intuition is mental structures that
our minds impose on, impose on, I guess is the way I would say it on the encountering raw experience
is probably what would they say? Raw experience. So our minds impose this on raw experience before
we really perceive anything. And Nadel invokes this in his work. So does John O'Keefe. They talk
about this in that book, the hippocampus as a cognitive map from 1978, which we've talked about
a lot here. And you can read for free, by the way, online if you want to. So Lin and John talk
about this. They write through the hippocampal processes that I think I wrote the quote down.
I wrote a bunch of quotes down because I wanted to, our subjective sense of both space and time
are interwoven constructions of the mind, much as the philosopher Emmanuel Cot postulated. He
actually says that in this paper, Lin does. The neuroscience seems to validate this insight, I
guess. If you think about grid cells in the interhinal cortex, they kind of create, or code
is the word we use, the spatial structure that's internally generated. It's the brain. It is the
brain. It's the brain's neurons. And that seems to scaffold this external environment, which you
could, or they do say is kind of the what Kant was saying. So it's almost like saying we're,
so this is almost saying that our inner world, our brain is scaffolding what we
encounter out there, as if it's not out there. But what I'm saying, or what I was trying to open
up before, and what I think Lin and John's work opens up actually, even if they don't think that,
is that this is an immediacy and that these are both happening. This is holding the paradox,
right? You have this scaffolding of the body that is the body and the brain, and you also have the
encountering. And those aren't choice. You don't make a choice between those.
How does that have to do with Hegel? Well, I wonder if you listened to my talk with
Karen about Hegel. I'll link to all the stuff. But anyway, Hegel's got this idea, which is
way oversimplify it and say thesis, antithesis, synthesis, because that's what most people
understand. And it's actually pretty good just to think of it like that. But it's actually
a triadic formula, more like what I was trying to express before, that it takes two to know one,
and that there's actually no one or two or three. It's not one or not two, and not three either,
by the way. And not four, sorry. Sorry, fourth way. You number it to understand it, but
there's no beginning or end. In any case, there's something about the communication and the relation
that we understand through putting numbers on it. And three is a really important one
for all of us. How many people have used triads? Everyone. And Hegel's one very important triadic
formula. It actually comes from Fichte, but anyway, Hegel considered it his sort of schema,
or I consider it his sort of schema. And it's this dynamic, imminent, or to name a word a lot
of people like these days, space where contradictions unfold and are realized at the same time that they
shift into other contradictions, all from the position of assessment, not from actually what's
happening. But we need to assess it. That's that communication, right? That becoming aware of it
and communicating, which is of course always part of it, which is why you can't absolutely measure
it. And that's why Hegel's so hard to understand and also so wonderful because this truth or
whatever, this process is emerging from that structure that we understand through the triad,
even though it's not inherently triadic. So in the same way that it's not in here or out there
or some kind of hole that synthesizes those, it's through holding the understanding that
it's going on in what seemed like both oppositional spaces at once that you then open this third,
which is kind of the portal by which you have a epiphany or an understanding of the process itself,
which doesn't require parts and isn't a whole in the sense of it's not one, it's not two. So wow,
that's hard to understand. But think of it as a synthesis if it's easier. It's really more like
a sublation. But anyway, all these are just words. And what's important is that we understand that
contradictions aren't the end of anything. And that in fact, realizing contradictions is itself
already a movement beyond them when you notice them and let them be what they are. So you're not
eliminating poles, you're recognizing them. And in that recognition, what I think of as the
constellation opens many more levels and options and possibilities. And that's why way making is
an approach that's about that space, that holding and all this I'm talking about already. And that's
what I've been thinking about with this constellation where you have at least three, right? But when
you're assessing and you're moving beyond the opposition without trying to solve it.
So that's like noticing the polarities, beginning to imagine them not as dual poles, but as parts
that they've gotten our attention for a reason. And if we let them be, a portal will open just
to get a little mystical. And we'll actually see, wow, oh, these things we thought were too
open into a constellation or they change into the kaleidoscope shifts and we see many, many other
different visions. I guess I should try to put that in more scientific terms, which you can find.
Well, actually I'm not going to because if you really want to hear the science about how this
relates to the hippocampus, you can go somewhere else because we want to get to Len's talk. But
I do argue that hippocampus enables not just this binary dialectic, but it's more like a kaleidoscope
as a metaphor, as a way of understanding it. Of course, it's much richer and more amazing than
I could ever, than a kaleidoscope could ever be. But the way that a kaleidoscope shifts is just
that pattern might help us understand how this body and this central nervous system is encountering
the world sensorily and shifting that constantly into what it already is as the body. And this
never stops. And that is memory and that is imagination and that is being present and aware.
And when we are present and aware, we can shift what we know of the past and the
future. So that's all very interesting. And the hippocampal formation and action at a distance,
just to try to come back to Len and his paper, is making some steps towards that, towards understanding
that more consolatory nature of everything. And also the way that we can talk about it in
neuroscience, because that's important too. You probably know I've written about representations
and the way we talk about it in our language is often keeping us stuck in that outside inside,
looking for things inside that somehow correspond to things outside view. So what I see in this
paper is that, which you can watch a video by the way that Len did where he talks a lot about the
entanglement and stuff, which I will also link to. But let me just try and connect it back to
that quantum entanglement now too. So that shows us that the spatial separation isn't some kind of
absolute thing. You know, if two particles on other sides of the world can be communicating without
what we understand as traveling through space and time in a logical way, then there's some kind of
other thing going on. So it's not absolute spatial separation, at least in the way we know it.
And particles can be connected at fundamental levels across distances. And then we have Kant
who argued that the experience of space and time are like mental constructions. Or at least that's
where the reality is of it, which I don't agree with. But I love Kant and I think he was an
important step towards this realization. But it's not direct perceptions of reality as it is in
itself, he would say. It's this mental ongoing categorical imperative. And the hippocampus,
as Nadel and O'Keefe demonstrate, is like the biological mechanism that stitches together,
he says. He uses the stitches together, this spatio-temporally disparate experiences, right?
Because if it's all happening inside, then we have to stitch together all these different
experiences that we're having and create this subjective sense of ongoing coherent space and
time, the out there. And this would be the mediation for the action at a distance. It's
bridging the gaps. But if we think of Hegel again, he showed those contradictions aren't
actual contradictions. They're ways of understanding an ongoing process. So what happens then?
What happens if we let all of that be true and Kant and all that they've said, and we're still
moving forward and knowing, right? We're still learning more. So we don't need to say all of
that is wrong, but maybe there's another way of seeing it. Maybe what we thought of as either or
is going to open into a constellation now. But all of us, including Len and I, are grappling with
basically this mystery, which is as mysterious as what Einstein called spooky action at a different
distance as entanglement. Because it's like, how are we so connected to what is so separate from us
or what we think of as so separate from us? And how our space and time and memory,
all here as us, part of us, and not out there or out there or in here, all of this is kind of amazing
ability we have to communicate with ourselves and one another and actually know this process
and in knowing it, change it. So let's now think about that 1978 book, which I've talked about so
much here called the hippocampus as a cognitive map. And I wrote down some quotes for it on it,
from it, because Len talks about it here. And I wanted to have some quotes
from it. And hippocampus is a cognitive map. They were really already thinking about these issues
then in 1978. So even before then, because that's when it was published. So this is like 50 years,
50 years on. Pretty cool. Okay. So here's what they say at the very beginning of the book,
because you'll hear Len talk about how they said this on page one, and he's right. So here it is.
This book is concerned with three topics which at first glance do not appear to be related. One,
a part of the brain known as the hippocampus. Two, the psychological representation of space.
Three, context-dependent memory. And in this book, we shall argue that the hippocampus is the core
of a neural memory system providing an objective spatial framework within which the items and
events of an organism's experience are located and interrelated. So they were already thinking
about memory as a system, a system for connecting all these different experiences, or maybe just
the system is what we study as this connective, communicative process. And there's quite a lot
of insights in this book that resonate with all that I'm always talking about here, but also with
what Len and I talk about here. And I wrote some notes, so I'm just going to read those.
So when I've been talking about the gaps in action at a distance, well, here's a quote
that's interesting in that regard. The play system permits an animal to locate itself in
a familiar environment without reference to any specific sensory input, to go from one place to
another independent of particular inputs or outputs, which are cues and responses, and to
think together conceptually parts of an environment, to link together conceptually
parts of an environment which have never been experienced at the same time. So that's action
at a distance. And then this whole stitching mechanism, which I don't think the hippocampus
is doing any stitching. I think it's more like a translator. I think of this as better to think
of it as communication. And the hippocampus is like the translator of this ongoing sensory
encounter with all that the body is from past sensory encounters. But anyway, here's the quote.
We shall call the system which generates this absolute space, a cognitive map,
and we'll identify it with the hippocampus. This system underlies the notion of absolute unitary
space, which is a non-centered stationary framework through which the organism and
its egocentric spaces move. Okay, well, that's holding some paradox, but they're trying to relate
it to this inside outside, but I think they're already starting to hold it in the way that I
suggest. Here's another quote about the Kantian absolute space from that book.
In contrast to this view, we think that the concept of absolute space is primary and that
its elaboration does not depend upon prior notions of relative space. There exists at least one
neural system which provides the basis for an integrated model of the environment.
This system underlies the notion of absolute unitary space. And you can see what I'm doing.
I think they were already on to a lot of important ideas here that have been really hard for us to
articulate, but they have a lot to do with what I think of as constellation cognition
or constellation thinking or this hippocampus as a translator. So anyway, and when I say hippocampus,
I really mean the hippocampus and all its confederates, as Len puts it in the article,
the hippocampus, the hippocampal formation, the entorhinal cortex, all of that.
Anyway, here's a quote. Each new item which is located on a map is automatically related
to every other place and item already on the map. A change in a feature of the landscape
occasions only a single alteration in a map, yet it changes every route statement in which that
feature occurs. That's a little bit technical, but wow, that's really wonderful. I just need
to put this here just for my notes too, because I think that's really, really talking about that
function of translation actually, that flexibility and that shifting of the kaleidoscope and that
constellation. Another one I wrote down, which I think has to do with object-dependent stuff,
which has some relation to other podcasts we've done. So the constituents of space are places.
Places and space are not, in our view, defined in terms of objects or the relations between objects.
The absolute space defined by Kahn exists in the absence of objects.
This freedom from reference to any specific object or set of objects is one of the most
important properties of maps. Okay, awesome. But the map is not necessarily located anywhere.
It's our communication with our own habits, our own body, our own everything we've ever gone through,
which has molded or sculpted our body at so many levels and so many dimensions,
which is a little bit like storage. Then this one, just because of this across time dimension,
so here's a quote. Since each representation of a stimulus is encoded in terms of its spatial
relations to other stimuli, an identical stimulus occurring in different parts of the same environment
or in totally different environments will have distinct and differentiable representations in
each case. This, of course, is the way in which a spatiotemporal framework solves by its very
structure the problem of re-identification so central to our philosophical discussion.
And then, gosh, how many did I write down? Okay, we have organized this chapter around the dichotomy
between absolute and relative space and the hope of showing how the choice of either of either of
these as prior crucially influences the ability of any theory to cope with space perception.
It seems reasonable to conclude first that there is a clear need for the concept of unitary space.
Further, and again, I think by unitary space, that's like the ongoingness, not necessarily
something with a beginning or an end. Further, it appears that this framework cannot be acquired
through experience. It must be available soon after birth for the process of localization,
identification, and the coherent organization of experience depend upon it. Okay, so that's very
Kantian, you know, that you're born with this and actually a lot of work with the Moser lab.
As Lynn mentions here, I think they're finding that you're born with this scaffolding, so to speak.
But of course, because we are bodies, that doesn't actually mean that there's nothing out there that
you're encountering. That's a very important thing not to overlook that you can have a scaffolding
because, of course, you are. You are a body. And also, you're encountering the real world,
which is going to shift and mold that. In a way, it's just kind of common sense. But a lot of these
things are hard to articulate through the data. All right, so that was the book from 1978. Isn't
that amazing? 50 years ago. And they were already conceptualized in the hippocampus as a system for
bridging spatio-temporal gaps and thinking about this spatial framework that isn't necessarily
derived from experience that we're born with, which is the body, but also the experience
molds or shapes as we communicate with ourselves and with that world. So it's translating that
world into what it's born with or vice versa. It's using the scaffold to translate the world
to itself because it's always going in a lot of different directions at once. So it's this kind
of flexible constellation or this constellatory system that's flexible, but that's providing
you know, re-identification or just identification that we can communicate with ourselves as we move
through the world and through life. And when you have something wrong with the hippocampus,
it disrupts that clearly. Now, finally, let's get to this 2021 paper, which is the one that
Lynn and I talk about here. And this is called the hippocampal formation and action at a distance.
It's from 2021. And I think it's deepening all these insights and switching them towards the
constellatory framework. And just to kind of give you a little bit of an idea of the paper,
because it has a lot to do with our conversation. I think I should read a few pieces from the paper
so you don't have to read it, but just so you understand what we're referring to and also that
you know what Lynn actually wrote back then and what he's saying now, which is a little bit
different at times. So yeah, let's see. What did I put those quotes? Okay. I'll just read them,
the ones I have here. The question of why our conceptions of space and time are intertwined
with memory in the hippocampal formation is at the forefront of much current theorizing
about this brain system. In this article, I argue that animals bridge spatial and temporal gaps
through the creation of internal models that allow them to act on the basis of things that
exist in a distant place and or existed at a different time. The hippocampal formation plays
a critical role in these processes by stitching together spatio-temporally disparate entities and
events. It does this by one, constructing cognitive maps that represent extended spatial contexts,
incorporating and linking aspects of an environment that may never have experienced,
may never have been experienced together. So you see there's this kind of stitching together of
things that seem to be happening in different areas at the same time. Two, creating neural
trajectories that link the parts of an event, whether they occur in close temporal proximity
or not, enabling the construction of event representations, even when elements of that
event were experienced at quite different times. And three, using these maps and trajectories to
simulate possible futures. As a function of these hippocampally driven processes, our subjective
sense of both space and time are interwoven constructions of the mind, much as the philosopher
Immanuel Kant postulated. Okay, I would say that's one side. And the other side is that it's also
not, they're not constructions of the mind in the sense of only being in the mind. They're also
constructions of the ongoing encounter and of the encounter itself. The encounter is also structuring.
But anyway, okay. And then Len says in the paper, mediated action at a distance is central to much
of what psychologists care about. Given that behavior is frequently motivated by things that
are at a spatial and or temporal remove from the here and now, I will argue that mediating
action at a distance is so important that a brain system centered on the hippocampal formation
is largely devoted to carrying it out. So you see this wonderful turn where he's really saying,
whatever's happening here is this process of the three that I described earlier, this way that we
have past, present, future that we can even communicate with ourselves as that, or, you know,
here, there, elsewhere, whatever you want to put on it. But also he talks about Suzanne
Corkin's book and he says, without a hippocampal formation, I will argue, organisms are largely
incapable of escaping the here and now, a state of being captured quite well in the title of
Susan Corkin's book about the famous amnesiac patient HM, present, permanent present tense.
And finally, last quote of the day. This is from Lynn in this book paper that we're talking about.
Nearly 45 years ago, we proposed the cognitive map theory of hippocampal function. Spurred by
the discovery of O'Keefe and Dostrovsky of place cells in the hippocampus, this theory spelled out
the ways in which the brain structure and its neighbors allowed organisms to move about and
explore space and to store in memory specific experiences that played out over time. Much has
been discovered about the hippocampus and its neural confederates since then, most of which
is consistent with the broad outlines of cognitive map theory. But one enigma remains. Why is it that
the same neural system was so intimately involved in aspects of space and time and memory? So you
see, why is that? It's a little bit like asking, how can the same part of the brain be so important
for both navigation and memory? But of course it is. So anyway, he talks about, you know, how
animals with hippocampal damage became sort of locked or trapped in this temporal moment
of contiguity, feeling alone. And he relates that to superstition, which is really interesting
because a lot of diseases where we become paranoid or we have certain hallucinations
that are relative to superstition can come from damage to this area. And that has to do with the
way we connect events together and this kind of pattern matching or fitting to that is the body.
That's a really interesting point that's brought up here too. And how we understand, you know,
how we distinguish and communicate with our context and with ourselves is really important.
So let's go to today's conversation. And it's like 50 years now since that 1978 book that
Nadel and John wrote. Actually, it's not 50 years since 1978, but it's 50 years since they started
writing the book and thinking about it. Because of course these things take time before they are
published. And that's when they first started this cognitive map theory and when O'Keefe
had his amazing findings with the play cells. And so now we're only beginning to really understand
this and rethink memory through a lot of people's work, like Yuri Bozaki and John Kube was on the
podcast. And a lot of these people, Brad Love, a lot of people have been working on this from
different angles, computational, but also just theoretical and always in the lab. And so we talk
about here these ideas and how the hippocampus might be accomplishing this, so to speak, and what
it all really means and how we're linking events across space and time. And yeah, the main evolution,
I guess, is when we think of what I think he's expressing here with the action at a distance is
almost like a Gibson kind of ecological immediacy that I think, and again, Len does not say this,
but that I see also it kind of helps us explain how this is actually happening as a process and
how the body itself in its encountering is doing a lot that we think or thought had to happen through
something like a representation. So it's all threaded together in our studies of it. It is
the same process and space and time aren't separate scaffolds, neither are memory and navigation.
But when we study them, we need to break them into those because it's just too overwhelming
and we're part of it, so we have to do this. And how do we realize we're doing that as we're doing
it? Anyway, the hippocampus is still this amazing translator, also just metaphorically a beautiful
thing to look at when you look at the research. And both that 1978 book and this 2021 paper
are open access and you can all read them yourself and decide what you think about them. And I would
love to encourage you to do that and also share what you think about it if you do read it and
explore these mysteries with me. And also then you can even better understand Lin and all these
conversations and what he's saying because he's really one of the architects of this whole new way
of beginning to understand the connection of the threes, beyond the threes, so to speak,
past, present, future. All right, so here's a conversation with Lin Nadal about his paper
and thanks for being here. Thanks for listening to my research ramble and let me know what you think.
All right, bye.
