Right. So, yeah, we had this discussion as we've already started, and when it comes to how you view
your position now, like having this baby and seeing it grow, and how many subscribers are
there on YouTube right now? There were a lot. There are a lot. I actually don't know, because
it just kind of went out of control, but I don't actually know how many right now, but a lot,
like 70,000 maybe. Okay. Yeah, yeah, like I was surprised. Yeah, me too. You said also,
you phrased it in an interesting way, that it went out of control. Is this how you feel about this
kind of right now? I just feel like it started as research, but that there's always been,
I mean, I write books and things, right? And so I want to communicate with people. So it's not
that I was just thinking of it, okay, it's just research. It was like, I want to share it because
I think the truth is a lot of the ideas I'm working on in the philosophy and the books are
just very hard to express, and trying to make all the different connections across them,
it's very hard to just say that to someone. So I thought, okay, I could demonstrate it through
these conversations, because if you look at all the conversations, you can find all the links.
And in the books, I'm doing that in a different way, but I wanted to try to perform it, but not
as an act, as here are all the conversations I'm having. So maybe in the future, if you read the
book, you can look back and go, oh, okay, now I see the things. And also just because this whole
idea of giving credit where credit is due, because nothing comes new, right? When you work on some
philosophy or a new thing, you probably know this too with your science. And when people invite me
on other podcasts, and I feel like I'm saying all these ideas and you can't put little references
to all of them and quote everyone. And with the podcast I just thought, or the channel I thought,
well, this is just, you can see clearly where the ideas are coming from. I'm putting them together,
but it's a wide spectrum across all these disciplines. And then it just became popular,
and I don't know. I think it might, to be very honest, and maybe I'm being a little,
I think the title is just really good. And I think people just click, that they just click,
because I mean, I want to think, oh, yeah, they really love all this philosophical,
neuroscientific kind of smorgasbord content. But part of me thinks it's just very easy
to subscribe to Love and Philosophy, because who doesn't want Love and Philosophy?
What do you think?
Yeah, I'd say I am quite sensitive to memetic potential. And this is actually the case,
I think it is a really good meme, Love and Philosophy, and really attractive
for a lot of people. And it seems it's successful.
And it's kind of across the board. I think a lot of people probably just
click without, you know, it could relate to a lot of different people. And actually it does,
because, you know, a lot of the conversations are, sometimes we're talking about design,
and sometimes we're talking about the hardest neuroscientific ideas. So for me, it all connects.
But I'm not sure if it all connects. I'm not sure if that's obvious to people who listen,
I really don't know. I get a lot of emails, and they're very supportive,
and that helps me keep going. But...
Oh, that's always nice to have, right? I think that's the reward. At this point,
the thing that's, I guess, a big part of what keeps this going. I don't know how you experience
it. But I guess you've mentioned before, in our informal discussion about this aspect of
responsibility, this being a sort of responsibility right now. And with this kind of responsibility,
I guess, the emotional cost, the time and energy cost is much greater, so it has to be balanced
out in some way. And so I think from an outsider perspective, what I see, let's say from that
perspective, is only what is being put out there. And there's all these kinds of interconnections
that keep on going. Because I've also been doing this episode with Yogi, doing these other episodes
that I've also been preparing. Which is so great. I'm so glad that that happened, by the way.
Thank you. It can seem like this peak of the iceberg, this transient moment that,
oh, this thing got out and it's artifact and you can see it publicly. But actually, there's so much
attached to that. There's so many conversations attached to the conversation that is already there
on the episode, between email threads and whatever and other kinds of calls and conferences or just
like coffee kind of conversations. Yeah. I was wondering if it'd be that kind of
experience for you too, because as you described it, this is for me too. It's not a little one
thing that's put out. I think that's the nature of what we're trying to do too, which is still,
there's only 55 episodes, but it is about conversations. And there's not a single
conversation I've had that didn't open up new threads in my life in all those different ways
you were saying. Yeah. And I guess when you have enough of them, it's always like this network
gets more and more complex and expands. Yeah. It is not very transparent to anybody.
For example, as a podcast listener, especially for people who are really into podcasts,
I'd say I get a lot of my information from podcasts as much as I do from texts.
I really work in that way. But especially with podcasts, because there's this aspect of content
creation, you get this parasocial relationship. I guess there's this dynamic between listener
and audience, but there's all this world, this whole world of interconnections that already
exist. This is not just one-on-one conversations that end there.
So, yeah, this has also transformed my perspective when it comes to stuff I've
already listened to or other kinds of podcasts, other kinds of content creation in general.
I'm like, okay, what happens with all these networks that are invisible?
Yeah. I think that's a good point and it's good to talk about that. I was just thinking even
after you had your conversation with Yogi, Yogi and I talked. That even informed that,
which we would already have done. I think a lot of podcasts right now and a lot of people in the
world feel the way you do in the sense that it is becoming the way we get a lot of our information.
It's kind of weird that it's this long form thing often. You have to invest time in it,
but you want to and there's a personal side to it. You don't necessarily see that at first,
but I don't know about you, but if you really stay with podcasts, I think you do start to
see that relationship a little bit. Maybe not in the way that you're seeing it because you're
helping me do the podcast now, but you start seeing patterns, I guess, and relationships.
It does kind of open you up to worlds.
It also depends on the kind and the form of the podcast because there's some that actually
have this aspect out there. For example, Voicecraft, which I really like,
where it is also very challenging to do three or four people in the conversation.
You have the flow between all of these and you see the same people coming back and back and back.
So what's saying this is not the person or the one that is invited, but the topic of
the conversation. It can be the same people and there's other ones that I've seen the same
person go over and over and over again and doing a new podcast. For example, one example is Jim
Ratso and I think that there's a lot of episodes with Jim Caporta. Some you can see these
relations, you can see this continuity happen. So I guess it's also a matter of time for these two
actually, for these relationships that keep on going to come to the surface.
There's something different about podcasts which I haven't figured out yet either in the way that,
often when I'm listening to podcasts, I'm walking or I'm going somewhere and it really becomes a
part of my day that I look forward to. Having those kind of, hearing the meaningful conversations
in whatever way. I think one thing I struggle with a little bit is that these worlds can also
become very insular. I think the reason I struggle with it is because one point of this whole project
is trying to open up to a lot of different so-called polarities or worlds or whatever,
whether that's in philosophical community or that's among different kind of academic disciplines
or just whatever. It's hard, I think, because I'm obviously coming from a certain orientation
and I can find it's kind of hard. But I wonder with what you listen to with your podcast,
do you find that you're listening to, do you think there's other people who are listening
to the same podcast as you? Are you more eclectic? Do you know what I mean? Is there a
kind of group that listens to these three or four or five podcasts?
That's interesting. Definitely, I definitely see it in that way because I tend to be the person
who's very cross-cultural. I'm in various different sub-cultural bubbles at the same time and I can
go between them like a sort of modern-day salmon or so. I can do that and I like that and that's
part of, I guess, my personality. And in doing that, it's very clear for me that there's specific
memeplexes or cultural matrices that are attached to certain kinds of platforms and episodes.
For example, with Yogi, I mentioned metamodernism and metamodernism has that.
There are a few platforms that are for that. And then there's the GameBee and there's
a kind of cluster around that. And then there's very domain-specific stuff. You can be
interested in quantum technologies. That area has some podcasts around it.
Even very niche stuff. So for example, I've been drawing a lot of literature from for my PhDs, this
interdisciplinary kind of intersection and field called computer-supported cooperative work.
And it's so niche and it turns out there's a podcast around it. And it's really important
because it is part of the network that has formed around this community and it supports it in a way.
So definitely I can see these bubbles. Sometimes they also become very insular,
not only in this very domain-specific ones, even when there's this openness when it comes to the
themes that are being explored and the kind of people that are being invited.
For example, the rains can be very interdisciplinary, but still it can be part of a
certain kind of community that has its name and identity. But I've also seen intersections happen,
for example, and also very explicitly to cross-pollinate between these different
communities. I've seen it a lot happen in this whole liminal web kind of territory where there
is all of these micro-nices and they weren't very connected and there has been a kind of
meta-effort on a more higher level to actually make these interconnections happen, and even
very conflicting ones sometimes. Do you have an example? Because does that make sense to me?
I have two very interesting ones. One of them was I remember how much into the whole
GameBee kind of territory you were. You mean GameBee kind of Jim Rutt kind of sense, right?
Complexity? Or is it physics? I guess it's all of that.
For the way I see it, GameBee is more like this kind of civilizational level thinking of how
really naming what the large-scale problems are in terms of this
mode of modernity that we're used to, industrialist mode of production, capitalism,
kind of very a line-go-up kind of resource exploitation and saying like,
okay, maybe we can have a different kind of lifestyle completely outside of this urbanized
bourgeois life that we're used to and think it's the end of history. This is kind of what GameBee
is. It's not just about some physics, some interesting physics ideas or whatever kind of
entrepreneurship. It's kind of like getting all of that to support this... New societies in a way.
It sounds utopian, but I mean... It's been an intellectual backbone for this kind of
transition towards that kind of possibility.
But anyway, you were saying an example. I just wanted to get that out.
For example, there was this documentary that came out, I think also, like some of Raveki
worked on that. Not documentary, actually. It was kind of this animated sort. It was like 15 or
17 minutes about GameBee, really describing what it is, which is really nice and neat.
But there was a little bit of backlash from this community called Dark Renaissance,
that's way too naive, way too kumbaya. It seems way too techno-optimistic. Yes,
solar punk ideals of like, we're going to mix this kind of ideals of rationality with supporting
ecological systems and living in this close relationship. And then that we're going to
transition to this more cooperative, decentralized modes of governance and organization.
But then where's the psychoanalysis? Where's the kind of deep understanding of pain and suffering
in that? Where are all of these elements? Where is transgressive art and punk? It's not in that.
It seems to be way too neat and cute. And I've seen this happen. And then there were some
approaches like there is a podcast from the Dark Renaissance side called Techno-Social.
There were some attempts to bring people from the modernism of people who are
in this more solar punk kind of style, then people going back and forth.
I see the connection hasn't been made totally, but there's always attempts to do that. Even if
there's opposition. And in this case, we're talking about a really radical opposition,
even politically. Yeah, and one that's quite important these days.
It's good you brought all that stuff up because it can get very kind of messy, but I like it when
people try to dialogue about it. Because I can understand, as you were talking, I'm thinking
a lot of people think love and philosophy sounds too sweet. Just even the title. But
we were also talking about that's probably why it's so widely appealing. Or why it easily trends
or whatever. But when you really look at the content, it's not so easy and it's not always
so sweet. I mean, I do talk about love, but I really mean it in an almost, you know,
sometimes it's not easy. I don't think love is an easy thing to talk about or deal with.
So it's almost uncomfortable instead of sweet. But your example I like a lot because
Game B right now and also Dark Renaissance right now, those are, if you really look at
people who are engaging with that kind of stuff, it's a lot of very important people in the world
in terms of where the world is going. And so I like to think that podcasts, because of the format,
can at least, is more likely to open up some of those bubbles or get that discussion going than
other forms of media. If you just watch a documentary on TV or something, you know,
you can't just go and start commenting about it. I don't know, it feels like podcasts or something
is different. You know, now when you want to research something, including me, and I think
you just said you did this too, I often search podcast directories for the subject because
I often find that's going to give me the best overall understanding and then I'll know where
to go deeper and find the books. Right, yeah, I also do that. And it's interesting, there's two
tangents that I find very salient here. I'm trying to see which one to follow.
I want to pick up what you said before about like this love and philosophy kind of being in this
cute and nice kind of category. But I think like lately, both with my podcast with Johannes, where
he talks about tough love. Yeah, that was a good addition. And with the Mike Brock, which I found
this an incredible episode. I really liked that. It really felt that it was being right in the
middle of the tension. And there was a lot of care in that. There was a lot of openness and
humility, but at the same time, it kept being there in this very uncanny spot. And I found this very
valuable. And it kept on being there for the whole thing. That's how it felt. And I'm like,
wow, that's a lot of time spent in this territory. But by the end of it, you feel like you actually
get a lot of value out of being that, especially after this might be so articulate. And you just
really pressuring him on certain points, how like this, if it is done in a very, in that way,
it is great. So I wouldn't say it is like very flowers.
Yeah, those are the kind of conversations that happen in a natural way. But
Mike is willing to go there, right? But that's also one of the ones that
you get pushback on too, which is okay, because usually it's because people haven't listened to
it. It's more like the keywords, which is understandable. But I think that's kind of
the whole point. And what feels like the heart of what I'm trying to do when we're having
conversations, me and whoever, is yeah, because we talked about a lot of hard things in that.
Very hard subjects, a lot of them. But I think it opened up both of us to understand each other
more. And those are hard conversations, but they feel very important in a way. And I think they
can be very stimulating. And why those happen and how those happen exactly has a lot to do with
both people being able to show themselves in an authentic way, which is not easy.
I think that's a valid proposition. Love and philosophy as a medium and as an approach,
because you can really get into these very hard issues and tensions with love. And through this
openness, it can open up these kinds of conversations that usually are being done in a mode of
frustration and anger and partisanship, which is what is usually the case and what I see and what
I'm really tired of, very honestly. I think we all are, no matter where we are right now.
But it's hard not to get stuck in that, or you feel like you end up having to defend some
side or something, or you get angry. I think that's what's in the title that I hope evolves
out. That's the way I mean it, is having critical thinking, talking about difficult things. It
doesn't always have to be so emotional. Sometimes with you and Yogi, those are not easy subjects,
but you both care about them. And so you get to a place that's very meaningful.
In discussing them, that's the love for me. It can be many different things, but I think that's
what ends up being a good conversation, is when both people actually care about whatever the
subject is. And it's not just, oh, we're going to do some press for my book, which is fine too,
but that's kind of not the thing. But you're coming into this, and so we don't have a whole
lot of time. And I want to hear, what would you like to do from your point? Because this is an
open possibility. Of course, we have this orientation, love and philosophy, but you did
something different with Yogi, which is wonderful. Do you feel like you can explore other spaces like
that, or do you see the horizon, or are you just taking one step at a time with your contribution?
My initial intention was to learn and to understand this world better, because I've always
had this, I had some small experimentations with podcasting and stuff like that, and recording
interviews. And also as part of my own research, which involves ethnographic fieldwork,
I do interviews for that. And doing that as part of my research, having to do that again and again,
I realized I really like that, actually. Especially seeing some people who would
be very afraid, who have never done this before in their lives. I was doing interviews of
agricultural researchers in Greece, locally, various different disciplines. These people
were scared in the beginning. And then after a while, after breaking that, I could hear such
insights, and them speak with so much comfort. And I'm like, okay, so
what if there's so many people who have stuff to say, and they can be incredibly valuable,
and it's good for them to be heard. So that's also another motivation. And I have my own
preferences in terms of the people who also think deserve to be heard, and it'd be interesting to
explore conversations in this kind of medium. So yeah, that's how I navigated it initially,
and to this point still. And I'm not sure. I don't have a very specific
project or endpoint to this. But because of what we discussed about this network aspect,
I always found out, I also found out that this is how you can create an intellectual network,
in fact. Yeah, that's true. Especially because my own work is very eccentric, and I tend to have
to work with this kind of collage of things. I cannot really fit into a specific discipline
or approach or intellectual community that is really localized. I want to be able to
create the network that comes out naturally from what I'm already, from all of these sources. I'm
already trying to collage, and I find this is a very good way to do it. And I didn't know that,
for example, you've initially used it as a medium of research. And it didn't seem that, like,
it makes sense, but it didn't seem that way. I was like, if you did more content creation,
if you did more content creation, but now I'm like, no, actually, it is not being recognized
as such, but it is very powerful in doing that. Yeah. Yeah, I agree with you. I understand all
that. And I think, as I was saying, I don't know if it was what we were on camera or off camera now,
but there is a kind of performative sense of it. So I'm doing it for research, but as I said,
I don't always put all the stuff online or up there that's for the research, too. I try to make
it so people can enjoy it a bit. And I guess, I mean, a lot of these I did aren't recorded.
But you know what I like, what you said, is that with your ethnographic research,
I can see that in your questions and also in your patience and the way you listen and pause. I really
like that. And for me, when you were describing that, that's a kind of love that you see that
people have so much to say and give if they're ever given the chance. And most people aren't
actually in life. Somebody doesn't just listen to all this expertise that they've gained
over whatever their careers. And that seems, there was something about, I felt like
you have these amazing conversations and don't you want other people to
gain what you gained from them? Even if it's like five people. But in terms of these threads and
the ways that these things spread, the way we've been talking, if you did a great
conversation with someone in a very niche field, but five people really needed to hear that,
that's going to multiply over lifetimes. So yeah, I mean, for me, that feels like a good kind of
basis for conversation. And then how it all evolves, you never know. I had no idea it would
go like it is. And I just talked to Timmy and Gold, right? So your lines are weaving together with
this right now and who knows what you do with it or what becomes later. But it seems, yeah,
there's a lot in common there too in what you said. It's a great research vehicle for sure.
Yeah. For me, I'm also interested in the whole trajectory. I don't think we'll have time to get
into that, but you've already said that you try to scale it down a little bit. And I'm wondering
how this feels from the inside, this understanding that this grows, how does the growth feel
experientially and how do you deal with that once, as you said, it kind of has gotten a little bit
out of control. It's a good question and it would be a long discussion if I was really going to get
psychoanalytic about it because early in my life, I was around a lot of really famous people and
I've always had this a bit of us hiding away from anything that looks like it might become
really popular. And okay, this isn't, who knows what happens with this. It's like we're
having millions and millions of viewers or whatever, but even just 70,000 seems like a
lot when you, you know, but I think that has changed because I was just taking myself too
seriously. And I think for me, it's just about having some faith and staying authentic to why
I'm doing it. I don't feel very conflicted about that as I did when I was young. I think when I
was really young, this is when I was like 18, I wasn't so solid about who I am and what I was
doing and stuff. And, you know, and now it feels like as long as I'm doing this from the place that
feels authentic, and that means those conversations too, because it's a risk, you know, you put
something out there and it's vulnerable and you know, some people are going to love it. Some
people probably disagree. Some of the topics are so tough. But for me, as long as I'm doing
it from this place of what feels to me now like my sort of my research project that is my life,
which has to do with all the stuff we're talking about, but love and philosophy sums it up pretty
well, then it's, I don't need to know exactly where it's all going to go. I just want to stay
open too. That's why when you came to me and we had this discussion about learning, I was like,
let's just, why not just do it, right? Just do it, do a show. Because to me,
who knows where this is supposed to go. I don't need to control it fully. Yeah. And as you said,
all these other threads open up and there's this whole other world around it
that you don't see or hear in the podcast. And that feels like the important part.
And trying to share that as much as possible with the audio and the video. Yeah, I actually have to
go now, but I just, I'm glad you're doing it and I'm looking forward to the next one. It's coming
soon, right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It's two days. Yeah. Of this conversation. Okay. Well, we can do
this again sometime, but it's just good to talk about it and we'll see, we'll see what happens,
what goes next. Yeah. Anything else? I have to go because I have another thing, but anything.
You told me it's like a three star. I'd say let's also schedule for another conversation
in the chat because yeah, like it was like a little bit squeezed. That's kind of fun to talk
about podcasts too. I didn't, we didn't expect that, but yeah, maybe we'll just do another one.
We'll do some more conversations and see what comes. All right. We'll have a good Sunday. Enjoy
the sun. Yeah, you too. Okay.
