If you don't have the hippocampus or if you have some trouble, you're almost in a perpetual present.
Rats with hippocampal damage were slaves to temporal contiguity alone and were in effect highly superstitious.
And if you're a superstitious animal and you happen to experience one of those times when A is followed by B,
you will conclude that A causes B or that A leads to B.
You will not take into account the fact that A happened a lot on its own and B happened a lot on its own.
Your memories, you, you are your memories.
Your memories are in constant dialogue with the real world, basically.
Well, that's a fundamental decision the brain is making, you know, all the time.
How does it do that?
And when it decides to update, what are the mechanisms that determine how it updates a memory
so that it sort of deletes the things that are no longer relevant and adds new things that are now relevant
versus when it's creating a brand new memory?
If we did think of the hippocampus as a way that we're somehow connected to communication in the way we were talking about,
then it would also make a lot of sense to those points you're making about possibly extending the circle of care.
And I think the claim we made is that we create a psychological space that fits what Kant said,
not that the physical space is actually like that.
In the real world, who knows what, you know, what's the case?
We're just talking about what the human, what the, you know, what the brain, what the human brain,
but obviously what the vertebrate brain or the mammalian brain,
and not just the mammalian brain, because insects have the same thing.
You know, what brains, what brains in mobile animals do.
Now, would you say do plants have a cognitive map?
I would have to say the answer is probably no, right?
Although I think plants demonstrate many of the same cognitive phenomena like memory, you know, and so on that we do.
But they don't have a cognitive map because they don't really need one, not for space, because they're not moving, right?
Anything that moves in the world, you know, in some intentional way needs to have something like a cognitive mapping system
in order to benefit from its prior experience.
OK, everybody. So today is another bonus episode with Lynn Nadel, psychologist and neuroscientist.
And I think this is the fourth talk. We've had more than that, but this is the fourth one that's publishing.
And as you know, I'm crazy about the hippocampus and he's a really important researcher in that field.
So we've talked quite a few times about a lot of subjects.
He's not the only hippocampal area researcher that has been on the show, but he's been on the most for sure.
And I really appreciate him. And today is a really interesting one because we talk about all kinds of subjects that have a lot of deep roots.
And I thought to begin, I would just tell you about some of those roots.
Those of you who don't want to hear all the philosophy and neuroscience and hear me talking through some things as I want to do today for my research, you can skip ahead.
But since this is basically a podcast exploring my ideas and research, which are all inspired by all of these people and a different context, it's important for me to go through all this.
But you're welcome to skip ahead to Lynn. It's about 58 minutes, our whole conversation.
So just go to wherever you are about one hour from the end and you'll hear it.
For those of you who want to hear the rest, then I want to talk about this idea of transcending the here and now or the present moment, because that's a big part of hippocampal research.
For example, when there's lesions with HM and others clive wearing important people and patients, people have given a lot to hippocampal research.
Often when they have trouble, they end up sort of living in the present moment, which might sound wonderful, but it's not because it's a very limited.
It's like everything is refreshing every 20 seconds or every two minutes even, but still it's refreshing.
And that means that you don't know where you are suddenly.
It's like waking up over and over again or just kind of being in a little bit of almost dream state where you kind of feel like you know what's happening, but you don't really.
That's how they describe it in a way. So how does this relate to space and to memory?
This really intrigues me. It's a lot of what I think about and also just those words, space and memory.
Those are words that point to something that we all recognize and have in common, but we have to detach ourselves a little bit from those words because we're already sort of nesting a lot of our ideas together when we talk about those words.
We're describing a process that's already all of that, and that's part of this holding paradox idea and why it's so hard to talk about, especially with something like memory,
because we've broken it into all kinds of different ways of thinking about it, episodic or declarative or associative or working memory, all these different ways we've thought about how to understand the way it manifests,
the way a process manifests by which we are able to understand that we're in a continuous ongoing process and we can use whatever we've been through in the past towards whatever we're going to be going through in the future.
That's really what we're talking about when we're talking about memory and where that's happening is what we're talking about with space, but it might not always be geographical.
This is what we're starting to learn. Of course, we're always in a geographical space, but there's many layered spaces as that geographical space, as our body, as our body encountering everything it encounters.
There's conceptual space, for example, when we're measuring it, it's all one ongoing thing, not even one, it's all ongoing, not one and not two.
But when we study it, we might study it like conceptual space or virtual space or these different areas where we spend a lot of our time.
If you think about it, when you go on the computer, you're sort of in virtual space.
But of course, you're also in geographical space and emotional space and all these other ways that we've divided it.
But if I want to know something about the way your body is reacting when you're clicking through websites or moving through the social apps,
those are kinds of spaces or landscapes, I call them, which have particular regularities in which your body is interacting with as you go through those spaces, just to speak of it as if it's geographical.
So these are all kind of nesting together and maybe memory is the word that we use to describe our awareness of those habits is a kind of a nice way to think of it, which I bring up here with Len a bit too.
But they're binding us, but they're not really binding us because it's all one ongoing process.
But when we study it, we can see these habits that are going through our body, but also that we really see in the hippocampus with the action that we encounter.
So when we're talking about the hippocampus, which is this two, you have two of them in both sides of your brain and the temporal lobe, the hippocampi,
they're definitely doing something very important relative to your sensory body and all that you're encountering
and how that aligns with all you've encountered before as your body.
And maybe that's not about storage in the sense that like your hippocampus is putting something in some little suitcase somewhere in your body.
Maybe it's more that it's an ongoing process of such amazing intricacy that we can't really get it yet,
but that actually your body itself is that storage, storage in quotation marks, such that somehow at many different dimensions,
your body and especially your central nervous system with the hippocampal formation playing a very big part of this is somehow reading all that sensory ongoing encounter all as one
and aligning it with all that you've become as you've been moving to where you are now.
So I know that's really hard to understand, but it's just thinking of memory not as storage, but maybe this process that's like liberating us in a way from being bound to the present
as those people who've had hippocampal damage are, you know, where they just keep refreshing.
We still have this continuity of connection, of communication with our body, which it represents or not doesn't represent, but is everything we've ever been through.
So remembering the past, imagining the future, those aren't actually maybe so different for the body or for the hippocampus.
And there's a whole lot of research on both of those relative to the hippocampus.
So that would be a whole other discussion.
But, you know, this is kind of habituation from all you've been through to all you might go through.
And of course, it's not just the hippocampus that's, you know, doing that, but it's playing a very big role, which we see in studies and which we see in the cells, the way the neurons fire, and it's pretty exciting.
So maybe memories are communication with ourselves.
That's how I like to think of it.
And we experience it as thinking or as action at times.
But it's not only like we think of our memory as what we remember, as remembering our first love, our first kiss, you know, those cookies our grandmother made us, whatever it might be.
But that and that is part of it.
But also we're remembering all the time as our body, just the way we can move around and know how to do things.
And that's also memory, but it's not that kind of memory that most of us think of all as old memory.
It's we experience that thinking, but we're also part of a nested ongoing remembering, but also an imagining, predicting, you know, all these words we use in various areas of neuroscience that I'm trying to start to understand as one ongoing process.
Or a lot of people are trying to do that, but we're trying to articulate it in a way such that it's not about finding little stored things in the body so much as understanding these habits that we create and understanding how that becomes something like thinking and the ability to communicate with your own self, to be aware of your own past habits and experiences at many different levels, many of which are these episodic memories of remembering your first love or remembering a poem, whatever.
There's semantic memory, too.
So there's a lot of different ways to think about this.
But this is why I brought up this idea of constellation cognition or this metaphor of the kaleidoscope often, because it helps us to get out of this way of thinking in contrast only and instead think of all these different layers and dimensions of an ongoing process that's going on that our awareness, our communication with ourself can switch through and understand in different ways.
Instead of either or formulations.
And that's why I always use this Gregory Bates and it takes two to know one, because even when we're communicating with ourselves, there's already a third.
There's all of it.
There's this part of us that's aware of ourselves and there's what we're aware of.
And all of that actually is coming through our conversations, our encounters with the world, with all these other beings around us.
So you can't really take all this away.
And that's why we talk about relation so much on this podcast and participatory sense making and all of these forms of bodily cognition and also why computation is so important and why we need models and ways to represent and think about all of this together.
Because, wow, what a process, you know?
But anyway, those positions allow us to have other kind of positions of three like past, present and future or body, brain and world.
So this is about action at a distance.
So let me think about this through an analogy that might seem a little bit strange, but just bear with me and I'll try and bring it around because it is part of the paper that Lynn and I talk about, which is called the hippocampal formation and action at a distance.
So I want you to imagine two particles, like whatever you want to imagine as a particle.
I don't care.
And they've interacted and they've become so connected that they're instantly in sync.
One changes and the other changes, no matter how far apart they move, because somehow they've gotten into the same rhythm.
And so it's not about how far away they are so much as that their bodies are as particles, their particle bodies are in complete synchrony with one another, even as they travel across the universe, you know, and this is called quantum entanglement.
And of course, I'm giving you a very cartoon example, but actually, we know it exists.
It's a really hard thing to say exists.
Even Einstein didn't like to admit that this exists.
He called it spooky action at a distance, which Lynn talks about as well, because it just seems so weird to suggest that information or some kind of influence could leap across what seems like space for us, this, you know, great distances, maybe even faster than anything else like light or something.
So when we measure a property like spin or one entangled particle, then we find out the other one that's entangled with it already knows that, so to speak, it's already also reacted as having known that even if it's, you know, on the moon and you're here.
So this isn't about signals traveling.
It's about they're in a similar state and that state changes.
So they both change.
It doesn't mean they necessarily are exactly the same.
It just means they are in constant communication.
That's that word again.
It's almost like a translation that's happening at some kind of speed or some kind of immediacy that we really don't understand yet, or we don't know how to put into math, at least.
And we talk about that as quantum.
And of course, that gets all kinds of wonderful connotations.
Think about quantum, but it is mysterious and memory is also mysterious.
And the way that we remember and imagine and the way this is also kind of immediate, right?
And we know that the hippocampal formation is part of this.
So it can seem kind of crazy to think about these together.
And I'm not saying the hippocampus is quantum, but who knows, but and Len's not necessarily saying that either.
But I guess what is happening is that there are these connections that we've broken down into memory, space and time.
But if we kind of unstick ourselves from those words and understand this is an ongoing process, then we might begin to understand that the hippocampus can tell us something about that.
At least our research about it is opening ways for us to think about how we're performing this action at a distance in a way, because we go to a coffee shop that we don't see.
We step out of the way of some kind of car or something.
We make a plan to go home for Christmas and without our hippocampus, we wouldn't be doing all of that.
We would be reliving the moment.
And we might still have some ability to communicate with our old habits that we made before we had whatever before we lost our hippocampus.
But we wouldn't be able to attach anything new to that.
It's almost like a gulf has opened up and we can no longer align what's going on now with everything in our body that's happened before.
So that's that permanent present tense that Len talks about and that Sukho can talks about with H.M.
And it's, you know, trying to figure this out.
How do we bridge these gaps between where we are, where we want to be, who we are right now in this moment, which, again, aren't really gaps.
But when you have something happen to your hippocampus, then you notice that it was doing something that now has left something that can't be done,
which is kind of feeling like a gap in the way that I just described.
So how does that have anything to do with entanglement?
Well, entanglement defies what we think of as space and time.
And so does memory. And that's hard to talk about in the same way.
It's hard to talk about entanglement, especially because it's so intimate to us.
And it's so rich with research and data and possibility.
And yet we can't quite get a grasp of it.
I think Len is offering in this paper a bit a way to think of memory as a kind of mediation in the way that we're assessing it.
And again, it's not actually something we can separate from all this, but it's a mediation that is that kind of bridging between past and future and present.
And I think that's a really interesting way to think about it, even if you only want to think about it like that metaphorically.
But it does challenge our intuitive sense that there's something stored and stuck somewhere that we pull out and read and all of this in the same way that two particles being on opposite sides of the Earth
that still know what one another are doing challenges us.
It seems to, and Len doesn't say this, but I think his paper shows this actually, that it seems to force us to believe that this is ongoing and inseparable.
And we can actually separate our remembering from our bodies and what our bodies are encountering, which we would call space and time.
And again, Len doesn't exactly say that, but I say that in my work and I build on Len's work because I see it in his work.
And he gets it and he hasn't said I'm wrong.
So yeah, you'll hear us talk about it.
We've been talking about it, what this is like the fourth hour and there's many more.
So it's ongoing.
But one thing Len does talk about is Kant.
I like Kant a lot.
He's a philosopher.
Some of you probably know all of his work better than I do, but some of you might not have heard of him.
He's a German philosopher, maybe one of the most important.
And you probably all know I love Hegel.
So let's connect it to Hegel because those two are very connected.
But Len really likes Immanuel Kant and let's just like step back for a minute and think about him.
So he argued that space and time are not things existing out there, like independently, or at least this is how people take it.
But remember all that stuff I just said, too, because we're changing, we're moving, we're learning, you know, since Immanuel Kant.
But it's a very important idea he had that space and time aren't out there.
They're not a priori is the kind of word this, I mean, they are a priori.
They're immediate.
They're intuitive is more the word he might use or some people might say mental.
But as I was just telling you, maybe those aren't separate.
But for Kant, when he was trying to understand them, he was separating them and he was going against what most people usually say,
which they're something out there.
And then, you know, you have the in here, which processes it or whatever.
So he was basically saying, you know, that out there is actually immediate.
I'm just talking off the top of my head, by the way.
So you want to check all of this.
But this is just as I understand it, after having just read Lin's paper again, which you can see I've marked all up.
Try to take a picture of it for you.
It's a good paper. Anyway, I try to stay focused here.
But this so this I priority intuition, these mental structures that our minds impose on,
I guess, is the way you would say it on the encountering raw experience is probably what what they say, raw experience.
So our minds impose this on raw experience before we really perceive anything.
And Nadel invokes this in his work.
So does John O'Keefe. They talk about this in that book, Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map from 1978, which we've talked about a lot here.
And you can read for free, by the way, online if you want to.
So Lin and John talk about this.
They write through the hippocampal processes that I think I wrote the quote down.
I wrote a bunch of quotes down because I wanted to.
Our subjective sense of both space and time are interwoven constructions of the mind, much as the philosopher Emmanuel Cot postulated.
He actually says that in this paper, Lin does.
The neuroscience seems to validate this insight, I guess.
If you think about grid cells in the endorhinal cortex, they kind of create or code is the word we use.
The spatial structure that's internally generated, you know, it's the brain.
It is the brain. It's the brain's neurons.
And that seems to scaffold this external environment, which you could or they they do say is kind of the what Conant was saying.
So it's almost like saying we're.
So this is almost saying that our inner world, our brain is scaffolding what we encounter out there as if it's not out there.
But what I'm saying or what I was trying to open up before and what I think Lin and John's work opens up actually, even if they don't think that, is that this is an immediacy and that these are both happening.
This is holding the paradox, right?
You have the scaffolding of the body that is the body and the brain, and you also have the encountering and those aren't choice.
You don't make a choice between those.
How does that have to do with Hegel?
Well, I wonder if you listen to my talk with Karen about Hegel.
I'll link to all the stuff.
But anyway, Hegel's got this idea, which is a way oversimplify it and say thesis, antithesis, synthesis, because that's what most people understand.
And it's it's actually pretty good just to think of it like that.
But it's actually a triadic formula, more like what I was trying to express before, that it takes two to know one and that there's actually no one or two or three.
It's not one or not two and not three either, by the way, and not four.
Sorry. Sorry, fourth way.
It's not it's not you don't number.
I mean, you number it to understand it, but there's no beginning or end.
In any case, there's something about the communication and the relation that we understand through putting numbers on it.
And three is a really important one for all of us.
How many people have used triads at everyone?
And Hegel's one very important triadic formula.
It actually comes from Fitch to.
But anyway, Hegel considers considered it his sort of schema or I consider it as sort of schema.
And it's this dynamic, imminent or to to name a word, a lot of people like these days,
space where contradictions unfold and are realized at the same time that they shift into other contradictions, all from the position of assessment, not from actually what's happening.
But we need to assess it. That's that communication, right?
That becoming aware of it and communicating, which is, of course, always part of it, which is why you can't absolutely measure it.
And that's why Hegel so hard to understand and also so wonderful because this truth or whatever this process is emerging from that structure that we understand through the triad, even though it's not inherently triadic.
So in the same way that it's not in here or out there or some kind of hole that synthesizes those,
it's through holding the understanding that it's going on in what seemed like both oppositional spaces at once that you then open this third, which is kind of the portal by which you have a epiphany or an understanding of the process itself,
which doesn't require parts and isn't a whole in the sense of it's not one, it's not two.
So, wow, that's hard to understand.
But think of it as a synthesis if it's if it's easier, it's really more like a sublation.
But anyway, all these are just words.
And what's important is that we understand that contradictions aren't the end of anything and that, in fact, realizing contradictions is itself already a movement beyond them when you notice them and let them be what they are.
So you're not eliminating poles, you're recognizing them.
And in that recognition, what I think of as the constellation opens many more levels and options and possibilities.
And that's why way making is an approach that's about that space, that holding and all this I'm talking about already.
And that's what I've been thinking about with this constellation where you have at least three, right?
But when you're assessing and you're moving beyond the opposition without trying to solve it.
So that's like noticing the polarities, beginning to imagine them not as dual poles, but as parts that they've gotten our attention for a reason.
And if we let them be, a portal will open just to get a little mystical and we'll actually see, wow, these things we thought were too open into a constellation or they change into the kaleidoscope shifts and we see many, many other different visions.
I guess I should try to put that in more scientific terms, which you can find.
Well, actually, I'm not going to, because if you really want to hear the science about how this relates to the hippocampus, you can go somewhere else because we want to get to Len's talk.
But I do argue that hippocampus enables not just this binary dialectic, but it's more like a kaleidoscope as a metaphor, as a way of understanding it.
Of course, it's much richer and more amazing than a kaleidoscope could ever be.
But the way that a kaleidoscope shifts is just that pattern might help us understand how this body and this central nervous system is encountering the world sensorally and shifting that constantly into what it already is as the body.
And this never stops.
And that is memory and that is imagination and that is being present and aware.
And when we are present and aware, we can shift what we know of the past and the future.
So that's all very interesting.
And the hippocampal formation and action at a distance, just to try to come back to Len and his paper, is making some steps towards that, towards understanding that more consolatory nature of everything.
And also the way that we can talk about it in neuroscience, because that's important too.
You probably know I've written about representations and the way we talk about it in our language is often keeping us stuck in that outside inside, looking for things inside that somehow correspond to things outside view.
So what I see in this paper is that, which you can watch a video, by the way, that Len did, where he talks a lot about the entanglement and stuff, which I will also link to.
But let me just try and connect it back to that quantum entanglement now too.
So that shows us that the spatial separation isn't some kind of absolute thing.
You know, if two particles on other sides of the world can be communicating without what we understand as traveling through space and time in a logical way, then there's some kind of other thing going on.
So it's not absolute spatial separation, at least in the way we know it.
And, you know, particles can be connected at fundamental levels across distances.
And then we have Kant who argued that the experience of space and time are like mental constructions, or at least that's where the reality is of it, which I don't agree with.
But I love Kant, and I think he was an important step towards this realization.
So anyway, but it's not direct perceptions of reality as it is in itself, he would say.
It's this mental, ongoing, categorical imperative.
And the hippocampus, as Nadel and O'Keefe demonstrate, is like the biological mechanism that stitches together, he says.
He uses the stitches together, the spatiotemporally disparate experiences, right?
Because if it's all happening inside, then we have to stitch together all these different experiences that we're having and create this subjective sense of ongoing, coherent space and time, the out there.
And this would be the mediation for the action at a distance.
It's bridging the gaps.
But, you know, if we think of Hegel again, he showed those contradictions aren't actual contradictions, they're ways of understanding an ongoing process.
So what happens then?
What happens if we let all of that be true and Kant and all of that they've said, and we're still moving forward and knowing, right?
We're still learning more.
So we don't need to say all of that is wrong.
But maybe there's another way of seeing it.
Maybe what we thought of as either or is going to open into a constellation now.
But all of us, including Len and I, are grappling with basically this mystery, which is as mysterious as what Einstein called spooky action at a different distance as entanglement.
Because it's like, how are we so connected to what is so separate from us or what we think of as so separate from us?
And how are space and time and memory all here as us, part of us, and not out there or out there or in here?
All of this, this kind of amazing ability we have to communicate with ourselves and one another and actually know this process and in knowing it, change it.
So let's now think about that 1978 book, which I've talked about so much here called the hippocampus as a cognitive map.
And I wrote down some quotes for it on it, from it, because Len talks about it here and I wanted to have some quotes from it.
And hippocampus is a cognitive map.
They were really already thinking about these issues then in 1978.
So even before then, because that's when it was published.
So this is like 50 years, 50 years on, you know, pretty cool.
OK, so here's what they say at the very beginning of the book, because you'll hear Len talk about how they said this on page one.
And he's right. So here it is.
This book is concerned with three topics which at first glance do not appear to be related.
One, a part of the brain known as the hippocampus.
Two, the psychological representation of space.
Three, context dependent memory.
And in this book, we shall argue that the hippocampus is the core of a neural memory system providing an objective spatial framework within which the items and events of an organism's experience are located and interrelated.
So they were already thinking about memory as a system for a system for connecting all these different experiences or maybe just the system is what we study as this connective, communicative process.
And there's quite a lot of insights in this book that resonate with all that I'm always talking about here, but also with what Len and I talk about here.
And I wrote some notes, so I'm just going to read those.
So when I've been talking about the gaps in action at a distance, well, here's a quote that's interesting in that regard.
The play system permits an animal to locate itself in a familiar environment without reference to any specific sensory input, to go from one place to another independent of particular inputs or outputs,
which are cues and responses, and to think together conceptually parts of an environment, to link together conceptually parts of an environment which have never been experienced at the same time.
So that's action at a distance.
And then this whole stitching mechanism, which I don't think the hippocampus is doing any stitching, I think it's more like a translator.
I think of this is better to think of it as communication.
And the hippocampus is like the translator of this ongoing sensory encounter with all that the body is from past sensory encounters.
But anyway, here's the quote.
We shall call the system which generates this absolute space a cognitive map and will identify it with the hippocampus.
This system underlies the notion of absolute unitary space, which is non-centered stationary framework, which is a non-centered stationary framework through which the organism and its egocentric spaces move.
OK, well, that's holding some paradox, but they're trying to relate it to this inside outside, but I think they're already starting to hold it in the way that I suggest.
Here's another quote from about the Kantian absolute space from that book.
In contrast to this view, we think that the concept of absolute space is primary and that its elaboration does not depend upon prior notions of relative space.
There exists at least one neural system which provides the basis for an integrated model of the environment.
This system underlies the notion of absolute unitary space.
And you can see what I'm doing.
I think they were already on to a lot of important ideas here that have been really hard for us to articulate, but they have a lot to do with what I think of as constellation cognition or constellation thinking or this hippocampus as a translator.
So anyway, and when I say hippocampus, I really mean hippocampus in all its confederates, as Len puts it in the article, hippocampus, hippocampal formation, entorhinal cortex, all of that.
Anyway, here's a quote.
Each new item which is located on a map is automatically related to every other place and item already on the map.
A change in a feature of the landscape occasions only a single alteration in a map, yet it changes every route statement in which that feature occurs.
That's a little bit technical, but wow, that's really wonderful.
I just need to put this here just for my notes, too, because I think that's really, really talking about that function of translation, actually.
That flexibility and that shifting of the kaleidoscope and that constellation.
Another one I wrote down, which I think has to do with object dependent stuff, which has some relation to other podcasts we've done.
So the constituents of space are places.
Places and space are not, in our view, defined in terms of objects or the relations between objects.
The absolute space defined by Kahn exists in the absence of objects.
This freedom from reference to any specific object or set of objects is one of the most important properties of maps.
Okay, awesome.
But the map is not necessarily located anywhere.
It's our communication with our own habits, our own body, our own everything we've ever gone through,
which has molded or sculpted our body at so many levels and so many dimensions, which is a little bit like storage.
Then this one, just because of this across time dimension.
So here's a quote.
This, of course, is the way in which a spatio-temporal framework solves, by its very structure, the problem of re-identification so central to our philosophical discussion.
And then, gosh, how many did I write down?
Okay.
We have organized this chapter around the dichotomy between absolute and relative space in the hope of showing how the choice of either of these as prior crucially influences the ability of any theory to cope with space perception.
It seems reasonable to conclude first that there is a clear need for the concept of unitary space.
Further, and again, I think by unitary space, that's like the ongoingness, not necessarily something with a beginning or an end.
Further, it appears that this framework cannot be acquired through experience.
It must be available soon after birth for the process of localization, identification, and the coherent organization of experience depend upon it.
Okay.
So that's very Kantian, that you're born with this.
And actually a lot of work with the Moser Lab, as Lynn mentions here, I think they're finding that you're born with this scaffolding, so to speak.
But of course, because we are bodies, that doesn't actually mean that there's nothing out there that you're encountering.
I think that's a very important thing not to overlook, that you can have a scaffolding because of course you are, you are a body.
And also you're encountering the real world, which is going to shift and mold that.
In a way, it's just kind of common sense.
But a lot of these things are hard to articulate through the data.
So, all right.
So that was, you know, the book from 1978.
Isn't that amazing?
Fifty years ago.
And they were already conceptualized in the hippocampus as a system for bridging spatio-temporal gaps.
And thinking about this spatial framework that isn't necessarily derived from experience that we're born with, which is the body,
but also that experience molds or shapes as we communicate with ourselves and with that world.
So it's translating that world into what it's born with or vice versa, right?
It's using the scaffold to translate the world to itself because it's always going in a lot of different directions at once.
So it's this kind of flexible constellation or this constellatory system that's flexible,
but that's providing, you know, re-identification or just identification that we can communicate with ourselves through,
as we move through the world and through life.
And when you have something wrong with the hippocampus, it disrupts that clearly.
Now, finally, let's get to this 2021 paper, which is the one that Lynn and I talk about here.
And this is called the hippocampal formation and action at a distance.
It's from 2021.
And I think it's deepening all these insights and switching them towards the constellatory framework.
And just to kind of give you a little bit of an idea of the paper, because it has a lot to do with our conversation.
I think I should read a few pieces from the paper so you don't have to read it, but just so you understand what we're referring to.
And also that you know what Lynn actually wrote back then and what he's saying now, which is a little bit different at times.
So, yeah, let's see, what did I put those quotes?
OK, I'll just read them, the ones I have here.
...of things that exist in a distant place and or existed at a different time.
The hippocampal formation plays a critical role in these processes by stitching together spatio-temporarily disparate entities and events.
It does this by, one, constructing cognitive maps that represent extended spatial contexts,
incorporating and linking aspects of an environment that may never have experienced...
may never have been experienced together.
So you see there's this kind of stitching together of things that seem
to be happening in different areas at the same time.
Two, creating neural trajectories that link the parts of an event, whether they
occur in close temporal proximity or not, enabling the construction of event
representations, even when elements of that event were experienced at
different, quite different times.
And three, using these maps and trajectories to simulate possible
futures as a function of these hippocampally driven processes, our
subjective sense of both space and time are interwoven constructions of the
mind, much as the philosopher Immanuel Kant postulated.
Okay.
I would say that's one side.
And the other side is that it's also not, they're not constructions of the
mind in the sense of only being in the mind.
They're also constructions of the ongoing encounter and of the encounter itself.
The encounter is also structuring, but anyway, um, okay.
And then Len says in the paper, mediated action at a distance is central to
much of what psychologists care about, given that behavior is frequently
motivated by things that are at a spatial and or temporal remove from the here and now.
I will argue that mediating action at a distance is so important that a brain
system centered on the hippocampal formation is largely devoted to carrying it out.
So you see this wonderful turn where he's really saying, whatever's happening
here is this process of the three that I described earlier, this way that we have
past, present, future, that we can even communicate with ourselves as that, or,
you know, here, there, elsewhere, whatever you want to want to put on it.
But also he talks about Suzanne Corkin's book and he says, without a hippocampal
formation, I will argue organisms are largely incapable of escaping the here
and now, the state of being captured quite well in the title of Susan Corkin's
book about the famous amnesiac patient, HM present permanent present tense.
And finally, last quote of the day.
This is from Lynn in this book paper that we're talking about.
Nearly 45 years ago, we proposed the cognitive map theory of hippocampal
function, spurred by the discovery of O'Keeffe and Dostrovsky of place
cells in the hippocampus.
This theory spelled out the ways in which the brain structure and its
neighbors allowed organisms to move about and explore space and to store in
memory specific experiences that played out over time.
Much has been discovered about the hippocampus and its neural
confederates since then, most of which is consistent with the broad outlines
of cognitive map theory, but one enigma remains, why is it that the same neural
system was so intimately involved in aspects of space and time and memory?
So you see, why is that?
It's a little bit like asking how can the same part of the brain be so
important for both navigation and memory, but of course it is.
So anyway, he talks about, you know, how animals with hippocampal damage became
sort of locked or trapped in this temporal moment of contiguity, filling
alone, and he relates that to superstition, which is really interesting
because a lot of diseases where we become paranoid or we have certain
hallucinations that are relative to superstition do affect, it can come
from damage to this area and that has to do with the way we connect events
together and this kind of pattern matching or fitting to that is the body.
That's a really interesting point that's brought up here too, and how we
understand, you know, how we distinguish and communicate with our context and
with ourselves is really important.
So let's go to today's conversation.
And it's like 50 years now since that 1978 book that Nadel and John wrote.
Actually, it's not 50 years since 1978, but it's 50 years since they started
writing the book and thinking about it.
Cause of course these things take time before they are published.
And it's, uh, that's when they first started this cognitive map theory and
when O'Keefe had his amazing findings with the play cells, and so now we're
only beginning to really understand this and rethink memory through a lot of
people's work, like Yuri Bozaki and John Kubi was on the podcast and a lot of
these people, Brad Love, a lot of people have been working on this from different
angles, computational, but also just theoretical and always in the lab.
And so we, we talk about here how this, what, what this, these ideas and how
the hippocampus might be accomplishing this, so to speak, and what it all really
means and how we're linking events across space and time and yeah, the main
evolution, I guess, is when we think of what, what I think he's expressing here
with the action as a distance is almost like a Gibson kind of ecological
immediacy that I think, and again, Lynn does not say this, but that I see also
it kind of helps us explain how this is actually happening as a process and how
the body itself in its encountering is doing a lot that we think or thought had
to happen through something like a representation.
So, you know, it's all threaded together in our studies of it.
It is the same process and space and time aren't separate scaffolds.
Neither are memory and navigation.
But when we study them, we need to break them into those because it's just too
overwhelming and we're part of it.
So we have to do this and how do we realize we're doing that as we're doing it?
Anyway, the hippocampus is still this amazing translator, also just metaphorically
a beautiful thing to look at when you look at the research and both that 1978
book and this 2021 paper are open access and you can all read them yourself and
decide what you think about them.
And I would love to encourage you to do that and also share what you think about
it if you do read it and explore these mysteries with me.
And also then you can even better understand Lin and all these conversations
and what he's saying, because he's really one of the architects of this whole new
way of beginning to understand the connection of the threes beyond the threes,
so to speak, past, present, future.
All right.
So here's a conversation with Lin Nadal about his paper and thanks for being here.
Thanks for listening to my research ramble and let me know what you think.
All right.
Bye.
So that one is fine.
I don't know what I don't have any particular particular agenda.
Okay.
Well, well, I thought so we're going to talk about your paper.
I have it printed out because well, just because I love it.
But so I can actually read the title in the right way, the hippocampal
formation and action at a distance.
I mean, that's pretty exciting title.
Mm hmm.
I should send you the talk that I gave, you know, with that title, which was a,
I should have thought to do this before.
Well, once you said you wanted to concentrate on that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a kind of a general approach to the issue of, of how important it is to link
things across time and space in a way that allows for causality, you might say,
you know, between things that are not directly in the, in the, in the same
space or in the same time, you know, so it's action at a distance, you know,
how do you get action at a distance?
I mean, the physicists talk about that as something that can't happen, you know,
you know, so to speak, or shouldn't happen.
Although the quantum entanglement is a, I mean, the talk goes into a little bit
of that, it starts out with, with quantum entanglement.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
You talk about spooky distance, Einstein in the paper too.
I play that out a bit in the talk and then I move on to, you know, that, you
know, we humans, animals, you know, are constantly doing things, you know, that
involve action at a distance, you know, we, we, we behave based on things that
happened hours ago or weeks ago or months ago, and, and we, and we, and we
engage in spatial behavior based on things we don't see, we navigate to
goals that we don't actually see at the moment.
So somehow we have to bridge those things, you know, we have to bridge them
in order to be able to behave appropriately in space and time, but then
it gets more interesting because then, you know, then the question of how
does learning occur, I mean, how do you connect up things in learning when, when
there's a gap between the cause and the consequence or something like that?
So, you know, you need a system that actually bridges those temporal gaps
somehow, and, and the claim is that the hippocampus is sort of integral to that
capacity, and in fact, there's, you know, I think it's laid out in the paper, you
know, there's pretty good evidence that without a hippocampus, animals are, are
not very good at bridging those temporal gaps, that the kinds of tasks that
require them to do it and the sort of knowledge that you build up about the
world that, you know, is somehow a distillation of things that are
separated in time and space, you know, that without a hippocampus, you're pretty
bad at those kind of things, if not hopeless.
So, you know, that was the, that was, that's the backstory, you know, to the
general idea that, you know, that, that amongst other things, you know, and
partly as a function of what it actually does by helping form memories, which is
one way to bridge time and forming cognitive maps, which is a way of
bridging space, that it, you know, the hippocampus permits the system, you know,
permits the organism to act at a spatial and temporal distance, so to speak, from,
from things that it either wants to get to or wants to, you know, make use of
from the, from the past.
That's the, that's the rough claim.
And it's a, you know, it's a kind of an overarching story about, about what the
hippocampus does and the actual things it does, forming maps, building, building
representations, you know, over multiple experiences in the same environment.
Somehow you have to connect those things up.
I mean, when you go back into an environment you've been in before, that
you only partially explored, you know, you want to add the new information you're
gaining from the second time you've gone back to that environment, to the one that
you, you know, made last week or a month ago or whatever.
Well, how do you do that?
I mean, you know, it's easy to say the words, but how does the brain actually do that?
You know, in order to do that, it's got to access the appropriate old memory.
It's got to reactivate it in some way.
It's got to have a mechanism for adding new information to this old memory.
I mean, all of that is, you know, you know, those other actual steps that the
system has to take in order to accomplish this ability to aggregate information over
multiple experiences, you know, that it judges to be relevant to each other, even
though they're separated by time.
So again, the hippocampus, the claim is that the hippocampus allows you to do that.
That actually is part of the, part of the critical machinery that allows you to
stitch together those sort of temporally separate occasions that are linked by the
fact that they occur in the same context or something like that.
Yeah.
That's, that's the idea.
It's interesting to think of action at a distance, because I even think that in
physics, it's, it's a discussed through motion, you know, like motion is affected
without the two being in contact.
So that's interesting with the hippocampus and, but I think before, you
can correct me if I'm wrong, I have the paper, I can look it up, but someone had
talked about this, was it not Davenport?
I talked about action at a distance in relation to the hippocampus and you're
bringing in the spatial aspect here too, and time.
Yeah, but again, but memory is the linking device.
I can't remember which paper that was.
A number of people sort of raised this idea, but they never really took it all
that seriously as a framework that might organize a lot of what we, what we think
about when we think about the hippocampus.
To me, this goes to, you know, hippocampus as a cognitive map, which
you and I talked about a lot and you're building out of those ideas a lot.
There's a lot about the cognitive map itself being this kind of structure that
you're thinking of as doing what you just explained and there's some part in the
paper where you kind of say, yeah, we came up with all this, what, 45 years ago?
Yeah, it's more like 50 at this point.
Now, yeah, because it's paper.
The idea started in there in the kind of, or 72, 71, 72.
Yeah, it's over 50 years now.
Wow.
That's like hard to get my head around.
It's amazing how long it takes for, for people to start to
understand the ideas, you know, too.
Well, I, you know, there was always some understanding of it.
And then, you know, once the grid cells came along, it really, it really became
much more popular.
That's what I mean.
It's been this whole process though, if you really think about it.
It seems like, oh yeah, that, that, that's how it went 50 years.
It's like, oh yeah, these things take time.
And that's just a blip to 50 years.
I mean, but anyway, this is kind of part of what we're talking about, right?
Where we are now, this looks different.
But the point is in the paper, you say, yeah, we, we came up with these kind of
ideas about the cognitive map and the hippocampus as a cognitive map.
And over time, those have kind of played out.
You and I have talked about that and others on come on the research
podcast have talked about that as well.
Over time and hippocampal research, a lot of these things have actually kind of
structured even a whole area of hippocampus research in a way.
You know, a lot of it, but here's the kind of thing that's been happening that I
feel like this paper is addressing.
And I'd like to see where you're at now.
Cause you wrote this like five years ago.
You say at some point, you know, okay, all of that is happening with cognitive
map theory and so on.
And we're making progress, but we still don't really know how to understand
like the same system, the hippocampus, the hippocampus formation, whatever
we want to call it, this area of the brain is doing all of this stuff with
space and time and also with memory.
How do we understand all of that together?
Because what's this neural system that's so intimately involved with the
space and time and navigation.
Do you see that as still such a question?
No, because actually the two are totally intertwined and
dependent on one another.
Basically.
I mean, for a long time, people were saying, you know, why is this spatial
navigation system happening in the same zone as memory, so to speak?
But no, I mean, I think this proposal is a proposal that, you know, it does
space and time as a memory function, you know, and that allows one to, to
bridge gaps in space and time.
I mean, let's assume that there was no memory, right?
And then the system was still involved in space and time and would allow you
to navigate, you know, just in your immediate environment, basically, and
to put string together temporal sequences of movements in an immediate
environment, but you'd never remember it and you'd never, you know, you, you
wouldn't have any memory from prior experiences, basically.
It's just a system, an online system for navigating in the immediate
environment, absent.
Okay.
I mean, it might be useful.
You could, you could, you might be able to claim there are animals where, you
know, more primitive animals where that's what the hippocampus does.
It just helps the animal navigate immediately in space and time based on
those things that it sees right in front of it, you know, maybe early, you
know, way hundreds of millions of years ago.
You know, that's what, you know, what was the case, but in order to make
full use of that system and to be able to build on, you know, on, on what
experiences you have, then it necessarily becomes a memory system.
You want to, you need to be able to remember, you know, where things are in
space, you need to be able to remember the sequence of things that you
experienced in space.
So I don't see any separation between them as if they're two different
functions, like here's color vision and here's, you know, black and white
vision, and somehow they act together, you know, but they could be separate
or something like that, or here's, here's vision, here's sound, and they're
two completely separate things, but you can put them together.
Sometimes the sort of space notion, the space and time notions in Hippocampus
kind of depend upon the idea that they are memory systems for space and time.
They're not just space time systems.
They're memory systems for space and time.
And those things just naturally have to go together.
And when you put them together, then you come up with this idea, you know, that
that when they run together, then the system will allow the organism to act on
the basis of things that are distant in space and time.
Just like, just like that.
I mean, I agree, but I think, you know, even just four or five years ago, that
would have sounded a bit strange because people were sort of studying memory and
people were sort of studying the so-called GPS of the brain.
We thought, oh, those, you know, how do we put those together?
It seemed like a big puzzle.
I was, you know, I was saying some of the same things for quite a while, you
know, that, you know, this is a bit of a puzzle.
The field is spending time trying to figure out why a system that's a memory
system is also a cognitive map space time system.
But now I think it's a, it's a, it's necessary, I think, for it to be of any
use, it really has to be a memory system.
Can't just be an online, you know, robot that just basically deals with the
immediate environment.
It's got to actually create a model of the environment, you know, in space and
time. And once you do that, then, you know, then that, then that kind of bifurcation
and, you know, the problem dissolves.
It's no longer a question of how can the same system be doing these two
different things?
They're not two different things.
They're actually inextricably intertwined.
So when we're looking, when we're trying to look at something that we call
memory, it depends on the memory, but I mean, yeah, that's the point.
I mean, yes, of course there are kinds of memories that have nothing to do with
space and time.
So it's not that this is a system that encapsulates all memory.
My memory, you know, for how, how an apple tastes has nothing to do with
space and time.
So I've got memories for the quality of things in the world, you know, that are
totally independent of space and time.
But if you looked at that from another angle, I think that's what I'm trying to
say.
You could say, oh, I have this memory of the apple because my grandmother always
gave me apples and I miss my grandmother.
So that's kind of what we're looking for, that what we're going to, how we're
going to use these.
That may be why, but I think the problem here is that the word memory is, you
know, is ill-defined in that equation.
You know, here's this cognitive map of space, let's say, and then here's this
memory function, you know, and if you think of this memory function as
including all kinds of memory, like, you know, memory for the taste of an apple
and so on.
Now you may have acquired that memory from a particular episode in space and
time, but you may probably don't even remember that, you know, that's, that's
not a critical part of them, of your memory for how an apple tastes.
The problem is people wouldn't use the word memory to describe that.
You would say, oh, I have a memory for how an apple tastes.
They would say, oh, I have knowledge about how apple tastes.
Right.
But what, you know, what is knowledge?
But simply the, the accumulation of, you know, the information we acquired into
memory, you know, so the word memory is kind of poorly articulated in these
debates.
I mean, the idea here is that a certain kind of memory, namely about the
distribution of things in space and time, is involved with the hippocampus.
Other kinds of memory, which may be parasitic on this kind, but which
nevertheless exist on their own, those other kinds of memory are, don't require
the hippocampus and don't have anything to do with space and time kind of
literally, although they may, they obviously were acquired at some point in
space and time, but that, that's not an important part of that memory.
It's now just some general knowledge you have about the properties of things in
the world, the, the, the, the particular property that the hippocampus is
concerned with in terms of memory is the distribution of things in space and
time, you know, in the past, this is easy.
The experiences I've had about the distribution of things in space and time
in the past, and you build up a cognitive map based on that.
So they were just completely hand in glove.
It's really a hand in glove kind of thing.
You can't, you can't have a cognitive map without it being a memory system
because you can't acquire a cognitive map all at once, right?
It necessarily involves putting things together over time.
And sometimes the time is continuous.
So you could make the argument in some sense that it's a single thing, but
quite frequently it's discontinuous.
As I said, you know, the example I gave before you go into an environment,
you sample some of the stuff there, you go away two weeks later, you come back
to the same museum and you, you kind of investigate a different part of that
museum and you add that to your knowledge.
And so, I mean, so very, most of the time we're building up these, these, not
these knowledge bases about the distribution of things in space and time,
you know, over, over, you know, in disconnected episodes, so to speak.
So it's really a problem for the brain to put all that together.
So that becomes part of what the hippocampus is doing, allowing the brain
to put things together that belong together because they happened in similar
spaces, but at quite different times.
So we go, if we go to the museum and we're maybe we're, we could imagine
that we're there for the first time and explore it and we're sort of creating
interactions with that space that when we come back to that space again, we're
going to interact more easily.
I'll know how to go to certain.
And you do that by activating your memory for that, for your prior
experience there, right?
Or that's the same thing, isn't it?
Like I'm not activating a memory necessarily and finding my way.
I'm sort of at the same time, both of those are happening, I think.
Or do you think I stand and I say, okay, now I will activate?
No, I don't think, yeah, no, no, you're on the right track.
I mean, this doesn't happen consciously, but it is the case, you know, when you
walk inside, you know, say the Rijksmuseum, which, you know, I've been two for three
or three or four times, you know, and don't have a very good mental map of.
But, you know, I can, I know exactly where it is in Amsterdam.
I know what the entrance to it looks like.
I mean, I could easily identify it from pictures.
I would, I know if I'm walking in that general part of Amsterdam, I know exactly
where it is and, you know, I know where the Van Gogh Museum is relative to it.
Hopefully it will survive.
I know it's having some financial problems.
So, so when I, you know, when I walk into the museum, I mean, I don't consciously
activate, you know, but, but the cues that I get that are familiar to me will
activate, you know, whatever information, whatever knowledge I have about the
layout of that museum is going to get activated just by some partial cues, you
know, then, then the hippocampus.
And that's the same process.
That's not like two different processes that we call memory and we call navigation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
But they're studied like that.
So it can be very confusing, I think.
Unfortunately, they got separated, you know, in the way people were studying them.
Or maybe just so that we could understand them more.
Because I think the confusing thing is, and maybe you have some insight here, is
once we go home and it's funny you were talking about the Rijksmuseum because
that's what I was imagining.
So that's very weird, like at a distance there, I was literally imagining going in
there because I was there not too long ago, but anyway, so like I go home, right?
Now I'm home.
I'm not anywhere near that museum and I can just sit here and remember.
Absolutely.
I think this is why this is becoming, at least in neuroscience, not so hard to
understand that you can have something like a kind of space that you're
navigating as you're remembering, but I think that's still a very hard idea.
So I wonder how you think of that, right?
So we were at the museum and we created these kinds of cognitive maps,
as you would call them.
But then when I come home and remember that, what's going on there, would you say?
Is it kind of just the same sort of process as when I was there?
Certainly using the same system.
I mean, it's not exactly the same as when you were there because you don't have
the supporting, you know, stimulus, sort of external stimulus, but yeah, it's
part of the same, it's part and parcel of exactly the same system.
I mean, then you replay, essentially you're replaying in your head or
reactivating in your head, you know, that knowledge structure, that cognitive map
that you built up, you know, when you were visiting, and that then allows you
to imagine walking through the museum to, you know, if you know the museum really
well, you know, how you get to the particular paintings you really want to
see, you know, all the kind of stuff you do when you go into a museum.
You know, I think, you know, if you go back to the 78 book, we made it
absolutely clear from the very beginning that what we were talking about was a
memory system.
We did not separate them.
This is the spatial navigation system.
And then there's this function of memory, which somehow, you know, connects to it
at some point.
No, we were very clear right there in the first page of the book, we are talking
about a memory system, right, a particular kind of memory system, you know, that
deals with space and time.
So it's true that that didn't settle the debate that didn't convince people that
these things should be thought of in the same breath, so to speak.
But, you know, our commitment to that idea that those things were inextricably
intertwined was there from the very beginning.
I mean, when I wrote later that people are struggling with how to fit them
together, that was other people that I was writing about.
Other people are, you know, spending a lot of time trying to understand how these
things go together.
For us, it was necessarily the case that they went together, that a cognitive map
is a memory device.
And you also talk about Kant a lot in that book and also in this paper.
So and we talked a little bit about how memory is kind of an impossible word to
define, and we don't really need to define it.
If anything, what this would be another conversation.
But a lot of people have been trying to understand that we've come up with the
word memory to discuss something that, you know, isn't necessarily one thing.
To look for a memory is kind of a bit of a strange stance to take, right?
So we're not, you know, that let's leave that for just a minute, because space and
time to go to Kant and to go to your, you know, 50 years of work, those are also
kind of tricky words.
I mean, we can go back to Leibniz and Newton, which, you know, Kant talks
about, you know, where you have absolute space or you have something like where
space isn't about the material relations.
And there's been constant arguments, not too separate from the ones we've had
about memory and navigation.
I mean, I haven't, you know, occasionally I dabble in the philosophical literature
again, to see what people are saying.
You seem to like Kant.
Is he your favorite?
Because he comes up.
Oh, totally.
I mean, I think Kant got most things right.
I mean, I think by and large, you know, he's the philosopher, you know, who got
most things right.
But, you know, and I go back occasionally to read, people are still arguing about,
you know, absolute space versus relative space.
And, you know, it's kind of an interesting philosophical debate, but, but I don't, I
can't say I have any new insights or thoughts about it, you know, particularly.
I think the claim we made is that we create a psychological space that fits what
Kant said, not that the physical space is actually like that in the, in the real
world of who knows what, you know, what's the case.
We're just talking about what the human, what the, you know, what the brain, what
the human brain, but obviously what the, what the vertebrate brain or the mammalian
brain, and not just the mammalian brain, because insects have the same thing, you
know, what brains, what brains in mobile animals do.
Now, would you say, do plants have a cognitive map?
I would have to say the answer is probably no, right?
Although I think plants demonstrate many of the same cognitive phenomena like
memory, you know, and so on that we do, but they don't have a cognitive map because
they don't really need one, not for space, because they're not moving, right?
Anything that moves in the world, you know, in some intentional way needs to have
something like a cognitive mapping system in order to benefit from its prior
experience.
So that's a big statement, but that's, you know, that's just, can't be any other
way as far as I'm concerned, has to be like that.
And so the philosophers are talking about, you know, partly about, you know,
and Newton and Leibniz were talking partly about what the real world was like.
But what John and I were talking about is what is the, what is the psychological
world that we create inside our heads?
Which of course has to be consistent with what the real world is like, but it
doesn't have to be exactly like it, you know, down to the microscopic level.
And we know it's not basically you get down to the microscopic level and the
table that we think is a nice flat surface is actually rather bumpy down at
the, you know, down at the atom, the atomic level, but we don't sense any of
that.
And that doesn't matter, you know, and the world may actually not conform, you
know, at various scales to Euclidean geometry, like Kant would have argued and
like we argued, but that's not our problem.
Our problem is to have a system that actually allows us to effectively move
around and adaptively in the world that we live in and sort of the Kantian and
our, you know, the sort of Euclidean space of Euclidean absolute space does
that job perfectly well.
And, you know, from an evolutionary point of view, it's a much easier solution
than kind of building the brain on, you know, kind of non Euclidean Riemannian
geometry or some weird thing like that.
Yeah, well, a lot of those things are ways we've tried to put some kind of
model or structure into the world so that we can all talk about these things.
I mean, so, you know, thinking of trying to find that specific kind of thing like
Euclidean geometry or something in anything is a bit, you know, of course,
there's arguments about all of this and even about what continent by space and
time, right, because, you know, he talks about it as a form of intuition and it's
not objective reality, but then he actually opens kind of by presenting
Leibniz and Newton's views.
And I imagine it this way.
You can tell me how you feel.
But, and I even imagine, as you know, your work a bit like this, but that
instead of having to choose these options, we're either objectively, you know,
everything's absolutely outside or everything's absolutely inside, that
there's some interactional thing going on that we're all trying to figure out.
And totally you got to hold that and you can't put it into words precisely.
Yeah, actually, we're just finishing up a paper, me and Mary and two other
colleagues are just finishing up a paper exactly on this question.
So, you know, the debate between inside out and outside in, you know, the
Busaki kind of argument.
And this is a paper about the generation of meaning, you know, and where meaning
comes from, so to speak, and how the brain basically represents meanings.
So we just paper is going to be sent off a publication and a special issue of
philosophical transactions, we think, you know, within the next few days.
So we're very much thinking about exactly how do those things come together?
Because even though the even though the brain doesn't have to construct
something that is sort of microscopically faithful to the outside world, it has,
in fact, it has nonetheless, in fact, evolved in that world, you know, so it
has to capture, you know, the the the aspects of that world that are important
to a species of a certain size, you know, that that that has the capacity to move
around, you know, so so it's going to be an approximation to that world, but an
approximation that works, basically, that has worked evolutionarily, that means
animals who have it survived and reproduce, that animals that don't have
it didn't survive and didn't reproduce.
So so how does that external world kind of basically anchor, you know, this
internal system?
So the evidence is that this internal system is hardwired.
I mean, the latest evidence from the from the Moser lab, which, of course, I'm here
and hearing about, you know, in terms of the grid cell coordinates system that the
grid cells provide to the whole network, that's there before rats even open up
their eyes and start to move around in the world that shows up on day 10, post
independent of anything the rat has done.
It hasn't even again hasn't opened its eyes.
It's not moving around that system.
The core features of that system, the nature of the way it works, is there by
day 10, independent of anything else.
So that so that's something that presumably evolution has built, is built
in this coordinate structure that provides the scaffold, you know, that
organisms can use to attach actual experienced information to.
So I have this kind of scaffold and then I experience in the world that the table
is over here, the thing is over there, and it just gloms onto this coordinate
system, you know, this hardwired system that provides the framework for
thinking, you know, effectively about space and time.
And according to us, it's a Euclidean framework, again, because it works, not
because it exactly mirrors, you know, hyperdimensional space, but because on
this planet in the time in the way in the environments that we move in and
function in, it works perfectly well.
It does the job basically, and it's computationally easier than one would
imagine other more complex geometries would be basically it's a kind of a
geometry that you can, that the system can, can handle, so to speak.
Yeah, I think that's really fascinating.
The, you see that with a lot of the body and a lot of the brain too, where you do
have this sort of basic scaffolding.
I mean, we're born and we are here.
We have structure and it seems very strange that we wouldn't have that
structure interacting in particular ways.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The question is, you know, ontogenetically, how does it emerge?
Is it affected by experience?
Can it be broken?
Can it be changed if you have different experience and things like that?
So again, the Mosers in some experiments some years ago, they, they raised
rat pups in a non Euclidean environment.
I think I told you about, I think we've discussed this before.
I've discussed it with people before.
I was actually just about to bring it up.
Yeah.
And, and it did shift a bit.
Yeah, it shifted a bit, but not in a significant way.
Basically the main, the main framework, the main Euclidean framework remained intact.
There were some minor distortions, but it was nothing, nothing that you
would write home about.
So, so their conclusion was no, you know, but barring a completely dysfunctional
early developmental environment, you know, where the system itself doesn't
develop the way it should, you know, doesn't get enough nutrition or, you
know, with something like that, barring circumstances like that, which do
occasionally happen, of course, and we can do them artificially, the system will
inevitably have, you know, have those properties independent of specific
experience.
Now it may be like as in the visual system, you need to have some input to
just, you know, jack up the activity, you know, but it could be random input.
It's just got to be something to get the system going.
But the system self-organizes kind of developmentally to have those properties.
Yeah.
Well, we're all in the womb and we're, yeah, coming.
But you brought up a couple of things that are really interesting about if we
don't have the hippocampus and there's so much evidence, you know, before we got
to John and you and navigation and all of this, we understood, okay, the hippocampus
is memory and there's Clive Waring or there's HM and you were talking about,
you're kind of living in this perpetual, you talk about Corkin's book in your
paper, but that, you know, you're, if you don't have the hippocampus or if you
have some trouble, you're almost in a perpetual present.
That's exactly right.
That's the assumption.
Yeah.
You're in the present where the present is a kind of a small temporal window.
I mean, whatever that window is, it's fairly maybe 20 seconds or something
like that, but that's the window of that's the window where, you know, you
can, you have a little bit of time to play with, but outside of that, you're
basically out of, out of business.
Yeah.
So with these people, you can't learn something new, like how to go to a new
grocery store and still remember it the next day, for example, and you won't
remember it either.
So both of those kinds of layers that we were talking about are connected.
But also, you know, you brought up the plant, which is kind of interesting
because, you know, this is this whole controversial thing about, do other
creatures have cognition and yes, they have it differently than humans, but
you, it's interesting to think of the cognitive map, right?
Because if we think of, of having hippocampus damage where we can't create
these cognitive maps in the way we're talking about here and we're in the
present moment all the time.
And now I'm not saying that's like a plant because the plant is nothing like
it doesn't have a human brain is nothing like that, but I can, I mean, I just
planted all these crazy sunflowers this summer and they got so tall and you know,
we had to kind of move them around like with, with a string because they were
just everywhere and you do notice that they immediately turn.
I mean, they might, I might wake up and they've completely changed their
direction and gone another way.
I don't know how they grow so fast, how they change their direction, but they're
in a kind of, they are moving and they're in an interaction.
They're moving.
Yeah.
Within the, within, yeah, they're in, they're interacting with the environment
in particular, the, you know, where the, where the light is coming from.
All life is sort of doing that.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
These are, these are tropisms, right?
I mean, there's a word for that.
I mean, so they are, you know, they, they, they, they alter their behavior, you
know, in a trope, in a tropistic way with regard to moisture, probably with regard
to light, with regard to odor plumes, you know, there may be a variety of things
like that, that will influence, certainly plants exchange pheromones.
I mean, I don't know if they're called pheromones in plants, but they influence
each other by emitting stuff that, you know, has odor, you know, basically.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think plants are pretty cognitive, you know, in, in most ways, except they just
don't, because they don't move by and large, or at least they don't move, you
know, they don't, they move, they move their parts, full position.
They, they move, but they don't move their position, right.
They, but they do move, they move, but not, not their position.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is that, you know, when we're trying to
understand, like, why are we even studying all this in, in a way it's because we
want to understand how all this amazing stuff is going on, how, how we know that
we know, and I really feel like memory is such an important idea and of course,
you know, how we find our way through the world in the most metaphorical ways and
the most literal ways is so important.
And I think we can get lost from that in a way, but if I'm, if we just kind of,
for a minute, just take life as it's, it's trying to make its way through the world
and it has all these different ways of doing that, there's something about the
human, right.
And if we want to call it the cognitive map or we want to think of it in other
ways, it's not just the human.
I mean, it's every animal, right.
But we're talking about pretty much every invertebrates, you know, since the, you
know, jawbone to fish.
I mean, it goes back at least 350 million years in this lineage that you see
something that is essentially a cognitive map, you know, it, that's what it, you
know, so all manner of animals and, you know, there's, and there's a lot of
science on this.
In fact, you know, some of the, some of it is going to be a symposium.
Are you going to be at SFN this year?
I don't know yet.
I got a lot of stuff going on.
There's a lot of stuff going on.
I'm not going to go probably, but there's a Karger Johnston Club symposium this
year organized partly by Mano Witter, who, by the way, is living outside
Amsterdam now he's moved.
He was just up here last week, so we saw him a bit, but he's now living in a
little town about 40 minutes outside Amsterdam.
I can't remember the name of it, but it's not Zeist, is it?
No, no, it's not that.
Anyway, that, you know, that, that workshop is about comparative
approaches to hippocampus, you know, and it's got various people in it that are
going to talk about, you know, the, the kind of the way in which this system has
been preserved across eons, essentially, again, because it's crucial to animals
that move around in the world.
Yeah.
Some of the best work on this is done by a group in, in Seville, Cosme Salas
and others who are, you know, who've been studying this in, in lizards and
turtles and fish, you know, all that kind of, it's the same system, essentially.
So there's something about locomotion.
There is something about locomotion.
There's something about the
what we need, the cognitive kind of composition of the being.
Is that, can we say that?
I mean, is that
any animals that move around the world intentionally need it.
Now, of course you have animals that move around in the world unintentionally.
They just get, like molds or, you know, or things in the, in things in the ocean
that just get swept around by tides.
They don't actually choose where they go.
They just get, so there are animals that move, that are moved around in the world,
but they don't, they don't do the moving themselves.
So therefore they don't have to make decisions about where to go, so to speak.
And given that they don't have to make decisions about where to go, then they
don't need a cognitive map.
They just go with the flow.
Literally.
Well, the slime mold is interesting though, because it does move towards a goal
and it moves the way a sunflower moves towards the light.
Yeah, it's tropism.
Then there, then you, right.
Then you go from animals that are just moved around randomly by the existence.
There's no linear, clean way to talk about this.
And then you move on to animals that move, you know, according to tropisms, you
know, where you have a single, where you have a gradient of odor or light or
temperature or something like that.
And they can approach and avoid, you know, those things based on this gradient.
Right.
And then you move on to animals that, you know, have much more flexibility to
combine sources of information, to, to behave in a much more flexible way in
space, you know, where they're not dependent upon an odor plume or some, or
they may still use those things, but they're not dependent upon those for
getting around in the world.
So there's a progression, you know, of ways in which mobile animals interact
with the spatial world.
All the way up to, you know, the map idea, the internal model of the world.
That's the key idea here that these, that animals, you know, at some point
animals acquired the ability to form an internal model of the space, of the
spatial distribution of things.
That's memory.
Right.
Right.
So as soon as you put memory into this, you end up with maps.
And how do you see like an internal model is different from an activation
pattern or, or a habit or something like that?
I mean, do you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can make the argument that, uh, you know, that an internal model is
nothing more than a bunch of habits, you know, that, that, that they get linked.
That's a lot actually to have a bunch of habits that you can.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, the argument for why it needs to be a map rather than just a, you
know, why not a mapping happening, you know, why not a mapping?
Why a map?
Like, is it, do you really think of it as a noun, for example, or as a common?
It's mapping, you think of it as something that you can
actually find in the brain.
Well, we talked about representations before, so we don't have to go.
Kind of gets to that issue.
You know, what does it mean to have a map?
Um, I think of it, I think about it as a thing, you know, it may not be a thing
that you can actually nail down and say, this is the thing I'm talking about.
But, but it's a thing that exists, not just something that is built on the
fly every time you're in a given situation.
That's just something that you can create, you know, on the go.
It's an actual pre-existing thing, you know, that, you know, that it's a model.
It is literally a model of the world, you know, that, you know, that you can,
that you can activate and use in some way.
So yeah, it has a physical instantiation that if you were smart enough and had a
kind of a powerful enough computer in your head, you would be able to say, well,
you know, the, the map is, you know, the combined activity of these two, two
million, 473,000 neurons, you know, which, which I've identified using these new
neuro pixel probes that allow me to record from thousands and thousands of
cells simultaneously, you know, that, that the model is, you know, somehow
there, there is a model in there.
We just can't actually, it's not like a physical map.
We know that and we know that these things are distributed in ways that you
wouldn't be able to point to them as a, you know, as a physical map, but it has
all the properties of a physical map because it has all the information
involved, you know, that is captured by the interactions and interrelations
between the, the bits, you know, that comprise the map.
I mean, one of the, one of the interesting things, and it's in this
paper is, is when you don't have the hippocampus and you're trying to
understand the causal relationship between things in the world, what, you
know, what caused what, arguing backwards, if you have a hippocampus,
you're able to make causal leaps that jump over time and space.
You know, you can say that this thing, you know, this thing that's happening
now, you know, is related to this thing that happened, you know, a week ago.
You can do that and you can then say, ah, now I can derive certain properties
based on combining the knowledge from those two separate experiences.
If you don't have a hippocampus, you're really confined to drawing conclusions
based on a much more narrow definition of what, of what sort of caused what.
This just simply recapitulates the argument about the relative importance
of temporal contiguity, which are the things that are happening right now
together versus contingency, and contingency requires a much broader
swap of time that might force you to jump across time gaps.
This is in the paper.
Yeah, there's a really interesting section on it.
And this is where, and this exactly, and this is where those Devonport paper
comes in, because what it means to be an organism that is completely dominated
solely by temporal contiguity is to be an organism that is in quotes, superstitious.
Any, any two things that happen close together in time, a brain like that will
assume they are causally related because that's all it's got to go on.
Yeah, Devonport and Holloway reported that rats with hippocampal damage were
slaves to temporal contiguity alone and were in effect, highly superstitious.
So that's exactly right.
You know, so, you know, you know, and the interesting thing is I think
people vary on this dimension.
I think there are some people who jump to conclusions based on, you know, very
little input and very little data.
They just happen to see that this, this occurred next to that.
And, and, and, you know, it might've been a coincidence.
It might not have been, but for some people, that's all the evidence they need.
Right.
Then there are people who, you know, necessarily take a much broader sloth
of, of data into, into their consideration.
You know, they're using their hippocampus more to link, first of all, to get a
sense of the base rate, you know, of occurrence of these things.
I mean, so did, you know, it's not just that these two things ever
happen close together in time.
It's do they consistently happen together close in time and how often
do they happen separately from one another?
So in which case, you know, if, if, if event A happens 30% of the time and
event B has 30% of the time, are those the same 30% so that they are always
together or is it there, or are they just randomly happening 30% of the time?
And some of those times they're going to happen together.
And if you're a superstitious animal and you, and you happen to experience
one of those times when A is followed by B, you, you will conclude that A causes
B or that A leads to B.
You will not take into account the fact that A happened a lot on its own and B
happened a lot on its own because that requires bringing in information that is
not right here and now that requires acting at a distance, right?
So in order to bring that information into this is what Rascola and Wagner
kind of were all about, you know, basically pointing out that it was contingency,
contingency and not temporal contiguity that kind of determined learning.
What Devenport stuff shows is that, yeah, that's true in an animal with a hippocampus,
but in an animal without a hippocampus, they're not Rascola, Wagner animals.
They're, they're skinnerian animals or they're whatever, Hullian animals.
They just basically behave on, you know, what just happened in temporal
contiguity, that's the driver basically.
Yeah, I love this part of the paper.
And I think it's such an important thing right now to think about in a lot of ways,
because you also bring up the future in this paper a lot and, you know, because
we're remembering and imagining are not that different, actually.
We're doing something very similar.
Yeah, we assume so, yeah.
And this is why I bring up, do you really think the map is a thing and why I think
that's an important question and a very, you know, why we talked, we've, you and
I have talked about these things, representations and so on, but let me
just be messy here and you correct me or just say what comes, okay, because I
think it matters a lot right now and I want to try to understand it.
I've been trying to understand it.
So you, you talk about, it can sound like there's a little map that we sort of
use and that it's solid.
And I know you're not saying that, but also it's not, everything that we're
experiencing is changing kind of that, that immediate map or mapping is what
I would prefer, but there's layers of this.
Because, you know, just as we're like, if you, you and I go for a hike and a snake
comes out and I move out of the way, I didn't think about it, but I need to move
out of the way, but also, you know, we do that in our memory too, or in our
thinking or in our remembering, we can be lost in thought, for example, or we can
know that we are thinking about something.
So there's not a, you talk about this in the paper, how it's not linear and you're
trying to open up to different ways.
And I think it's very hard, but I think also when we're thinking about mapping,
because those are, you know, if we, if we generalize that to the way it's talked
about in everyday life, we think we have these memories, which are true or false,
you know, and we take them out and there we can compare them.
And it actually isn't working like that, which is why I think more people
are mapping it's almost, it's almost like the hippocampus allows us to
communicate with ourselves or something.
Well, yes, but also to constantly update our own knowledge, which is a kind of
communication, which is a kind of communication where I don't mean there's
a thing sitting in our head communicating.
It's a whole body.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think that's a reasonable way to think about it.
Absolutely.
And I think the field in general, the memory field in general is moving towards
this much more dynamic understanding of what, you know, memory really is and
does, you know, it's not a fixed thing.
It's, you know, it's, it's constant.
Your memories, you, you are your memories, your memories are in constant
dialogue with the, with the, the real world, basically.
Everything you're putting in, whatever you're watching on YouTube, whatever
you're reading, the people that are around you, those are shifting the
algorithm, so to speak.
All the time.
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's very important.
I don't, I don't know if we, you know, to talk about the superstitious
thing that you brought up, I don't know if we realize how that's happening.
You know, that we're doing that to ourselves through what we
surround ourselves with.
I don't think we understand that at all of this, but I mean, I think we're working
towards it and I, you know, a lot of the effort now is towards trying to
understand exactly, you know, what are the consequences of this dialogue
basically between our existing self and, you know, the new stuff that we're
constantly being exposed to that forces a dialogue of the sort you're describing.
How does that work?
I mean, how does the system constantly updating itself, you know, so that it
stays true to the current reality rather than just basically reflecting what
used to be, what might still be, but might not be anymore.
So,
because everything's always changing.
Everything in the world is changing, right?
Now, some of it's changing at a scale that it doesn't matter.
We don't have to, it doesn't matter to us that we can't step into the
same water in the river, you know, it's still the river, right?
It's not the same water exactly.
The molecules are different, right?
So that's that old example that that scale doesn't matter, but there are
scales that it really does matter, you know, that there are changes that, you
know, really now the river, you know, no longer flows in this direction, you
know, but because of a flood, it now flows in that direction.
Okay.
That's something we better be aware of, so to speak.
And, and, and all of that.
We're trying to become aware of that in a different way now than we've ever had.
Very much focused on this question of the dynamics of memory, how memories
are, you know, constantly changing as a function of current experiences.
That's what I'm focused on.
How that affects the future, because I think that's the thing too, when we
were talking about trying to hold both things at once that we're also having
to realize that what we're remembering is also what we're imagining or putting
forward in a way.
They're not the same thing, but in the way we're talking about, they're very
connected and also that's the difference between the sunflowers in my backyard
that don't move and the reason that we need to have these mappings and be aware
of them, because they may, those sunflowers may actually have enough of
a memory, so to speak, that they like a 24 hour clock, let's say, you know, so
that they will predict when they ought to shift, you know, according to where
the sun is in the sky.
I don't know if that's true or not, but I wouldn't be surprised if they were
capable of that, because that's just a timing mechanism.
They're definitely moving in relation to everything that we do and that happens.
Well, what happens if you take them out of the sun and put them in a place where
there's constant illumination and see if they still move, you know, on some
regular basis, according to the clock that they would have moved, you know, if
they were out there in the real world.
I mean, how, how built in is this, is this circadian kind of rhythm basically?
I mean, a lot, a lot of it again gets, it has been so in built in over
evolutionary time because fundamentally the cycles of light and dark haven't
changed, right, in a given biome, you know, depending on where these plants are living.
Regularities that shift are much smaller than what we're dealing with once we
get to what we're talking about now.
So, I mean, of course we have the sunflower nest in us too, right?
We have these kind of, you know, rhythms, but we also, we've also developed this
way of communicating with ourselves and communicating with each other and all
that happening at once and leaving these ways to, you know, scaffold all of that
stuff and that feels to me really important, especially when we think about
this kind of a paper and action at a distance, how we're all, you know, how
we're all doing this for each other in strange ways right now, that we are
trying to see more clearly, you know, and it's so messy.
Yeah, good luck with that part.
Yeah, no, I agree.
But certainly the dynamics of memory and the way in which we update our
knowledge, you know, in the systems that allow us to do that and so on, that's
kind of a focus that I'm, that I'm focusing on that right now and I'm not
the only one, there's quite a few people who are, I mean, we're just about to
publish a paper and TINS just got accepted a couple of days ago on the role
of the locus rullius in orchestrating, you know, you know, this updating ability
and sort of influencing it, you know, whether you update a memory or whether
you decide now this really isn't related to my prior experience, this is a new
experience and I'm going to create a separate memory for this thing.
Well, that's a fundamental decision the brain is making, you know, all the time.
How does it do that?
You know, how do you know, and when it decides to update, what are the
mechanisms that determine how it updates a memory so that it sort of deletes the
things that are no longer relevant and adds new things that are now relevant
versus when it's creating a brand new memory, how does it keep it separate from
this older memory that, you know, you initially activated because you thought
that was what the situation was going to be.
I mean, those are all choices the brains, the brain has to make, you know, as it
continues to try to build internal models that will work in the future.
It's all pointed towards creating models that will be adaptive in the future.
Yeah.
And it's not just the brain, it's the body and us and it's all about it now, too.
It's all of it.
So, yeah.
Well, has it helped you?
You know, I mean, do you have any, I don't think I've asked you about love yet.
And this is love and philosophy.
So I have to finally learn and ask you about that word.
And do you see any relation at all to the work you do?
I don't have any, I have no insights into it.
I struggle.
All this work that you've done, we talked about 50 years ago, you guys
were writing this book and, you know, is there something about what you do
that connects to care and to like thinking that it's, you know, you just do it.
I wouldn't say in any direct way.
I mean, you know, beyond the fact that, you know, having a reasonably good
model of the world, I would say allows you to behave more appropriately, you
know, contextually appropriately, you know, when, you know, restaurant,
restaurant voice versus home, you know, all these things that you do that are
contextually appropriate, you know, that are socially important, you know, that's
that, that kind of depends upon this system in a way, but it's not really, I
don't think understanding this system will give us, you know, much of a handle
on, you know, you know, on compassion or resilience or any of those things.
I think they're really in another zone, basically.
This is a more kind of purely cognitive, purely knowledge based system, you know,
that can be deployed to, you know, in useful ways in, in all of those social
domains, and there really are parts of the hippocampus CA2 in particular that
are very important for social interactions.
We know that social stuff gets caught up in the system, but I don't know that
this hippocampal formate system makes fundamental contributions to those, to
those things.
It makes these kind of contextual contributions and so on, shadings.
But I, I don't think it helps me understand emotion at all, quite honestly.
I wish that were not true, but I don't think it helps me understand the basis
of emotion, the basis of any of these sort of more socially oriented cognitions.
I mean, I don't consider emotions separate from cognition, but, you know,
the emotional side of our, of our cognitive life, I don't, I think is really
not so much in the zone of the hippocampus.
But because of what it does, it influences a lot of that.
I mean, I keep reading papers where people claim the role of the ventral or
anterior hippocampus is, is, is anxiety.
And, and, and, and basically all of the behavioral tests that they tend to use
are ones that measure anxiety from being in open spaces or being in places that
are fearful, you know, so, so, you know, it's not so much about anxiety, but it's
about the kind of anxiety that comes from being in a space that you're
uncomfortable in.
So somehow, you know, the notion of the, of space gets caught up in, with
anxiety, but it isn't, but there are plenty of anxieties that have nothing to do
with space, you know, you're anxious when you see a spider and you don't know why.
I mean, that doesn't matter where you are.
Right.
So I don't think it's fundamental to those things, but I think it can
intertwine with those things under some circumstances.
There's a Venn diagram overlap between, you know, the role of facial models of
the world and these other things, you know, that remain.
I lost your, I lost you.
Lost you, Lynn.
I can't hear you or see you.
Are you still there?
Yeah.
I think my system kicked out basically, I don't know, just at that moment, but
anyway, the hour is up, so I actually thought your system kicked out, but then
I saw that I, I was suddenly offline briefly.
I don't know why.
Yeah, I don't know, but I think we got most of it, but oh, you're frozen again.
I think we're, I think we're, we're back in connection, but I now have to.
Yeah, me too.
I just wanted to say, if we did think of the hippocampus as like a way that
we're somehow connected to communication in the way we were talking about, then
it would also make a lot of sense to those points you're making about
possibly extending the circle of care.
Yeah.
All right.
Sure.
But you know, it's a stretch, but you know, it's a stretch that
I'm happy to see you make.
Yeah.
Well, I'm, I'm making it.
So good based on your research or building, building upon.
So, all right.
Good.
Okay.
We can, you know, we can, we can connect up again in some time and
a few more months, you know, when I'm back in Tucson temporarily.
So I'll be back in about 10 days and settling in.
I'll be pretty busy through October and you know, November.
Then the whole family is kind of, you know, it's going to be in and out where
a lot of things going on back in Tucson, not to, you know, and in America, you
know, that it's center, so I don't know what that's all going to be like, but we
can stay in touch and we'll try to set up another time sometime down the road.
Awesome.
Well, I look forward to it.
I want to read the paper that's coming out too.
That might be a good one to talk about.
Brought me to send you a copy of this paper.
Okay.
And that video, I want you to send me the video of this paper.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, yeah.
Send me an email.
I'll email you with some other stuff.
Okay.
All right.
Take care.
You all.
All right.
Appreciate it.
Bye.
Bye.
