The world generally is always in the process of changing,
that change is more normal than stability.
And the paradox in that statement is that stability
comes from a kind of reflexive interweaving of things.
The core phrase that I think summarises the Tao
is the path is made through walking.
And what it means, and it's quite different
to some other spiritual traditions,
it means there isn't a way, there isn't a right way,
and we just have to get on it and follow it.
It's saying the future is co-created by what we do,
by our actions and behaviours collectively as we go.
If we understand that we are all interconnected,
that we can't be safe if you're not safe,
you know, we can't be resilient if you're not resilient.
It creates that pathway into the importance
of our actions, behaviours and intentions.
Sometimes in a kind of meditative relational practice,
you start to feel compassion.
It doesn't become hard to choose.
It becomes something that you feel.
You awaken the heart through those kinds of practices.
I think being able to embrace complexity,
it requires a kind of bigger perspective.
It's kind of looking wider and longer,
being able to integrate disparate ideas.
It's being able to hold the heart and the mind together.
I think love can be in the cracks,
as well as just some sort of big idea
and can make all the difference.
If we can cultivate love,
many of the atrocities that we see happening
and the selfishnesses would become harder to perpetrate.
Hi, Jean, thanks for being on Love and Philosophy.
It's so nice to see you again.
Yeah, nice to see you too.
Nice to be back.
So we have a big subject today, two big subjects,
complexity and the Tao, the Tao of complexity.
And I guess just to start this idea of complexity,
there's so many ways to come at that word,
so many different ways in science
and also just in everyday life.
So maybe you could just tell us a little bit
about how you see that word, what it means in your work.
Yeah, no, thank you.
Well, complexity does have its kind of
English language usage.
If I asked my mum what complexity would mean,
she would say some of the things that I would say
from a more scientific perspective about it.
It's things that are interwoven,
that it creates a level of uncertainty
and a sense that things can change.
So I think the core aspects of complexity,
from my point of view,
would be this idea of diversity of things
and things interacting.
So things relationally interwoven, interacting,
they're diverse, the connections can shift and change.
And the whole thing is open to its wider context.
So it's not like a clock, where in a sense,
we imagine that there's very little interaction
with the wider world.
It's something that can change, that can morph,
but remains in this kind of interwoven way.
So a family, for example, would be a small example
of an open complex system of interwoven relational people
who are all different, interacting in different ways.
So the science of complexity studies
those kinds of situations and comes up
with some common views that help us navigate that.
So we're not just saying to people,
it's complex, get over it.
We're saying that the science of complexity
can help us understand the nature,
how that scientific view turns up in practice,
what complexity looks like in practice.
Wonderful.
And do you see this in contrast to other kinds of science,
or do you just see this as one way or path,
or how do you see it?
What people think of science,
from coming from physics is about certainty,
usually not always, but usually often linearity,
the sense that things can work like a machine.
So if we understand how things start,
we can understand how they,
we can predict how they're going to develop.
So that science, that mechanistic worldview
is associated with the work of Isaac Newton
from the 17th century.
He was interested in how planets go around each other
and how two billiard balls bang into each other.
But that scientific worldview got translated
into the social and the natural world.
And we start to think that to be scientific,
to be professional in the social world, in management,
that's what we should be doing.
We should behave as if the organization or the market
can be understood in predictable ways
and we can decide what to do.
So complexity is not saying we know nothing,
but it's caveatting this idea
that things are very determined.
There's also the view that came from
the science of gases and liquids,
that the economists have always been very attracted to.
And this is the idea that an economy
reaches equilibrium naturally
and doesn't venture very far from that.
So the economist took the maths
of what's called equilibrium thermodynamics,
the science of liquids and gases.
The management took the science of Newton
and in a sense, complexity science,
which came from a marriage of looking at the physics
of open systems coupled with looking at evolution.
So it was kind of where physics met biology,
gives us a much more organic, natural flowing,
shifting view of the social and natural world.
It seems much more like we experience in our world.
So if I described that to my mum,
she would go, yes, I see that.
Whereas if I told her that the world went to plan
or the world always reached balance,
she would look at me rather questioningly.
That's a good way to say it.
Speaking of your mom, what did she think when you told her
you wanted to be a physicist?
Because you are a physicist, right?
Are you trained in physics?
I did, yes.
My initial work and research was as a physicist.
Well, I think they were ambitious for me, my parents,
and they were thrilled I was going to university.
And I don't think they minded too much what I did
and it sounded good.
So I think that was enough for them.
My father still didn't think I was capable
of changing a plug, an electric plug.
Even when I was in second year at university,
we'd still come along and say, no, I'll do that for you.
But they were proud of me.
But yes, they were just proud I'd gone ahead
and gone to university and done something difficult.
Yes, well, and fathers like to feel important.
Absolutely.
And they are important.
But yes, it does sound very,
Dr. Law, you're a physicist.
It fits in with the-
It does, yes, it did.
It ticked the box.
I think I was probably, I preferred theory to practice.
So I never really was very interested or very good
at anything to do with soldering irons
or anything practical.
But I became more and more interested
in the philosophy of science and the kind of theory.
So my PhD was in quantum physics,
which obviously is scientific,
but it does kind of challenge your worldview.
It does sort of shift the way you think about reality.
So I think I kind of morphed into having
this very, this strong interest in philosophy
as time has gone on.
So you were trying to understand the world,
trying to understand philosophical ideas
from an early age, would you say?
Yes, I think from being a teenager,
I was always one of these yes, but why kind of kids
as opposed to yes, but what.
So I would randomly pick up books on philosophy
or Buddhism or indeed Taoism from an early age.
And I think that what really interested me
about quantum physics is it does rattle the cave
of the idea of what is real, what is certain.
And I liked all that.
I liked this sort of almost,
I would always wonder, well,
why is science and spirituality split?
Does it have to be?
When did that happen?
But if we're interested in the way things work,
why wouldn't there be something more mystical
and uncertain about it?
So those were kind of natural questions for me
from being quite young.
I see, so it was exciting to ask those questions
to be a little off unstable or yeah.
Yes, oh yes, no, definitely.
No, it was, no, I was, my parents were,
my family were generally quite practical,
ordinary day-to-day people.
So they just sort of regarded me with wonder, I think,
because I sort of seem to have this going on in my head
and have these other ideas and interests.
But I, looking back on it,
it was a very formative time
and my life has kind of woven many of those threads
back together again as time has gone on.
Yeah, it must've been fascinating for them
to see their daughter asking these big questions
that it sounds like they weren't asking,
at least not out loud.
No, no, I think they were more living an ordinary life.
So they, my mother saw,
I showed her a video of me talking probably 20 years ago
and she was absolutely gobsmacked by the whole thing,
seeing me as her daughter who,
worrying about my hair or when we were going shopping.
And she was just absolutely,
she watched the whole thing with absolute rapt attention
and all she could say was, how do you know these things?
Oh wow.
It was rather, yes, it's so,
so we're all formed by these myriad,
we might talk about it later,
but I think the idea of love in the world
also came from my parents.
So they might not have been very educated
or gone to university,
but their values really imbued my life quite strongly.
Yeah, I definitely wanna talk about love.
And you also mentioned this word Taoism though.
So maybe we should think about that a bit
because your book is called The Tao of Complexity.
And that can seem like quite a jump
from complexity to Taoism.
So I don't know how,
if you wanna try to explain that through your life
or through your book or it's, yeah.
Sure.
Well, the emphasis that I've placed on complexity
in this book is what I've called process complexity.
And it's really emphasizing
and something that came from the work of Ilya Prigogine,
who was one of the founding thinkers
in this field of complexity.
And his first book or one of his early books
was called From Being to Becoming.
And the point he was making was that the world generally
is always in the process of changing,
that change is more normal than stability.
And the paradox in that statement is that stability
comes from a kind of reflexive interweaving of things.
So for example, if you were to say,
this family is stable,
you would be meaning that the patterns of relationships
had some give in them and adaptability,
but there was enough commonality
of relationship and behavior
that it created a kind of resilience and stability.
So his interest in one of the core words
for process complexity is patterning.
This idea that things emerge, stabilize and then dissolve.
And the patterning in an economy,
or the patterning in a culture, the norms of behavior,
the norms of relationships kind of come into being
and stabilize through a repetition,
but not an exact repetition,
but a kind of ability to adapt the same in an ecology.
Why has this wood got these species interacting,
and this wood's got a completely different set of species?
So this idea of a flow,
not a flow meaning everything just keeps changing
all the time and we don't know what's going to happen next,
but something where we understand that stability
is created by reflexive movement, by reflexive repeating,
but not exact repeating.
So that's the kind of ideas that you get in the world view
of complexity.
Also stuff about the importance of things
developing bottom up or things being local,
things being historically shaped.
So again, if you think about a family,
why does this family behave this way?
Well, partly it's to do with the past,
what's happened in the past, who's in the family,
and it's partly to do with the context.
Is this family living in a war?
Has somebody just lost their job?
So it's understanding that contextual
and historically shaped nature of things.
So those are the ideas within process complexity.
And Taoism, my colleague, Peter Allen,
with whom I wrote the first book,
Embracing Complexity in 2015 came back
to where we were working in, I think, 2003 or 2006,
clutching a copy of the Tao Te Ching,
this text from the fifth century BC,
saying, Collie, I've just picked this book up by chance
in a secondhand bookshop,
and it reads like a complexity theory textbook.
And I was entranced partly because I knew about Taoism
and it was something I was interested in.
And this particular version of the Tao Te Ching,
this particular translation by a couple of guys
called Ames and Hall, had a very long introduction.
So it's describing this contextual,
path-dependent, historically shaped,
paradoxical patterning of stability in the same language.
And I thought that was gobsmacking.
You know, why could they come up with this
in the fifth century BC?
And then we go through all this sophisticated science
and end up with a very similar worldview.
So I studied it and still do.
I find it completely entrancing to study.
And I guess what the Taoist view adds
to the science of complexity is sometimes a nuance.
So there are certain things that the Tao
would bring out in more detail.
So to give you an example,
the Tao uses a phrase of paying attention
to the beginning of the beginning.
So it's saying that the good leader
will be still and silent and take in the terrain,
take in the group, the situation.
And with that apprehension of the whole,
notice the tiny shifts or changes that may be important.
So we'll almost see the beginning before it's a beginning.
And that would be something I would say
the same in complexity,
that we need to understand the current patternings,
but we need to pay attention to these tiny shoots of change
or these tiny cracks of destruction.
So I would say it in the same way,
but the poetry of the Tao and the way it describes that
creates a nuance for me where I go deeper
into my own subject matter.
So that's one reason I really like it.
The other reason I really like it is that in a way,
complexity is a science, it's neutral.
It will tell you how the powerful get more powerful,
as well as it will tell you
how to create a resilient fair world.
You know, it's value neutral in a sense.
But the Tao is explicitly about cultivating yourself
in order to create a better future.
So it embeds the idea of how do we cultivate ourselves?
How do I become the best I can be
in order to be in relationship with other people,
with nature and with the future?
And it embraces these kind of paradoxes,
which are again within complexity,
but it would be easy not to think about it in those terms.
So, you know, the Tao would say the end is in the beginning.
The complexity person would say,
well, the patterning is only as stable as it's resilient.
And if it starts to unravel,
then it can soon tip into another form.
So this paradox is described very well in Taoism.
And I think this idea, and it's kind of links to love,
that there is a paradox in,
yes, I want to love and honor myself.
Yes, I want to love and honor my community, my family.
Yes, I want to be cognizant of what I'm doing now
is co-creating the future,
but they don't give you simple answers.
You know, I've got to move between,
well, I think actually for now,
I'm going to have to say no to my friend's demands
because that's too much for me.
You know, or, you know,
I'm going to have to make some short-term decisions.
I'm going to have to try and make those
with the long-term in mind, but nothing is certain.
So it raises these kinds of tensions in,
if you like, in being good, whatever, you know,
however one defines that,
and in having compassion, in loving.
The core phrase that I think summarizes the Tao
is the path is made through walking.
And what it means, and it's quite different
to some other spiritual traditions.
It means there isn't a way, there isn't a right way,
and we just have to get on it and follow it.
It's saying the future is co-created by what we do,
by our actions and behaviors collectively as we go.
Now, we're not walking onto an empty path
because it's been created by what's happened,
you know, in the past.
So it's not your fault if you turn up in a war zone,
but how you move forward is collectively
how we must think about the future.
So it places centrally the idea of actions
and intentions and purpose.
And I think that's very powerful.
And I sometimes use the phrase that, you know, for me,
I want to seed the future with good ingredients.
You know, for me, I'd like a just and fair world.
And complexity tells you that a just and fair world
is actually more resilient.
So it's not just a nice to have.
It actually, when societies get very unequal,
they become much more brittle and less adaptive
and much more likely to collapse.
So there is a good reason for balance and diversity,
but actually, you know,
we all have to think about our own values.
And I think that the idea of the path is made through walking
says, well, if you care about your great grandchildren,
you know, if you care about the future,
if you care about people in other parts of the world,
we're all interwoven.
You know, climate change is a global issue.
Pandemics are a global issue.
You know, if we understand that we are all interconnected,
that we can't be safe if you're not safe.
You know, we can't be resilient if you're not resilient.
Then it creates, you know, that pathway
into the importance of our actions,
behaviors and intentions.
Indeed, I love that phrase, the path is made by walking.
And there's something in Buddhism very similar to, I think,
and some other traditions.
And even in 4E philosophy,
they use this a lot in inactive philosophy.
And it's interesting, as you were talking,
I was thinking, well, also the path is made by walking,
but the path is the landscape or the path is the earth.
And so all of our paths that we're making by walking
are that shared space that we are trying to orient
in the way you were describing.
Yes, yes.
And we're not the only agents as well.
It is, you know, that sounds very anthropocentric.
And I don't think the Tao meant it that way.
You know, it is like that we are all, you know,
everything is creating the future,
but the only bit that I can manage,
and this is very Buddhist and Chan Buddhism, for example,
was quite a marriage between Taoism and Buddhism in China.
You know, the focus on the now is really saying,
well, whatever happened to me in the past,
and the thing that I have agency over now
is how do I take my next step?
How do I treat you now is the bit
where I always have agency.
And people like Viktor Frankl, for example, in Auschwitz,
you know, was saying, even when in some senses,
if you're in Auschwitz, you know,
you have very little control over how you're treated,
but you can always smile.
You know, you can always have an attitude
of kindness to others.
You know, you can always imagine the future.
So, you know, even if your only agency is in the minute,
you know, you have one crust of bread,
I'll share it with you, I'll pat you on the back.
You know, there's a sense in which, you know, we have,
as he would say, you know,
we can always embody the agency that we have
and not see ourselves too small, I think.
Yes, indeed.
And by focusing on those small acts also makes us bigger.
I mean, it can just sound sweet, as you were saying before,
as, oh, just do the right thing.
But actually it's an empowerment,
it's a way of connecting with your own power
or the power beyond you in some way.
Yes, and I write at the end of the book
about the Albert Camus, the plague.
And it was picked up by Clive Hamilton,
who was writing about climate change denial.
And he says that the thing he really liked
about the plague was, you know, there's a plague in a town,
everybody's probably going to die.
You know, some people hoard all their food
and hold themselves up
and try and stay alive as long as possible.
Some other people decide to, you know, eat and drink
and make merry as much as they can.
But the doctor who understood more than anyone,
the likelihood that things were going to end badly,
kept walking forward with integrity, helping people.
And Clive Hamilton calls it active fatalism.
And I think there's something in that you never know.
And this is an idea that I think is embedded
in complexity and Taoism about emergence,
that it might be not very probable,
but there's always a possibility
that things can suddenly change on the head of a pin.
And, you know, there would be many examples in the world
where we really didn't see things coming.
And sometimes, you know, things even like the pandemic,
you know, which obviously some people saw coming,
but it re-engineers the whole of society
quite quickly sometimes.
So I think there's a paradox in that
I might feel quite despairing and I might feel quite tiny,
but, you know, you never know.
You never know what's going to happen.
You don't know who'll listen to this.
You know, we might inspire somebody
who does something differently,
who is in a more powerful position.
So I think holding that idea
that I don't have to see myself as insignificant,
that I don't know, but all I do know
is that I can behave as well as I can
and sometimes seize the moment, sometimes be brave.
You know, there are times when the world presents
as an opportunity to perhaps step into a space or be brave.
Absolutely.
And I think there's something in there too
of not just going with the flow in the sense of
what you think is going to be
what everyone else thinks is right.
There's something about what you were saying too,
where we can feel like we have to choose
between what seem like binaries, my path or your path,
instead of this paradoxical holding that you're expressing
and that's in the Tao.
And there's something about attention.
You said paying attention a lot.
How do you see that?
Does that help us learn how to stay in that place
where we can feel actually what's authentic to us
and make those choices you were talking about?
What's the role of attention?
Yeah, I know that's a great question.
I think that some people would approach a complexity
as an issue of the brain, as an issue of thinking.
So for some people, and even in the,
what do they call the, oh dear,
the ESGs that they call these kind of development goals
that are to do with the kind of the emotional world,
they put complexity thinking down.
And I don't think it's just thinking,
that many of the complexity people that I know
who started to handle paradox and subjectivity,
if you're going to ask a question like,
where are the edges of this pattern in this wood?
What is the culture of this organization?
These have a sort of subjective quality to them.
Is this patient ill?
My dentist always used to shake everybody's hand
and I once asked him why he did that.
And he said, because I get a real visceral sense
of whether this is a frail person or a well person
just from that kind of physical connection.
So we use our senses in a variety of ways
to know what's going on, to pay attention.
And the Chinese use the word xin, X-I-N,
which means heart-mind.
They don't differentiate like we tend to do
between what we feel and what we think.
So I think that that sort of embedded heart-mind,
intuitive, subjective sensory view
of what's going on is something that I increasingly
well, have seen as an important part of an aspect
of dealing with the complex world.
That we, the other part of it, I think,
is that if we are going to,
if we just use our analytical tools, I can say to you,
and this is what I think sometimes perhaps differentiates
some approaches to systems thinking
rather than complexity thinking,
is the systems thinker asks more, what is,
how do we analyze now?
Oh, look, there are these patterns, they're stable.
Let's understand how they interact.
The complexity person is saying the same,
what's here now?
How do we, we don't need to know everything
about everything, but what are the dominant patterns?
But also, how do we notice change?
So there's something about always noticing
that however much I analyze now,
it may be that I have to notice
that there's an opportunity that wasn't there before,
or something's changed in the wider context
that I hadn't taken into account,
or there's a crack appeared that's an opportunity.
So it forms both an integration of the heart
mind or the mind body, and also an integration
of the analysis, which might have a subjectivity to it,
but the kind of seeing what is here
with this practice of noticing.
And just to say one more thing,
I think the noticing is also part
of how we cultivate ourselves,
that if we pay attention to our reactions
and our habitual thoughts or our habitual attitudes,
it's how we cultivate ourselves.
We start to notice our own reactions,
our own behaviors that maybe we're not quite even sure
why we did it ourselves.
So there's something about noticing
that's also a cultivation of ourselves.
That's interesting because I hear you saying
the noticing is the whole body,
is the bodily being in the world,
which is often not what people mean
when they say cognition or thinking or mind.
There are a lot of movements toward trying to understand
that actually the whole body is the way
that we do all of these activities.
But to get to that feeling and that noticing
and that bodily presence,
is that where the Taoism has helped you?
Or do you see that as part of the complexity science too,
because I'm still not quite sure how we learn
how to pay attention, for example,
or we learn how to notice.
Is it just by that process of questioning
that you sort of begin to notice the world differently
in science or how would you see that?
Well, I think that the classical complexity science
is much more, there's lots of people
who do mathematical models of things
interacting with other things.
It's an F.A. Institute version of it.
Yes, and that has its value.
What Prigajine was bringing into it
is that in an open situation,
when you really embrace,
you kind of can't know everything that's going on
because there's new things arriving and leaving.
The devil is in the detail.
There's something beyond mathematics or beyond analysis.
And Edgar Murat, who's now a French philosopher,
who's 102, who wrote a book on complexity
and is a wonderful man.
He differentiates between what he calls general complexity,
which is what I'm talking about,
the general interweaving of resilient patterning
that nevertheless can tip into new forms,
et cetera, et cetera, is beyond or before mathematics.
It's being in the mud as opposed to mapping the terrain.
And many complexity people are analyzing the map
and getting more and more sophisticated maps.
But what Prigajine would say is there's always something,
it may be the absolutely minute things that you can't model
because they're not yet there, like the Taoists say,
that's actually the thing that's going to kind of create
a completely radically different future.
And no analysis of now
is ever going to pick up those minutiae.
So I think that's where it's,
I'm trying to move complexity thinking more explicitly.
I'm not saying anything I don't think
Prigajine would have said,
but he wouldn't, he didn't say it quite in these terms,
but I'm moving it into this more embodied,
this more heart, mind, everything,
in a sense, everything that's there
is going to make a difference.
So what you feel is going to make a difference
to the future just as much as what you think.
And if you go to a board meeting,
you can analyze it in some kind of logical way
in terms of what people said.
But if you don't understand how people are relating
to each other and what the underlying vibes are,
you're never going to help that group
make a good strategic decision
or understand what's actually happening in the room.
So we know this, we don't just analyze our family
or expect a social worker to come in
and draw a map of the family,
there's something more embodied.
And I think people like Brian Goodwin, for example,
who was a complexity theorist, who was a biologist,
he started to talk in these terms.
So I think that's why.
And I think for myself,
this has been a marriage of my own interest
in the spiritual, in values,
like my father was a very kind-hearted person,
was always doing much of my mother's annoyance sometimes,
he was always helping other people,
but civic-minded.
And I've been brought up,
it's natural to me to think about society
and my local communities
and to worry about how I treat people,
it's that kind of thing.
So I think that I've got interested in semantic work
in all kinds of work from very different places.
I know you've read the DAF Complexity,
some of the book is about what I've called
ontological resonance.
In other words, if you look at brain science,
if you look at some of the work people have done
on semantic experiencing,
if you look at some of the political writers,
you find very similar ideas.
And I'm not trying to tell you they're all the same,
but I'm saying to you in the book,
look, golly, isn't this interesting?
These very different schools of knowledge,
bodies of knowledge,
have come up with a very similar worldview.
Maybe there's something interesting here.
Yeah, I think what the book does,
because you also talk about art
and there's a lot of things in there,
but over the course of the book,
we start to understand the process that is,
or the patterning that is similar,
which you can't actually put in words,
even though you can talk about patterning and process.
And you start to show us that we can notice this
in many different parts of life.
So that's back to that noticing again
and to the prasin where it almost feels like a practice
that's being given.
Would you agree with that?
Yes, I think, yes, I take seriously my own,
so I meditate regularly.
I find that that has introduced me to the body
in a way that I didn't know I wasn't embodied.
Having been brought up to have a brain and think,
it was, and sort of that was split off in some ways
from the body as I've done various kinds of practices,
that has become more integrated.
And I think I've, partly through that,
partly through various sorts of reflective practice
and through paying attention
and showing up to those things,
I have tried to hone myself, to kind of mature myself.
And I don't think that happens, I think it is a practice.
I'd be interested to hear how you came into
understanding yourself as a body,
not just stuck in your head, if you felt like sharing it.
Yes, well, I think in a variety of ways,
but there is a particular Tibetan Buddhist field
of practice called Kum Nye.
A Tibetan leader came to California in the 60s
and joined in some of the kind of,
the body work that was going along there.
And he kind of emphasized,
he realized how disembodied the people in the West were.
And he developed a series of exercises,
which are called Tibetan yoga,
which are very slow and precise
and are ways of really almost like introducing us
into how the body feels
and how that changes our cognition or our seeing.
So it might be about how you start to tune in
to seeing the world in a more panoramic way,
rather than kind of focusing in a very kind of definitive way
that we often get taught to do.
And you have little breakthroughs with things like that.
And you think, oh my goodness,
I never realized that if I sat here quietly,
I could take in this whole vista of the landscape
and the bird song suddenly becomes brighter.
I was too busy thinking about what I was going to do next.
So you have these little breakthroughs
and then you get interested to do more
and to take it further and to pay it more attention.
And I think it's the same with compassion,
that compassion is an idea.
I could convince you fairly easily
that you should think about others
and it would be good to be caring
and everybody would nod and say, yes, that's true.
But sometimes in a kind of relational practice,
in a kind of meditative relational practice,
you start to feel compassion.
It doesn't become hard to choose.
It becomes something that you feel.
You awaken the heart through those kinds of practices
and then that changes everything.
You don't forget that.
You forget it temporarily,
but you have something to go back to.
And some of the writing, for example,
of Brian Goodwin writing about health
as how does the doctor really work out your health issues?
Well, partly, it's not to deny analysis and logic and data,
but it's just sometimes how you weave
those different perspectives together.
The questions you ask, how the person feels,
is as important as just what their heart rate is
and what their this is and what their that is.
You're building up a much more complex picture
of the person in which those facts are embedded,
but they're not the only thing that's driving
your sense of what this person needs in their wellness.
Yeah, I wanna ask you about feeling
and about because I'm trying to imagine you as a little girl,
I have a few times because you've talked about your parents
and it sounds like you had a very stable,
loving, safe environment,
even to the extent that you were sort of looking,
doing some edge work or looking for the instability
or realizing the instability and trying to understand it.
I wanna hear about that a little bit
and how you've journeyed,
what path you've been walking in terms of feeling,
not only coming into your body,
but also with studying physics, the complexity science,
the path that you've gone on
that led into embracing complexity
and then the Tao of complexity.
What's feeling been like in all of that?
Has it been, have you been on a journey
in terms of your exploration of what feeling is for you
and how you connect with others?
Yes, golly.
All childhoods have wounds and traumas of various sorts.
Some people perhaps don't, but most people do.
And my parents were quite strict,
so they had kind of quite black and white ideas
about things and what they did
if you didn't adhere to them.
So as a kind of very lively questioning child,
you know, that it wasn't always straightforward,
you know, there were traumas in that.
And I guess the truth is it's your woundedness,
it's your awkwardnesses and your difficulties
that, you know, that shape who you become.
They either get embedded and people say,
well, nobody changes, what can you do?
Or if you're a kind of determined kind of person,
I think I always go digging, you know,
whether it's quantum physics or me, you know,
it's like, why am I reacting this way
or why do I feel like this?
And so I think it is a path of healing woundedness
and understanding that both individually and societally,
you know, a book that had a lot of impact on me
a long time ago is a book called
When Society Becomes an Addict.
And it was a description of a society
that starts to feel, oh, well, I don't know very much,
you know, that man in charge, he must know what he's doing,
I'll leave it all to him, he can be the big daddy
and I'll just kind of hope it all works out okay
because who am I to question it?
And it's a sort of addictive response to a father figure
that lets you off the hook and allows you to play.
And then if that gets, then get perpetrated into,
well, to be a good citizen, you must be a good consumer,
you know, spend, spend, spend, be selfish.
You know, you start to create a society of selfish people
who kind of, or you tell them, well, inequality,
you know, they all had the opportunity, you know,
it's your fault if you're poor, you know,
the opportunity was there.
There's all sorts of messages societies give people
and you get a toxic society
that perpetrates these kinds of ideas, you know,
that, you know, men are both selfish and not selfish.
If you have a society which tells you to be selfish,
rewards you to be selfish, you know,
you will become more selfish as opposed to the opposite.
So I think both societally and personally,
it's often loss, wounds, you know, difficulties, you know,
that are what shapes us if we face up to it.
And that's certainly without, you know,
going into gory detail, that's been part of my journey.
And quite, you know, difficult things to deal with sometimes
that have taken a lot of facing up to,
but have kind of then are transformative if you're lucky.
And if you face it and with help sometimes.
It makes me think of the work of Joanna Macy.
And I know you know her and like her work
or influenced by her work as well.
And what you were saying about the society,
I hadn't thought of it so much,
that these are kind of wounds that we take on
that we even becoming addicted to buying things
or addicted to trying to look better
or addicted to having more follows and all of this.
There's something when that's happening to us
that we know something is wrong about it.
And it becomes hard to hold the space
that you were opening up in the beginning
where we can see that it's,
we can surf it and maybe find another path.
But yeah, I hadn't thought about that,
that does kind of become almost like wounds.
And just to go back to Joanna Macy,
her work is about sort of sitting with that, right?
Or feeling that, has that been part of your practice?
Yes, I mean, Joanna is one of the people
I really admire in the world.
It would be somebody, and I think to be,
to take this path is to be able to cope
with being an outsider and being different.
And I think you need people be through literature
or in real life, and Joanna's a bit of both.
I've spent a week with her a couple of years ago
and I've met her before,
but you need people who help you,
help hold you in these difficult spaces.
And I'm also trying to hold the space,
which I think is unusual,
you can't just put me in the kind of cuddly feely box,
because I'm marrying, I can do theoretical physics,
I'm marrying the analysis and the feeling.
I'm not saying, let's forget about the feeling.
Brian Goodwin, he was a very good mathematician,
he was a computational biologist, and he married the two.
He and Goethe, these big thinkers.
Joanna Macy's PhD is in looking at the relationship
between Buddhism and systems thinking.
And it's a beautiful piece of work.
She has a sharp brain,
but she's embodied a heartful way
of engaging with the world.
She has a masterful intellect.
It's a very, very good piece of work,
but it was always married with her views of compassion
and feeling about the future.
And she always married the two.
And she is somebody, as you say,
that I have always looked up to,
and being with her brings tears to your eyes somehow.
There's something about how she embodies love, really,
at the same time as having a mind as sharp as a tack.
I mean, she's perhaps showing,
she's not getting any younger,
but that mixture, that integration,
as the Chinese have it, of heart-mind,
has been a kind of split that's happened more in the West
since this idea of sciences about facts and logic,
and then the rest of it's sort of something to do
with spirituality and religion.
And one of the themes I write about in the book
is how, in a variety of ways,
quantum physics opens the door to mysticism, again.
There's one of my colleagues
who was a mathematical physicist said,
there's almost like there's cracks.
The universe has got cracks in it.
You can never build it up out of building blocks.
It's a bit like a badly made piece of furniture
that never quite fits together.
And as Leonard Cohen said, I love this quote,
there's a crack in everything.
That's where the light gets in.
So there's a sort of reintegration
of heart-mind of science and spirituality
that I think is very interesting.
But it doesn't make those people who were transcending that
into people who suddenly give up on logic
or data or analysis.
It's more about a marriage, of marrying the two.
Yes, I really appreciate that you do that with the book
and that you say that now,
because I think there is a kind of,
there's almost like a reaction
if you hear certain words or certain phrases
or even Daoism, some people without necessarily meaning
to categorize it in a way
that would be somehow considered opposite of science.
Holding paradox in the way we've been talking about
is opening a space for both of those,
which is what you're doing, right?
Yes, and what I'm trying to say
is not that Daoism is science,
but that the worldview, the metaphysics,
of complexity theory and the worldview,
the cosmology of Daoism hold a very similar view
of the way the world works.
Now, science is often about how do you find out about things?
So there are two aspects of science.
One of them is what is the world like?
That's an ontological stance.
And the complexity view of science
that comes from physics and chemistry and biology originally
is a better fit, I'm arguing,
with the social and natural world
with the way society works
in the same way that Daoism is.
So that's the ontological connection.
Then the knowing connection,
the epistemological connection,
is really saying that if you want to know,
and this is Brian Goodwin's point about health, for example,
you have to use a mixture of the hard and the soft,
the subjective and the objective,
the qualitative and the quantitative.
So in that sense, it changes your knowing
of the social world becomes something
that can't just be pinned down
to data and analysis and facts in quite that way.
So that's what I mean by science.
But one of the things I think people use Daoism to mean,
I find, I pick up this is I'm not saying,
I'm not just saying everything flows or go with the flow.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying we have to co-create the future flow.
We both have to step into it and then we're co-creating it.
So it's quite active.
And it's not saying there's no leadership, for example,
or it's not saying, if I join an organization
with this idea of getting in the flow,
I've got to understand the hard structures
in the organization as well as the informal structures.
And then I've got to work out how things actually happen
as opposed to how people pretend they happen
or hope they happen.
It has a hard edged element to it.
And I certainly would in my work be saying,
well, that's something we can measure.
What's the population density?
What's the rate of change of population increase?
How many people have fallen over in this hospital?
There's nothing, this is not just going,
I'm going to meditate and go with the flow
and see what happens.
But that is sometimes how it could be characterized that way.
Yes, and it's definitely not that it's understanding
that you can have these patterns that are shared
and these things can be very different
and very needed in different situations
at different times.
That's a hard thing for people to hold,
but I feel like that's the future, right?
Or if we're going to have a future.
Yeah, and also it's like if I came along to your family
and said, I've analyzed your family and it follows this,
it's this sort of family and here's your pack
and you just need to do these things
and then everything will be perfect.
You laugh at me.
Whereas, an organization or a community
is only a big family.
So there's something we can learn.
I can say, well, how did this town transform itself?
Well, I can learn from that,
but we're a bit different because we have this history.
So it creates a different set of questions to ask,
I think, in working.
I think a lot of working within a more complex way
is asking questions rather than coming out with,
this is the answer to your situation.
Yes, and you use the word making a lot
and you just brought it up that it's a participatory
and engaged activity.
I think that's an important aspect too
that you really bring up in the book.
And that also relates to what you're saying.
It's not just let go and flow.
No, it isn't, no, in my view.
But in the book, you seem to have a larger,
I won't say purpose,
but this does seem motivated by care and love.
And it is about making new waves.
And before we go,
maybe we could just speak a bit about love,
what that word means to you or care.
And if you see that as how that motivates you
or what part that plays in your work.
Well, I perhaps touched on it a little bit.
If you take the view that things are connected,
that in some sense, not immediately,
but there's a kind of,
we're a bit like ripples on an ocean.
There's a kind of connectivity.
Then what I do
is part of the whole,
is co-creating the future with this idea of process.
Therefore, it matters what I do.
It might feel it doesn't matter,
but actually, we never know as I was saying earlier,
whether we're playing a big part or a little part,
or sometimes people have come up to me,
I'm sure they have with your podcast,
years later and say,
what you said there really changed my mind.
That really got me.
And you probably don't even remember saying it,
but you never know.
But we are weaving together
in this kind of interdependent way,
what the future is,
which is a Buddhist view, a Taoist view,
and I think comes out of this kind of complexity science.
So it both matters that I care about things
unless I just want to win.
There are, we can point to people in this world
who say, I don't care.
I don't care about the future.
I don't care about people.
You have resources I want.
I want to win.
I want to be the biggest president there's ever been
or whatever it is.
So you can contravene this,
but you will get something
that in the end is much less resilient
and certainly plays havoc with,
plays Russian roulette with the future.
So I don't want to do that.
I don't, somebody was asking me,
how did I, did I find it difficult to have values
or what my values would be?
And it's like, well, no, not really.
I want there to be a sustainable,
just resilient future for life on earth.
And in order to do that, I have to care about it.
And if I just care about making more money
or winning this argument or having more power,
that's not going to work.
And we're all going to die and I don't take that with me.
My legacy is, feels much more,
I feel much more pleased if I were to have a legacy
where I did my own little bit, my own bit of activism,
which might be speaking and writing to help us
do the best we can, even with things
not being in a great state in a variety of ways,
to help that, help the future, help us to have a future.
And so that's what love means to me.
And I think, as I was saying earlier,
I think through, you know, through cultivating myself
or trying to in a variety of ways,
compassion becomes more embodied for me than an idea.
It becomes easier.
It isn't like I'm having to decide
whether that's in my best interest.
It's like love flows, I suppose.
Your heart opens.
And I think that that can be something you cultivate or not.
You can guard your heart and make yourself feel safe
or distance or be greedy, or you can do the opposite.
So I think it's a good word.
And, you know, if we can cultivate love,
many of the atrocities that we see happening
and the selfishnesses would become harder to perpetrate.
And I think in the same way you've been saying
that it's not just some kind of passive thing
that we actually make love and we make meaning.
And it is all of the stuff we've been talking about.
It's not, you know, it's not just some easy thing to do.
No, it's also, you know, it's about,
I was talking to somebody earlier today
about being a bit mindless with someone
where I corrected some, I'd edited something
in a not really, I did it very quickly.
I wasn't really thinking about it.
And it had quite an impact on the person
for a variety of reasons.
And I felt terrible.
I thought, well, that was awful of me.
You know, I was doing it quickly.
I'm just so used to words.
It doesn't hurt me if people alter my words.
I don't, it doesn't matter.
For him, it was like a huge,
it really upset him for a variety of reasons.
And I had to face up to the fact,
well, my lack of thought and my sort of
quite casualness about that had been hurtful.
And, you know, I had, I, yeah.
So you have to face, yes, I'm rambling a bit here,
I think, Betty.
No, actually, I'm really glad you said that.
That's actually very helpful because it's-
You have to face it yourself, yeah.
Yeah, and it's, there's two things there.
One is that we were talking about,
this is a constant practice and this paying attention
because we don't really realize our own habits
and we don't realize the way others see those.
So for you, you're just being direct
and yeah, this paying attention,
but just going with it could,
obviously for the student, it means something else,
but it can be very hard in the moment
to realize this, to pay attention,
to think about all of that when you have a million
other things you need to be doing.
But that is the practice, isn't it?
Just- Yes, and sometimes noticing,
I was saying to this person,
so I'd had an incident with a neighbor
about wanting them to cut their tree shorter
and they didn't want to.
And I can be really persistent.
I don't like, I don't give up easily,
which is a good thing sometimes, you know,
I keep going and other times it isn't.
And she said to me, well, maybe the tree mattered to them.
And it's like, I'm so, I'm so into,
you know, it's too, you know, it's cutting my light,
you know, and it's like, I don't,
if you put yourself in the other position, you go,
oh yes, well, maybe they do feel differently about the tree,
then you can kind of be, you could be more relational in it.
And it's this split sometimes between,
this is logical, your tree's too high,
I've got right on my side, cut your tree down,
doesn't get you anywhere.
But it's, when you see that, you think,
oh dear, you know, here I am again, you know,
with, upon trying to put, you know,
trying to make something happen,
which, you know, in a different context,
this is, it's all about context is something that's good.
You know, I will stand my ground sometimes when,
you know, we'll keep pushing, but it's, it is a practice
and it's, it's a comp, it's paradoxical and complex.
There's not one right answer.
It will be, it depends on the situation, but it's being,
you know, some people go, oh, I can't be bothered with that.
But through that minutiae,
and I think this is something that,
that prugagines sort of complexity emphasizes.
It's, it's the minutiae, it's sometimes the subtleness
that actually creates the shift in society or in,
you know, in the change, in the community.
It's not the logical big thing.
It's the, it's the moment that matters.
Sometimes, sometimes things really matter.
Yes, and I think these small things,
like what you're talking about,
I know you said you think you're rambling,
but actually I think this is incredibly important
because it is these small moments
that actually do make big changes.
And someone understanding, just hearing you say
that you could take, take in the situation,
either the tree or the student differently,
just being able to hold that I think can help people
because we do often think we're either right or wrong
or we have to defend our, you know,
no, I'm right about the tree or well,
he should just be tougher.
He's just got to deal with criticism.
Sometimes people go into those roles
just because we do have this either or kind of reaction.
So, and a lot of what you're writing in the book
about that process is helping us hold that space long enough
to not take it personally and just say,
oh yeah, maybe they do care about the tree.
That's a very small thing, but I would say it actually,
once you can do that adds to your quality of life
immeasurably, if you can be okay with yourself to do that,
would you agree?
Yes, yes, no, no, no, definitely.
And if, you know, if we're all, you know,
in a variety of ways and all the people, you know,
I was not all the people, but you know,
these kind of complex scientific worldviews, you know,
for many people are trying to make the world a better place,
but it is this kind of, you know, right brain,
more interwoven view that helps you to do that.
Well, it's marrying the two always.
So there are facts and I'm not denying that,
but it's how do you cultivate both at the same time?
You know, some of the developmental models
that it's why I don't like to think of complexity
as a thinking practice.
I think being able to embrace complexity
requires a kind of bigger perspective.
It's kind of looking wider and longer,
being able to integrate disparate ideas.
It's being able to hold the heart and the mind together.
You know, it's, I'm not saying we've all got to be able
to do that all the time, but that's what we're,
that is what we're aiming for.
And it holds up that vision for us.
Whereas often in organizations, we go,
just do what you're told, just fill in this form.
You know, this is the best method, teach this way.
You know, we'll measure your success in this way.
So we kind of dumb down people
into a kind of mechanical process
and they leave their humanity at the door
and, you know, do all these kind of slightly meaningless
tasks and then go back.
Whereas this vision of a more, you know, relational,
complex heart-mind sort of world, you know,
is something that can aspire us to move towards them,
I think, and is more like the world is.
You know, it creates greater effectiveness
if we embrace that complexity, not by just going,
it's complex, but by understanding the nature
of that complexity, this idea of patterning
and paradox and flow.
It equips me with a different kind of frame
in which to hone my behaviors in, you know,
to be effective in the world.
Yes, and I do think that is that space
of feeling the compassion that you were talking about
or you do start to live in a different way
and it can be hard to put that into words or explain.
It can also be hard not to see someone being a bully
who's in a place of power and think that's the way
you have to always do it.
But when you're actually living as the bully,
it's a very, it's not a very nice reality.
It's not, it's nothing like living
in that place of compassion, but you can only know it
if you experience it.
And sometimes the optics confuse us, don't they?
Yeah, definitely.
Did you have any experience of love
or anything about love that you would like to share
with anyone, anything that comes to mind
or you brought up your parents a few times
and I don't know if I really followed through on that,
but just anything about, any experience of love that.
I think sometimes there can be tiny little acts
when acts of kindness that makes such a difference
to people.
So it's not, it's not always in the big.
It's sometimes, I remember a story somebody once told me
about a little boy at a concert
and his parents were kind of getting cross with him
because he was not really enjoying it fidgeting
and they were being quite strict with him and so on.
And my friend was sitting apparently behind him
and he was looking quite lost.
You know, he obviously wasn't very happy.
You know, there was a loss of criticism
and she started making faces at him and made him laugh.
And you can see that as a little act of resistance
to the over dominance or control of his parents.
You know, he just was seen by her in that moment.
And I can think of tiny moments like that in my life
where something's really, you know,
somebody's noticed something or responded to something
in me that I hardly knew was there,
but made all the difference.
So I think, you know, love can be in the cracks
as well as just some sort of big idea
and can make all the difference, yeah.
Yeah, I think actually it is in the cracks.
When I look back to sometimes the love might be someone
at the supermarket who happened to notice something
and say something which you remember
for the rest of your life,
even though you'll never see those people again.
Yes, completely.
Well, Jean, it's just been wonderful and I love your book.
And there's so much in there that we didn't get to,
of course, but I appreciate you sharing this time with me.
And I appreciate your book.
Is there anything before we go
that you want to add or say?
No, I've enjoyed talking about it.
It's vulnerable making,
because if you're prepared to share who you really are,
you know, it's a big thing.
And thank you for the kind of questions you've asked
and how you've held it.
You've made it very easy to open up
and talk about these things.
And I feel like I've been able to express my truth in a way.
So thank you very much.
I've enjoyed it.
Thank you for saying that.
And thank you for going there with me
because I am sure that someone will hear it
and need it somewhere.
And even if it's only one person,
as we've been talking about,
more love gets in through the cracks.
And thank you for everything.
Okay, thank you.
All right, be well.
