I discovered that I was taught not to care.
We got a specific sentence maybe to summarize the drama of maintenance.
That is to make everything go on as if nothing had happened.
As if nothing had happened to whom?
No house, no building, no nothing can last without some kind of maintenance.
This is really closely connected to the theories of care saying that
we all need some people to take care of us at some point, some day.
Hello everyone, welcome to Love and Philosophy.
This is Andrea and here we explore philosophical, scientific, technological
and even poetic spaces beyond either or bounds.
Today we're diving into a conversation about maintenance,
which might not sound very exciting, but believe me it is,
and also care and our relationship with the world, with materials,
but also with all other sorts of relationships
because it's all connected.
But first I want to introduce this idea of STS,
and also a person named Bruno Latour.
Those of you who already know everything about science and technology studies,
you can skip ahead a little bit, but for those who don't,
it's an interdisciplinary field and it examines how science and technology
are tangled up with all these social, political, economic ideas
that scientific facts, for example, or objective truths
are not in isolation from all these relations.
It actually explores a lot of themes that we've talked about
through something like participatory sense-making, for example,
but it's doing it more from a sort of tech side
and how it connects to this relationality
and how we might think of it a little bit differently.
And one influential figure there is a person named Bruno Latour.
He actually passed away a couple years ago, maybe three years ago,
and he was a French philosopher, an anthropologist, a sociologist,
kind of hard to characterize, but he wrote this groundbreaking book way back
called Laboratory Life in the 70s.
I think it was even maybe the end of the 70s.
Then he wrote another book called Science in Action,
and then he wrote books like We've Never Been More Modern
or We've Never Been Modern, not sure exactly, one of those titles.
And this was part of how SDS became a discipline
because it was rethinking labs and science and what it all means
and even what objects mean.
And there's a whole actor network theory, which he proposed,
which a lot of you might have heard of or come into contact with.
And it's sort of tracing how the associations between people and things
create these patterns, which are stable and which end up being
what we think of as like something like society, for example.
So in this conversation, you'll hear us talk a little bit about
this missing masses idea, and that comes from a famous essay
by Latour called Where Are the Missing Masses?
And in that article or essay, he argued that when sociologists
try to understand social bonds or all these relations,
they're sort of coming up short because something's missing.
And what is it that's missing? The objects.
So these material artifacts that surround us and that are, you know,
always part of us from seat belts to the doors that we close,
to the desks that we sit at, to all the tools that we use,
which gets into sort of technology.
These are all kind of like agents that are shaping us
or that we're shaping, that are co-shaping our behavior
and a lot of our responsibilities and the way that we're held together
become tied to these objects or to these relations of artifacts
might be a better way to say it.
So this might remind you of something like Extended Mind, for example,
where we really start to think of the objects as extensions of
or part of or participants in all these other things that we're creating.
And this is just more connected to the social fabric.
But as you'll hear today's two guests discuss,
instead of really thinking about objects in the way that they're presenting here,
as you'll hear, the sense of maintenance, let's just say, is what's different.
And we're going to get into that here, but not just thinking about the objects,
but actually objects aren't even what we think they are.
And the two authors of this book, which is called The Care of Things,
which I read and I highly recommend, is Jérôme Denis and David Pondelia.
Those are the two guests today.
And Jérôme is going to introduce David and David is going to introduce Jérôme.
So I will let you wait for that.
But both of them are really accomplished scholars in different ways.
And they've been working at very important research centers
and universities in France and thinking about these ideas.
They're founding members of various journals and groups of people who are really
influential in teaching kind of engineers and people in technical systems
and thinking about what a technical system is.
So they collaborated on this book, but they've actually been working together for a long time.
I think they say well over a decade.
So they also have a relationship, which is itself important here.
And they were actually working on A Small Sociology of Signage, which they did together.
I think that's the English version in 2010.
And that was about the Paris Metro system.
And their partnership was this sort of collaborative ethnographic research.
And it was in that research that they came upon this idea of maintenance and what this
really means and rethinking care, the care of things.
So this book that they wrote, which was published in French in 2022 and in English
just last year, is a meditation on what it means to make things.
And I'm publishing this around Thanksgiving in the United States because I was thinking
about this kind of gratitude that's part of reimagining how things are maintained every day
by us, by those around us, by various people and workers, and how a lot of the work that's
important, whether it's in the education system or actually with the objects all around us,
is a kind of maintenance.
And this book is really beautiful because it kind of flips our attention and reminds
us of that ongoing care, actually, that's happening all the time.
And there's something really helpful about that right now.
Wonderfully, they came to this because as they were studying the signage system of the
Paris Metro, which is very beautiful if you've ever seen it, and they were actually looking
at the writing of it, but they were thinking about the power of writing.
It's capacity to organize the ways we live together.
And as they were doing that, someone just sort of at the end of their research said,
well, have you talked to the maintenance workers yet?
And they were kind of shocked because they hadn't even thought about that.
And so they went to talk to the maintenance workers of all these signs.
And that completely changed everything they thought they knew about the signs.
In the book, they write that they knew those signs in every detail by them.
But then when they were talking to the maintenance workers, the people who cared for
them daily to see them through their eyes, everything changed.
It was completely different.
And I don't know if you've ever really worked closely behind the scenes, maybe even at a
restaurant or something.
But you do notice that these when you're doing these daily work to maintain what other people
take, not kind of for granted, or they don't really notice, you see everything differently.
And there's something really interesting about that.
And it relates to this idea of the missing mass that I brought up about Latour, this
ongoing thing that's so obvious in every day that we don't see it anymore.
Two people I should mention.
One is Ukalis, which is an artist, which we talk about a lot.
I'll come back to her in just a minute.
But the other is John Oliver from Last Week Tonight.
Check out the link in the show notes to a little clip from Last Week Tonight called
Infrastructure, which we mention in this episode because it's this kind of parody of
some of the things we talk about how, you know, whatever.
It's not sexy to think about maintenance, but actually maybe it is.
Some of the key themes that we talk about here are fragility in that way.
And rather than celebrating just robustness and autonomy and all these things, there's
something actually about fragility and ongoing maintenance and relationships and care that
is actually really strong and not at all what we might think of when we hear the word fragility,
for example.
It's actually this wonderful paradox or this beyond kind of either or idea of the fragility
of life and the care for it being actually what is maybe our strongest embodiment and
our strongest reason for even being here and wanting to be here.
And then, of course, we also talk about attention a lot because that has a lot to do with this.
And this meta-attentional engagement is a big influence for them.
The idea that nothing happens, but then everything is happening in that nothing, so to speak.
It's sort of the key element and noticing it makes all the difference.
And then maintenance versus repair is a big theme that you'll hear us talk about.
So something breaks, you know, on a big scale and we have this big emergency and then people
come and repair it.
And those people usually end up being heroes or something when things have to be repaired
in a sort of contrast, but actually not even only in a contrast, but a deepening.
Actually, there's this ongoing maintenance, which is like the daily pulsation, I think
they call it, this rhythm, this pulsation of attention and ongoing care that sort of
prevents breakdowns most of the time.
So it's odd that we have the breakdown, or at least when things are running in a certain
way, which we hope will continue.
We also talk about this invisibility and this missing quality, which I think a lot
of us feel in different ways right now.
And maybe this is an interesting way to put a finger on what is that feeling of this missing
something missing or invisibleness that we need to see clearly again.
Also, just a celebration, or they talk about thinking with maintenance workers and people
that are doing this and how it actually transforms the way you're in the world.
And UKLIS, the person I mentioned is kind of, she's basically an American artist who
wrote this whole manifesto for maintenance art.
And I really would suggest you look at her work, U-K-E-L-E-S, UKLIS.
And she has this whole wonderful manifesto coming on the side of maintenance, so to speak.
She says something like, I'm an artist, I'm a woman, I'm a wife, I'm a mother.
I do a hell of a lot of washing, cleaning, cooking, supporting.
And those are just sort of everyday things, but I want to exhibit them as my art because
they are art.
And not only her, she talks about other people who are doing these so-called everyday things,
but actually those things are holding life together and they're very artistic.
If you just put your attention on them in a certain way.
Her masterwork is this thing called touch sanitation.
And that was from, I think it was around the same time Bruno Latour was writing his first
book, like end of 70s or early 80s.
And she goes around and shakes hands with every maintenance worker or every sanitation
worker in New York City and telling them thank you and just putting her attention on them
and seeing them because they literally hold that city together.
I just mentioned her work because we talk about it here but we don't ever explain it
and it is a kind of thread in their book.
Also this sensibility.
A lot of the conversations I've been having lately, I think most of them I haven't published
yet but you'll be hearing them coming because I have these conversations months before they
air.
And some of them I have the conversations and they never actually go public.
But a lot of them are talking about touch.
Instead of thinking about sight and vision and eyes all the time, a lot of people seem
to be turning towards this idea of touch and the senses in a deeper way.
And the sensibleness and sensitivity and tact and tactile.
So you hear those words a lot or at least they come up a lot in the book and I'm pretty
sure in our conversation too.
The way things feel and touching them, repairing them, sewing, washing the dishes, taking care
of each other, holding each other as a kind of care that's also like just daily sort of
the way we touch each other.
All of that is part of these ideas here.
We're going to engage with that on different levels in this conversation and it goes even
deeper in the book.
There's a lot of beautiful examples.
What I hope you get out of it is just thinking about when we think about this moment now
that we're in wherever we are and about our future, then maybe it's not about being
autonomous individuals only, but also this power that humans are so good at caring for
each other.
We actually we have this wonderful superpower of care and of allowing our fragility to
bring us into much more strength and innovation and that that takes patience and humility
and of course love and that those are actually powerful things.
Those are powerful things.
Humility, attention, patience, love.
These are actually superpowers.
I really believe that.
So on that note, let's go on into this conversation.
I hope you enjoy it and happy Thanksgiving.
I'm really thankful for you.
I'm thankful for whatever you do today that gives anything of love, humility, patience,
or care on any level.
Just know that it's important.
Even if nobody seems to see it, it matters.
All right, here we go.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
Thank you so much for being here.
I was going to let you both introduce one another or introduce yourself as you see fit today.
One another is a good idea.
Here is David Ponti, who is a researcher at the French National Research Center
and also a member of the Center for Sociology of Innovation from an engineer school,
École des Mines, mining school in Paris.
And this is Jérôme Denis, who is actually the director of the CSI in Paris,
in the Mines School of Mines.
I was actually there not too long ago.
So I actually have a good visualization of your university.
I was walking and going into the museum with all the beautiful rocks.
And it's yeah, I loved it.
I love seeing all those rocks.
Wow, it was really spectacular.
Just so you know, so I'm actually envisioning you.
Okay, you have an idea of the kind of book.
Exactly.
So we're going to talk about this book, which I want to show the cover
because I just love the cover.
I mean, I'm sure there's different covers, but the care of things.
Ethics and politics and maintenance.
So how did you come to the subject?
How did you come to one another?
And how did you come to this subject?
You can start anywhere with that, but I'm very interested in it.
So one another, it's a very long story.
It began in the end of the 1990s, actually.
We were doing our PhD, not together, but we were on the same team.
So we were quite young.
It's more than 25 years ago.
And maybe David can explain.
He was working on scientific signature, co-authorships and stuff like that.
And so progressively we decided we would do that, sign and do research together.
And that's one of the outcomes of this decision made in, I don't know, maybe
88, 89, 98, 99, maybe, probably.
That actually fits very well with the care and slowness and over time.
So did you want to add anything to that?
Yeah, we cannot dive into all the decisions we did all along this journey.
But at some point, very early, because of the topic of our respective PhD,
so I was working on scientific authorship and on other things related to writing
in organization and work settings.
And at some point, writing came up as really a topic to investigate.
And we did different research separately, but always talked about what we did separately.
And at some point we came with a collaborative investigation in the early, it was in 2005 or 6.
And then we really go into this urban science in Paris.
Inquiry and we were really into the design and the production of those signs
and how they organize and shape all the subway settings, all the corridors and everything.
So writing has a powerful means to organize and discipline people into this area.
And at some point in this investigation, maintenance really apprised.
It was not part of the topic.
It was not a decision to investigate, study maintenance.
But it really came up from the field almost at the end of our inquiry,
because we were in this meeting with one of our, let's say, the main informants.
We were discussing all we did and if something is missing, and we were almost saying goodbye.
And she, this kind of flash, and said, oh, did you went to the maintenance department
and follow the maintenance guy? And we were, no.
So it was a new start for the investigation.
And at the same time, Graham and Thrift published a paper in 2007.
The title is Out of Order.
And so we realized how for these two years in investigation,
one to design and the other one to maintenance about these subway signs,
was not only a monograph, but it really relates to a broader concern in academia
and not only in academia, but to different people, organizations, practitioners.
And so the decision come here.
After the maintenance present ourselves have something interesting,
we decided to dive into it.
And so we organized different panels and conferences
to meet with different people we didn't know before that
and discover different topics and objects
and the way these scholars deal with the way they are maintained.
So at some point we became part of what we call two-branded maintenance and repair studies.
I think it's becoming actually a real world, it looks like.
I mean, the more I look, the more I found, which is always a good sign.
But I like that you came across this in a way that was a surprise.
As I was reading the book, which of course is about maintenance of things,
and we'll get into that, I did find myself thinking a lot about writing
and about research and about the other topics that I imagine had led you into it.
There's definitely a lot of resonance there,
which maybe we can come back to or you can say something about any time.
But you were looking at the signage or the writing of the metro signs in Paris,
which are very special.
And then that was a big project.
And it was sort of at the end that someone said,
have you talked to the guys that are doing the maintenance?
And you were like, oh, no.
And you went to do that.
And then in the book, you say it changed everything in a way,
like everything, I'm not sure exactly how you say it,
but somehow everything that you had thought was different
after you talked to the maintenance people.
This is very important because this is maybe a specificity of this book.
We are not philosophers, we are sociologists or STS scholars.
But there is this idea that we needed maintainers to do philosophy in a way,
to understand their own philosophical problems, let's say it like that.
So maybe to put it in a nutshell,
at the end, at the first end, at the face end of our investigation,
we consider that the power of science,
their ability to organize the world of wayfinding systems,
and especially the Paris one,
was, I don't know, the source of this power was immutability
and omnipresence or the fact that the boards were standardized,
the signs were standardized, heavily standardized,
and they were made in a specific material, a very sturdy material.
That was how a lot of people told us.
So we were like very first Bruno Latourian, we were Latourian in a way,
saying that, okay, it's immobile, immutable,
and this is how they are so important.
The first rounds we did with the maintainers,
so we separated each other and one went with two guys
and the other with two other guys for the whole day,
for the first investigation in the maintenance department.
And everything we imagined and we knew about science
seems to be, yeah, not exactly like it is in the real,
in reality or in the corridors or in the station,
on the platforms and stuff like that.
All the places, because they seem to be,
these signs seem to be fragile, they change,
they were not all up to date, they weren't here,
there were things that were absolutely not in our picture
in the first part of our investigation.
And what changed at first is that we thought that we were wrong,
that we were completely, I don't know,
it was a misinterpretation at first,
and so we said we have to put everything we knew
and we thought about science in the bin
and just completely start over our investigation.
But thinking about it and reading about maintenance
and really, especially reading about care,
and we will go about that further, I imagine,
but reading a work of Ann Marimol and the idea of versions,
and progressively we understood
that it was not that one version was the right one
and the first one was the wrong one,
it was that the idea of immutable high mobiles
were performed by the fragile signs
that were taken care of by the maintainers.
So the idea that maintenance produces,
generates the solid, completely standardized version of the signs.
So we reconciled the two sides of our investigation eventually,
but it changed everything because especially we were,
really we were completely in depth with the first Bruno Latour
and Madeleine Akrisch sociology with objects and artifacts
and the idea that matter is important,
matter matters in social relationships
and generally when you say that in social sciences,
you think of matter as something that resists,
and you know people doing this,
to say that matter is important in social sciences
and in social relationships.
And so we just, we progressively understood that
the point is obviously matter matters,
but also in terms of fragility
and of people taking care of matter and of objects and of artifacts,
which is not exactly very present in the first actor network theory studies,
even if in the first Madeleine Akrisch papers,
repairers, maintainers are present,
they are not completely erased.
In Bruno Latour's works, it's less,
it's really, they are less visible
and actually Susanne Lister wrote a very important paper
in which she wrote that there is no reason to put aside maintenance.
So she didn't really dive into it,
but she insisted about that,
discussing Bruno Latour and the sociology of door closer,
a famous Bruno Latour paper.
Maybe just to add a few things,
that change is the way,
because at that time we were not in the Center for Sociology of Innovation.
The thing is that being Latourian, Akrischian,
we were, let's say, into innovation
and following different kinds of innovation and in writing practices.
And so the thing that changes is to step aside a bit from innovation
and understand how maintenance is related to it or not.
The second, the other, not the second,
the other thing that changes is the way
that we make room for maintenance.
And making room for maintenance
is to investigate some parts of the world
that are no more designer and users, just to be quick.
To try to make it a little bit general,
one thing that comes to mind for me when I was reading this
and when I hear this is,
there's a similar pattern, I think,
that I've experienced in different areas of life
and one that I think is very general,
that maybe everyone would understand if I express it as,
when I started studying neuroscience or science,
I had this idea of it,
which is, I think, comparable
to the way you might have thought of those signs.
It's a solid object.
I think it fits with the Latourian concepts.
It's solid or in a sense.
And then the closer I got to it,
what I would say becoming part of the maintenance in a way,
the more I couldn't really believe in that.
And it became much more complicated.
And yeah, there was a kind of a rupture,
which was leading to a lot of further insights,
but also you have to recognize this fragility
that I had been putting a lot on it not being fragile in a way.
I don't know if that makes much sense to either of you
or if that opens anything for you,
but I just want to put it there for people who don't.
Maybe I've never read Bruno Latour
or how this opened out of a clear,
either or sort of situation into,
in the book you talk a lot about fragility
and multi-sensory and multi-dimensions.
It just becomes intra-related.
And that moment seems like an important one.
Yes.
So first thing is,
there is important connections with science studies
and the first laboratory studies,
which mean that people really observing how science is made,
is concretely made,
is a very good way to grasp and to understand this fragility
and this processural making of, for instance,
or Michael Lynch did at the end of the 70s
and the beginning of the 80s.
So one of their main gesture was to acknowledge this fragility,
this heterogeneity of the science practices.
But then the science and technology studies
went with technology, the T of STS.
And the discussion somehow was displaced
around mainly innovation, as David said,
and more large settings of discussing
not the fragility of innovation.
It's a bit like that,
but the heterogeneity of the trajectories of any innovation
to just to criticize the idea of
you have research and development
and then market studies and then users
who adopt or not a technology.
So the technology studies,
in science and technology studies,
did that mainly.
And when they insisted on a role of objects and artifacts,
it's like in material culture studies
and in the first laterian text about sociology
with objects and with artifacts,
they almost forgot the fragility part of it in a way
to insist that we live and humans live among artifacts
which participate in the organization of the society.
And this is what Bruno Latour called the missing masses.
And he used to criticize sociologists saying that
you are speaking about social relations,
but only with humans.
And this is completely stupid
because humans couldn't do society
if they didn't have any objects,
if they were naked.
And this is why we are not exactly like monkeys.
So that's the first aspect of it.
And this is why fragility and heterogeneity
and processes are important in science
and technology studies,
but intriguingly not as much
when it comes to discuss the importance
of artifacts or objects.
So that's the first point.
So what you say about the fragility
and the material heterogeneity is really important
because this is the first thing that struck us
when we followed the maintenance
in Paris subway or subway
is that they were dealing with the science
in a very special way
that is as something that is some things
that were constantly transforming,
that were constantly changing.
And actually, of course,
signboards for them were very important,
but it was not only signboards.
It was rust.
It was the wall and the materials
with which the wall is made
and the materials of the signs itself
and how everything interacts.
And so it's not only fragility.
I think fragility was the first thing
that really struck us.
I said, oh, they are not as solid as we thought.
But then we discovered that
what was very important for maintenance
is this material transformation.
And this is very important to us
because they taught us in a way
and they helped us to understand
what Deleuze, for instance,
or Deleuze and Guattari said about the craftsmen
and the idea that these are the kind of people
who are able to plug themselves into the flux of matter,
which is something more material,
so the flux of materials.
When you read this, this is quite abstract.
You can understand, but it's quite abstract.
And when you follow maintenance, it's very concrete.
It's exactly what they are doing
and it's exactly their problems.
They want to understand how matter reacts,
how materials interact between each other.
And this is really crucial
to get these lessons from maintenance
and to understand how they deal very simply
with very huge problematic issues
and philosophical issues.
And I remember during our first presentations
and our first communications,
we met with Karen Barad in a conference
and we did one of our first presentations
about the signs that were fragile,
that were broken,
and saying that they are not as immobile and immutable.
And she was very nice, but she disappeared after that,
so we never met again.
But she really, she went after our presentation
and said, okay, you are exactly explaining very simply
what I tried to explain to people
and they don't understand.
But this is not us, this is maintenance.
And so, and I think it's very important
because it's the way maintainers live in the world
and the way they are experiencing material world
that can help us thinking
very crucial and important issues
or yeah, matters, philosophical issues,
philosophical matters,
and even, of course, political ones.
That's great.
That's exactly what I was hoping to kind of start to unpack
is it seems like this is what a lot of that literature
was calling attention to, but not about objects,
which is very weird in a way.
It's almost like we had, we're doing an excavation,
we could only handle so much.
And now we can, now we're looking a little deeper somehow.
It seems a continuance of,
even as it has to kind of criticize a bit,
which is interesting and actually part of, you know,
the rhythm of the book in a way.
So did you have anything you wanted to add there, David,
before I go on or?
I don't know, depending because you mentioned
multi-sensory or everything
and to follow up on what you said,
I can add a few on that
because to consider things or objects,
not as much as table and with very clear boundaries,
but as flows actually involve those kind of people
to engage bodily with those things
made of flows and processes.
And we discover and they really,
we learn from them how, of course,
this is about noticing, noticing.
And so the eyes and the vision, clear.
There's so much about that.
Maybe I can, it's not, I can skip a bit because it's obvious.
They see the world, they see the thing,
they see Jerome already get into a bit of it.
But vision is always articulate with other senses
and depending on situation,
depending on the kind of things they are dealing with,
it can be smelling, it can be hearing,
it can be touching.
Touching is really also another one,
but one more time is depending on the settings,
the kind of maintenance work that is involved.
And so the point is that depending on configuration,
we can make a kind of a hierarchy
between the different bodily engagement
and senses that are involved.
But the point is not to have this kind of cartography.
I don't know.
The point is that this is always multisensory.
And this is always something that involves
different kind of part of the body
that is clearly related to rules and objective
because those people come with,
they are mandatory to the situation.
They don't come when we are in professional
and organizational setting, of course.
They don't come just to see or to smell or no.
This is mandatory.
And in advance, they must know or imagine
or anticipate what they gonna see, smell and do.
But what is very important in this multisensory aspect
is that it's on one part to confirm
and to go into what the rules and the framework actually
already organized and framed.
But by multisensory involvement,
they are also open to surprises.
What our men, what the rules already anticipate,
what come up.
And this is part of very of their expertise on this part.
Yeah, it's a bit cartoonish of me to say this,
but in reading the book,
you can kind of imagine that you go back into the body
when you start to talk to the maintenance people again.
I'm exaggerating, but it's almost like it's all in the head
and it's this kind of thought experiment in a way.
And then it becomes really bodily and the senses.
And it's interesting the movement that comes there in the book,
and you can correct me or whatever
if this doesn't make sense to you.
But to me, it's hard to talk about,
which is why I wanna try to talk about it.
But it becomes more mundane in the sense,
every day kind of way.
In the same way I was talking about science.
It's this thing that seems wonderful and perfect.
It's this object that's there.
And then it becomes a process that's sensory and embodied,
and it becomes so rich.
And at the same time, nothing happens in a way
because it becomes so consistent all the time.
What does that bring up?
I know that's a lot, but it's messy.
I'm just trying to see how we can get into this
because it's not a very clean cut.
It's fractal.
No, it's very important.
And I think it's really crucial of the question of the maintenance.
And maybe, but we can address this question maybe later,
but it's maybe the differences
between focusing on the repair and focusing on maintenance.
So there is this idea that there is a very concrete bodily commitment
and the senses are really important.
The first aspect is that it's also the case in settings
where maintenance, operation, interventions are equipped with tools
because of course you have a lot of maintenance interventions
that are equipped with things to look throughout something,
for instance, or with sensors and stuff like that.
But you cannot do without bodies, and this is super important.
Actually, even the high-tech tools that are used nowadays
are in tension with the importance of the body and the senses.
And you have really interesting situations
nowhere in which maintainers resist too high-tech tools or instruments
to keep their expertise and their bodily expertise and their sensory expertise.
So this is important.
That's the first aspect.
But then it's again and again,
and this is what Miallola d'Armanioukeles,
the artist, the conceptual artist, we discuss with all along the book.
And she was on the cover of the French version of the book,
one of her performance,
say it's something that you do every day and you have to do again.
And a lot of people actually participate in doing.
So it's unnoticed, even if it's not completely invisible.
It's mainly unnoticed.
So it's something that is absolutely not in the foreground of our experience,
most of people's experience.
So the idea that it's a background activity, a repetitive one,
and sometimes really not as fun as that to do,
is super important to us because it's still an expertise
and it's still something that not everyone can do.
And it's not as easy, and this was also important to us
because when we got into the subway stations with the maintainers,
we discovered, for instance,
how they are able to pay attention to things
that we didn't notice at first at all.
So we weren't able even to look at things correctly.
And of course, we were not able to touch things
and to understand what was happening here
and what should be done, of course.
But still they do that every day.
Their pay grade is not great and it's kind of a dirty job,
something that is made by people, mostly racialized people,
men mostly in urban settings, women at home.
And this is part of all this question of invisible work in general.
So somehow, and we are really connected to UKLS work
and all our performances.
Our idea was, how can we make this expertise,
but very mundane expertise, matter?
How can we take maintenance into account?
And in a very large sense, because into account in our stories,
in the way, for instance, we explain the relationships
between humans and technologies, for instance,
but also take maintenance into account in accounting practices
and in prices and in salaries and in all these important aspects,
which is not detailed in the book, but is part of what we do
and how we also talk to people and other kind of research we did.
How can we have a fair price, for instance, for maintenance?
Because of course, these activities are mainly the ones
that are considered as costless or not.
They are undervalued in most of situations, not all of them,
but in most situations they are undervalued.
So the idea of bringing to light these expertise
and this bodily expertise, which is still mundane,
is super important to us.
One phrase that's coming to mind is the one about normalcy.
They're taking care of normalcy.
And I was even thinking about how much of the most important jobs
from teachers to maintenance workers are doing that
because it's so consistent and so important, overlooked,
which is part of that weird paradox, too, that comes.
But you raised this point about...
Well, there's a couple of things hanging in the air,
like ukulele or ukulele, because that's so rich
and it's weaving through the book.
But the idea of innovation and development
and also the idea of there being a difference
between repair and maintenance...
Well, first, David, if you want to say anything about the other,
did you have any comment?
Yeah, we got a specific sentence
and maybe to summarize the drama of maintenance,
that is to make everything go on as if nothing had happened.
And actually, as soon as you followed maintenance,
actually a lot of things happened.
So as if nothing had happened, to whom?
And clearly, this is one of the clear distinctions
we try to underline between maintenance and repair.
And so to put up what you just said about ukuleles, maintenance.
She really into maintenance and the mundane,
repetitive, boring activities.
And at some point, repair...
Well, the distinction I'm going to dive into
is not on the reality, it's more on the approach
and more on what you put forward and backward.
So the two words do not refer to different realities.
They refer to the same, but depending on
if you switch on the forefront maintenance or repair,
you got a very different picture of what you are describing.
So maintenance, this is really, okay, repetitive, boring.
And actually, most of people are involved at some point in it,
doing the washes, you know, knitting different clauses.
So it's a very different situation
and made on a very regular, mundane, and let's say boring rhythm.
And a continuous one.
Repair is, in this contrasting attempt,
is more a clear-cut activity that come after something broke,
after a kind of event.
And this is another event that responds to the first one.
You got repairer that come in front of the scene,
in action films, you got all those kind of very famous actors,
of course, men with muscles and everything that save the world.
So I just underlined too much, but just to explain the thing,
you got one event and repair is another kind of event that repair,
so that bring back to the thing, the situation, the institution to order,
to normalcy, as you just mentioned.
And so this is really something that is binary,
contrary to maintenance, that is continuity.
And you got these kind of different kind of actors
with, let's say, heroes or people that save the world or the situation.
And in maintenance, it's a notice and ongoing activities made by regular people,
just to contrast too much, but to make it...
No, it's great. There's these layers.
And I think it relates a lot to time and to attention,
to noticing all of these things that you're layering and that we're trying to talk about.
So there's this way in which things go on,
and we focus on development or innovation,
maybe because it's so every day and so overwhelming to be aware of all the time.
There's a lot of reasons, maybe.
But then there's a rupture and something happens,
like we have an emergency and something has to be repaired.
And then everyone focuses on it.
And those people doing the repairing sort of become the focus.
And that's often maybe confused with what we've been talking about here.
And I think when it comes to the noticing and to the time and to the care,
this matters a lot.
And also to what Jerome was saying about this isn't just...
This is in all kinds of areas of society.
In a way, we're talking about approach to the way that we are living too.
And what we prioritize as people living in different places at different times.
So I just want to bring all that up, all those layers.
And I think maybe we could...
You can say whatever you want to say, both of you.
But then maybe we can talk about an example or more than one example.
The yesterday to...
What is the news?
Yeah, no, we have several stories.
Maybe we can start with one of our hero, quote, unquote.
He's John Oliver.
Because we use a lot of performances from UKLS.
But we also use one particular episode of Last Week Tonight.
A late show from John Oliver who we love really because he's super interesting.
And his team is really a great team.
Between thorough investigation and sketches and jokes.
And so he has, in 2015, he did this episode about infrastructure.
And actually, it turned out to be an episode about maintenance.
And he said, it's very hard to understand how much maintenance is invisible or unnoticed.
And how much is important.
And he said, if you want to understand that, you can just imagine a movie.
And a movie about great catastrophes and great breakages.
And where you have these very famous actors who are playing the role of the savior.
And so he tried to...
And you can find it on YouTube.
He filmed a trailer for a movie that can be about maintenance.
And it's very funny because, very concretely, what it means, for instance, to maintain a bridge.
And he says, you look at people just adjusting...
I don't know the term in English.
Let's say a screw, for instance.
Or watching for leaks.
And then saying, is it a big leak?
It is not a big leak.
And so he used a very famous actor to do that.
And a music that is very suspenseful music and stuff like that to make it understandable.
So that's, for instance...
And in front of that, he said that, of course, if the bridge would explode.
And people bringing pieces all together to manage to have some kind of bridge.
So the car could, I don't know, escape something.
Or it would be a much more valuable movie than the movie about maintenance.
And you have a lot of that for cars, for instance.
Let's say for cars, for instance.
And we worked with Cornelia Hummel, who owned Mustang herself.
And also did a really nice book about classic Mustang owners.
In France, right?
Classic Mustang owners in Europe or in France?
In Europe, yeah.
Just for the American viewers, because it's a special thing, a different thing.
Yes, this is a very strange thing.
Because in Europe, classic Mustang are not really costly
because they are not cars for museums at all.
But they are cherished because I think they represent something like America.
Yeah, the Mustang.
That's important.
And so a lot of people have one.
They are not rich people.
You know, they have to wait a lot to have a classic Mustang.
And of course, you could insist on the, I don't know, accidents and breakages.
But what she was interested in and what we worked on with her
was the daily maintenance of this classic Mustang.
And what is really interesting is that people are afraid,
they are worried about the continuity of their car and of their car's authenticity.
Will it really remain a classic Mustang if I have to change this or that
because of norms and standards or just because, you know,
some equipment is not available anymore, for instance,
or you have to put different kinds of things,
you have to change the brakes, for instance,
because it's more secure to have brakes.
And what is really interesting is first, we are talking about multi-sensory expertise.
The owners of these cars fill with their body
every thing that could go wrong with their car when they are driving it.
And it's really, it's even touching in a way because
you understand in the description she gave about these people and in the interviews
that they really are plugged into with their feet, with their back, with their ears, of course,
but with their end to the vibrations of the car, for instance, for the sounds of the car.
And they know the sounds that are okay, for instance,
but they are also able to pick the sounds that are quite strange
and to be very careful of the next occurrence of this sound.
And if it's too much, you have to go for service the car and just verify if everything is okay.
So, for instance, these car owners are experts of their cars,
a lot more, I think, than most of people with their regular cars.
Of course, sometimes listen very intriguing sound, for instance,
but not as they can do it.
But what is important also is that they are worried about it, they really are.
So, this is a disquieting attention.
It's something that they are obsessed with and they can become obsessed with.
And that gets to the care thing.
Having been around a lot of people and a lot of different cars,
I think what you're talking about there is sometimes people collect cars
and it's a very different kind of thing than this way of being in relationship with the car
and this continuity, which I think relates a lot to what you were both saying
about the maintenance workers earlier too, just to kind of make that connection.
It's a more bodily, everyday relationship.
It's just, yeah, just to put that in.
Yes, and they are listening to the car.
So, in a way, they also pay attention to what the car has to say, in a way,
or has to show in terms of fragility, for instance.
So, this is a real relationship.
When they need to intervene on the car, which is the other side of the thing,
which is almost every month with these cars, they try not to intervene too much
and they discuss with the whole community of classic Mustang owners to check if
it's still a classic Mustang, if they do this or that or change this or that,
which is very interesting.
And one important aspect of it is these kind of cars, to really be a classic Mustang,
they have to drive it.
It cannot be collected and remain at least somewhere completely mobile.
It reminds me too, I mean, in the book you also talk about Mona Lisa
and there's something similar going on there, but just at a different level
that nobody ever sees in terms of keeping it the Mona Lisa, but it's always changing too.
This is a more personal, everyday level, but did you have something there that was coming?
I don't know if you agree or if you want to touch on this, but this continuous relationship
also shed light on the ambiguities and the, let's say, dark side of maintenance,
because those car owners worried, but at some point the relationship is too much for them
and they sell the car.
So that really puts the attention on the way maintenance is not that beautiful
or something very positive or whatever.
And to be clear, we are not for maintenance.
We really like it as a topic to be investigated and to learn from maintenance,
not as something that to push for or to say maintenance of anything is good.
And so on this very ambiguity of maintenance, the ambiguity is both for the thing
and for the people that take care of it.
You can destroy the thing.
You can, Mona Lisa, not this one, but other paintings have been destroyed.
So you really miss the thing you try to destroy.
You try to care for it so much that you destroy it.
Is that what you mean?
Because I'm thinking about, in the book too, you talk about care as work,
and that is a really important point.
That this is, and I guess we need to kind of draw some lines.
We've been talking about care, but we haven't used that word exactly.
But also, yeah, in the book, it's very obvious that this is work and it's not easy.
And I think that's what I was trying to get at too with the attention thing
and how it can be very hard to pay attention to everything that's happening in this way
that has to be done if you are the maintenance worker
or the person taking care of the Mona Lisa or with the car.
It's so sensory that it actually takes a lot of energy too, in a way.
So I'll let you both, whatever might come up there.
Yes, it takes energy and it's just to follow up on what I just said,
to connect with this, but to follow up on what the ambiguity is.
It's only harsh and it's harmful.
You can not only destroy or miss the thing you try to maintain,
but you can also hurt yourself with the tools, with the products, with everything.
And so in some situations, maintenance is not that positive.
Like working on the bridge, it's dangerous to take care of the bridge.
Care is work on the expertise, knowledge, whatever things apart.
But this is work also on the way the bodies are really put at the test and more than test.
Yeah, that's an important aspect because every kind of maintenance is not work in a strict sense,
but saying that maintenance and care is work is completely connected to feminist theories about care.
And of course, why we call that the care of things is because we found very important
crucial resonances between what we were looking at and the feminist theories of care.
And which is very interesting is that Fernando Dominguez Rubio,
who is a friend and a colleague who worked on Mona Lisa around 2015,
and Steve Jackson, who did this beautiful paper in 2014, Rethinking Repair,
we were all together paying attention to some kind of maintenance,
phones with our computers for Steve, Mona Lisa, and then contemporary art with Fernando,
and our subway signs at first.
And we all did this connection without knowing each other with the ethic of care,
which is very interesting because and then we very quickly became colleagues and friends
because we wrote to each other.
And the work of Lara Houston, for instance, also a lot of people actually,
but we all have this vocabulary of care.
And it's super important because there is tons of lines of thinking and reflection
between care of people and care of things.
It's not the same, obviously, but one of the lines is fragility, of course,
taking fragility as a starting point.
The theories, feminist theories are more likely to use the term vulnerability,
which is not exactly the same, but it's quite, of course, close.
But work is in another aspect, the idea that it's work.
So it's not as easy as it seems.
It's costly and sometimes it's even a matter of health for workers.
And a way to put this is and it's another way to say that for us,
it's important to make maintenance count is at what costs a thing can remain the same.
At what costs, economic costs, but also human costs, a bridge, for instance,
or a nuclear plant to say things that are less romantic that Mona Lisa, for instance,
at what human costs this remains in place.
And this is very important because and this is the third aspect of the discussion
with the theories of care is that I'm missing the point.
Yes, these objects are generally presented or casted as autonomous,
as something that lasts for themselves.
And they are not, actually, they need people to take care of them.
Our computers, our infrastructure, tons of things needs people,
needs maintainers to remain the same or to stay in place, to stay functional.
And this is very clear, for instance, in architecture.
When you saw a picture and you look at architecture journals, you don't see anyone.
Sometimes you see an inhabitant, sometimes you see a user, but you never see a maintainer.
And if no house, no building, no nothing can last without some kind of maintenance.
So this idea of this need work, this is really closely connected to the theories of care,
saying that no people is autonomous.
We all need some people to take care of us at some point, some day.
And so we are all interconnected.
And so this is also this struggle against the myth of autonomy,
autonomous people and autonomous thing.
And this is an important, really important aspect,
which comes with the idea that people can get hurt doing maintenance, of course,
and they can die doing maintenance.
And it's very, in some situations, it's very problematic.
But it's also come with this idea, okay, so these things that seem to be only material,
that seems to be only technological, actually take people, maintainers,
who sometimes are getting hurt or getting sick doing this maintenance.
We should put them in the same picture,
that the picture that describes all that cell, this beautiful infrastructure, for instance.
Yeah, it reminds me of that ecology of fragilities.
Ecology of fragilities is something that comes up in the book.
Do you each have about 10 more minutes, or do we need to wrap it up real quick?
Yeah, this reminds me of the ecology of fragilities,
but also that it could sound like that we're trying to say that maintenance
is better than development or innovation or something.
And I know that's not what's being said here.
So also the deeply disquieting aspect of it, I think, relates to what both of you
were just saying, that it can be harmful, but it's also uncomfortable.
Or I want to get into that a little bit about how you see,
maybe even how this has changed your perspective of everyday life or something,
or what is this doing when we start to think about care of things?
It is different from cares of people, but as you express in the book,
these are changing the way we, our capacity almost for care is changing here
in a way that reflects in all aspects of society.
How can we talk about that part of the book a little bit?
I was thinking it was a question about our own experience,
but actually it became in the same sentence, the whole globe.
Yeah, you can take it with your own experience, if you want.
It's not that easy.
You don't have to solve the global perspective.
Okay, I can try only on my own experience.
Actually, I was raised, let's say, in a middle range class,
but my grandparents really care about thinking to last.
To every, everything we had was really important for them to last.
When you are a small kid and you're always on your knees and never on your feet
or everything like this, and they go up, think of your parents.
Just to mention, let's say that for a long time it was,
okay, this is a generational thing.
We don't care of it that much now.
All those investigations we did with Jerome really make me think differently,
of course, from their worried.
Of course, they are no more there now.
And in my own experience, it became very important,
not only to make them important and actualize, in some sense,
what they taught me when I was young.
It's really connected also to climate change and everything today.
But it's really connected and rearticulates things I learned
when I was a small kid with my bike and everything
and tried to have it to last,
but at some point to replace every part because innovation.
Just to explain, I did for a long time, I did freestyle BMX
and in that sport the parts are breaking.
But at some point I used to change a lot,
not because they break, but because I want some new ones.
And so all the things we did with Jerome,
more than 15 years on maintenance really made me switch it
and really think differently at home.
And with my boys, I tried to explain them very differently
because, of course, we are all the daddy that is very boring,
but we try to have something more political in a very feminist sense,
political in the kitchen, political in the room,
not political at the ground level, so to speak.
Yeah, in a way you sort of bridged, nested all those different worlds.
And Jerome, I want to hear your experience,
but I just want to say, I want to ask, did it deepen...
I'm thinking about my grandparents and they had a farm
and you had to take care of everything and there was a noticing
and a kind of sensual connection to everything
in similar ways to what we're talking about here.
And not to romanticize that, but to have it sort of taken for granted
and then to grow up in a pretty wealthy kind of family
where you could just get new stuff when it broke.
And that was kind of more my childhood after those early years.
I guess what I'm trying to get at and ask you about is,
for me, it was about realizing that when you care for things
and when you can notice them and engage with them,
they mean more and the experience becomes richer and deeper.
It can also become more overwhelming and more disquieting
in the way we've talked about,
but there's something in there that feels important.
Did you realize that too in this experience with Jerome
and also just even in the way you started looking at the signs differently
or this whole project that has now become a book,
has it deepened something?
Would you say it's added kind of or expanded
your own perception or way of noticing in any way?
Just one sentence and Jerome is going to go.
It's really connected to what Jerome just said before about interdependencies.
Now, every time I'm looking, touching, whatever I think,
it's not only a thing.
It's always a lot of connected people, rules, ideas, values.
It's really a chain of interaction between very different things.
Even if I cannot acknowledge and identify all the components of the network,
to say it differently, this is really a flow.
This is no more stable and autonomous things.
That makes a lot of sense, especially with what Jerome said.
Realizing the ecology of it.
Okay, Jerome, so what about you and your personal world?
Yeah, my personal world is also, I think,
also connected to the neurogeneral aspect of the question,
is that I realized, I knew that,
that I really realized how much in 50 years,
and even less, a whole kind of model of consumption
had been installed by a certain kind of capitalism,
which is hyperconsumption, basically,
which has replaced everything that is break.
The carelessness, the idea of, at first, we were obsessed that
maintainers were experts in paying attention to things, to fragility.
And then what I really understood eventually was that
we were all experts on that a few years ago, a few decades ago.
It was just the way things were supposed to be.
Of course, because things are expensive,
and maybe for effective reasons, but also for very mundane economic reasons,
you would make them last.
It's completely abuse, and it was completely abuse
in very, very numeral situations, and a lot of situations.
And then how come, so I reversed the aspect,
how come we could not pay attention to these fragilities?
How come we didn't care?
We, and the we is very situated.
How come I didn't care, for instance, for some things?
And I discovered that I was taught not to care.
And I remember a podcast we did a few years ago, a French one,
and the podcaster, the woman who were interviewing us, just called her dad.
And her dad said, and he said,
you knew how to take care of things, but you didn't talk to me.
How come I don't know how to do that?
And he answered to her, yes, because we don't need to bother with that.
We want you to enjoy life,
which means that comfort and modern comfort was designed with carelessness,
was designed with the idea of you don't have to pay attention
to things and their transformation.
But there is another important aspect,
and it's important that even in your question, you connect the two.
It's sometimes overwhelming.
So there is a risk of ableism in this situation of,
we should all pay attention to everything every time.
Of course not, of course not.
Of course, people cannot bear this idea,
and they cannot stand to pay attention to anything or to worry for everything.
And this is the question for Mustang owners, for instance, but for everything.
Of course, when I take my bicycle and I go in the street in Paris,
in Boulevard Saint-Michel, I have to pay attention to the fragility of the road,
but not too much.
And not that some things are supposed to last.
And some people are specialized in taking care of them.
And it's a good thing to know the distribution of this work.
So the point is more paying attention to the ecologies and the return dependencies.
And this is the last point you mentioned with David, is that the point.
The point is less paying attention to every kind of fragility of things,
but of people who could be involved in the becoming of the things with you.
So it's also a matter of repopulating the picture.
It's not only a relationship between you and the thing,
it's also taking this interdependency into consideration.
And then maybe asking, is it worth it or not, or is it?
But that's maybe the, I think the most, the thing that really struck me eventually
was this idea of carelessness and the configuration of carelessness as comfort,
which is quite troubling and disturbing, at least.
Yeah. And there would be a whole other podcast there about,
you know, how that relates to technology and kind of our mindset today.
But I think it's very rich to think about the care of things right now in that context,
in the way that you're presenting.
We talk a lot about beyond dichotomy or holding paradox here.
And that doesn't mean, you know, choosing one or the other of these is somehow better,
but just that realization that people are maintaining
and it's a disquieting, difficult and enriching sensual process.
Just that kind of noticing is almost like a meta layer
to some of what you're discussing, you know, in these situations that give something,
I think, about a way of being in the world right now
and thinking of it through this lens, more as an ecology.
But to kind of end, I wonder about, well, I was thinking about
when you both go to the metro now, if it's different.
If you're in that sense that you're holding things a little bit differently,
not every day, maybe, that you're aware of all these people around you
as you go through the city on your bike or through the metro or whatever.
What has this brought to that relationship, you know, with the students?
I'm just bringing up a few things.
You can go wherever you want to go with it.
But of course, once you have this in mind, you cannot navigate the world exactly the same
because you pay attention to fragility of things and to people who take care of them.
And actually, the very modest but also very ambitious aim of the book
is for each reader to end it, close it, and don't look exactly to the world in the same way.
And this is, in a Donatian way, this is a matter of percept.
And the book is something like a percept, more than a conceptual book, you know.
And this work is quite modest, but a lot of people are saying,
oh wow, we don't go to the subway and we don't see the same thing,
we don't live exactly in the same city.
And this is very simple.
And this is our political contribution, which is very mundane one, but perceptual one.
This is very super, very, very important to us.
It's something personal, but it's also something we want to do with maintenance.
This idea of paying attention to the attention of others, the maintenance.
And regarding teaching, of course, this is something that is important,
because I teach, and David too, but a bit less, because he's more a researcher,
something that is specialty in France.
You can be only a researcher, but you teach a little bit.
But I teach to engineers and to very elite engineers.
It's like, it's not Ivy League, but it's something like the Grande Ecole in French.
There will be very important people as soon as they leave the school.
And trying to debunk some things, some aspects of,
especially the idea of autonomy in technology, autonomous technology.
And saying, no, no, there is no autonomy.
There is never, and each time you say that a technology is autonomous,
you are doing the kind of coup de force and you say,
you are leaving a lot of people aside, and this is problematic.
Because it's also a matter of value.
If you put them aside, you say that this is the thing only with valuable people.
Of course, for AI today, all the work of annotators and people who are
trying to make this thing work as if they were autonomous are crucial, for instance.
So this is an aspect of how this kind of research can enrich the teaching.
Wonderful. That could almost be a whole other book about the autonomy.
I mean, that's such an important point.
I'm glad you put it in there at the end, but I also just want to highlight it a bit,
because that opens up a whole other world right now in terms of technology.
Okay, but what's coming up for you?
Yeah, clearly I'm not a teacher, but I can talk about the professional setting
and not the teaching, but the students that are doing PhD with me.
That's really changed the way I envision their project and the way I manage to
really take care of what they want to do.
What they want to do not only with this kind of topic, but they want to do in their life.
And they project themselves in the academic world or not.
This is not a problem to me, but I really take more time to really,
let's say, go deeper into it and not just trying to infuse or explain how to do a good PhD.
Yeah, of course, I'm still on this, but this really tiny part now,
I try to really understand who they are, what they try to do with this topic.
How the topic, the object, the scientific object relate to their own experience
and take really care of it and try to manage to drive all this
close to having a good PhD.
But this is not, yeah, it really sends the way and the time I take.
I take very differently the time with those people.
So this is not teaching, this is really to accompany.
To accompany someone with his or her goal.
And it takes a lot, but at some point, it's no more at some point, not on every
or every PhD student, but at some point, it relates to two persons going in a...
Yeah, not to be a care rock on the road, but to have a few steps on the same road for a time.
And for some, they are no more PhD students because they defend the P&G, but
we are close friends at some point because of this new time I try to investigate.
Wow, that's actually really moving because I think that, in a way, is what the book,
kind of what you're saying, Jerome, it gives people something that's deep,
that it's hard for us to put into words.
But I can just say, having talked to a lot of really successful, famous people, whatever,
that almost all of them end up talking about a supervisor or a teacher or a PhD or somebody
who did kind of what you just expressed that changed their trajectory in a way.
And it relates to a lot of the things we've been talking about, about what you don't really notice
or see in the everyday and all of that.
But also, I think that it gets at something like meaning and care in a way that makes it
worth all of this that we're going through and doing.
So, on that note, I always ask if anyone has anything they wanted to say about love
because we didn't bring that word up, have to at least say it.
We've been talking about it, but I don't know if you think it relates.
If not, you don't have to answer, but I want to at least ask if you have any
relation to that word that comes up before we go.
But I also want to say thank you for the book and for taking that moment and meeting with
the maintenance workers and following that energy because I think it's doing something
important right now.
But that's it.
So anything you want to say to close or anything we didn't talk about you want to be sure
you say, then this is your time.
And thank you.
Yeah, thank you for having us.
Love is quite important, actually.
And Steve Jackson has a few words on this idea of if you could love our artifacts and
the things we are living with, maybe a lot of things will change in the world.
So it's a bit romantic, but I think it's important.
And for instance, we didn't mention that other kind of very special maintainers we
followed is graffiti removers in the street of Paris.
And there is no doubt that they really love Paris and they even love graffiti, actually.
But they love Paris and the way they take care of the stones, the facades and the way
they try to remove the graffiti is something like an act of love, which is important to
understand if we want not to be too much critical about the big picture of graffiti removing,
of course, which can be problematic in a political way.
But discovering that the guys that are on the streets and that remove graffiti actually
do love Paris and try to do the best to take care of the city in a very material way.
It's fantastic.
It's really super interesting.
It adds something to being a part of the city, too.
When you know that that feeling is part of how you're experiencing it every day.
It reminds me of something someone just said about love is sometimes what's holding you
that you don't even feel like when you can't feel it, it's still holding you.
And it's interesting to think of the city like that in terms of those people caring for it
from that spirit.
But David?
Maybe just to say that they so graffiti removal love Paris in a very different way.
But in how to speak in as much emotional sense that writers themselves love Paris.
And I don't know.
I'm a bit shy about emotional and love.
I'm not sure how to articulate it.
And maybe I can have a very short sentence.
But I really love this interview.
And I really love the way you put our ideas into question and really pick very differently.
Because, of course, this is not the first interview,
not about the English version, but about the book.
And I really love the way you articulate the topic.
Thank you.
That actually brings us back to that idea of writing that I brought up at the beginning, too.
And because it's such a big part of that city, too.
And I do think all these are connected, you know, the writing of the book that you did,
the writing of the city, the reading, the way I read it.
Maybe that's its own kind of ecology that we can't fully see,
but maybe the listeners can can grasp it.
So thank you.
This book did something for me and I'm already sharing it with lots of people.
And we hardly got into it.
So for everyone listening, pick it up in French or English.
Or is it in other languages, too, yet?
No, not yet.
All right.
Well, thank you both so much.
I hope you have a beautiful afternoon there and stay warm.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Bye.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
