For Hegel, everything is contradictory.
And so that can also seem to be a kind of mystical way
of not allowing us to draw any boundaries or limits
or make clear distinctions.
He was sort of obsessed with life and love
if we think of it in those bigger terms.
Objects must conform to our knowledge
if that is to count as knowledge and experience
in any meaningful sense.
To eliminate the subjective aspect,
the subjective perspective from knowledge and experience
would be completely unintelligible.
Self-consciousness is a kind of subject-object phenomenon
because it's a way in which the subject can grasp itself
as an object of a certain kind.
Kant made self-consciousness so central to his philosophy
and yet didn't give us a theory of it.
The model for thinking about living things,
so not human, not consciousness, but certainly bodies,
was the model of a machine.
And that reached certain limits
that we very quickly run up against
when we tried to understand living animal bodies
on a more mechanistic machine model.
The importance of understanding the phenomenon of life
was also in part to help us understand
something about ourselves because the model of a machine
very quickly is not the right model
for thinking about the unity of our mind.
A tree, as he says, organized and self-organizing.
It takes in materials from the environment
to sustain and reproduce itself.
We can never quite be located in either of those dualisms.
It pops it out into a complex system.
We don't have to take one side or the other anymore.
Instead, there's something more organic.
So it turns out self-consciousness
isn't the only subjective perspective on the world.
If we look at nature, we can actually see
that there are similar forms, similar structures.
The thought is that self-consciousness
is self-conscious life.
We can't just drop that.
That self-consciousness is self-conscious life
is very significant.
A lot of what the science of logic is about
is the conditions for intelligibility.
Thinking isn't disembodied.
Reason is living activity.
It's still radical.
And we're still trying to find ways
of understanding the mind that are not,
that do not reduce it to a machine
and to insist that minds have to be living.
That the concept is free love.
What a wild thing to say,
but I think we should take him serious.
I think he means it.
True union or love proper exists only between living things
who are alike in power.
And thus in one another's eyes,
living beings from every point of view
to love someone is to see them as fully alive.
Reason is living activity.
That's what it is.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
After one week off, we're back or I'm back.
And I'm going to post a conversation I had with Karen Ng
about Hegel's concept of life.
You've probably heard me talk about Hegel
or you know that I studied Hegel
and his idea of the problem of contradiction,
which is this central idea in his work
that everything, whatever you want to call everything,
concepts, ideas, processes,
however you want to define it,
has some sort of contradiction contained within itself.
So the process contains its own opposite, so to speak.
I'm not going to go into all that here,
but I mention it because Karen and I dance around
and talk about it in terms of how we might understand
Hegel's work as a rhythm or a pattern
to help us hold the paradox.
Karen Ng is the associate professor of philosophy
and the director of graduate studies at Vanderbilt.
She's also George S. Allen Chancellor's Faculty Fellow
and an associate professor of German,
Russian, and East European studies.
She specializes in 19th century European philosophy,
especially Hegel.
Karen has done a lot of research in post-Kantian philosophy
and the connection between Kant, Hegel, Marx,
and others of the Frankfurt School.
The book we talk about here is Hegel's concept of life,
Self-Consciousness, Freedom, and Logic,
which was published in 2020 by Oxford
and it won the Journal of the History of Philosophy
book prize in 2021.
And it explores the concept of life in Hegel's philosophy,
which is what we talk about here.
This idea of process, rhythm, movement
that I feel one understands when reading Hegel,
but can never quite put into words.
It's part of the movement of the writing,
this expression of how everything
already contains its opposite
and how I would say that it's not actually
an opposite, it's part of this movement that we make
towards understanding the process.
Karen and I talk about her book
through this lens in a way,
and I enjoyed this conversation very much.
We had it quite some months ago,
but I'm posting it now because it goes very well
with the one I just had with Evan
about subject and object,
which you might think of as a problem of contradiction,
so to speak.
She's the Alexander von Humboldt research fellow
at the Center for Post-Kantian Philosophy
at the University of Potsdam,
which is one way I came across her work
because of being in Berlin
and she was there for some talks,
but also her book on Hegel
is really one of the best I've ever read.
I love that she brings in the idea of life
in the way that she does
and how we discuss some really difficult things.
First of all, it's just hard to talk about Hegel
at all sometimes, much less when you're trying
to talk about paradox and process and rationality
and the Copernican turn,
all of these things we talk about here
towards understanding life and love.
So that's fun and I love conversations
that can somehow touch on all of those
in an authentic way and with passion.
And that's one reason I also really enjoy
reading Karen's work and listening to her talk.
And I hope you'll go look at her website
and read her book and listen to some other of her talks.
She's a great philosopher.
I'm also just glad you're here
and I wish you a wonderful, good contradiction
that resolved in feeling of love and life.
Wishing you lots of motivation
and all the best of what philosophy has to offer.
Hi, Karen, it's so nice to meet you today
and thank you so much for coming on Love and Philosophy.
Thank you so much for having me, Andrea.
I asked you to come on because I've been looking
at your amazing book about Hegel, Concept of Life.
And today we're gonna try to do something
that's a little bit impossible,
which is have a general conversation about Hegel.
So Hegel's not known to be the easiest philosopher.
So maybe to start, maybe we could talk about you
and how you discovered him, just to sort of get into this.
Sure, I majored in philosophy when I was an undergraduate
and I came to it, I guess, like many people do.
I just, actually, I was very lucky.
I first had philosophy in high school.
So my first great philosophy teacher
was actually in high school.
And then what continued to draw me to it
was reading in the history of philosophy,
but also I was just fortunate to have really good teachers.
I think that's a very familiar story
that we need good teachers to bring us into,
especially a difficult text like Hegel's.
So I came to Hegel first as a skeptic.
Maybe that's another good way to approach a figure like this
that I came to Hegel as a skeptic.
I read a lot of figures in what we now know
as the continental tradition
that were very, very critical of Hegel.
Interestingly, of course, I subsequently learned
that the history of analytic philosophy
is also shaped by its skepticism towards Hegel.
So skepticism towards Hegel in some ways
shapes a lot of 20th century philosophy.
And I think we see influences of that even today.
And so I also came to Hegel as a skeptic.
And then because I read all of these people
who were all complaining about this figure named Hegel,
I think I should learn something about him.
And so I did end up taking a class as an undergraduate
where we read the Phenomenology of Spirit.
And I was immediately just very attracted to it.
I found it very, very difficult.
So I don't pretend that at the time
or even now that I understand all of it,
but there was something about the rhythm
and the movement of the phenomenology
that just got me to keep reading.
And so that's how I came to Hegel.
Initially as a skeptic, and then I realized,
oh, but this isn't so bad.
Why do you think people have this reaction to Hegel
that can often be so negative?
In the book, for example, you do mention
how there's this romantic or this mystical thing
that gets associated with Hegel,
at least in philosophy circles.
It can seem that he's somehow, I think you bring up,
what is the term?
Hilozoism, is that how it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or even this shelling idea that sort of like
the whole world is just alive,
or there's this feeling of either it's just too hard
to read Hegel, this is what I've heard,
and it just doesn't make sense, and people get frustrated.
Or everything is alive and spiritual
and there's a kind of almost mystical monism to it
that people just don't wanna touch.
I don't know what your experience has been with it,
but what did you find was so initially
that people were so skeptical of about Hegel?
I think you're touching on some of the reasons
why people were so skeptical of Hegel.
I like that you call it a mystical monism.
Another way of putting it, it's commitment,
or rather it's commitment to hyper-rationalism
sort of makes it, right, turns it around
and it becomes almost again a form of mysticism
because of what looks like the powers,
he uses the term, all of the, not just Hegel,
but in this tradition, the idea of the absolute,
that reason is somehow absolute and that the worry,
I think there was a worry of a kind of hyper-rationalism
in Hegel where reason just determines the world.
I think one of the earliest criticisms we have of Hegel's,
what looked to be Hegel's hyper-rationalism,
nothing outside reason, everything is determined by reason,
we get from someone like shelling.
I think on the other side, there is also a suspicion
of the way that he treats the problem of contradiction.
So on the one hand, there's this hyper-rationalism,
on the other hand, there is this acceptance
of a certain notion of contradiction.
I think there's a lot of misunderstanding here
about the exact sense of contradiction
that Hegel is interested in,
but I think there is a worry
that in accepting contradiction,
here's where maybe the mysticism comes back,
you have this hyper-rationalism,
but for Hegel, everything is contradictory.
And so that can also seem to be a kind of mystical way
of not allowing us to draw any boundaries or limits
or make clear distinctions.
And so there is a worry about that with Hegel
if we don't think carefully about what he means
by contradiction, just for one example.
Yes, and in the beginning, you said the movement caught you.
I've always thought reading Hegel
that it's almost something like what you talk about
as method in the book or a practice almost
that he demonstrates with his writing.
And I bring that up because what you just expressed
is still trying to fit it into these kind of boxes, right?
That modern philosophy is severed into
whether it's rationalism and empiricism
if we go back to Kant or whether it's a certain tradition
in philosophy or whether it's even life in mind
if we wanna get closer to Hegel.
But also what I've always felt he was doing
or that Kant sort of opened and he opened further
is getting past those dualistic ways of thinking.
So just prefacing with that to think about
that modern philosophy has put things in these boxes,
this convention even that life and mind are different
or you put life here and then you talk about cognition
which people actually have argued that Hegel does that,
right?
And what you're saying is actually no,
what he's done is show those are inseparable.
You can't separate life and mind and cognition
and open up this other way of thinking about it.
I know that's not adequate to kind of a summary of the book
but I just to get us going in that direction
what do you think about?
So I think you're right.
Anti-dualism is something that really motivates.
You could look at this Hegel's opposition
to stark dualisms whether it's the dualisms of Kant
whether as you were pointing out
these more traditional dualisms that we work with
in modern philosophy of life and mind, of mind and body
and that it's absolutely the case that the structure
of Hegel's arguments often is to try to debunk
these dualisms and show us how what we took to be separate
is actually deeply interconnected.
In the book, of course, what I was most interested in
was this problem of life.
I think one of Hegel's most,
one of the most exciting radical things
that Hegel does in his philosophy
and is actually historically speaking
I think a very interesting moment
because he's writing at a time in the 19th century
sort of just on the cusp of the development
of the biological sciences.
So that's an interesting 19th century moment
but then he's also harking back to a more ancient moment
because in ancient philosophy
especially in the philosophy of Aristotle, for example
the connection between life and mind
or life and suke, life and soul
is something that was very deeply explored.
And so you could see Hegel as almost, right
working against early modern philosophy
certainly Cartesian philosophy, but more immediately, right
the dualisms of Kant reviving this more ancient way
of thinking about the connection between life and mind
but in this moment in the 19th century
or on the, where we're in
as we're moving into the 19th century
on the cusp of a new way of thinking about life
also in the natural sciences.
So I think that's something that when I was
at the time when I was writing the book
I thought was really overlooked in discussions of Hegel.
So I started by saying that a lot of the skepticism
about Hegel concerned his hyper rationalism
but what I saw when I was reading the text was that
if Hegel is a rationalist, right
if there is a commitment to thinking about reason
and understanding how reason may
or may not shape our world
that understanding of reason and the powers of reason
the powers of cognition are completely tied
to what he thinks of as right
the powers and capacities of living beings.
And so that was one way for me that if he is a rationalist
and I think undoubtedly there's certainly a rationalist
he is a rationalist, there's no denying that
but he has such a subtle and expansive way
of thinking about the powers of reason
in which reason permeates the living natural world.
And so that was what drove me to write the book
to think about the questions that I explored in the book.
That reminded me of, I think it's just once very briefly
in the book or maybe twice you talk about the young Hegel
and how he was obsessed with life and love
if we think of it in the way in those bigger terms.
And then in the book, you go through his writing
and you show us in the phenomenology of spirit
how the absolute negation almost takes the place
of what we might think of as life.
And also in science of logic
we get to the concept and the idea
not takes the place of life
because you're basically putting that back into it.
But in these old theories
those things would have been the rationality
the focus on rationality is the absolute negation.
It's the concept.
We're all stuck in our head somehow with this rationality
but actually what you're opening up
or what I was thinking as reading
is maybe this was his way of actually infusing
that fascination with life and love into this language.
You brought up Kant and this was the enlightenment, right?
And he was, what was he trying to do?
Not save reason, but there was a focus
on the Copernican turn.
Maybe we could talk about that
because I wanna get towards this idea of proposiveness
relative to this idea of rationality.
How can we help people understand
what you're really meaning by rationality
when you say that Hegel is a rationalist?
Sure.
So there are a few ways that we can think about this trend
this big moment from Kant to Hegel.
And of course, over many, many years of scholarship
people have tried to think about this question.
And I'm always a little bit careful when I start here
because there's never any agreement.
I just wanna be clear that there's never any agreement
and philosophers will always disagree about this
but you focused on the Copernican turn.
So I think that's a good place to start.
And I think I'm a reader of Hegel
who wants to stress a lot of the continuities
between Kant and Hegel.
There are a lot of readers who want to say that
there is a radical break.
And of course, there's truth to both
but in terms of the Copernican turn,
I do think so Kant's Copernican turn,
this thought that is so simple and yet so I think so profound
that he says, hitherto all previous philosophers
thought somehow that we had this puzzle
about how it is that we know that our thoughts
and the objects of our thoughts
can somehow hook up together.
And Kant just had this insight,
it's the Copernican turn where he says,
well, no, objects must conform to our knowledge
if that is to count as knowledge and experience
in any meaningful sense.
And so that allowed Kant to sort of turn
to self-consciousness as a very important focal point
for thinking about the problems of knowledge,
thinking about questions of intelligibility.
Now there was a worry in the aftermath of Kant
that this was too subjective, right?
That the accusation of the early,
of figures like Fischte and Schelling
where this is merely then a subjective idealism
if we think that all objects have to conform
to our knowledge.
And so you could see, again,
I'm speaking in very broad terms,
this German idealist project of trying to, right,
not to go back on the Copernican turn.
So we still need to acknowledge this,
the importance of our subjective contributions,
the importance of our subjective perspective
on any possible knowledge, right?
That's something we could say is irreducible,
ineliminable, right?
To eliminate the subjective aspect,
the subjective perspective from knowledge and experience,
would be completely unintelligible,
but we wanna find a way to make sure
that this isn't just mere subjectivism.
And I think that one of the ways in the early,
in the work of the early post-Kantians
to try to resolve this problem,
square the circle,
was to precisely turn to thinking about nature,
think about whether or not we could identify within nature
aspects that already looked like.
So it turns out self-consciousness
isn't the only subjective perspective on the world.
If we look at nature,
we can actually see that there are similar forms,
similar structures, similar, right?
We could now say sort of proto-cognitive aspects
or proto-cognitive shapes within nature
that could allow us to see
that this wasn't merely a subjective idealism
when we say that something like, you know,
objects have to conform to our knowledge.
We see this kind of activity taking shape, right?
Not just with us, with self-conscious human beings,
but already with different forms of nature.
So that's one initial way
that I try to get into the problem.
And what I try to show actually is that Kant,
in a work called The Critique of Judgment,
which we now call The Third Critique,
in a way already gave us a first step into this problem.
Because one insight that Kant comes to
in The Third Critique
is that when he's considering the problem
of the human power of judgment,
he immediately sort of comes upon this puzzle.
And he says, well, if nature was completely chaotic,
showed no unity, no regularity, no form whatsoever,
he sort of came to this puzzle
that it's not clear that judgment,
the power of judgment,
the power to just bring unity to nature's forms,
but it's not clear that it would work at all
if it was the case that nature was just, right,
completely chaotic, as he likes to use this term,
a crude, chaotic aggregate.
And so in a way, Kant himself comes to this problem
of life in living form
in thinking about the question of judgment himself
in this text from 1790 called
The Critique of the Power of Judgment.
Yeah, the reason I brought up the Copernican turn
and I'm trying to bring up enlightenment,
so I was like, I'm trying to get at
what was really going on.
Why was this so important?
Why is it still so important to us in a way?
Because it's kind of a caricature,
but let's think of the enlightenment at the time
and more focuses on machines
and less on something like our inner subjective understanding
of the world or something like this.
And Kant sort of does this thing where he,
in the way you just described this move of,
we can start to understand
that you can't separate those things, right?
That the object being studied
and the self-consciousness or whatever are tangled up.
Isn't that kind of what idealism in this sense is,
would you say?
Or would you impact that better, do you think?
Absolutely.
I think this idea, there's this term,
it's a kind of technical term,
but in some ways you described it very well
that gets used and I talk about it a lot in the book,
this idea of a subject object,
a kind of hyphenated term.
And that can seem right,
what is this weird thing, subject object?
And in a way you're just,
what you're describing is exactly the point, right?
That we have to understand the subject
and the object is intimately bound up together.
They, Hegel and some of the other idealists
use the term subject object
to think about the problem of self-consciousness, right?
Self-consciousness is a kind of subject object phenomenon
because it's a way in which the subject can grasp itself
as an object of a certain kind.
And then very importantly for Schelling and Hegel,
they refer to life as a kind of subject object
in part because life living things are subjects
because they have a perspective on the world
and on their environment.
So they are subjects of experience.
That's something that we, a term that we now use as well.
On the other hand, of course they are also objects, right?
They can be perceived by other subjects.
They have an objective shape and objective form.
And so this idea of a subject object
is actually very important for the idealist.
Oh, I love it so much.
And that gets towards the speculative identity thesis
which is a big part of the book.
But these are very hard things, right?
So I hope it's okay that we, this is kind of messy.
But I just think it's worth trying to relate this in a way
to, we're trying to understand the world.
We create all of these machines
and we start to put our sort of,
what is it, our trust in the external,
like in understanding science as something external.
But then with Kant and idealism,
we at least get this feeling that it's all important.
We can't separate our minds and our internal entanglement
or entanglement with that world from those objects
that seem so scientific, let's say, at this time.
And so he shows us in a sense, I guess,
that we can take it all seriously.
We don't have to necessarily say
subjective is bad or objective is bad.
But he doesn't really talk about self-consciousness, does he?
I mean, it's more, yeah, yeah.
It's all about it, but he's not exactly, yeah.
That's right.
That's so, this is something I,
I'm making reference to another scholar,
but yes, very famously, self-consciousness
is very important for Kant.
But so the story goes,
he doesn't have a theory of self-consciousness.
And so, and it's really only with Fishtha
that we get a theory of self-consciousness.
And so I think this is, like everything, as I said,
everything is disputed in the literature,
but that was for a long time a thought
that Kant made self-consciousness so central
to his philosophy and yet didn't give us a theory of it.
Let me pick up on something you said about machines
and this problem of machines and mechanism.
I think one way, another reason to think about
why the concept of life is so philosophically important
for this period is there is a debate
about mechanism and teleology.
And I think certainly, and this is even before Kant
in a kind of Cartesian way of thinking about the world,
the model for thinking about living things,
so not human, not consciousness,
but certainly bodies was the model of a machine.
And that reached a certain, as you can imagine, right,
there were certain limits
that we very quickly run up against
when we tried to understand living animal bodies
on a more mechanistic machine model.
And in Kant's third critique,
he also, right, in trying to understand the distinction,
so his way of thinking about the internal,
the very special form of self-organization
of living things, he thinks about this,
he calls it internal proposiveness.
And the contrast for him, he sets up, he says,
well, imagine a watch, which is obviously, right,
very well-organized, we understand how the parts
and the whole work together to help us tell time.
And that's between whatever unity we want to,
and functionality we want to attribute
to something like a watch,
versus the unity and self-organization
that we want to attribute to a living being.
And so your mention of this problem of machines
is actually really important
because the issue of understanding life
and its unique organization, its unique unity,
its unique perspective on the world,
we could say the interest in that
wasn't just about an interest in figuring out nature,
although it was also that, right?
We also want to understand nature as a whole
and nature as a system.
But the importance of understanding the phenomenon of life
was also in part to help us understand
something about ourselves,
because we wouldn't want to think about our minds,
our cognitive, the unity of our mind.
We see that the model of a machine very quickly
is not the right model
for thinking about the unity of our mind.
And then even more importantly for this tradition,
the problem of freedom.
If everything in nature,
including ourselves as a part of nature,
operates in accordance
with a deterministic flow of causality,
what Kant is gonna call this mechanistic flow of causality,
that also threatens our understanding of freedom,
our understanding of ourselves as self-determining,
as being able to set our own ends
as opposed to just being determined
on the basis of a causal flow.
And so the interest in life,
while of course we're interested in understanding nature
in the natural world around us,
the stakes of having an account of life,
the philosophical stakes of having an account of life
was also about having an understanding of ourselves,
an understanding of our mindedness
as much as an understanding of our own freedom.
Wonderful, yeah, very well said.
I guess what I'm trying to set up in a way
is there's still this bifurcation going on,
almost as if where the world is there
and there are machines and then there's nature
and then there's us.
And I feel like in the book,
opening up this idea of proposiveness,
which comes out of Kant's third critique
and you spend the first part of the book unpacking that
and we can say what that is now.
But I feel what I'm seeing happening,
and you can completely disagree with this,
is that we're opening up the space around that bifurcation
and then we're gonna get this kind of movement
that you talked about at the beginning
that Hegel's gonna come in with this
speculative identity thesis, subject-object.
We can never quite be located in either of those dualisms
or those things and in a weird way,
it pops it out into a complex system
where we don't have to take one side or the other anymore.
Instead, there's something more organic, lifelike.
But to get there, Kant had to sort of,
first of all, open this up.
He sort of linked the inner and the outer world,
even if he did it in a very different way
than Hegel is gonna do.
And I think the way he sort of does that
is the way you're pointing out
when you look at the third critique
and this idea of proposiveness, inner, external.
Maybe you can unpack what you,
I know you took a whole book to do it,
but just for people who haven't read the book yet,
what this really means is inner proposiveness
moving towards the speculative identity idea.
Good, so the problem of,
and proposiveness is sort of a clunky word,
but it's trying to think about the problem of, right,
so thinking about the problem
of the unity of form of nature.
And this is where Kant also,
I had mentioned earlier that Hegel
was sort of reviving some Aristotelian ideas,
but Kant too in the third critique in a way is doing that.
Again, trying to do it in a way that is,
doing it in a way that attends to the Copernican turn,
trying to do it in a, right,
obviously many, many years lie between Aristotle
and 18th and 19th centuries,
so trying to take into account things that they know,
the scientific theories of their time.
But in a way, Kant was also trying to revive
a certain Aristotelian idea.
And the thought, so the main,
one very important distinction that I talk about
in the book, and this is drawing from Kant,
is a distinction between internal
and external purposiveness.
And the idea of a purpose is pretty straightforward, right?
It's the idea of an aim, a goal, an end.
How do we understand,
and this is very controversial in Kant's time,
because basically Aristotle thought
that everything in nature had an end,
or a purpose, or a goal.
And then in modern,
and I'm also doing this very sketchily,
the short version of the story is that,
that in modern philosophy,
the idea of ends and purposes
were sort of wiped off the map,
that it was not, that there was something mystical
and something very inappropriate about thinking of nature
as, right, guided by goals or ends.
And Kant sort of comes back on this,
he basically sort of starts to think
about this problem anew.
And the distinction he draws,
so external purposiveness is a way of thinking about
nature as being organized by goals or ends that are,
it's external because it's given by something else.
And this is an idea that Kant entertains,
but I argue that he ultimately rejects,
which is that, well, maybe we can think about nature
on parallel with an artifact, right?
And if an artifact has a designer,
then maybe nature sort of has a designer god.
And we can think of the organization of nature
as having aims or goals or purposes
that are given by a designer god
in a similar way that artifacts have ends or purposes
or goals that are given to it by its designer.
That's what he calls external purposiveness.
Another sort of less, maybe less extravagant way
of thinking about it is that he also says,
well, we can also see external purposiveness
as a way of thinking about usefulness.
So he says, sandy soil is useful for spruces.
Well, isn't that handy?
Isn't that nice?
So that's also, we could think of that
as a relation of external purposiveness.
But Kant, I argue, and also I think all of the idealists,
Schelling and Hegel as well,
think that this is a very bad way
of thinking about the organization of nature.
Hegel has a joke somewhere where he says,
oh, well, then we think that God made cork trees
so that we could have corks, right?
That introduces a kind of arbitrariness, they think,
in our understanding of nature
that doesn't really grasp what is distinctive, right?
That basically, we can't distinguish
between artifacts and nature at all,
because in a way, if nature is an artifact,
then we lose the very idea of nature.
Internal purposiveness is a way of thinking
about nature as setting, right?
Nothing but the unity and form of the organism,
and I'll stick with an organism,
sets its own goals in accordance with its own activity.
And so here we do not see aims and goals
as given from the outside,
whether it's an artificer
or whether it's from any other outside force,
but that living beings have an intrinsic unity,
a form of self-organization
that sets its own aims and goals and purposes.
And it's very important.
This doesn't have to be done intentionally, right?
So we can see that, because Kant's example is a tree.
He says that a tree is sort of,
he says organized and self-organizing
in that it reproduces other trees of its own kind,
it takes in materials from the environment
to sustain and reproduce itself,
and its parts are also, right, organized,
such as to contribute to the functioning of the whole.
And all of this, he says,
he calls this internal purposiveness
because this is a form of self-organization.
In contemporary philosophy,
a term that's sometimes used is autopoiesis.
So there is actually, there are a lot of connections to,
the way that Kant is thinking about this
is something that we now think of as actually quite helpful
for thinking about the internal unity
and organization of living beings
and what's distinctive about the organization
of living beings as opposed to artifacts
or other non-living things.
And in a way, I think internal purposiveness
is similar to what we might say
is an autopoietic way of organizing oneself.
I was just thinking of the Varela Maturana book,
Tree of Life, as you were saying it.
And it's interesting that the example is a tree.
So that kind of purposiveness,
do you really think of it still
as having to have sort of an end or as an end?
Because sometimes in the book,
it feels more what is beneficial is the purpose,
or, I mean, by the time we get into Hegel,
it's become more of that movement idea
that I was picking up on in what you said,
that we've gotten, because again, I'm trying to get,
I feel like we're trying to get out of these rigid categories
that we're so stuck in.
And these kinds of examples,
like the tree, which is a dynamic ongoing process.
And there's this great quote,
which you have in the book that Kant says,
where I wish I could remember it,
but every form is a form of every other.
It's a kind of fractally way
in which you can look at any part
and it's, you know, there's other autopoietic parts
that are part of it and so on.
There's this, again, this complex scaling feeling
that's starting with Kant that we then see much more of,
as you expressed it in Hegel, of this movement,
this subject-object, you know, kind of ongoing.
But having said all that,
do you still kind of really think of purpose as an end
in that Aristotelian, teleos kind of way
that's always so criticized or was,
and is still criticized quite often in some circles?
Or do you think we can think of purpose in a different way
in the way that you're using it here?
That's a great question.
I think the idea of, so the idea of teleology,
I think is itself a very controversial idea,
especially what we're talking about here.
Yeah, there's Zveck.
I think you use that more often, but.
Yeah, the idea of, but the idea of Zveck
and Zveck message kite is very much connected to these.
Again, I think it's a way of trying to revive
or update Aristotelian ideas.
I think the way that,
I don't know if I say this exactly in the book,
but the way I would answer your question now
is that you're right.
We shouldn't think of it as an end,
because end, even the word, especially in English, right?
End, it sounds like it's an end point
and already suggests finality, even though.
Yeah, it already doesn't fit
with that example of the tree, right?
Or that. Yeah.
And so one thing that Hegel emphasizes is that in a way,
and I think this is very novel,
and again, really speaks to a lot
of our contemporary ways of thinking, life is a process.
And so instead of, although I do think
that there's something very important
about the teleological structure
of how Hegel is thinking about living beings,
not just living beings, but also us
and how we set goals and ends.
But it doesn't have this sense of finality.
It really, for Hegel, is about process.
And in fact, this is something that I think
he really comes to, especially in the mature work,
when he's talking about life in the science of logic,
it's all about process.
And it's not an accident that a lot of process philosophy,
whether you're thinking about Whitehead
or more contemporary philosopher like Jean Dupree,
that process philosophy has a lot of Hegelian roots,
you could say, because you're absolutely right.
We don't, while I think there's something
about the teleological structure and form
that's very important to how Hegel understands life
and reason, the nonfinality of it,
that it always has to be an ongoing process
is very important.
And that life for him, it's not a thing,
it's not a stable being,
but really an ongoing continual process.
Yeah, and that fits more with this life itself,
in a sense of, we're trying to get at something
that's very hard to talk about,
which I think is why probably Hegel writes
in a way that seems so obscure.
And that's what we were talking about.
It's almost the movement itself within the writing
kind of comes through.
But I do think we can talk about it
in a really practical way too, maybe for a second.
I mean, purpose can also mean something like meaning, right?
Or, and a lot of this with the speculative identity thesis
and going into this is about internal organization.
It's about finding a pattern in that movement
or regularities in that movement and taking that seriously
and that being robust,
which would be almost in a contrast
to what we started with in terms of this,
everything is alive and we just dissolve
in wonderful mysticism,
which can feel good,
but he's trying to do a science of logic.
It's trying to be very robust
in the way that you show in the book.
But can we also think of it as really connected to meaning
and to actually trying to understand this mind,
nature, connection on a level
that really does pertain to our everyday life?
I think it absolutely can.
And maybe I'll start,
I really like that you connect this idea
of purpose and meaning.
And I think this is important.
So I'll start with a more technical way
of thinking about it,
but move out to this more general sense of meaning,
which I think is for Hegel,
has to be connected with life and living things
rather than say machines and mechanisms.
That's something I think that could really speak
to our present moment,
but starting with the more technical sense,
I think along with other scholars,
but again, other scholars disagree,
but I think that a lot of what the science of logic is about
is the conditions for intelligibility.
So that would be a very technical way
of thinking about the condition, right?
We would take a few steps and really it is about meaning
because it's the conditions.
What does it mean to say that,
to make anything intelligible?
What are the conditions that allow us
to make things intelligible,
to render things intelligible
is sort of a technical way of speaking about it.
And again, I think Hegel's most radical thought,
and I'm not sure, I wanna say,
sometimes I wanna say that Hegel is really,
not just thinks about this in the deepest way,
but also really is among the first to make this big claim.
I've said that, yes,
Aristotle certainly connected life and mind,
but I don't know that he connected intelligibility
as such, right?
Or eventually what you're gonna say, meaning as such,
as connected with life.
And the reason for that is because he thinks
that it is only once we have,
life comes on the scene, so to speak.
And again, so it's not an,
he's not interested in the scientific question
of like the, how did, right?
Which is still an open question.
How did life begin, right?
Where does life come, right?
That's not the, he's not,
that's not the natural scientific question
he's interested in.
But he is saying if we're interested
in thinking about intelligibility and meaning
and how things, how anything can become intelligible
or meaningful to us at all,
that question only makes sense once life is on the scene
because it's only a question that makes sense
for living beings.
And that this idea that all living beings
have to make sense of themselves
and their environment in a certain way.
Now, obviously, depending on the living thing,
we can, this can happen at a very primitive level
for very basic, even bacteria, right?
They have to sense and make sense of their environment
in a certain way in order to survive and reproduce.
That's obviously a very primitive and basic idea
of sense-making, but that gets more sophisticated
with more sophisticated forms of life.
And I think Hegel's saying that for self-conscious forms
of life, which is the most sophisticated form of life
of which we're aware, that that sense-making, right?
That sense-making, that sense-making that we're not
being eligible is still connected with the fact
that we are living beings because sense-making
is only possible once living things come on the scene.
And so that's really, so your question about meaning,
meaning for Hegel is essentially connected with life
and living activity, living aims, living purposes.
Of course, for self-conscious beings,
in reproduction, we think about the good life, right?
And again, this Aristotelian idea.
We also think about reproduction,
but reproduction is a more encompassing question for us.
It's not just about very basic forms of individual,
but about social, what does it mean to reproduce a form
of life or a society across history?
Is it the case that sometimes entire forms of life,
and in English, Hegel's term Zittlischkeit
is translated as ethical life,
which although not a very literal translation,
I think is a very good translation
because it captures the spirit of what Hegel means
with the idea of Zittlischkeit.
And so I do think that this connection
between life and meaning in a very broad sense
that you brought up is definitely something
that Hegel thinks about very deeply,
maybe more deeply than I think any philosopher
that I can think of.
Yeah, especially for his time,
because again, Kant hadn't really used this term,
self-consciousness.
But before I get carried away in that,
this idea of the speculative identity thesis,
as you were talking, I was reminded,
I think you said that you were reading
the science of logic in maybe graduate school,
and you came across the absolute idea
that life was like the first section,
and it was amazing, right?
Because those words seem so far apart.
When you were reading that,
you were in a space where logic and life clashed, right?
This idea of the rationalists
that you presented at the beginning or the logic,
it almost seems it's something other than life.
And it's talked about in that way,
and you assume it that way.
But I guess I just wanna go to that moment
of what happened for you there,
because maybe it helps unpack this weird dichotomy.
That you're right, that was the moment.
There are very memorable moments in one's life
where when you read something, where it just floors you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've had them too.
And that was certainly one of them,
reading this huge, difficult,
probably one of the most difficult books
that I've ever, even now that I've ever read,
maybe one of the most difficult books ever written.
And also going back to the beginning of our conversation,
all of these myths about Hegel, right?
This hyper-rationalist,
we know that the science of logic moves us towards this,
the absolute idea,
which sounds like the most mystical, rationalist thing
that you could ever conceive of.
And that was exactly my reaction.
I was expecting to reach this big culmination.
And of course, we look at the table of contents,
so you know it's coming.
But on that first read, when you finally get there,
it is absolutely astonishing.
And also that what he talks about there,
so although he's very clear, he wants to distinguish,
he says, yes, this is what we're talking about here.
He says, we're still talking about logic,
we're still talking about thinking and intelligibility,
so we're not thinking about nature.
But nonetheless, the content
of what he's talking about life,
he's talking about corporate reality,
that thinking isn't disembodied, right?
This great, again, a thought that might be very obvious,
but given the history of philosophy
is difficult and controversial
and hard to think about, to conceive,
that corporate reality,
thinking always has to take shape in a distinctive body,
that thinking takes place within a living body
that is in an environment
and in constant metabolic exchange with an environment
in this processual character
that you were asking about earlier.
And that most importantly,
thinking is not something that an individual does in a void.
Thinking, living things are always living things
that live with other living things of other kinds,
but the most table thinks
that the most significant relationships are, of course,
the relationships we have with others
and that all of this contributes to how we understand
thinking and the powers of cognition
and how we make things intelligible and meaningful,
how we make sense of the environment
as much as how we make sense of ourselves.
And so it was, you're absolutely right about this moment.
It was, and the shock that how could,
this is video, coming to Hegel as a skeptic,
all of these criticisms of Hegel for over now 200 years,
but even if we just stick with the 100 years after Hegel,
how could we have accused Hegel of this
when his whole point was to say that,
yes, he is a rationalist.
He wants to think about reason in this expansive way,
but reason is living activity.
That's what it is.
Yeah, it reminds me of this idea of, how do you say it?
The whole idea of the speculative identity thesis,
that self-consciousness is the self-consciousness of life,
or it is.
Life is constitutive of self-consciousness.
That's kind of radical,
but why is that radical in this context?
Yes, so the thought is that self-consciousness
is self-conscious life.
And that, exactly, and that life part isn't super,
we can't just drop that.
That self-consciousness is self-conscious life
is very significant.
It's very radical from the perspective,
again, if you think about the trajectory
of modern philosophy and Descartes,
and maybe every philosopher is unfair.
I'm sure there are better ways to think about Descartes,
but we'll just use Descartes as sort of the bad guy.
He opened up something that helped us get here,
but there is this, again, that bifurcation,
just to link it to what we were talking about,
that's very real and very solid.
It's very real.
And so this Cartesian way of,
because in a way Descartes was also,
that's what the I think is, right?
I think I exist or I think I am to associate thinking,
but for Descartes, right?
Thinking is thinking substance.
And so there are these stark dualisms.
It's absolutely impossible on a Cartesian view
to think of self-consciousness as self-conscious life.
And-
Sorry, but that's just amazing, isn't it?
It really is true what you just said,
that you can't think of self-consciousness
as self-conscious life in that worldview,
which what is it then?
It's very, so you've really emphasized
the danger of these dualistic ways of thinking.
And I think as Kant does a lot,
so I don't wanna be unfair to Kant,
but Kant does hang on,
that Kant hangs on to this dualism
in his understanding of self-consciousness,
the distinction for the most important distinction,
the closest to something where we might get
like a Cartesian-like dualism in Kant
is the distinction between noumena and phenomena.
And so there are,
while I think Kant is a much more sophisticated, right?
Even in his dualism,
he's much more sophisticated than someone like Descartes,
it's still a dualistic picture
where we cannot think of self-consciousness
as self-conscious life.
And there are also, Kant has moral,
there are theoretical,
in his theoretical philosophy,
there are reasons for that,
but I think the more important reason
for Kant is his moral philosophy,
which we don't have to get into.
But what does it mean to say
that life is constitutive of self-consciousness?
You've been making reference to what I talk about
in the book is the speculative identity thesis,
which is really just Hegel's technical way
of thinking about this idea of the subject object
that we've talked about,
where life is one of the primary models
for this speculative identity of subject and object.
Well, for one thing, cognition,
I think, and this is something
we really only get in the logic,
that to understand cognition
is to understand something
about these three fundamental processes of living beings,
that understanding powers of cognition
requires that we understand them as embodied.
And so different living bodies
will have different powers of cognition.
And again, something that strikes one,
especially for today, as something obvious,
but I think for a long period of the history of philosophy,
we didn't wanna think about human cognition
as in any way connected with the powers of the human body.
So there was, again, at the time,
something very radical about this.
It's so radical.
I'm sorry I keep pausing,
but for me, this is a really important thing
that you've brought up in the book
and that you show in a way that's very robust.
Because after reading the book, it seems obvious, right?
That life is constitutive of self-consciousness.
But if you're coming out of a philosophical tradition,
it's really not obvious, and weirdly.
And even now, we still don't wanna take the body too seriously.
Now we think of mind as like a machine, again,
a computation, a computer or something.
So I guess I'm just trying for people listening,
there's really something very fascinating
that for so much, it took Kant, it took Descartes,
it took these people going through this
to even just open it up to where we could imagine
our thoughts, our mind, as connected to nature and life.
That's a really revolutionary thing,
even though it now is starting to seem a little bit simple.
We almost had to bifurcate to even get there.
To the mind-boggling.
This is right, but I wanna say,
so there's a certain sense in which
it now seems obvious to us that minds have to be living.
But you mentioned the computational theory of mind.
This is a very, so actually, it's still radical.
And we're still trying to find ways
of understanding the mind that are not,
that do not reduce it to a machine.
You mentioned the work of Varela.
I really admire the work of people like Evan Thompson.
I think Evan Thompson is one contemporary philosopher
who's tried to give us ways of thinking.
He talks about Consular Critique.
He talks a lot about Merleau-Ponty.
I think people give the idealist,
maybe because they're so difficult, I don't know,
maybe because of, you know, we started by saying
just how difficult it is to read Hegel.
Also the complicated history of the reception of Hegel.
So I think right now, we're not drawing on
these really important resources from German idealism
to think about these questions.
Another contemporary philosopher who I also,
whose work I really admire is Peter Godfrey Smith,
who also is now just trying to think about
the deep, deep connections between the life and mind.
And this is not easy to do.
And so even today, I think it's still quite a radical thing
to argue against a computational theory of mind
and to insist that minds have to be living.
Yeah, it's great you brought that up
because it isn't easy actually philosophically
to draw a line from bacteria, I think you mentioned,
and trees and life and nature,
which you have to kind of accept all of that
once you start thinking about life and nature,
to our experience of ourselves and mind
and thought and memory.
That's a very hard thing to trace.
So even though it might, when I say it in this big way,
obviously life is constitutive of self-consciousness,
it sounds obvious.
Once you really try to do it philosophically,
it's very hard.
Which is why I think your book is really important
because I do think we can look at Hegel
in this way for help.
And it's also connected to these themes
we've been playing around with
in terms of what Kant was trying to do.
We're always like on the seesaw between these dualisms.
And I do think in your book, you show another way
or Hegel shows another way.
Fitch to Schelling, you can't separate.
It's all that time period, right?
Which we haven't talked about those guys yet,
but that's all connected.
But I do feel like, and I wonder if you also see that
as a possible way of rethinking some of these ruts
that we've gotten stuck in
a la Evan Thompson's blind spot, right?
This movement of subject object
that doesn't have to be located
in one of those bifurcations.
Exactly.
It's so interesting because earlier
we were talking about Descartes,
but there are these habits of thought, this bifurcating,
this separating of the subjective and the objective.
It comes back in so many different forms.
One thing that I thought about
when you were talking earlier,
the hard problem of consciousness,
the temporary way of thinking, right?
So everyone thinks, oh, well, no one's Cartesian anymore,
but we still have something
called the hard problem of consciousness.
And so the tendency to think in this bifurcated way,
the biggest version of it
is the bifurcation of subject and object, right?
If we want to put it in the most general terms.
And I think if there was one plea that I mostly work
in the history of philosophy,
but I would love for people to take Hegel seriously
or to take Hegel as somebody who can offer insights
into resolving some of these problems.
I think some people have turned to,
like in the work of Evan Thompson turned to phenomenology,
the work of Husserl or Merleau-Ponty.
I actually think the German idealist tradition
maybe has more to offer
in part because they thought so much more deeply
about this problem of that life and mind
have to be connected in order for us,
that that is in a way the solution
to all of these problems of bifurcation.
I actually think extending the idea of phenomenology,
it is phenomenology of spirit.
This is a word that is there.
I actually think we could extend it a bit
because there's a lot of overlap already
between phenomenology and the tradition
of taking nature seriously, for example.
And what Hegel was trying to do
and what you actually express in this book,
it's hard because we can't think in those either
or categories that our language
and our philosophy are really built upon.
Everything's so stuck in that,
which I think is why it's so hard to read Hegel
and understand Hegel in a way too.
Not that he figured it out because really a lot of it comes
from Fichte and Schelling and that whole thing.
But there's an expression of it there
that I do think we're trying to express better, right?
Yes, and you're touching on something
that sounds right, that one reason,
why is Hegel's text so difficult, right?
Was he just trying to be obscure?
Was he just trying to be annoying?
Obviously there are also translation issues,
but it's just one reason it's so difficult
is because he's trying to find a language to understand,
exactly, to, you know, people talk a lot
about Hegel's dialectics and the dialectical mode
of expression or a dialectical method.
One very straightforward reason why Hegel is so difficult
is that he was trying to capture the movement
and contradiction and processes of things
in a language, right, that was true to that.
Off Haven, I think, captures it a little better.
It's weird, you know, you don't, I love it in the book,
you don't talk about dialect until the very end.
It's kind of a little beautiful send-off, right?
Because that's the thing everyone associates with Hegel,
but, and it is this kind of movement, isn't it?
This, what you were just expressing
or this feeling of things layering and sublimating
and changing and moving.
We don't have a good language for that yet,
but in the book, you're starting to show how we could, right?
It can be robust if we look at it.
Yeah, I hope, you know, that's what I was trying to convey.
And I don't even, it's not even that I think Hegel did it,
you know, definitively or perfectly,
but he really, you know, returning to his texts,
I think, can help us with a lot of the problems
that we still struggle with that, as you put it,
are often connected with this tendency to bifurcate.
And that, it's Schelling who has the subject, object,
object, subject, that sort of, that you tie in very closely
to this idea of what we're calling,
or what the speculative identity thesis,
we could also just say it's almost like the dialectic movement
or this pattern of, that we're talking about in a way too,
from a different, from a form-based angle, maybe.
Yeah, Schelling, that's an,
I think reading Schelling is just, is also very difficult,
but I think one thing I try to say in the book
is that some people think that in the early Hegel,
Schelling was an important influence,
but something that gets dropped.
And I try to show that this is not,
that Schelling is actually more important
in the telling of the story than he's been given credit for.
Yeah, I love it that you bring all those people in,
because I really feel it was almost a spirit or a time
where people were trying to do this,
try to find some way to hold these paradoxes
and talk about them, bring nature back in,
still connects on a bodily level with the world,
but also in a really robustly logical way.
I guess to go back to your journey just a little bit
before we end is, so you discovered that life and the logic
and it had one of those moments for you,
which I think a lot of us know,
or it's just things are brighter or something,
you can't leave it behind.
How did that proceed on into this book?
So it was, you know, these, I guess maybe all books
they take a long time, they have a long period.
And so when I was a graduate student
was when I had that moment, it was in a seminar.
I took a year long seminar on the science of logic
taught by the late and wonderful Richard Bernstein.
And so I had that aha moment.
And then I spent, so the origins of the book
was my dissertation.
And then after I wrote the dissertation,
it took me a long time.
I basically rewrote the whole thing.
It was very interesting, hard process of,
in a way I had the thought
and dissertations are often like this.
You have the thought, but the execution is not, you know,
you're not happy with the execution.
And so it was sort of, yeah, it took me a long time
to write it as a book in the form
in which it eventually appeared.
Trying to connect it to your purposiveness
and your dialectic, not to be too silly,
but there's something, I wonder like how it's changed
your way of being or thinking,
or if it connected to you because of some way
that you are in the world.
I don't know why it's coming to mind,
but in the book you talk about that this for Hegel,
this, what we've been describing,
this process, dialectic, speculative,
whatever you wanna call it, this movement,
this pattern that he noticed,
then kind of let him look at nature differently
or almost look at other kinds or species
or like start to almost think about what it might be like
to have this purposiveness,
almost enter into different perspectives.
And I just wonder if that connects in your life at all.
What does this bring up for you?
I mean, it has changed.
It was an aha moment.
It has changed the way that I think about,
how I think about, but also how I relate to nature.
I think that can sound so, I don't know.
It can sound cliche, but it's really not.
I mean, this is actually real, it's what matters.
It's just hard to talk about.
It completely has to think of the world as alive
with a plurality of forms of life
and alive in a more right, robust way.
Not just, we know, of course, when I'm taking off,
if I'm on a hike, I know that there's life all around me,
but that all of this life has a perspective on things
and that there are sort of an infinite number
of these worlds.
And so it actually has absolutely changed the way
that I think about the natural world and relate to it.
I think it has a lot of, not just for me personally,
I think it's very, this view of life
and living nature as a whole,
I think could have a lot of ramifications
for our present way of relating to nature,
given our environmental crisis.
I think it's an absolutely, it's a super helpful,
again, we need lots and lots of different ways
of thinking about this,
but I think this is one very helpful and important one
that could help us rethink our relationship to nature.
Those bifurcations are still there, I guess,
that we were talking about at the beginning,
or those divisions, they've changed forms
or even accelerated in terms of what you were saying
about the way we think of technology in mind.
Exactly, you've been talking throughout about machines.
Obviously, AI is such a huge question and problem
and puzzle for us at the moment.
You mentioned computational theories of mind.
Again, I think there, Hegel can give us
a very helpful alternative way
of thinking about these things
and that his thought has been underappreciated
in this regard.
I know he's been a hugely influential philosopher
in many ways, but there are currents of his thought
that have been really underappreciated.
It almost seems like we've applied that to philosophy,
that either or way of thinking
that you have to choose a side,
and so that's why it's been hard
to think of something like this in a robust way
and bring it in across scales to understand,
but I really think that a lot of people
are trying to do it from a lot of different angles,
and it doesn't necessarily mean
that all the stuff from computational mind
needs to be gone.
If anything, if we could open it up
in the way we've been trying to talk about,
all of these things could start to help each other
in a way because what we're really trying to do,
if we could do it, would be very helpful.
If you could really understand
how life is continuous with mind,
which if we're just thinking of common sense kind of way,
somehow we've gotten to this point
where we have thoughts and feelings and memories
as living creatures in a living planet,
and to try to find a robust way to talk about that
and trace that out in ways like you or Evan Thompson,
or gosh, a lot of philosophers of the past
and present are trying to do,
it does seem like it could be very helpful
to these problems that we have now
relative to the environment and technology.
I wonder in your everyday life as a philosopher,
if you are able to think about things,
if you still have those moments that you had
when you read Nature and Logic,
because those are other ways we get put into boxes
in the sense we become professional philosophers
and we have this and this and this.
I wonder, is it hard for you to hold all this?
Yeah.
For sure.
I think teaching is, this is what makes teaching
so important to the practice,
not just the practice of philosophy,
but probably for a lot of researchers
that this contact with students
who are always approaching this with fresh eyes
for the first time that is,
and also with their concerns, right?
Because their concerns are always changing
and their world is changing so fast.
And so I think teaching definitely helps with that
because you're right, there can certainly be,
we get stuck in our little silos and yeah,
professional life is what it is for everybody,
including for academics,
but I think teaching helps with a lot of that.
And I think that meaning,
we talked about purpose, purposiveness,
and I brought up meaning,
but it does connect, right, to that
because we can also feel like, what are we doing?
Studying Hegel and thinking about all these crazy concepts
that don't even make sense to people
if you just say, speak it out,
if you try to read it out a paragraph of Hegel.
But actually it really does connect
to these bigger themes, I think,
and it's worth the hard work of trying to figure out
how to articulate that.
I guess that's just a way of saying,
thanks for trying to do that, right,
as a teacher, but also in writing the books.
And this is love and philosophy,
so I have to bring up this word love at the end.
Do you see any, I mean, I know Hegel,
thought about love a lot in his youth,
and with Hoderling, we didn't talk about him with the poets,
and life and love was very big for him,
and I think it still runs through his work.
I was trying to say maybe he put it all into these terms,
but for you, just holding all this together,
this perspective, this connection with nature, Hegel,
what comes to mind with that word for you?
I think Hegel had lots of interesting things
to say about love, and in the connection,
in the early Hegel, for him,
love and life were deeply, deeply connected.
There was something about this infinite,
he used the term infinite,
infinite structure of life and love, right,
that life infinitely returns to itself,
and love sort of has a similar structure.
You're right that often we think of this
as the early romantic Hegel,
when he was, Hegel was very good friends,
Hegel, Hoderling, and Schelling were roommates
in the Tübingenstift,
and of course, so Hegel and Schelling broke off,
and were no longer friends after a certain point,
but Hegel and Hoderling remained friends
for Hoderling's too short life,
but I actually think, you used this word earlier,
you said that it's not that he abandons
these earlier romantic themes,
but that they get infused into this theory,
and including what he says about the concept,
and I think that word is, you're absolutely right.
I don't think that he ever abandons
this way of thinking about the connection
between life and love.
There's a great passage in the science of logic
where he's talking about the concept of all things,
which is the most, right, you might think,
this is the most abstract of all things
you could possibly talk about,
but he says that the concept is free love,
and-
Free love, before we add that term.
Exactly, right, and not in the sense that, you know,
that we meant it in the 60s and the 70s, right?
Free love, the concept is free love.
What a wild thing to say,
but I think we should take him serious.
I think he means it,
and that there is a consistency in his thought
of thinking about something,
about this infinite self-return,
and also that relationality is very important,
that even when we're thinking
about something like the concept,
it's not enclosed within itself,
but always in these,
it's only in these relational process
of which love is a particularly powerful manifestation
that we can, you know,
arrive at something like meaning or purpose or truth.
So I think love is a huge theme in Hegel.
It's also a model for how he thinks about recognition,
which is another really important concept
in Hegelian philosophy.
So I think Hegel is a great thinker of love.
And do you think this movement,
I mean, sometimes we talk about flow,
or we talk about, there's a kind of, when you're present,
sometimes when I'm reading Hegel,
I was trying to express,
you do feel a kind of presence
and a kind of movement that does something good
for the way you can be in the world, so to speak.
I don't know if that, I mean, I'm not trying to sound too,
it can happen with a lot of different writers
in philosophy, it's kind of just something that happens,
but I get the feeling maybe he felt that a bit
when he was talking about free love.
I don't know, or how would you think this free love,
what does he really mean by that?
Well, so can I maybe just,
when I was preparing to talk with you today,
I pulled up this fragment from, you know,
there was this early fragment that Hegel wrote about love,
and it's wonderful because it's so connected
with how he thinks about life.
So here's one thing,
just read a couple of short things that he says,
he says, true union or love proper exists only
between living things who are alike in power,
and thus in one another's eyes,
living beings from every point of view.
Oh, wow, that's all the themes
we were just talking about in a way,
that self-consciousness is life,
is all these perspectives, yeah.
But to associate that love is to see another
as living from every point of view is so, right?
So this, to move against bifurcation and fixity, right?
To see them, to love someone is to see them as fully alive.
He also says, love is a sensing of something living,
which is also such a, I think,
beautiful and profound thing to say.
So yes, I mean, going back, so, okay,
now jumping all the way back to the concept as free love,
I think there's a tendency in later criticisms of Hegel
to worry that his rationality,
his way of thinking about conceptual thinking
is to make things fixed.
Adorno loves to say that identity thinking,
this is what Adorno accuses Hegel of doing with the concept.
So Adorno is a very interesting
and astute reader of Hegel in many ways.
So I'm definitely not dismissing Adorno.
I think Adorno is deeply insightful of Hegel
and many other things,
but I just think that this idea that the concept fixes
is exactly wrong, right?
This is exactly what he doesn't want.
If the concept is getting something right,
we, it's almost like we're grasping something
the way that a lover would grasp something, right?
As fully alive, as he says, from every point of view.
So yeah, I think that love,
although it can seem like once we get to the mature Hegel,
love is a less important theme than it is
for the early Hegel,
I still think it's actually very important.
I think that's right,
and there would be so much more to say there
about the self-consciousness itself.
What's really happening when we become aware
of ourself as consciousness.
And I mean, that is part of that,
trying to see from a different perspective.
And if you try to think about that quote,
that's beautiful, that you just read about love,
then there's some way in which this movement
we've been talking about
and how you can use it to maybe look
at different perspectives
it does become in a really practical way about love.
Self-love, the recognition of nature
is a kind of love almost,
like recognizing it as life.
Absolutely.
To see it as living from every point of view, yeah.
And this association of love
with the sensing of something living.
I like what you said about loving or recognizing nature.
I think that's right.
That's kind of the point of philosophy and science
in a weird way, to do it as robustly as possible.
But that's the kind of the doubling too
that you talk about, but in any case,
is there anything that we haven't talked about
that you wanted to bring up?
I already kept you five minutes over, so.
No, I think we've touched on a lot.
This was really fun to chat with you about all this.
Yeah, it was, there's always more, there you go.
Yeah, you can never get to the bottom,
but that's the point of it.
But I really, I really do appreciate you.
Thank you so much for inviting me.
My pleasure.
Have a great day there in Nashville.
You too.
All right, bye.
