Software is nice and rigid and stiff, does what you tell it, and business
environments are insane and impossible to predict and impossible to control.
We're not just producing clones who sit and write code that can be replaced by
LLMs, but we're producing human beings who have to interact with human systems.
And we're sending them out there with knowledge of nothing more than the code
to interact with these human systems.
And we're doing them a disservice.
We're making their jobs harder and to be able to build software requires that
you can interface with both sides of this.
And programmers are very definitely taught and selected for their ability
to think linearly, and that means solving problems, thinking logically,
taking one step at a time, always being correct, being very critical
in how you view things.
You can start with the fathers of computer science.
So Turing and Von Neumann, you work backwards and you realize that
Turing and Von Neumann both worked with Wittgenstein and Russell, who was
influenced by Friede and you take another few steps back, so it doesn't take
long to get back to Plato and Parmenides.
And you realize that, God, this is not something that's just
turned up in the last 50 years.
This is a way of looking at the world that's been around for a very, very long time.
And the paradox is that that particular way of thinking, which in the book, I
relate back to Friede and Russell and Wittgenstein, that particular way of
thinking is incredibly necessary to invent the computer.
We would never have got to Alan Turing.
We would never have got to the computer without that way of thinking.
But that way of thinking turns out to be absolutely horrendously horrible for
dealing with or describing or managing any kind of human problem.
And as soon as you apply it to a human problem, the only thing you can do is
create constructs that are rigid and brittle.
And the problem as I've seen it is that those static models describe a snapshot
of the business environment at one point in time from one person's perspective.
And that reality keeps moving and keeps changing.
And as that reality moves and change, anything that we've put into
software, into code, cracks and breaks.
And then we experience poor quality software.
We have to change it.
It takes time.
It gets more brittle every time we touch it.
And what I've said is that we can't live in this world where we believe in this
static snapshot of the business environment.
It doesn't exist.
It just never is like that.
And the residue is a kind of clever little trick that says, look, there is a
snapshot of the system at this one particular time.
And we'll put that, we'll wrap that in a wrapper called the residue.
And a residue is just whatever's left over when the system breaks.
And then you tweak your original architecture so that when you go down
that trouser leg, the thing that breaks still keeps working.
And software has to be based on a model of what's going on because it's
based on a model we have of a human system.
And the software becomes even more rigid than the model itself because it's
encased in code, difficult and expensive to change.
And what happens is that we use this linear way of thinking to model the
human system, then we take that model, turn it into code, the human system
moves and the code breaks.
And so the architect's paradox is that this linear way of thinking that gets us
to the computer causes a crisis when we try to apply it to the human systems,
which we're trying to use the software to help.
And here's a set of tools that allows you to live comfortably with this
uncertainty and not only that, but to leverage the uncertainty to get to a
result, which while it's not certain is, is scientifically as good as we can get.
That shifts everything and it shifts the way we talk.
It shifts the way we look at problems.
The feedback I get from developers and people in the field is that it's a
relief.
It's like, we don't have to pretend anymore.
I would say that given my education, which was pure mathematics followed by
software engineering, that the education and this default philosophy that all
people who follow that track that I talk about in the book pick up, shuts you out
from a huge, huge chunk of the world, huge chunk of life.
And what the philosophy has done for me, while staying very close to the code is
brought me and pulled me into contact with all kinds of things.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy.
I'm so glad you're here today.
I have Barry O'Reilly with me as my guest, and I'm very excited about this one.
Although it's about a subject you might think isn't philosophical, which is
software development, but anyone who's studied philosophy knows that there's so
many metaphors or even ideas that are taken literally in terms of computation,
in terms of the way we build our computers, the way we think about them.
And this is sort of flipping that script in a way, because here's a guy, Barry,
who's worked for a lot of top companies.
He's really good at his job developing architecture, software architecture.
He's an architect in this world of coding and software development, enterprise
architecture, started out in math, pure mathematics, became a coder, a software
architect, and he's bringing complexity theory into software development, which
is the first time that's ever been done.
I find it extremely exciting.
I really think he's got something urgent to teach us as philosophers, even though
philosophers might quibble a bit with his interpretations of philosophy.
If you read his book, he actually does a very good job of it.
He's really studied and condensed so many different sorts of philosophies in a way
that actually makes it very understandable and brings something really
important to software architecture.
He's actually come up with a whole new theory in software architecture, which
actually has to do with the way that it's done, and it's called residuality theory.
And it's a theory of software design that tries to make it easier to design
software systems based on these complex systems notions for the real world, for
complex business environments, for complex everyday life, for the kind of
problems we actually face as humans, as life, even though we have to use this
linear code to solve them.
So he's holding this paradox.
He actually talks about it as a paradox, as you'll hear.
It's a theory that model software systems is interconnected, and he has
this wonderful idea of residues and he's working with the residue as a kind of unit.
This is a really good introduction into it and just to understand how it's
important for philosophy and also why philosophy can actually be helpful in
the real world of business and computer design and computer software.
He's basically coming up with an idea of process modeling.
You know, he's using process philosophy and complexity theory to come up with a
way to do the software architecture that actually works.
It's actually been proven to work.
A word he talks about a lot is uncertainty, so he's finding a way to
manage uncertainty, which is a part of all design practice, even though we code
in a very linear way, the problems that those codings are solving in the real
world are messy and uncertain, full of chance and change.
And for those of you who are coders and software designers, this is an
introduction to philosophy that can be really helpful to you, his work, because
he really spent years and years reading through everything from Plato to
Deleuze and noticing a lot of the residues, dare I say, that have come out
of philosophy, but that people didn't necessarily think of as philosophy.
He talks about how everyone has a philosophy, we just don't know it, which
is something I've said myself actually, or that a lot of us have been talking
about lately, which is maybe one reason we ended up finding each other.
In any case, I hope you will listen to this conversation through to the end
because it really gets good towards the end.
I think it's good all the way through, but these aren't necessarily easy ideas.
And we're combining a lot of worlds here as usual with love and philosophy, but
they're all connected by this idea of paradox, holding the paradox, looking at
the world a bit differently, thinking differently from the either or
mindsets that characterize so much of what we do every day and how we do
business and not saying that those are bad.
This isn't about coding being bad or linearity being bad or any of that.
It's just a different way of approaching it, which actually allows some more
randomness, some more entropy, while at the same time giving us a
different kind of order.
So that reminded me a lot of the conversation I had with Carl
Friston, for example.
There's a lot of ideas from all the other conversations in this one.
So a lot of these episodes have a lot to do with complexity and complexity science.
We mentioned it in the last one with Kevin Kelly.
The tech maverick of co-founder of Wired Magazine.
And then there's a few other talks coming up, which have quite a bit to
do with complexity and philosophy and physics.
But this one is really fascinating because it's in a very practical
everyday application, software design, software architecture.
However, I find it very fascinating too, because of the way we talk about
computation and the way we talk about computers within philosophy, I actually
see this is very helpful for breaking out of that mindset a bit and also
being able to hold it and understand the worth in it at the same time.
I hope you enjoy this conversation.
I hope you'll go and find Barry's talks on YouTube, which I'm linking to,
of course, in the show notes.
They're really worth watching, listening to.
His books are great too.
I read them, loving them.
There's a lot in there you'll recognize and then, but there's a lot of
connections that he makes because he's coming at it from a different way
that even if you're a philosopher and you're very trained in all the
philosophy he mentions or talks about, you still get something out of it.
And if you're a software designer, a coder, you get an introduction into
philosophy that will make a lot of sense to you.
We also come back to the idea of care and love, what it really means in the
world to be embracing uncertainty and not to be just holding onto this
linear way of thinking and imagining that LLMs and the whole AI revolution
is somehow safer or smarter or anything like that.
It's just a product of powerful technology that's been
formed with a linear mindset.
There's a whole other world.
There's a whole other side to the paradox and it's time to explore it and
even embrace that uncertainty and let it open us up to the world again.
And I also want to say, I think residuality theory probably could have
some interesting applications in other fields.
No one's really tried it yet.
I've just learned about it, but I've already had quite a few ideas
relative to neuroscience, which of course I won't have time to test out myself.
Just for those of you listening, maybe it sparks something.
Maybe it's worth actually listening to the end and looking at his videos
because there's a new approach here, especially for those of us coming at
it from the traditional routes of cognitive science.
I'm always happy to hear from you, hear your ideas and I hope you'll
support the show in whatever way you can.
Hope you're having a beautiful May.
It's the month of my birthday, so it's one of my favorite months and things
are coming up from the ground.
As I said last time, it's been very sunny.
I'm off to Japan, so I'm sending you a lot of love today.
Hope you're doing well wherever you are and that something good
happens in your life this week.
All right.
Cheers.
Shall we start?
Yeah.
Okay.
Hi, Barry.
Thank you so much for being on Love and Philosophy.
It's wonderful to see you today.
Thanks, Andrea.
Cool to be here.
I just thought at the beginning, maybe you could just tell everyone
a little bit about yourself.
You have such an interesting history.
I know we're going to talk about your two books a bit today, but first,
who are you, Barry O'Reilly?
So my name is Barry O'Reilly.
I live in the archipelago outside Stockholm in Sweden.
Originally I grew up in Ireland, in the north of the country.
I worked with software engineering for a very long time.
Originally my first degree was in pure mathematics and got into the
software industry and worked for a very long time there as a software
engineer, software architect, worked for Microsoft for quite a few years,
led the solutions architecture community there, became a chief
architect and in that time got very interested in the idea of what is a
software architect, because no one really knows and got into really into
trying to define what that is.
How do we teach architects?
How do we become architects?
Cause it's all very accidental.
It's all very random.
The industry is very immature.
It doesn't really understand what we're about yet.
And from there, I decided to, I had a bunch of ideas about how we should do
this, how we should carry this out, how we should, how we should be as architects.
And I started to speak on the IT conference circuits, but I was a little
bit disillusioned with it because it's, you know, in, at IT conferences, you
can get up on a stage, you can say anything and people would just nod and
say, that's really interesting.
And you don't have to verify anything.
You don't have to validate what you're saying.
And I felt that I wanted to go deeper.
So I started a PhD.
I got interested in the links between what we do as software architects
and the complexity sciences.
Started to investigate those things and sort of pulled on that thread until
eventually I ended up looking into philosophy, encouraged by my wife.
She's, she's just finishing her PhD in education.
So she was the first philosopher in the house and she kept leaving books on my
desk and saying, you need to read this.
You're the things you're talking about have already been talked about.
You need to read this guy and this thing and that.
And so I started to get deeper and deeper into that.
And then maybe it went a bit too far.
And so last year I was writing, asked to write a little booklet for a
conference and they would give it away as the domain of a design conference
in Amsterdam, and they were going to give this little booklet away to
everyone who came to the conference.
And so there was some kind of mix up in communication.
And so by booklet, they meant 16 pages.
And so I sent them a message when I got to 200, this is going well.
And they're like, no, stop.
That's not what we meant.
So eventually we, we compromised on like 72 or 74 pages.
Then people started to hear about the book.
So they started to write to me and say, how do we get this book?
I was like, well, it's not for sale.
So I published it online through Lean Pub and it turned out to be a big success.
And one of the things that happened to get down from 200 pages, I had to
take all the philosophy stuff out.
And that was just sort of lying there on a shelf in my, in my hard drive.
And then I did a talk at a conference, the NDC conference in Oslo about the
philosophy behind architecture and discovered that it wasn't just a niche
interest that I thought was interesting, but lots of people were very interested
in it, so I took those extra pages and turned them into the second book.
Which was released in February this year.
Well, that's a more philosophical one.
Yeah.
And that's, yeah, that's the, the architect's paradox.
It's very interesting because you're kind of, you're bringing, as far as I know,
you're bringing complexity theory into software architecture and coding, and I'm
not sure that's ever been done before.
And it's this whole new world relative to what it could mean to be an architect
in terms of software.
Did you already start having these ideas relative to residues, to the residuality
theory before you went back to school?
Where, when did complex systems come in?
Like, how did all this, how did you discover this?
So I was, I was given a job while I was at Microsoft.
They, they, I went over to the head office and they said to me, look, we
need someone to teach the next generation of architects because we're
having, we're having some struggles.
And sort of people who can cover the technology, because technology at the
time was changing and we're moving to cloud-based systems, which was
challenging for a lot of people.
So a lot of our old knowledge was crumbling away and we were expected to
learn new things and we were also expected to be able to translate those
new things into business environments.
Business environments are very different things than, than software.
Software is nice and rigid and stiff, does what you tell it.
And business environments are insane and impossible to predict
and impossible to control.
And so I started thinking about how do I teach this?
And I had to ask some hard questions of myself and how do I do this?
Cause I'm not entirely sure.
And at that point, I'm fairly confident that I can do this job well, because
it keeps working out for me, but I can't articulate what do I do?
What do I, how do I know what to do?
Where are these ideas come from?
How do I know what to say next?
And I started to dig into that and realized that sort of myself and
other senior architects had a grasp of complexity that, sorry, a grasp of
uncertainty that, or a comfort in uncertainty that sort of junior
architects and developers just didn't have.
And so when things started to become uncertain, where you couldn't really
grasp what's happening in this business system and no one could tell you what
was happening and there was a lot of uncertainty around how does this work?
And what are we even trying to do?
You would see junior architects, junior software developers melt away and just
not really know how to handle it.
And senior architects and people like me would think, oh, well, now this is
interesting because no one knows what's going on and we don't know what we're
going to do and it's really difficult to map this to software constructs.
It's not textbook.
It's not easy.
And so I started to just read a little bit on what is uncertainty?
What are the, how do we deal with that?
And so as a mathematician, you end up, of course, always coming back to Bay
theorem and things like that.
There's a lot of ideas around that, but they all sound real good, but you can't
apply them to real life.
You can't do anything really concrete with them.
And so I just pulled on that thread.
I ended up in the complexity sciences, reading people like Ralph Stacey and
Nassim Taleb.
And then I started to formulate my own ideas around that.
And it's sort of the early, the early incantations of this were based around
Taleb's idea of anti-fragile.
I realized that it's a good metaphor for what I'm doing, but it doesn't capture
what I'm trying to do at the component level.
And so the concept of residues was born out of melting all of these ideas from
the complexity sciences together with the ideas from computer science and
practical experience and sort of trying to capture what it is that senior
architects do in a way that, as I've presented these ideas back to the
community, in a way that senior architects themselves didn't, were doing,
but couldn't articulate.
And that's been nice to hear from people in the industry say, look, I already do
this. What you're describing sounds really familiar, but we've never had
words for this before.
You know, we've never been able to say what it is that we do until now.
And so it was quite, it was more or less going to Google, typing in the word
uncertainty, clicking on the first few links and going, ah, okay, it's this.
And then I wrote a few articles.
They got published in some computer science journals.
And then I decided to do it more with it.
So I found a university and started working on a PhD, which I'm writing up as
we speak.
Well, not literally right now, but this week I'm supposed to be writing it up.
Good luck.
Well, you have written two books in the time you were writing your PhD.
So you're doing a lot of writing, that's for sure.
Yeah.
You said you studied math first.
Were you already interested in Bayes and all of this?
Because that's not exactly, I mean, there's a lot of different kinds of math
and that's not necessarily typical or it's becoming more typical, but.
Yeah.
So the math that I studied was pure mathematics.
So algebraic topology, linear algebra, things like that.
And math for the sake of math, absolutely no application whatsoever.
No statistics.
Statistics was a dirty word in our department.
So we didn't do any of that.
Statistics came much later, maybe 10 or so years ago when in the last wave of machine
learning interest, then I had to get into statistics.
And then obviously as part of your PhD training, there's a lot of statistics in there.
But yeah.
It sounds like you were doing something that was working really well, as you kind of said,
and you were succeeding a lot in Microsoft and all these big worlds.
And then you started trying to figure out exactly why and you hit upon uncertainty.
Was it your capacity to handle uncertainty?
What was it about that word?
That word is important.
I think it's in the title of both your books even.
It is, yes.
So it's the ability to work in uncertainty.
And so if you study computer science or software engineering,
there's always someone who tells you, look, this is what we're doing.
This is the duty.
This is the task.
You need to build a bit of code that does this.
You need to build a bit of code that does this.
When you're doing your assignments and all of those things.
And when you're a developer, then there's these people who appear around you,
business analysts, requirement engineers, people who tell you,
we need to build this and you need to build that.
It needs to look like this.
So you talk to a user and the user says, I needed to do this.
When I click on this button, this needs to happen.
And it's always done from the perspective and it's taught from the perspective that
we can be certain about what users want or what's actually happening in this business environment.
And if you're not certain about that, then you can become certain by asking questions
and making sure and double checking that this is what we want.
And in the real world, it doesn't work like that at all.
Businesses don't know what they want.
Users don't really know what they want.
They have opinions, but they don't know what they want.
They're not entirely sure what they need.
And it doesn't matter even if they did actually know what they wanted today.
Everything's moving.
Everything's changing anyway.
And you get to a certain point where you realize that the coding bit, that's easy.
That's, you know, that's trivial almost.
The real challenge is that when everything's moving, everything's swirling.
How do you decide what to do?
How do you build a piece of code that can react to an environment that could jump off,
lurch off in any direction at any one point in time?
And that uncertainty I find across my career.
That's what I look for in a project because there's no uncertainty.
There's no fun.
There's no challenge.
And it's also the thing that kind of makes or breaks a career.
If you can handle that uncertainty in a software project,
then you're going to be able to cope with these kind of environments.
For many people, it's a ceiling.
When they can't get that kind of certainty,
then they just push it back on to business people and say, we're not doing this.
And there's nowhere in our educations as software people,
do they teach us how to deal with this kind of uncertainty apart from be more certain.
Ask them to explain it again, drill down into their language,
force them to express themselves in a way that's clear.
And we learn about these things, like how you harden a requirement,
how you get someone to be absolutely explicit about what it is that they're saying
and things like this.
And so the answer is always that the answer to uncertainty,
as we're taught, is to get rid of it.
Whereas a senior architect, someone who can handle these things,
can learn to live with that and learn to live with the fact that there's
always uncertainty in a business environment.
And senior managers know this.
They know that you can't be completely certain about everything all the time.
And so what I've seen that the step from being a programmer,
somebody who just writes instructions to help the machine,
what to do to be an architect is being able to cope with this natural uncertainty
that exists in any human environment.
Any collection of people will produce a great deal of uncertainty
just when they speak to each other about a particular problem.
And for me, that became fascinating.
And that's the bit that I drilled down into.
Because when you see projects fail, an enormous amount of my work
has been rescuing projects that have crashed for some reason.
And over and over and over again, we see that this uncertainty causes flux.
It causes problems.
It causes people to either check out and not make any decisions
or go too hard in and make too many decisions.
How do we handle uncertainty in our software projects
is a central theme to everything that we do.
And it's kind of the dividing line for me between the architect and the programmer.
Can you handle uncertainty?
Then you're ready for architecture.
And we have a very ambivalent relationship with it in our industry.
Most of the time, we like to sweep it under the rug.
Sometimes we like to talk about it,
but we talk about it in terms of how we kill it, how we get rid of it,
not how we can actually use it to drive a result.
Yes, that's one thing I love about both books is that you're...
I talk about holding paradox a lot.
And I feel like together, both those books are holding the paradox,
which means you're not trying to smush one side into the other or resolve it.
You're recognizing that it's not resolvable in a sense.
And you're not trying to get rid of the uncertainty necessarily.
It's almost a plus, isn't it?
Something to play with is you talk about the gap between programming
and the architecture or software architecture.
Maybe is that something that people recognized
before you started writing about it like this?
Because I hear it a lot of different ways, like everyone's just a programmer.
And that means that is that kind of linear thinking
that where uncertainty isn't good because you're writing code
and you don't want it to crash.
Can you talk about that tension a little bit?
Yeah. So the tension that I describe in the book is that as a programmer,
you're taught to, first of all, taught how to think in a very linear way,
which is good.
And most mathematicians can do this, think quite linearly,
at least in the early stages.
And programmers are very definitely taught and selected
for their ability to think linearly.
And that means solving problems, thinking logically, taking one step at a time,
always being correct, being very critical in how you view things.
And the paradox is that that particular way of thinking,
which in the book I relate back to Friggen and Russell and Wittgenstein,
that particular way of thinking is incredibly necessary to invent the computer.
We could never have got to Alan Turing,
we would never have got to the computer without that way of thinking.
But that way of thinking turns out to be absolutely horrendously horrible
for dealing with or describing or managing any kind of human problem.
And as soon as you apply it to a human problem,
the only thing you can do is create constructs that are rigid and brittle.
And the human system will move and those rigid, brittle constructs will smash and crack.
And software has to be based on a model of what's going on,
because it's based on a model we have of a human system.
And the software becomes even more rigid than the model itself,
because it's encased in code, difficult and expensive to change.
And what happens is that we use this linear way of thinking to model the human system,
then we take that model, turn it into code,
the human system moves and the code breaks.
And so the architect's paradox is that this linear way of thinking
that gets us to the computer causes a crisis
when we try to apply it to the human systems,
which we're trying to use the software to help.
And so we're caught in this never-ending loop of crisis.
And this was realized by our industry already in 1968,
when they had this big meeting in Garmisch in Germany,
called the NATO conferences,
and all of the big names of the software engineering industry of the day
met and said, why do we have this constant sense of crisis?
They haven't still really figured it out.
So in 1968, the conclusion was, we are not good enough engineers.
We need to be better at engineering.
We need to go back to the drawing board and come up with better ways.
We need to be more precise.
It was kind of doubling down on that linear way of looking at the world.
And it's only really with the advent of the agile movement,
which happened around the turn of the century,
when people started to say, maybe we need to just chill out a bit
and stop trying to be precise
and stop trying to map all of these things so meticulously to logical structures.
Maybe that's getting us into trouble.
The problem with the agile movement is that they were absolutely right
in this diagnosis, but they threw half of the stuff out,
all the stuff that the managers were using,
and said all that rigid linear stuff doesn't work for us,
but they kept the rigid linear stuff within the code.
Ideas like object orientation, where you model the world
as a series of interacting objects inside your code.
They kept a lot of those things, which are just as guilty
as the stuff they were throwing out for bringing rigidity
to something that needed to be fluid, that needed to be able to move.
And it's that paradox that's constantly there.
And I describe it in the book, it's not really an intellectual problem,
it's a full-blown identity crisis,
because our industry is only 70 years old,
and we're still asking, who are we?
What way do we look at the world?
And we were born, as the book says, in mathematics,
which is where we come from.
That's our first tool, our first weapon of choice is logic,
when we try to solve a problem.
And there's a stubbornness to how we approach these human systems with logic.
We won't give it up, we won't let it go.
Long, long after the death of logical positivism,
we're still trying to model these systems
as structures of statements related to each other.
And so the book is very much about not breaking this paradox,
not solving it, but just get comfortable with the idea
that these two things are always moving around each other.
One is trying to destroy the other constantly.
Logic is trying to impose rigidity on the fluidity of our human systems,
and the fluidity of our human systems breaks our software constantly.
Once we're aware of that,
it changes how we think and design and build software.
You talk about it almost as if it's an awakening to a new kind of life, too,
which I think is very important.
I mean, this nests and scales into a lot of things that's going on today.
When you're talking, I'm thinking about computational theories of mind
and the ways that we think about what a body is and stuff,
and how that's related to all these ideas that you present.
And maybe we should talk about residuality a little bit first.
What actually is this kind of alternative that you're presenting
for how to hold this paradox, so to speak?
Or where are you focusing, turning the attention from?
I mean, even maybe for someone who doesn't really understand
what agile and all of this is,
maybe you could set up a little bit of how you've kind of shifted
the playing field just a bit.
Yeah, so it's been fairly standard.
If we go back to the 1950s, so look at computer science in the 1950s.
Computer science was computing, which is basically a list of instructions
that you told the computer to do this and do this and do this
and move this bit of data over here.
And when you're finished doing this, jump back to line 20
and then start this bit all over again.
And this started to cause a whole lot of problems
because it got very complicated.
And if you tried to make a change in that code,
then you had to know which lines does it jump to?
Where does it affect?
How do I change this?
And people got frustrated with this.
And the solution to this was considered to be by the late 1960s
to break your software up into many small pieces
and just have small pieces of code, not one big file.
And these were modules.
And then what starts to happen is that we say,
well, what's the best way to break our modules up?
How do we break them up?
Where are the boundaries?
And we started to look at the real world.
And we started to look at, well, here we have a business system.
And in that business system, we have something called a customer
and we have something called a product.
And we have to store data about these things.
So wouldn't it be smart to break up these pieces of code
so that we have one piece of code that's just about customers
and one piece of code that's just about products?
And so we started mapping these pieces of code
to concepts in the real world.
And it became this idea of objects
and it became very much about things.
And so what are the things in the world?
And that's where the programmer would start.
And this is driven by various trends,
including how we model things in databases and things like that.
And so the software engineer, before they decide
what are the modules that's going to make up my application,
they would look at the world and they would look for nouns and say,
well, all the things are going to be little blocks of code,
which we call objects.
And inside those little blocks of code,
we're going to have functions that execute and do stuff
and some data, perhaps.
And this is the way I was taught to do software.
That's the way most people are taught to do software.
And what we end up with are these static pictures of the reality around us.
Here's a customer.
A customer has multiple products and has an address and has a credit card
and all of these things, all these links and structures
that we start to build up to describe business environment.
And the problem, as I've seen it, is that those static models
describe a snapshot of the business environment
at one point in time from one person's perspective.
And that reality keeps moving and keeps changing.
And as that reality moves and change,
anything that we've put into software, into code, cracks and breaks,
and then we experience poor quality software,
we have to change it, it takes time, it gets more brittle every time we touch it.
And what I've said is that we can't live in this world
where we believe in this static snapshot of the business environment.
It doesn't exist.
It just never is like that.
And the residue is a kind of clever little trick that says,
look, there is a snapshot of the system at this one particular time.
And we'll put that, we'll wrap that in a wrapper called the residue.
This is what it looks like in these particular conditions.
But if something twitches, if something changes in the environment,
then we go down another trouser leg, a different timeline
with a different impact, and the architecture will break.
So we need to change this a little bit
so that it will live in this trouser leg, it'll continue to work.
We call that a residue.
And a residue is just whatever's left over when the system breaks.
And then you tweak your original architecture
so that when you go down that trouser leg,
the thing that breaks still keeps working.
And what we end up with is rather than just one static picture,
we end up with potentially hundreds of little pictures
of the changes with our architecture needs
in order to be able to move through all of these trouser legs
in different orders at different times.
And it has, in philosophical terms, we're moving from, you know,
a structure or a platonic ideal to Bergson's multiplicity,
you know, this thing that can go off in any number of directions.
And that's a pretty huge shift, philosophically.
Very, very difficult to get engineers on board with that,
especially because we're using our imaginations
to talk about what these trouser legs might be.
We're not saying that this is definitely going to happen.
A lot of programmers find it very difficult to build a software system
whenever what we're talking about might not happen.
We have to be certain.
We have to be sure this is going to happen before we spend any money.
And that's a very difficult topic for them to even talk about.
And so this leads to a completely different way of thinking about systems,
a completely different way of modeling them.
But the results that we get out of this,
and this is what I've been able to show empirically,
is that when you think this way about a system,
you produce a software structure that is more likely to survive
when something unexpected happens.
And something unexpected happens all the time when you build software.
There's always something that isn't in the spec.
And so what we get out of this way of thinking
is a software system that survives off spec.
And that's a huge benefit as a software architect.
And it's the only reason we exist,
because if it was just requirements
and we just had to build in a world of certainty,
then we wouldn't need an architect.
A programmer could do everything.
And so what we get is a system that's going to survive
things that aren't in its spec,
things that haven't been described, stuff that's in its future.
And it isn't just particular things,
but it has a tendency to survive off spec.
And that's the thing that makes this interesting,
that this way of thinking offers to the teams who use it.
It almost sounds like classical mechanics,
Newtonian sort of worldview or like the clock or something.
And in the books a lot, you do sort of give this impression
that a lot of coders and software architects
were sort of living almost like in a matrix kind of world,
where we pretend like everything works like clockwork.
And we pretend like the Newtonian model always works,
even though it's always breaking.
So there's this kind of constant tension.
And as you even say, it's even a little bit lucrative at times,
because of course it's going to break
and then they need you again.
Yeah.
Yeah. And I feel like you're now kind of trying to open up
to process philosophy and complexity theory and all of this.
Had anyone tried to do that before as far as you know?
I mean, because when you bring in Kauffman networks
and all of this stuff, yeah, is this a first for coding?
It is.
In the world that I live in, which is enterprise software,
it is a first.
People have not brought this kind of thinking
into software engineering before.
There have been attempts to bring complexity
into computing in the last couple of years,
but they've been very much focused on the concept of teams.
And they've led to very sort of fluffy advice,
where we'll talk about systems thinking and we'll say,
hey, you have to think about the whole system,
not just the one little part.
And programmers immediately become sceptical and say,
what am I supposed to do with that?
Tell me what to do is what they want to hear.
To bring in the Kauffman stuff,
to talk about process philosophy is a huge jump.
For programmers, and for many a jump too far,
because they don't even know what problem is it solving?
And they say, well, if we're solving the problem
with substance philosophy, what's substance philosophy?
It's the fact that you think everything is an object.
And for some people, that's, you know, swearing in church.
You're not allowed to say that the object approach
to modeling the world is deeply philosophically flawed.
So this is a huge jump for most people within technology.
And for that reason, I assumed that, you know,
no one's going to be interested in this.
No one's going to want to hear me talk about this.
So when I went to this conference in Oslo,
I thought, you know, they asked me to give a talk.
I had this on the shelf.
I said, I have this talk about philosophy.
I'll do that.
And I thought they're going to stick me in a tiny room.
There'll be four people there and we'll have a nice chat.
And I got to the conference and they put me in the big room
and I thought, well, this is going to be really embarrassing
because it's going to be this big, massive stage
and four people, you know, but they put them 20 feet away from me.
So you lose that personal touch.
And then 400 people turn up in the room.
There's people standing in the aisles
and sitting on the floor in front of the stage.
I'm like, oh, this is going to be really bad
because I'm about to tell 400 plus developers
that they need to turn to process philosophy
and they're going to throw chairs at me.
This is going to be really boring.
And they absolutely loved it.
And I was blown away that there was real interest.
If you set these things up in the right way,
if you just come in and talk about process philosophy
and how everything would be better
if we looked at things this way, they won't listen to you.
But if you talk to them and say, here's a bit of code
and here's why it's going to go wrong
because you're thinking about the world in a particular way.
And if you think about the world this way,
the code is going to shift and change and go this way.
And this solves a real problem for you.
And people have really appreciated that.
And I've been absolutely blown away
by the response from the technology community
and from the tech community on these kinds of things.
That there is a real hunger out there
because people know, people realize
that the old ways of thinking about these things
which have been around for a very long time.
So the way I describe things,
the last real paradigm shift in software engineering
was 1968 and we call lots of in software engineering,
there's a lot of marketing hype.
So every six months we call things a paradigm shift.
But the real shift in paradigm
was the engineering paradigm
which was born at that conference in 68.
We haven't had a shift and people are hungry
for something new and when they hear something new
it catches their attention.
And I think that the industry is ripe
for a new philosophical way of looking at things.
There's also this word crisis
which I think is in 1968,
it was called the software crisis, right?
This wasn't that kind of the revolution
that someone said it's a crisis.
And I feel that word is really potent
and present today too, isn't it?
Yeah, so the software crisis basically says
why do we never deliver anything on time?
When we do deliver, it doesn't work.
And why do we feel to deliver anything so often?
And that was a big problem in 1968.
There's a lot of people today,
we have a lot of software running in the world.
And so people assume that, well,
we must have solved all those problems
but there's an awful lot of software
has to go through convulsions.
It's released into the world,
an awful lot of enterprise software dies
and an awful lot of it costs way, way more than it should.
And so there's this Silicon Valley narrative
where we've mastered this, we can do this.
Now, in fact, we can actually teach other machines
to do it for us and we don't have to do it anymore.
The truth is that software engineering is expensive,
painful and risky for almost all organizations out there.
And we still haven't really matured.
We still don't really know what we're doing.
I saw a post today saying that
you wouldn't fly in a plane
if the pilot didn't have a pilot's license.
So why would you let someone build software
when they don't have a license for building software?
And my thinking around that is,
really we have to get a few more planes in the air
and stop crashing them before we start thinking.
We have to sort that problem out first
before we start thinking about pilot's licenses.
We haven't really matured as an industry yet.
There's still quite a way to go.
So there's still a permanent kind of sense of crisis
that most companies will have a number of projects
who are in a state of crisis right now
and they will be failing and they won't know why
and they'll be bringing in industry best practices
and throwing all kinds of tools at it.
They'll be losing money.
It eats up morale.
It's not a solved problem.
It feels like the crisis is even deeper though to me
because there's so many kind of layers to this
and I'll just throw this out here.
It's a little messy and you can just,
I would just like to know what you think
because there's this,
why is everyone responding so dramatically to you?
It feels like it's personal in a way too
in the sense of that people have been living
in a bit of an imaginary world knowing it's not actually real
because you are designing this in the real world.
I mean, I think about when you talk about
one of the examples you talk about like the car,
the materials of the car aren't changing
but in this world like what are actually the materials?
Like what are you working with?
It feels so ephemeral and matrix like
and it seems like some way to solve that crisis
is just hold to this linear mindset,
do the coding, be told what to do
and that seems to go towards what you call stillness
or maybe stasis even
and I feel like that's bigger than just,
you know, in this software world.
It's kind of everywhere now.
I don't know if that even makes any sense to you
but even in your own life,
like, you know, why did you go study philosophy?
You must have studied philosophy for years
to be able to write
and understand all this complexity theory,
process philosophy.
I mean, was the crisis bigger for you too
or how do you think about that?
Yeah, so for me personally,
it came from a sense of frustration.
It came from a sense of frustration
with the state of the industry
frustration with people constantly telling other people
this is how you do it
when it very obviously wasn't how we did it
and a frustration with my own inability to understand
what is it that I do?
I'm doing something and I'm good at it.
I have no clue what it is.
It's an instinct that I built up just by luck
by being in the right projects for a couple of years
and seeing the right problems
and I have an instinct
and so Donald Shan talks about this
in a book called The Reflective Practitioner
which is written in like 81 or 83
and he said that there are people
who build up a professional aptitude for problems.
They don't know where it comes from.
They don't know how it got there.
They get there by reflecting over things
that have happened every day
for a long period of time
and then suddenly they can do something.
They don't know why
and I wanted to get, dig deeper into that.
I wanted to understand why do I think like this?
Why do other people in my industry
struggle to think like this?
How can I get them to understand me?
And a lot of frustration
because I would come into a project that was failing
and I would see these linear thinking developers
trying to dig their way out of the hole
with more linear thinking
so the hole was just getting deeper
and so you need to do this
and it would be almost impossible
to convince them that they were doing something wrong
even though everything was going very badly for them
and I thought there has to be a better way to do this.
There has to be.
We need a new language.
We need a new way to think about this
and as I started to discover the ideas behind residuality
I discovered that by blending Kaufman
with standard software engineering ideas
and then I would show it.
Some people would get it.
Some people got it.
Started using it and said yes this works.
This is good.
Some people just refused it and said
this doesn't make any sense
and I started to dig around
why does this not make any sense to you
and I started trying to understand
what way do these people think?
Why do I think differently
than a large number of the developers in the community
and I noticed that they were thinking
in very rigid terms
and I started to read a little bit.
Why do I think like this?
Why do they think like this?
Why do some people have a problem
when I say that everything is moving
everything is changing
and that makes them nervous
and they immediately revert to using tools
and ideas and modeling stuff
that is trying to keep the world still
and I realized that a lot of these linear thinkers
they need to keep the world still
so that they can focus
and they can start to process it
and as soon as you try to keep the world still
and stop the world from moving
then you enter into this matrix like reality
where you're dealing with something
that isn't really there
like Baudrillard and like Bordia's story
and so what happens then
is that you end up seeking this stillness in everything
you're trying to hold things still
and we do that in our modeling
and we do that even with certain agile techniques
we're trying to keep things still
and what I started to do then was to say
well what happens if we just let things move?
How would our software look
if we weren't trying to keep it still
if we were building software
for a world that's constantly in motion
residuality was the sort of codified way
to talk about that
and that's how I end up getting
deeper and deeper into philosophy
why do they do this?
Why do we look for an abstract form of customer
instead of building a system
for something that's constantly moving
and constantly changing
and is never going to be the same over time?
Where did that idea come from?
And so I dig backwards
and I find these ideas in Plato, Aristotle
why do we expect that
there's always going to be
a simplistic cause and effect model in every system
and I find that well that came from Dekat and Newton
and why do we think there's a structure
in the language that people use in a business?
Why do we think that that language
represents some secretive hidden structure
that if we just scrape back and analyze enough
we'll find it
you find that in Dassault-Serre
and Levi-Strauss
and these ideas around structuralism
and so eventually I realized that
we are a blend of a bunch of ideas
from a bunch of philosophers
no one's ever taught us about
that we accidentally absorb from our industry
and you can start with the fathers of computer science
so Turing and von Neumann
you work backwards
and you realize that Turing and von Neumann
both worked with Wittgenstein and Russell
who was influenced by Frieden
you take another few steps back
it doesn't take long to get back to Plato
and Parmen it is
and you realize that
God this is not something
that's just turned up in the last 50 years
this is a way of looking at the world
that's been around for a very very long time
starting with Parmenides and Plato
and this needs to hold things still
and that idea was triggered to that idea
by reading Popper
and Popper's criticism of Plato
and Plato's need to hold things still
which is apparently a very controversial opinion
which upsets a lot of philosophers
so that's how I ended up digging into these things
and it has been quite a few years of reading
and getting deeper and deeper into these things
several times told by my professor to stop
it's like you don't need to go this far
this wasn't the assignment
leave it alone
but I got very very into it
and had a lot of fun with it as well
What was it giving you?
I mean from my perspective reading it
and by the way it's wonderful how you go from
logical positives
and understanding how that affected Turing
and how that became sort of coding
and this linear mindset
and then you also even can talk about Hegel
and the pragmatist and process philosophy
it's kind of amazing actually that you
can hold all of that
but I'm wondering what that process did for you
it's from my perspective
it seems like it let you hold the paradox
it let you hold both things
because I don't hear you saying
okay we're gonna get rid of the linear mindset
we're not gonna have that coding anymore
but I do hear you saying
we're gonna embrace uncertainty
and that I think is almost like a dissonant state to be in
that we all are trying to come to terms with right now
in different ways
If we got rid of the linear thinking
the crisis would be indescribable
we need to be able to think linearly
to make code work
because code is linear
it will only follow linear rules
and if we give that up
we'd be in real trouble
the thing is that we need to be able to do both
if you're a software architect
and your task is to design software systems
that have to help people do things
in a complex process oriented world
then you have to be able to make the linear thing work
you have to be able to do both at once
and you can't use one to cancel the other out
you can't use one to get rid of the other
and that's the paradox
that we have to be able to hold both of these
one of the things that's really hard for an architect
when they're learning is
when do I use which mind
when do I use which set of thoughts
when do I use which set of processes
what am I dealing with right now in front of me
do I need to think linearly and be rigid here
or do I need to relax now and let this flow
and we get this wrong a lot
and it annoys people
you know if you're real business people
who do have real jobs
they get annoyed at software engineers
who turn up in a meeting and start being rigid
and saying yes but what exactly does this mean
and when we get that wrong
everyone gets annoyed at us
because we force people to a rigidity
that they're not used to in their everyday working lives
and it scares people and it irritates them
and it's very very difficult for us to learn
it takes a lot of time to master this
and in our educations in computer science
we're only taught the linear thing
so to learn the other side of the paradox
you have to pick it up
you have to pick it up in real life projects
and it's sink or swim for most architects
as you either pick it up
in which case you're good
but you don't actually understand
how you achieve your own work
or you don't pick it up and you draw
and you go back to programming
say I can't do that it's horrible
because there's no one to teach us
until now no one's really articulated these things
and said that even said this paradox exists
and so we try to survive by rules of thumb
and silver bullets and products
and every new tools that are going to conquer
this complexity get rid of complexity
can actually achieve this goal
which is never going to go away
of actually holding things still
so that we can bring them to software
and control them
and there's a big need for control in there as well
which you'll find is everywhere in the community
Well that's where that complexity
and process philosophy comes in
because you start as you show
and as those philosophers show
you can't get outside of all these systems
which is why when you write some code
inevitably in a year or five years or whatever
it's going to have changed
because we're all part of this
that's that complex system mentality
that I feel like probably takes some time
but I can imagine this is going to be really really helpful
for a lot of people in coding
in software architecture in the world too
but I just I want to ask you about this
like I brought up that was kind of the Newtonian mindset
and you're doing the complex systems or systems thinking
and it's a very different worldview
and I guess we don't have time to go into
what the Kauffman network is and NKP and all of that
but is it fair to say that you've sort of unstuck
the model from the object or that it's not stuck anymore
you're sort of making a model itself
that can be a little more fluid
it's more based on maybe I mean you mentioned bays
that's why I was thinking of statistics
but there's some there's some room now
there's some wiggle room
and you can notice patterns in a different way
how would you explain that to someone
who's not really like getting that
because I think it's a very big shift that you're making
Yeah I would say that software engineering
up until I started writing about this
had order uncertainty at its center
and the goal was no matter where you were in the project
no matter where you are in a problem
you might be dealing with some uncertain stakeholders
you might be dealing with a problem
that's not properly defined
but your goal was always to get rid of that uncertainty
and get to the certainty
and what I've done or I think I've done
is I've taken uncertainty
and I put it right in the middle
and said that uncertainty is the defining feature
of software design
and once we embrace that
once we accept that
once we accept that
we're not getting rid of it
it's always going to be there
and here's a set of tools
that allows you to live comfortably
with this uncertainty
and not only that
but to leverage the uncertainty
to get to a result
which while it's not certain
is scientifically as good as we can get
that shifts everything
and it shifts the way we talk
it shifts the way we look at problems
the feedback I get from developers
and people in the field
is that it's a relief
it's like we don't have to pretend anymore
we don't have to pretend
that there's this linear logical way
of solving this problem
I mean I say that actually nobody knows
but here's the best way
to get to an acceptable result
and that's the shift
and the other shift is
that those senior architects
I've spoken to a lot of them
who have learned how to do this by instinct
suddenly have a vocabulary
suddenly have a way of saying
this is what I do
this is how I get to a result
and that also brings a sense of relief
to a lot of the community
that's actually huge
and you just don't feel like an imposter anymore
and also I guess what I was trying to get at too
the philosophy seems to have brought you back
into the real world
in a way that you can
so you can feel connected again
there's this sense of enthusiasm
play, life
which I think a lot of us are losing now
by totally embracing the linear coding
LLM tells us everything mindset
is that fair?
Did you wake up to life
in a different way again
by being able to almost like
put the roots into all this
and understand it better?
I would say that
given my education
which was pure mathematics
followed by software engineering
that the education
and this default philosophy
that all people who follow that track
that I talk about in the book pick up
shuts you out from a huge
chunk of the world
a huge chunk of life
and you have to find other ways
to get back to that
most of us have hobbies
and things that do that
and what the philosophy has done for me
while staying very close to the code
has brought me
and pulled me into contact
with all kinds of things
and so I used to be an avid reader
of literature
before I got into software
and then I didn't have time for that anymore
the philosophy thing has pulled me back
into that world
and maybe sent me down
in a whole bunch of different tries
or legs
I don't remember this thing
and let's go back and read this
and absolutely I would say
that following this path
at this age I would say now
that I finally feel educated
I've learned something
and it's so, so much broader
than the narrow kind of mathematical
computer science
software engineering way
of looking at the world
this is one of the things
that I think that software engineering education
needs to really think about
we're not just producing
clones who sit and write code
that can be replaced by LLMs
but we're producing human beings
have to interact with human systems
and we're sending them out there
with knowledge of nothing more
than the code
to interact with these human systems
and we're doing them a disservice
we're making their jobs harder
and to be able to build software
requires that you can interface
with both sides of this
and certainly for me
the study of philosophy
has made that much easier
to articulate and to understand
but at the same time
I can't expect the whole industry
to do what I've done
which has taken an enormous amount of time
to do that kind of reading
and thinking about these things
but you condensed it very well
into your book
so it's quite a service I think
and it reminds me too
of I mean you also
it's a way we can embrace entropy
there's a way in which you're
opening people to be more random
and let in more entropy
at the same time
you're also showing a way to
I don't know if control is the right word
but get that in order
you know this idea of residuality
actually gives you a way
to kind of get that in order
I don't know if that makes sense
I thought maybe we could give
one example before we go
I don't know
I'm thinking of the one
with the cars and the meat
or something
some kind of real-world example
where you can see that
you've unstuck things
where you're not looking at specifics
and yet because of that
so much more seemingly random stuff
gets covered by the model
I don't know if you have a good example
or idea to share with people
Yeah so there is the example in the book
which is the classic example
I get sent examples of this
by students all the time
and so what we do
is we randomly simulate an environment
sometimes with nonsense
so we mix stuff up
and we say what would happen
in this system
if the entire city burned down
or what would happen
you know the classic one
that initially got me a lot of attention
was what would happen
if giant fire-breathing lizards
come up out of the Baltic Sea
and destroy the city
what do we do then
what does our software do
and people find this ridiculous
you know and this is the bit
where the linear thinker says
but there are no giant
fire-breathing lizards
in the Baltic Sea
and then you know
sometimes I tease them and say
are you sure about that
like have you been in a submarine
down there
and but the point is
that the giant fire-breathing lizards
don't have to exist
because what we're doing
is we're discovering something
in the attractor space of our business
and maybe it's not
a giant fire-breathing lizard
but maybe the city is suffering
a blackout
maybe there's maybe there's
a terror attack
or a war
or social unrest
or a flood or something
and it causes ripples
through our software system
and the only reason we're doing this
is not to solve the problem
with these lizards
but we're doing it to see
where does it ripple in our system
what does it touch
and which bits of our system
fall over when that ripple comes
and by generating lots and lots of noise
by generating lots of
sort of simulated stress on a system
we force a system to
to a configuration
to a set of modules
and links between those modules
and this is the classic question
what are the boundaries for my modules
that we can't answer
and that gets answered
by stressing a system
until it takes on a form
and once it takes on that form
then we start to test it
and we start to see
in every single case
we start to see that the system
when it's pushed to a configuration
in this way
will start to survive things
that it hasn't been designed for
and that's what we want to get to
and there's the example in the book
of the car charging network
which is able to stand up
after using lots and lots
of different kinds of stress
from different angles
it's able to stand up against stress
that we didn't see
and one of those stresses was the
politically motivated blocking
of fast car chargers
but it turned out
that by allowing other forms of stress
to push the system
to a certain point
that the system could survive those things
and these things turn up a lot
when you're doing this work
it turns up very, very quickly as well
which is a shock to people
who are practicing this
for the first time
and the car charging one
is the classic example
most of the times
when we discover these things
we're not really allowed to talk about it
because they're genuinely live customer cases
and they don't want their vulnerabilities
to be revealed
The idea is this hyperliminality
I think that you this word
hyperliminality is quite beautiful
but so there's a different approach
than I don't know
maybe you would describe it
like a Delusian walk
or how would you
what about the hyperliminality
now that I brought it up
I guess you don't have to
So hyperliminality is the state
where we as software architects
have to live in the rigid linear world of software
we can never escape that
our job is to design something
that's rigid and linear
and follows the rules
does the same thing every single time
but then we've got to jump out
into this complex human world
and we've got to ask the question
is this rigid thing that I just built
going to stand up in this world
that keeps moving
and then you've got to jump back
into the rigid thing
and tweak it a little bit
so that it will still keep running
and so and that's the difficult thing
so sometimes we've got to be rigid linear
and sometimes we've got to accept the fluidity
and the flow of a business
as it moves around its software
and so I've called this idea hyperliminality
because we're constantly in between
we don't really know where we are
and we're constantly moving
between these two points
and that means
so hyperliminal is a word I use
to describe a certain type of system
which has an ordered structured core
and a complex bubble around it
and that's what we have to work with
which is very different
than a lot of sort of complexity theory
which focuses on the complex bit
or standard engineering
which focuses on the rigid piece
but we have to do both at once
and that's where that's where that term
I needed a way to describe that
yeah that's great
and I think it's good
it feels like what happens when you
people will just have to go
watch your talk about residuality
to really get the details
but you put all these stressors on
like for example the giant lizard
these kind of things that seem crazy
and they're kind of playful and random
but then from the residues
that come out of that
you end up you know
via these dynamical systems
in this complex systems way approach
that you've built
then you do end up with this thing
where for example you know
someone can do something like
drive their giant pickup truck
and block the charging station
or even someone put meat
in the charging station
and actually you know
the way that this is designed
actually will take care of that
so the company is not losing money
I'll have to let people just go
you know look at that
but that's kind of hyperliminal isn't it
yeah it's very difficult to describe quickly
because with that talk
you need to build it up for 45 minutes
so that everyone has all the concepts
to understand what actually unfolds
but the idea is that
the way that a standard
the way that traditional architecture succeeds
is not the way that it's described
so traditional architecture
has a bunch of tools
like you gather requirements
your model risks
you do all of these things
and the truth is that
none of them actually work
none of them actually give a result
that's verifiable
or there's no way of verifying
that these things are real
and what the architect learns
is that each one of these things
triggers a walk around the problem
and the particular tool in itself
triggers you to walk around the problem
from a different perspective
and as you walk around the problem
and so it's very much like
Duluth's difference in repetition
you're repeatedly contemplating the problem
from a slightly different perspective
you're sort of Nietzsche's eternal return
you're constantly experiencing the system
over and over and over again
from slightly different perspectives
as the system changes
and as you change
as you move around it as well
and what this does is
it leads to a real knowledge of the system
which is much much deeper
than the shallow linear modeling
static modeling of the system
which we think we're doing
and so the outputs of these walks
are static models
but what's actually happening
in the mind of the architect
is real knowledge is being built
in a very process philosophy
sort of Duluth's Bergson kind of way
and so what we've done
is we've tricked ourselves into thinking
that we're delivering
these static rigid linear things
but what the architect's actually doing
is walking around the problem
and every time they walk
they discover these attractors
and what residuality does is it says
look here's our super fast way
we're gonna stop walking
we're gonna run now
we're gonna discover these attractors
really really quickly
by being random
rather than using tools
and all this baggage
and static modeling that comes with it
and we're gonna do that in a way
that produces code structures
in a way that that code
can cope with time and change
and the uncertainty of those changes over time
and what residuality does
is it takes the learned practice of architects
and boils that down
into something that's much easier to understand
and gets rid of the baggage
and that of course creates a reaction
from the people who are responsible
for the baggage
and who make money on the baggage
so that creates some ripples in the industry
but what it does
is it gives us a very lightweight way
to cope with these problems
that just a few years ago
seemed insurmountable
and it gives us a way to validate and verify
and we can come up with numbers
that show that this is actually working
we've actually done something here
we've built a system
that is more likely to survive off spec
than the system that we started off with
and it can be measured
and shown that we've made progress
and that's a huge jump forward for architecture
which mostly runs on vibes
and that feels like a big step
It feels like a way to think differently
or to be able to change your perspective
as a way of thinking
I think there's a lot of people
trying to figure that out
and this is very exciting
that you're doing it in coding and development
and so on
and as you were talking
I was thinking in the book you say
you talk about knowing our limitations
but you're also expanding the horizons
so I think this paradox in holding it
is really quite powerful
if one can sit with it
and start to practice it
have you found that?
Have you found that over time
it becomes a bit of a practice almost
in the way you think?
It does, yes, absolutely
and I get one of the cool things
is when I'm teaching students how to do this
is that they'll suddenly start analyzing
completely different problems
with the same set of tools
and I get that I got this question today
I get this question every time I teach these ideas
it's like can we use this to do this?
And people will ask
have you spoken to any government agencies
you know these government agencies
who take care of disasters and things
because this stuff could be really interesting
and there's a million as I said
there's a million things I could chase here
a million ideas
but there's too many
you know and what I've said so far
is that scientifically I've been able to verify
that this works for software
and it seems like it might work
for a whole bunch of other stuff
but I can't be sure that it's going to work
I don't have the time to actually verify
and validate it
but people start to spin off
look at different problems from this perspective
they ask can we design an organization in this way
and I'm like it feels like we could
but let's not get carried away
let's have some validation of that
and I think there's some people in Antwerp
actually doing some research on that
to see if it's possible
but it definitely
it shifts how you look at things
and I think for some people in software
it's been a huge revelation for them
there's this totally different way
of looking at the world
that it opens things up
it makes things freer
and for most software people
it makes it easier for us
to admit what's actually happening around us
instead of having to hide behind this
shield of technical rationality
where we have to pretend
that we're logical and rigid and structured
and everything's going the way we planned it
and we're in control all the time
and this makes it a lot easier
while still not giving up
and just saying whatever happens
it happens and we'll just code our way
when it goes wrong
we're saying there is a structured way
to put uncertainty at the center
and leverage that to produce better software
and better architectures
yeah and I think you also bring back play
in a way that I think is important right now
and it would be too much to go into
but I do feel like we've gotten
we're getting kind of routed into thinking
that the technology we've built
is the way to think
which is very strange
it's very much a kind of closed loop
that ends up I think in stillness
so it's wonderful that you put some uncertainty in there
and inject this real life back into this world
I really appreciate that
that holding the being and the becoming
the criticality instead of just the correctness
I mean these things
however one gets into it
it really is a way of thinking
that brings you back to life
and I think we really need it right now
yeah and that's one of the coolest things to see
is when I'm teaching people
and they start doing this for the first time
and they're used to discovery
in a problem domain
when you're working with tech
has been so it's drudgery
everyone hates it
you've got to torture business people
and ask them explicitly
what do you mean by this
and you write it up in a contract
so you can say gotcha later on
that's not what you said
and suddenly there's this sense of play to it
and we're talking about lizards
and we're talking about stupid things
and someone then gets a bit silly and says
but what would happen if aliens came
and they destroyed the city
and then we say
but what would happen if aliens came
and they became our customers
how would that change things
and that gets to be a lot of fun
and then people realize that
even though we've been messing around for the last hour
we're starting to see where the ripples hit this system
and we're starting to see real design changes
that have to be made out of this
and we're going to be able to validate and verify
in a few hours from now
that this architecture is actually more reliable
more solid than it was before
and that's shocking
and people love the playfulness of it
and it's great to see that
because there's a lot of nerves around these things
you know
and say people are tense
when they're working with requirements and risks
and trying to get these linear tools to work
in a world that just isn't built
just isn't going to suffer them
and to be set free from that
I think is fantastic
Me too
and before we go I have to bring up the word love
because it's love and philosophy
and I know it's kind of an uncomfortable word
but I do feel like this is kind of
I don't know from your position
if it feels like an act of love
or if that connects at all
but it does feel deeper than just what it could be
which is you've created this great new cool thing
for the world
but how does that word strike you?
Is it involved in this at all?
I think a little bit
I think that one of the things
I'm encouraging architects to do
when I'm teaching these ideas
I spend a good bit of time talking to them about this
is to look inward
and to say like you know
when you've made these decisions before in your career
why did you make those decisions?
And this makes everyone tense right
because they don't know
and I say look the first thing you've got to do
is forgive yourself
because it's totally okay to not know
why you made these decisions
everyone's in the same boat
look around look in the room
everyone is thinking the same thing
I've learned how to make decisions
but I don't exactly know how I'm getting there
and appreciate the ability that you've built up
and now we're going to look inward
and understand why do I make decisions?
How do I make decisions?
Can I understand using these tools
using these philosophers
using these ideas
can I understand how I arrived at these things?
Can I understand how I work and think
and look at the world internally?
And we spent a lot of time
talking about the kind of things
that architects sit around and moan about
and we sit around and moan about the fact that
our stakeholders are mean
they don't invite us to the right meetings
they lie to us all the time
they don't know what's going on
they might be kind of stupid
they're not as good as us at this linear thing
and they don't express themselves properly
they don't understand logic
and there's a lot of bitterness that builds up
in these things
and organizations are designed to make sure
that architects can't do their job properly
and there's a lot of bitterness
and frustration that builds up
and so by looking inside
and by understanding why these things happen
it's much easier to forgive the people around you
the stakeholders around you for their behavior
because it's not intentional
all of these things are brought about
by the very same uncertainty
that we are now leveraging to do something good with
and what I'm actually doing is encouraging people
to forgive the people around them
and to stop seeking conflict
which is something that software people
really need to get better at
and to get rid of all this bitterness
and frustration that can build up
and then you're much more open
you're much easier to do these things
and there's going to be a lot less stress in your life
and that's one of the things that software people need
to get rid of in large organizations
so that we can approach these things
and I guess that has its relation to the concept of love
and ever getting rid of a lot of the negative emotion
that makes it impossible to build relationships with people
that makes people not like us software people
and so absolutely I think that this opens things up
which is a big part of the world right now
we met I think because of this
that's not philosophy
this thing where I was
yes
where people you know
there's I guess the point is
there's a lot of people
a lot of young people who are doing this now
who are in this world
I mean it's a huge world
and it's wonderful to be able to hold these things
in the same way that we've been talking about
all this other stuff that you can look inside
you can't you know
I think people are hungry for this
and we tend to pretend like it's too sentimental
or it doesn't matter
but as you just explained it's part of it
and it doesn't mean you give away all the linear stuff
and all the you know kind of hard hard edge stuff
criticality
but you know you can also have that in there
and it's really uplifting for me to see someone like you
who has so much success
and who is you know could be just one of those
people who block it all out
actually looking at it in a way that's balanced and real
is there anything that we didn't talk about
that you want to say
or anything you want to be sure everyone knows
or any websites
or I mean of course I'm going to link to all your stuff
but if there's anything
no I don't I think you probably have the
I mean the books are the easiest way into this
I think most people come into this through the YouTube videos
of the conference talks that are out there
I don't think there's anything to try it and see
if it works for you then great
there's a whole new world of how to think about your software
and how you think about your decisions in there for you
and you know the book
the book The Architect's Paradox has two
actually it has two personalities
one personality is to shine a light on this paradox
that we all suffer from
but the other thing you'll get out of that
is as an architect it's an introduction to philosophy
in a way that's going to be relatable
because we're talking about software
and we're talking about
we're not talking about Plato blah blah blah
we're saying Plato had this effect on software
and you'll see yourself in it
and you'll remember these things way more than
than if you read Russell's History of Western Philosophy
or something
which I think most developers got to like page 30
and it's on a shelf in their house
or sorry most software engineers have got to page 30
and it's in a shelf in their house somewhere
this is accessible
and it opens up a whole world
a whole world that's that we're excluded from
because of our educations
and we don't have time because of our careers
and it's absolutely fantastic
and there's just so much to be gained
not just in your software
but in your life in general
from reading this stuff
and understanding the world around you
and like you said a few times
it's a way back
it's a way back from the code
because at some point in your career
you're going to look up from the screen
and you're going to realize
there's a bit more going on
than what we've been focused on
so yeah I think we all feel that too
anyone who's ever coded
you can get so lost
and it gets hard to touch reality again
so it's good to have some paths back
I hope you're also taking care of yourself
it must be overwhelming for you right now too
with all this
There's a lot happening
and to be fair
I've brought it all on myself
but it's exciting at the same time
and my saving grace is that I live in Sweden
and we don't take work that seriously
and I'm about to take several months off
for the summer
and go north and fish with my family
so we have that
but it's good
there's a buzz happening right now
it's exciting
Well thanks also to your wife by the way
for giving you those books
because you talk about her a few times
as kind of the portal into all this
so that's cool too
just you know that's connected to love too
Yeah it's almost her fault
All right Barry
well thank you for all you're doing
and good luck
and I look forward to the next book
which I know is coming soon
Yeah great
Thank you
All right
Cheers
Bye
