I could never understand when all the other kids end of high school thought about what
they wanted to do, how one could start a life without having looked at the really fundamental
issues first.
How can you be seriously interested in philosophy of mind and consciousness and not meditate?
I thought it was so shocking that you have great minds and super sharp analytical minds,
much more intelligent than I could ever been.
And they are so impoverished in their personal lives.
I think a very good term, I don't know who coined it, is an epistemic crisis.
I mean, we're in danger if we don't only have these language models, but if we get high
resolution avatars very soon populating our environment, that large parts of the population
will be completely confused and believe a lot of stuff.
I think we could still kill ourselves with non-biological intelligence.
Life is not something to be glorified.
And there's a turning point in my intellectual life was when I was 16 and I read the first
noble truth of Buddhism, all life is suffering.
What is suffering?
And people have shocked me.
I said, if you get at that, if you research that, then you will get suffering AI because
people will make formal implementable models of what conscious suffering is to get a really
precise theory.
And then you are there, you're contributing to the process.
And so there are, I think in some traditions, it's even called the remedy.
I mean, it's the remedy of just being with it in choiceless awareness.
That you have a very, very deep sense of validation and insight doesn't mean you've had an insight.
How can anybody hold the suffering of the world and just look there without going insane
or without becoming bitter or starting to do philosophy or something weird?
For me, there is a capacity to see that other human beings are horrible and wonderful at
the same time.
Don't touch, don't correct, don't suppress, but suspend it in empty, open awareness.
Suspend it and let it flower.
And Krishnamurti always said something very similar.
I said, don't look at me, test that out.
What happens if you just feel it directly and are with it without trying to correct
it?
What happens?
I'm not going to tell you what happens.
Now, of course, the intuition of the human being, the intuition of the human being, the
intuition of the human being, the intuition of the human being, the intuition of the human
being, the intuition.
I don't talk about this in the public because it's too wild for many people.
But if we don't understand this and we don't somehow learn this, we're going to get blown
away by the AI revolution and then the planetary crisis and climate and everything.
In principle, we would have to learn that to deal with all the majority of human beings
who actively make it worse or just live in full denial or whatever.
The question is, if there can be a stance, very hard, where you can do more even of that
and not get burned by the negativity, not get burned.
And I can only say, I think I've understood that early on, but I'm very bad at it.
I can only do it sometimes when I'm good or when I'm very alert or open and I go off
into judging and being appalled very fast.
I don't know how it is for you.
Can you hold that a lot?
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to Love and Philosophy, where we try to move past the usual either or tensions
with care.
I'm Andrea Hyatt and tonight we're going to do something a little bit different, something
that just kind of feels right for crossing into the new year.
In a few minutes, we'll be in 2026, maybe you're already there when you listen to this,
but this is going to post right between years, at least in the Eastern time zone.
And so I wanted to spend these final moments with a topic that is so expansive and also
so detailed, and that is pure awareness, but it's also personal narrative.
We're going to do it with Thomas Metzinger, and he's someone whose work I have been reading
since, gosh, I don't know, for a long time.
And it's shaped how I think about a lot of different philosophical ideas, but especially
consciousness, awareness, and AI, because he's been talking about those a long time,
since the beginning of his work.
For that reason, he's also shaped the philosophical and scientific landscape, which we see all
around us right now.
This conversation, I hope, is sort of an act of care.
I want to thank Thomas for going into his personal narrative, even though he says at
the beginning he doesn't want to, but somehow he did anyway.
And I think that's the care that is this tension that is holding us, which I've talked about
in previous episodes and posts, that care is a kind of tension.
It's not easy, right, to let ourselves care.
And I had the feeling towards the end of this conversation, a very hopeful feeling, even
though we talk about some difficult stuff, and there's a lot that's going on in this
year, my goodness.
But I had this feeling that, oh, we might be at the edge of a sensual shift that we
haven't really seen coming.
Maybe AI is actually going to show us something we didn't expect about humanity and life
and care in a positive way.
Maybe we don't want this algorithmic numbing that's also possible.
Maybe we don't want social media in the way we've had it.
Maybe we will realize these sorts of things.
I don't know why I got to that feeling in this conversation, but I hope somehow you
get to some feeling like that too, because it was kind of a nice feeling that I had.
And I'd like to give something like that to you all as we go into this new year.
Let me tell you about Thomas a little bit.
He's been at the forefront of consciousness studies for a long time, I would say 25 years
or more.
He co-founded, actually, I think 25 years ago, or longer, the Association of the Study
of Consciousness, and he's been exploring all sorts of questions about consciousness
in philosophy and then moving into cognitive science.
And you have to realize he was doing this, as we talk about a bit here, way before that
was normal as it is now.
And he was also talking about AI in relation to these topics way before everyone started
talking about it in this way.
He was also talking about bodily and meditative understandings of cognition and ways of doing
science even when a lot of philosophers were still talking about computation, for example,
or just not combining these worlds because it's hard to do.
He was also one of the first, actually he was the first, to call for this moratorium
on AI development until we understood it better.
You can probably already tell that his work spans analytic philosophy, neuroscience, meditation
research, even a little of what we might call continental philosophy, though he probably
wouldn't agree with me.
But obviously he's dealing with phenomenology and he's worked with people like the Churchlands.
I think he gives a little talk about Daniel Dennett here, meeting him in the pool.
He's also working with Evan Thompson on the Minimal Phenomenal Experience Project.
And I guess you guys remember Evan's name, he was on the show and he comes up a lot here,
his work in this whole embodied cognition movement or the E-cognition movement.
But this Minimal Phenomenal Experience, which is often just called the M-P-E, is coming
from Thomas and his work.
And he has this project now where a lot of people are just trying to figure out what
this might be.
What does it mean?
Minimal Phenomenal Experience.
And yeah, what is it?
As I understand it, it's sort of this idea that we have consciousness without the experiencing
self.
And I think that sounds really radical for most people, coming from the way we've been
taught to think about consciousness or cognition, or just the way we assume it, because it sounds
like you suddenly have consciousness without a body.
And to be honest, Metzinger might be meaning it that way in a certain sense.
But as I see it, it's actually more about how we tend to assume that self means the
whole body, but actually it's the tip edge of us, our body, our ecology, all we're encountering.
Our body and our cognition are so much more than our thinking self.
That's how I think of the self, not as all of that we've experienced and all the way
making we've been through and all the ways we make decisions, but actually just the way
we think about that, the way we think of ourselves, the stuff we remember, the narrative.
That's how I think of self, and if you think of it that way, then there is this notion
that we could have a whole lot of consciousness without that self, and that maybe we're learning
that in meditation.
So I've discussed that a lot on this channel, and that isn't necessarily the way Thomas
thinks of it.
I do think that he's raising this question, what if we can enter some way of experiencing
where we're beyond self?
If we think of self as the tip edge of who we really are, of our whole bodily cognition
and consciousness, then that makes some sense, and it makes sense even if you don't think
of it like that in different ways.
You can read his papers and see all the many ways that they're trying to understand this,
but I think it makes sense to think of self as just one small part of consciousness.
Of consciousness becoming aware of consciousness too.
That is what the self is doing, it's almost like this mediator or translator between parts
of us, our body, our tacit knowledge, to link it to the subsidiary focal conversation
that I had with Esther Meek, but it's almost as if we're bringing some of that subsidiary
or tacit knowing of the body, our being, our ongoing, constant living into our awareness,
and all that stuff that has come into our awareness we call self.
But consciousness is way beyond that.
So that's my little take on it, but he describes MPE basically just as the simplest, what it
would be, the most minimal form of consciousness, and that's all you really need to know about
it.
He does go into all kinds of semantic constraints about that, and I'll link to some papers if
you want to look at it.
He talks about wakefulness and low complexity and all sorts of terms like that.
I just published a piece actually called Beyond Nondual, and now I'm starting to realize what
Thomas calls zero consciousness.
Is that the term he uses?
Yeah, I think it's like zero consciousness, zero point consciousness.
But in any case, I encourage you to read his papers and even read that piece I wrote
about Beyond Nondual if you want to go past this or down this rabbit hole.
One of the definitions I like most about MPE is one I remember from him having a discussion
with Olaf Blanca.
I don't think it's in any paper, maybe it's published in their discussion, but he talks
about it as multi-dimensional space and all these possible consciousness states containing
all sorts of different trajectories, I think he even says, which relates a lot to this
whole idea of orientation, sequence and trajectory that I talk about with navigational mind.
But let's talk about this conversation.
It's not going to be one of those highly intellectual academic interviews.
I'm not going to talk about all these high big ideas.
It was like a crisp sunny day and there was light flowing through the window, which you
can see in the video, and that's just kind of how it felt.
I don't know.
We just let it go that way and it stayed more personal than either of us had probably expected.
But we do orient it through one of his books, his latest book, The Elephant and the Blind,
which by the way is freely available to all of you.
You can download the PDF and that book is based on reports from over 500 meditators
and I was actually one of them, by the way.
But it investigates what he's calling minimal phenomenal experience, which is what I was
just talking about before, the simplest, most fundamental form of consciousness, consciousness
stripped of everything that's not essential if you want to think of it like that.
That's where this word pure comes from, which is a hard word and that's where this zero
person perspective I just remembered.
So he calls it zero person perspective and that's probably close to that beyond non-dual
idea.
What he talks about as pure consciousness or pure awareness in different ways and that
That can sound really abstract, of course, you know, removed from the messiness of life
and maybe it is actually, but there's a tension in it.
It's a really interesting tension.
There would be a lot of ways to talk about it as paradoxical and since this is about
holding paradox and beyond dichotomy, I will try to do that just for a minute.
But probably the best way to think of it is through narrative and through this paradox
of this word purity.
So that relates to a lot of oneness and so on and so forth, which I have critiqued a
bit.
Not because I disagree with the meaning when we say something like all is one, but because
I think sometimes we have assumptions in there that actually lead us back to trying to resolve
contradictions and thus into disagreements and dualities that aren't necessary.
But what if this pure awareness is a multiplicity?
What if nothing is pure in the sense of being separate from stories, bodies, and histories?
If all of that is the same movement and it has no beginning or end, then what we really
mean by pure is actually all this multiplicity of experience that we represent for one another.
So in some weird way, what is pure is the most impure because it's all differentiation.
It's exactly what we mean by all is one or non-dual or pure is this absolutely unending
and beginningless differentiation.
So that's one paradox to hold.
That's kind of the not one and not two of Varela's paper that I talk about a lot and
could be one way to come into this through the themes of this podcast.
This ongoingness that has no beginning or end and yet is expressed as multiplicity and
differentiation for all of us from our different positions, precisely because we are part of
it and we are constantly co-creating it as we are, as we live.
So this is really interesting when you think about these meditation reports that Thomas
analyzes and because they are narratives.
I mean, I took part in the study and I sort of told my meditation story in a way.
It's very, it was very scientific, by the way.
It's not like people just telling their stories, but you're thinking back to your memories
of being without yourself in a way in meditation.
You know, someone writes, let me see, I put it here.
Oh my God, the tension I've called Jeff was gone.
That was one of the meditators experiences that this idea of who you are, this Andrea
or whoever, whatever your name is, you know, suddenly that whole narration is gone, that
perspectival trajectory, as I call it.
You kind of realize it's just a trajectory.
It's all the stuff that you've been thinking and about yourself and about the world and
all the images and words you've learned all together in this trajectory.
And it's not all of you, you know, maybe that's what people mean when they say you
realize you are not your thoughts.
And it's not like your life disappears in that moment.
And all of that doesn't become meaningless.
It's even more meaningful in a way because you realize, wow, there's this deep reservoir
to all of that that I haven't felt into yet.
It can also be dangerous and scary, by the way, which is why meditation is not something
that's always just easier to be taken lightly.
I won't go into all of that, but one of these meta themes of this conversation is this idea
of what I think of as the paradox in the book, too, of people telling their narratives,
of how they noticed their narrative and so therefore sort of became something other than
their narrative.
So that's really interesting, too.
And also, there's just the research of it that's done.
I don't think anyone's done such a big study before Thomas did this.
So it's really wonderful.
And I would recommend Philosophy Babel and his conversations about it if you want to
go into more academic notions of it.
He also, I think, talks with Christoph Koch there.
So I'll try to link to that, too.
But in these meditation descriptions, they're very interesting and people think talk about
things like existential ease or nonsensational awe, luminous emptiness, natural simplicity.
There's these just beautiful ways that people describe your body being as it is without
the story of you.
So these are descriptions and we start to glimpse consciousness not as inherently subjective
when we're reading them, but as something that's not tied to the first person perspective,
even if the first person perspective is the only way we can come into awareness of it,
if that makes sense.
Another paradox, self-awareness without a self or something like that.
And there's this beautiful metaphor, which is what the book is named after, which is
that, you know, this story about the blind people touching the elephant and they all
have different ideas of what it is.
So we're sort of like that.
We know consciousness through the modifications of it, through our thoughts, our sensations,
our emotions.
Modification, I just mean that it's ongoing and bodily, but we come into understanding
it through communicative ways, representations, which means language.
So this pure awareness is touching the elephant itself in a way.
It is the elephant.
It's us touching the elephant.
It's all of it.
And the different meditation traditions describe that in different ways, not only meditation,
different sciences, different worldviews, but maybe all that multiplicity is actually
this ongoing thing that we call non-dual or pure or whatever word you want to use for it.
It is actually all of that multiplicity and we can together begin to explore more of it.
And there's this kind of narrative discontinuity and narrative continuity that's definitely
part of that.
What Esther and I talked about in the last conversation is like the conversational path,
this discursiveness that helps you to come into awareness of what is not discursive,
the silence that you can never speak and that you don't need to speak of the body, the life.
It's not all just this image and word-based stuff, which again gets to this conversation
I had with Tim and with others, actually.
A lot of people, I talk about this about how we might be finally through LLMs,
our large language models, what most people think of as AI, understanding language to be
not actually what we are, but just a small part of what we are.
And pure awareness would contain all that we are.
And maybe we, through something like meditation or even something like exercise,
all kinds of different ways, get into that flow.
That's another word that we use for it.
We fill it beyond the voice in our head.
Of course, this raises all kinds of questions about all kinds of things in philosophy.
That's part of what Thomas has been exploring in all his many papers and books.
And a lot of people end up getting stuck on the idea of the ego tunnel
because that's the popular book he wrote.
But I encourage you to really look into his work because
he's not just saying that we're in an ego tunnel.
He's really looking at micro stuff here.
He's investigating what happens in full absorption episodes
and where self-reference and thought and all this temporal structure, it sort of drops away.
People report experiencing that in these studies.
And that's this minimal model where that's what he's getting at here.
So it's definitely not an ego tunnel only.
And I'm interested in that micro phenomenology too, but also a more macro phenomenology
and also the dimensionality and multiplicity of phenomenology.
And I think all of that comes in here maybe through just the way we talk about it.
Definitely you can get a lot more about this from reading the work of Thomas.
And maybe at some point we'll talk about it more.
But this is part of why he thinks many approaches are needed
and why he's been part of this interdisciplinary foundation
that's appearing in philosophy and neuroscience that's statistical,
but also qualitative and probabilistic, but not definitional always only.
So I would say these are all different paths pointing towards some sort of
terrain that we're all exploring that is endless and beginningless.
Maybe that brings me to why I'm publishing this conversation as we enter the new year.
And the next one will be about birth or at least birth and
the nestedness of life will be part of it.
So that's kind of the theme for these next couple episodes
because Thomas also talks about the suffering of possibilities inherent in AI
and how when we're developing technologies, we could increase suffering in the world.
What would it be to have bevussein kultur as he calls it,
or what I think of as wisdom and care as recognized as what's meaningful actually
for us in all this.
And he's got a new book about that, which we'll talk about another time.
But that is sort of where we end up getting to here.
And this idea of how can we balance this moment towards care and sensuality and love.
Yes, love and not lose ourselves in the numbness of algorithms.
We don't really want that.
But how do we kind of realize that it might have something to do with this
coming into awareness that I was just talking about
and doing it together and helping each other do it.
So in this conversation, we will talk about a lot of themes
that have come through before in all many of these conversations.
The difference between compassion and suffering with, for example,
and why philosophers can't often sort of resist
or traditionally have sort of thought of meditation as not a scientific subject,
although people like Evan and so many others like Varela have changed that and Metzinger.
But we also talk about this tension between analytical rigor
and something like contemplative practice
and how that relates to what we think of as
ecognition and embodiment and ecological approaches,
why some philosophers resist that.
We talk about possibility of the AI crisis
and the responsibility for critical thinking that might be part of that
or even might be part of causing that depending on how we do it.
We talk about biological naturalism and computational functionalism,
intelligence, suffering, mislead, all these kinds of ideas.
We also talk about academic careerism,
which comes up in some of quite some of these conversations
or what it means to be in academia or why we think we have to choose sides.
And there are some darker concerns about the ocean of suffering that's possible
and this kind of critical threshold that we might be at right now.
So we hold all that, but we also have hope, we have love,
we have this personal journey, which I think says a lot of what Thomas has done.
He's really held a lot.
He's gone to India and meditated, but he's also been in, you know,
really the most kind of tech environments.
In fact, as he tells us here and is really interesting,
a lot of the younger students now criticize him for being too much about the brain,
which is just so interesting considering where he started,
where no one was talking about the brain and it was very weird.
And as he tells you here, a lot of people told him, don't go there.
It has nothing to do with the philosophy.
So I think that's just interesting to think of that narrative,
to think of these ways that we're learning from each other
and coming back to where we started and knowing it for the first time.
And just trying to get a big picture of how we're all doing that for each other
and how noticing that is a kind of care that we might need right now
as we begin this new year.
That's why this is a personal conversation.
It's showing all these themes more in practice than in academic terminology.
And that my hope is that we understand that anything pure
actually includes all multiplicities.
And being able to handle that might be what we're trying to learn in meditation
and in philosophy and science for that matter in very different ways.
To notice our orientation, to notice our sequences,
to notice our perspectival trajectories,
and to realize all that's representational
and none of it cannot be absolutely represented.
None of this ongoingness can be.
So when I read Metzinger's work, which I have been doing for a long time,
I do feel like he's trying to express the reality of this care
and this beginning less and less ongoingness in all sorts of ways.
And exploring what we might think of as mystical,
but with the most rigor possible.
And he's just really honest and clear about that,
or he at least tries to be.
I think you get that sense in just the way he talks to people
and questions them and asks for their opinion.
Yeah, this idea of the non-dual or the zero person perspective
is probably something interesting to think of here together
as we sort of hang in this moment of time and space between years,
which are just ways we've come to organize how we are in the world.
And thinking about meaning, thinking about the darkness and the hope
and the suffering and the care,
all is the multiplicity that is all of this being.
So here's my conversation with philosopher and cognitive scientist Thomas Metzinger.
Crossing thresholds, I wish you a happy new year.
I'm really so glad you're here and that you let me ramble on like this.
And I just really appreciate you.
I want you to have a good year.
I really do.
All right, bye.
All right.
Hi, Thomas.
Thank you so much for being on Love and Philosophy.
It's really wonderful to have you here.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
So I kind of wanted to walk through your biography a little bit as we go
and tell me how you became interested in these subjects,
which you've been working on your whole life.
Well, that's of course a long story.
And I don't want to put too much of my personal life into the public.
Because basically, I think it's irrelevant.
Somebody's arguments or ideas should be judged completely independent.
That would be what is called a psychologistic fallacy in philosophy.
But I don't know.
I could never understand when all the other kids end of high school
thought about what they wanted to do,
how one could start a life without having looked at the really fundamental issues first.
I didn't get it.
Like they wanted to study medicine or law to make a lot of money or this or that.
But for me, it was always obvious that you just cannot at the beginning of your life
just do something, learn something, and then go and earn money with that.
But I always thought you have to look at the fundamental issues in a professional way.
Then I was quite soon deeply disappointed in the Frankfurt philosophy department,
which was all Frankfurt school at the time, all very fluffy political stuff.
Not radical enough for me at the time.
I was on a lot of demonstrations and things in the 70s.
Actually, I mean, as for wasting time with anecdotes, I went to my first demonstration at 12.
I was in the Goethe Gymnasium in Frankfurt, and the streets were full.
And we were all marching, all high school pupils with the big guys.
And the students we admired.
And I was shouting with a large crowd,
Franco ist ein Mörder und Faschist.
And I didn't know who Franco was, and I didn't know what a fascist was.
But I knew this was right.
That kind of atmosphere, it's all very different now.
But at the time, when I later studied, it was a very political thing.
And there were demonstrations in a certain period, also violent demonstrations,
practically every Saturday.
And that was kind of the background, what it meant to study philosophy in Frankfurt.
I even had a, how do you say, an overprotective father
who tried to find out what the best philosophy department was.
And they told him tubing is good.
But then there was Tina, so I had to stay in Frankfurt.
And I was completely disappointed.
After five semesters, I wanted to stop.
I found basically nothing that resonated in any way with me.
It seriously caught my interest.
And I just did my MA because I had so many credits already.
I thought it was at the earliest possible time, in eight semesters.
And I didn't study properly.
By my own standards today, I didn't really study.
I had to go to India or be on the Startbahn West and do serious stuff.
Well, it's interesting because even just your philosophical biography,
for someone like me, I studied German philosophy from United States.
But I feel like you've sort of set a kind of new orientation
that a lot of people now coming into philosophy take for granted
in terms of taking neuroscience seriously, for example,
or the interdisciplinary nature of what can be a philosophy degree.
So I'm really interested about that moment.
When you were in Germany and that was a kind of continental world
that probably seemed like it couldn't change, right?
I guess that's what you were annoyed with,
but I imagine it wasn't an easy step to start going to where you are now.
I could have had a much better career if I hadn't done this.
If I had learned my Kant by heart and then just produced
endless German idealism around 27 or something,
I could have had a much better thing.
So there were like in systematic turning points,
there's a philosopher, a Swiss philosopher, Peter Biuri,
who was in Heidelberg, but who you probably have never heard of.
And he was very important because he published in 1981
a German book, Analytische Philosophie des Geistes.
And he, in a way, poisoned a whole generation of young philosophers,
me included, because we suddenly saw,
oh my God, I got really drawn into Anglo-Saxon analytical philosophy of mind
because we saw, my God, in other areas on this planet, in Australia,
in the US and the UK, philosophy hasn't stopped.
It hasn't stopped.
And in Germany, all teacher-disciple Jewish intelligence had been murdered
and driven out of the country.
All teacher-disciple relationships had been cut.
And mostly for us, also the 1968 thing that was maybe in the US
was more hippies and Woodstock was this
And what was it that our tribe committed the greatest atrocities in the history of mankind?
That were the things we were thinking about.
And that was the lens through which we were also looking at traditional philosophy.
And then I suddenly saw this.
I mean, I have a different view about American philosophers maybe now,
but at the time, I was just so impressed when I met all these guys as a PhD student.
I met Dennett in the swimming pool, in the Tif, and all these people,
John Hoglund, Jack Won Kim, and how they can walk up there in short pants and sneakers
and jogging gear and give these crystal clear lectures.
And this rigor and intellectual honesty as opposed to that.
One of my British PhD students coined that fantastic term for me, continental jazz.
So the continental jazz in which I had grown up.
So I got into this, got really interested in my PhD thesis.
But then as you indicated, my project over the last 35 years has been opening
analytical philosophy of mind to interdisciplinary cooperation.
So that's what I did with people like Wolf Singer, for instance,
from the Frankfurt Max Planck Institute.
So I always organized exchanges with the AI community, neuroscience.
And the funny thing about what you just said is I just come back.
I had to give the Münsteraner Universitätsvorlesungen last week.
And there were students, advanced students,
who had done nothing but study my work for two semesters and all trashed me.
For one and a half days, I got completely trashed.
And one of the presentations by three students was called In the Neurotunnel.
And they completely criticized my completely naïve relationship to neuroscience.
And why only the neurosciences?
You know, why only that discipline?
And all the things neuroscientists don't understand about their own research.
It was really refreshing.
Yeah, I was going to bring that up too,
because I feel like we're at a weird turning point now,
almost like coming back to where we started and knowing it differently.
You know, because it's so taken for granted that the neuroscience,
it's almost like the neuroscience has become the philosophy.
And now you see this kind of pushback against that.
But when you started, you said you could have had a much better career if you hadn't done that.
So that's a huge arc, right?
To come to where you're being criticized.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So just to give you an illustration,
when I entered the Frankfurt Philosophy Department at the age of 20, it was normal.
They told young people like us,
if anybody thinks empirical sciences like the neuroscientists
could have any relevance at all for philosophy,
they haven't understood what philosophy is.
You know, that was a very serious announcement.
It's all transcendental conditions of possibility for knowledge.
Whoever thinks any empirical fact could play a role is deluded.
It hasn't got it.
And yeah, that has changed it.
I mean, now we have about five places in Germany where if you want to,
you can study philosophy and cognitive science really well.
And what did the neuro phenomenology come in?
I mean, I know you wrote your book.
I think you wrote your book being no one with the Churchlands.
Do I remember that correctly?
I wrote a habillitation thesis, which had a much more serious title.
And the theory is in there, but it's embarrassing now.
Don't look at it.
I'm really embarrassed by it.
But that's a good sign.
Actually, we should all be embarrassed by our early stuff.
Are you too?
I think everyone is.
I mean, I think if you're not changing, then you still believe the stuff you did then.
Thanks so much for this.
I will quote you for the rest of my life.
I think this is true.
The German book was called Subjekt und Selbstmodell.
So the actual philosophical idea was what is the relationship
between the epistemic subject and its phenomenal self-model?
What is that relationship?
Nobody ever gets it today.
They're just, these guys are selfish and elusive.
It's the only thing that got through ever in the public.
And then I had a long subtitle.
And I said, and I still think that the problem of consciousness is many problems.
And I thought at the time, the central, the most important problem is
that it is apparently tied to individual first-person perspectives.
And in that sense, irreducibly subjective.
So the perspectivalness of phenomenal consciousness
seemed to be the core of the issue.
And so the subtitle was Die Perspektivität, Phenomenalen Brustseins.
Vor dem Hintergrund einer naturalistischen Theorie mentaler Repräsentation.
Against the background of a naturalist theory of mental representation.
That was the project.
Could perspectivalness be dissolved like this?
Then I organized, we founded the SSC in 1994.
I organized SSSC too.
You have the talks from 1998 ruined a whole year of my life in Bremen.
And the Churchlands got me over to UCSD for a year.
I had two good years.
I'm now in looking back mode in 40 years in academia.
That was one of the two really good years where I flourished,
had a fantastic environment, super working conditions.
That was good.
And so I sat in the eighth floor of the Humanities and Social Sciences
and wrote Being No One.
And I thought, sorry.
I should just show people.
It's a very big book, the English version.
So you were doing a lot of writing.
Yeah, I did a lot of writing.
And I thought Americans need something more crude and something more loud.
And that's why I called it Being No One.
Thanks a lot.
And I have to pay the price for this for the rest of my life now.
You figured out the recipe.
So now you're trapped.
That's what happens.
Yeah, it's all marketing and I have to try some radical marketing there.
And the interesting thing is, because you ask about neurophenomenology,
you have to be very careful about what you say.
You have to be very careful about what you say.
So I have only really met Francisco Varela twice in my life
and liked each other very much.
I never forget he invited me and Thomas to Paris.
And he listened to my talk about the self-model.
And he said, Thomas, everything you say is completely right.
You have no chance as long as you stay a representationalist.
It's all false because it's representation.
That was so funny.
And then, as you know, there is this neurophenomenology tribe,
also my friend Evan Thompson in philosophy,
who try to tie it to certain phenomenological traditions in Buddhism.
And that's just what I wanted to say.
The way I use neurophenomenology in Being No One isn't actually that usage.
I thought this is the project.
That's what I want to do.
Neurophenomenology.
But for most people today, the term means something else.
So it was more like Patricia Churchland's use of it?
No.
Because that's what a lot of people will think of too.
Kids who said, I'm living in the neuro tunnel.
I told them how it really was.
I told them I took Patricia Churchland's 1986 book, Neurophilosophy,
and brought it to my neuroscience friends in Frankfurt and said,
here is something from philosophy.
Don't you like this?
Neurophilosophy, you would like it.
And they said, we can write a third-class textbook ourselves.
We want you to tell us something about Merleau-Ponty and Leib phenomenology
and the neuroscientists.
We want philosophical work on embodiment.
And not that.
We can do that ourselves.
And I said, yeah, there's all these, Paul Churchand and John Bigler.
And they looked at it and they said, yeah, yeah, we do that ourselves.
That's not what we need philosophers for.
Very interesting reaction.
Do you think any of the critical thinking aspect of it
or the analytic part is getting lost in this kind of new shift?
Yes, absolutely.
So if you look at this new book, Culture of Consciousness,
I have been advocating for a number of years
that we should in the educational system have two things.
One is what I call attentional auto-regulation.
That is meditation practice for children and youth.
And what in philosophy is called doxastic auto-regulation also,
which is basically rational, critical thinking,
optimizing the relationship between what you believe and what you know.
There are theories.
There's a technical discussion about this.
And those are the two kinds of mental self-regulation.
I think we really need.
And I don't know in German, it's called Argumentationstheorie.
I don't know if they teach it in Heidelberg,
but I think that's actually some of the best things philosophy has to offer to society.
Because it doesn't work.
And of course, were you asking about neuroscientists and critical thinking?
No, I think just in general, I guess what I'm trying to get at is
one thing I've liked about your work is that it's trying to hold this paradox
without trying to solve it.
The sense of the analytic philosophy and that critical thinking
and that crispness that you described.
But also, I mean, a lot of people would associate you with pure awareness
and even psychedelics and meditation and these kind of subjects,
which can seem opposing to that, but haven't been in your work, clearly.
And I guess with this kind of rise of everyone wanting to talk about embodiment
and four-year cognition and phenomenology again,
which is really just happening right now.
Five years ago, everyone wouldn't talk about that in philosophy departments.
I guess what I'm saying is we don't want to just keep flipping
from where you started in this kind of continental morass or whatever.
It's very interesting.
To move the neuroscience back to that.
I mean, it's not even two.
You said multiplicities earlier and I think that applies here too.
There's something else that I'm hoping we don't lose, I guess.
I just wonder if that makes sense to you.
And that's very interesting, Andrea.
So now you have, you don't even say jazz, you say morass.
Well, I think I'm taking that from you from a feeling that I had
about the way you described those early years, which were very inspiring.
Of course, a lot of German philosophy is the basis for so much.
It's not that we got rid of it, but I felt in your writing over the years
there was a stuckness there.
You were pushing against it.
And even meditation and all of this stuff wasn't, you couldn't talk
about that then either.
I mean, things have changed so much that I just feel like we don't want
to lose sight of all of those things.
And that's the hard thing that I actually have felt in your work
for 30 years, but that I would hope people don't lose.
Right?
Because it's so easy to see one side or the other and stick to it.
Yeah, so how to start?
So of course, for me, it has always, so I started to practice regularly
before I started to practice philosophy at the age of 18.
And it has always been clear to me that there's this wonderful German
idiom, and I never know how to, so a serious interest.
And I think the best English translation is in epistemic gain, but I never know
what the good translation would be or epistemic progress.
And I've always had the suspicion.
I mean, many people would think this is crazy, but how can you be seriously
interested in philosophy of mind and consciousness and not meditate
or experiment with psychedelics a little more seriously?
You know, I really, it's totally okay if somebody says I'm simply afraid
of psychedelics from what I've heard.
That's okay if you don't want to do that.
But meditation is benign and subtle and slow and is for almost everybody.
It's doable.
And the interesting effect is you have many neuroscientists that actually
have a practice and you have cognitive scientists and psychologists
and almost no philosophers.
You know, there's Michael Hampe in Zurich and Evan Thompson maybe,
and then you have no practitioners.
And also with my PhD students, I went on retreats, short intros in Switzerland
twice, and then we had a little conference where we gave mock lectures
to each other and I said, oh, this is so great.
We felt so much more like a group afterwards.
And we've listened to each other more than we have ever listened.
Really good listening.
Nobody started to practice.
They all liked it.
They all thought this is good.
Nobody picked up a practice.
And I wonder what this is about philosophers and intellectuals
that they have this resistance against, I don't know how you would call it,
like multi-track epistemic exploration or so.
Well, it sounds like, Thomas, you had a kind of confidence
that a lot of people don't have.
I don't know if it came from meditation or what it came from.
This kind of, you know, your signature of knowing or whatever was a bit different
because I think a lot of people in my experience are criticized, right?
And you have to be able, like you were gonna do the neuroscience and everything
and the meditation and somehow you were able to hold the multiplicity.
Who knows how?
Some people can.
Maybe it's meditation.
I think that helps.
But I think when you're trying to choose a track or you're even just talking
with your peers often, and hopefully this is changing,
you feel like you have to choose between something like
believing in whatever meditation and all of that is doing
because it gets associated with a kind of mysticism
or a kind of not serious kind of track versus the analytic
where you're doing the logic.
Who are really right, who are really not serious.
Oh, that are not really serious, right, to pull off this.
I mean, what is your target?
You want to do tenure?
But you want to get tenure by outsmarting?
That's an interesting word I learned in America, outsmarting other people.
I didn't know before, you know, this is all...
I thought it was so shocking that you have great minds
and super sharp analytical minds, much more intelligent than I could ever been.
And they are so impoverished in their personal lives,
especially guys, because it's mostly guys.
I mean, the only thing they can do is to get close to each other,
is get drunk together one evening,
and then they call each other by first names next morning.
So I always thought what is happening, what I see in academia,
this crippling way of doing philosophy,
of becoming mere intellectuals, disembodied,
all that, that cannot be it.
But on the other hand, you know,
I've kept my meditation practice basically secret
until three years ago or so.
But of course, people think, okay, now he's getting,
I don't know how we would say that, wacky, pre-signal dementia,
now he's retired, now he's coming out with this shit.
And nobody will, of course, say,
okay, like you said, this is not serious, this is crazy or so,
but they will all inwardly turn away
if they see somebody does something like that.
So I think what shouldn't be underestimated is how strategic people are,
how competitive they are,
how they will use opportunities
to make somebody else look bad or stupid.
You can really ruin your reputation very easily in academia
without anybody saying anything.
People just know, okay, now it's meditation.
Okay, bye-bye.
And in a sense, they are right.
Wasn't it Hegel who said very arrogantly,
Indians don't have philosophy,
but they have wisdom traditions.
Well, it's not actually true
if you look at the history of Buddhist philosophy,
but there's something to it.
You know, and most of the representatives
of something like meditation, which you see in the public,
this is appalling to philosophers, right?
I just think that we can go the other way too,
you know, in the way that you're getting criticized now, right?
Where we say, oh, everything's in the brain
and you cannot take that seriously.
So, I mean, for me, it's about that flipping back and forth thing
is what I'm hoping changes from a lot of the stuff
that you've been doing because, yeah,
that sort of shocks me that you only started talking about,
you mean your actual personal meditation practice
you only started talking about three years ago
because you've definitely been talking about subjects
relative to meditation for a long time.
I mean, you know, and the elephant book is all about it
and I guess you just mean you didn't talk about it personally.
Is that?
The thing is, I mean, there's of course a deeper issue behind it.
It's the epistemic authority, say somebody takes psilocybin
and has a deep, deep, deep insight
about the nature of consciousness
and somebody else meditates and has a deep, deep, deep insight.
And then you have, say, philosophers
cooperating with neuroscientists
and they have an idea about the neuro-correlate
or whatever computational model of consciousness.
I mean, who, in cases of conflict, who decides,
and I'm very old-fashioned, I think,
the theory that has the better predictive success,
that theory wins.
So what I've called in the elephant,
the ephala fallacy and the sea fallacy.
I don't know if you remember that.
I mean, just the fact that you have a very, very deep sense
of validation and insight doesn't mean you've had an insight.
We find that, for instance, in ecstatic epileptic seizures, too,
that people just before the attack
have a very, very deep phenomenology
of knowing that they know.
So that's not an indicator for knowledge.
And of course, many people from the meditation traditions
and a lot of, let's start with the meditators,
they make wild epistemic claims,
which are completely bizarre from a theory of science
or academic epistemology perspective.
So that disqualifies them for many.
And then I don't know if you've heard that
in psychedelic research, they have this new term ontological shock
that many people develop weird metaphysics after a certain time.
The latest example being Christoph Koch.
You know, I don't know if you've seen it.
He was, for all the time, we've known each other for ages.
He was at Caltech.
I was in San Diego.
The ultra ideological reductionist.
And now, very late in his life,
he does this and he becomes a panpsychist and an idealist.
So that's a way of flipping back and forth.
But I wanted to ask something about you.
Were you indicating that this fashionable,
I mean, embodiment is not that young, actually.
And I just, as I told the kids in Münster,
it started not really in philosophy,
but in AI, the whole branch of robotics,
the whole idea of roboticists was to start with embodiment
because you don't get to robust intelligence.
And then there were maybe 30 years of embodiment
in philosophy debate.
And now it starts this EE thing.
Are you saying this is the morass again?
No, there's something to all of it, but it's very hard to say that.
I mean, even in academia, this is not an easy position.
I love computationalism, functionalism, all of that.
I love analytic philosophy.
I also really got a lot from 4E, so-called, from Varela, from all this.
And trying to talk about those together,
you pretty much got shut down really quickly because,
for whatever reason, and I think that's changing,
but I worry it will go all the way the other way
so that everyone in 4E thinks you can't be analytic.
And for me, the actual kind of transformation
to look at your terminology or something
would be holding those in a different way,
which might be something I've seen in your work over time
because you're doing all of it, right?
Even if you don't use the terminology,
you find whatever words are going to speak to whatever audience
in the way that you're saying.
I see it all there.
You've been talking about the body since the beginning,
but you've also been trying to understand
what is this first-person perspective?
Does it require a body?
Does consciousness require a certain kind of body?
But you're not talking about it in the language of 4E.
But like you said, a lot of it's coming out of robotics, AI studies.
I want to open up with this whole thing is that
we don't have to choose a side with all these things,
which it feels like we have to.
Very good idea.
Not choose.
That's actually one of the deepest spiritual principles,
choiceless awareness.
You find this in people like Jay Krishnamurti
and many other of these teachers.
Can one see the value in all of it?
But in reality, I think it's hard to understand
the careerism in academia.
And the problem is it's all smart people
who are very strategic.
So they try to form movements or clubs or little cults.
And they hope that some influential people there
will get funding and money.
So there is a pure analytic philosophy called.
And there is this what I perceive in this EEEE
neurophenomenology crowd that has now emerged.
Please note at the beginning,
these were very hard-headed guys.
Andy Clark, for instance.
And so for authors like microcognition
and the whole thing with the extended mind,
these were people who are very close to mathematics
as philosopher and computational modeling.
And now it really looks like a kind of wokeism to me.
It's like being feel good.
Are you a warm-hearted human being that is open?
And the academic quality generally is pretty low.
So you also find these cults or subcultures
where people who don't really make it in the academic mainstream
gather and then open their own little thing,
their own little movement,
with the hope of getting funding there
or portraying themselves as victims.
You know what I'm getting at?
An evil system.
And I think as you point out this,
how do you say in English,
it erases our view at the real important problems
that are there and the really important issues.
And that we need the critical thinking part of it.
There's a work involved in philosophy that is important
no matter which of these kind of groups you're in, right?
It's not easy to learn how to think critically
about all of these things.
Give me some standard examples of philosophers or movements
where you think this is really lacking.
It's not that I think it's lacking
and I don't want to signal anyone out
because I actually think there's good stuff
even in all those groups, right?
So you said, how can you not explore everything in a way
if you really want to understand what is going on here?
I mean, we're conscious and this is amazing.
What is this, right?
Maybe a lot of us when we're young feel that
and we want to explore it
and that's why we go into philosophy or neuroscience.
And I feel that in your writing.
I feel that in your beginnings
and what you're talking about here.
But also we can get carried away with that too
that we want to always feel that kind of excitement.
Sometimes perhaps that's what's motivating us.
We hide it with all this language
and then maybe at the end of our life,
then we kind of let ourselves kind of release back into that.
I don't know if there's anything wrong with that.
Oh, that's an interesting.
I see there's all these controls that academia give you
so that you don't do that.
But lately things have gotten a bit crazy.
All the norms are changing.
What do you perceive as crazy?
What do you perceive as really crazy?
I feel like with AI changes, with large language models,
with a lot of things what we've taken as maybe standard
and just assumed will continue into the future regarding education,
regarding how we write papers,
regarding everything is up for grabs in a way
or we don't know what's going to happen.
And there's a foundational looseness to our relationality.
It's shifting.
And I think some people just think,
well, I'm just going to go for it, so to speak.
This is what I think and maybe it's crazy,
but maybe that's what I have to be, right?
Because in other areas of life,
we see that too, the craziness in terms of being extreme,
letting yourself unleash
seems to be getting a certain kind of attention.
I think in the long run, we see what happens, right?
But in this very moment,
I don't know if you feel that at all,
that there's a change in constraints.
I don't know if I could say it like that.
For philosophy or for everybody?
Yeah, for philosophy, but related to everything else
that's going on in the world
in terms of what we might have thought could never happen.
Oh, yes.
Well, I think it can happen.
Yes, of course.
Okay, I'll tell you another anecdote.
Maybe you've heard me telling this.
When I took my PhD in 1985, I didn't know what to do.
And then I was allowed, which was a bigger procedure at the time
in 1987 to teach my first seminar ever.
And I taught a seminar on artificial intelligence and philosophy.
That was the first thing I ever did.
And I still remember I came in and the room,
the largest room was black with people.
I couldn't go get to the blackboard because everybody thought,
why does this young guy have to push through?
You know, he can't be.
And it took me a few weeks just, I mean, basically,
I think the mood was, we don't know what that is,
artificial intelligence, but we are very sure
it's something that has to be prevented.
It's probably, as I often said, a very cool word
in these times among students was proto-fascist.
It's probably proto-fascist, you know?
And then I had to tell them that there was a whole philosophical discussion there
that I didn't know, Aaron Sloman, the space of possible minds,
and let's read these papers together.
And everybody said, it's never going to happen, AI,
and it's bizarre, and science fiction, and nonsense,
and now look at the situation.
I think a very good term, I don't know who coined it,
is an epistemic crisis.
I mean, we're in danger if we don't only have these language models,
but if we get high resolution avatars very soon populating our environment,
that large part of the population will be completely confused
and believe a lot of stuff.
As you mentioned, critical thinking,
it's going to be very hard to get a foot on the ground with a flood of,
you know, the flooded zone with fake news,
but now presented through photorealistic avatars,
we may get into a situation that is really, really weird.
And actually, philosophers would have a high responsibility
in a situation like this.
Philosophers should be like a source, how do you say, of non-fake,
like really good journalism, you trust.
That's what philosophy should do in these situations.
That's that critical thinking.
But it doesn't have to give up on the embodiment
and this understanding that comes through something like meditation
or even what you're describing as psychedelics, right?
Where did I read this?
I'm concerned about one thing, Andrea.
So of course, a language model learns critical thinking just like that
and informal fallacies.
It's much better at arguing now than human beings.
There were these guys who tested a reasoning model
on some Reddit thing in the internet where people,
there's this Reddit thing I think called Prove Me Wrong,
where people debate outrageous claims.
I don't know what the English term is,
the convincing power or something of an undercover language model
is six times higher than that of human discussants.
Because it knows critical thinking so well.
Yeah, but it knows that because it's trained on every argument
that's ever existed, which we can't hold as our kind of biological body.
So if we stop doing it, eventually, so will the AI.
It's not that, I mean, it's just going to be trained
on everything we've done up to this point.
And then I've even noticed it,
I don't know if you use large language models,
but lately they become less intelligent, so to speak.
I mean, they're starting to lose the thread a bit.
I don't know what's going on, but I think it might have something
to do with so much input that's not so easily categorizable.
But you started with AI, a long time ago too.
So this is kind of what I'm saying, right?
You started with meditation, you started with AI,
you started with, I don't know about when the psychedelics kind of came on,
but I know you are interested in trying to really understand
from that organic place that we're talking about.
I have been very, very lucky in retrospect, very, very lucky
that I only got hold, I was very interested,
but only got hold of LSD at the age of 25.
In retrospect, that was very, very good for my life.
I would not have continued to study probably anything.
So I'm very much concerned.
I always tell people, you've got a lot of time.
You don't have to do this when you're very young.
It could be that you get so fascinated that you don't do anything else
for the next 10 years, basically, you know, basically.
So that's risky.
So it's in a period of five years, just to answer your question there.
Thanks for saying that because I think it's really important.
I would say wait as long as possible in a way and understand what you're doing.
But you brought up Varela.
We've been talking about the body.
We're talking about AI.
So if AI becomes conscious, would they need to meditate?
Would they require a body?
Well, about the body, you will see a massive target paper by Anno Seth.
It's actually on the web already about biological naturalism.
And with 15 replies, I've written one to it very soon.
And there is this issue.
I mean, the majority, I have always been a computational functionalist,
but there are some very good arguments that some of the low-level functions
in our embodiment cannot be algorithmically described.
That there are things in, especially in the brain,
that neurons have a primary metabolic function and stuff like that.
And that there are maybe on the molecular level things
that are just not tractable in the framework of computational functionalism.
And then in the end, there's a wide open debate.
The intuition that many non-academics have,
it has to be alive, is actually true in the end.
That there's something we cannot do without this naturally evolved hardware.
Many very smart people are debating this.
Of course, if you say, no, no, it has to be alive,
you get a lot of applause from non-academics.
And everybody says that sounds right, living body, yeah.
And it's lived experiences and all.
This has the right ring to it.
I think we could still kill ourselves with non-biological intelligence.
We could drive AI that it gets something else.
And I also think we will have post-biotic systems, as I call them,
systems which are neither artificial nor biological.
They will develop organoids and these organoids, my speculation,
you will get large organoids and then train them with AI.
And you will have something that is not,
we haven't seen on in the history of this planet before,
forms of cognition or in intelligence.
In any case, I think that the verdict is still out if it needs life.
And what it is about the process of autopoiesis,
this very unlikely process of becoming anti-entropic systems
in an entropic universe, that that is needed
to generate what we call intelligence right now.
And I'm, of course, very interested in
if there's an essential connection to suffering there.
So that is why all these MPE states and the pure awareness stuff.
And so, of course, is interesting because we want, I'm a very,
I have a lot of dark views.
Many people don't like to hear and that I hold back.
I think I said it once in the ego tunnel,
I think biological evolution has created an ocean of suffering
and confusion in a place of the physical universe,
in the region of the physical universe,
where nothing like this existed before.
And I'm not so sure if life is a good thing
because it has created so much suffering on this planet,
especially after the evolution of predators,
animals who could only live by eating other animals.
There was a time in evolution where it wasn't like that.
So I think this is, life is not something to be glorified.
And there's a turning point in my intellectual life
was when I was 16 and I read the first noble truth of Buddhism,
all life is suffering.
That was a real turning point because that was something
I could not have conceived of before as a possibility
that that might be true.
And now, if you look at the top-notch theories,
free energy minimization, Karl Friston and all that today,
then you see from the lowest level of our embodiment
upwards to cognition, it's a permanent uphill battle.
It's a constant battle against prediction error,
against entropy-free energy spreading in the system,
trying to, for a certain time, maintain your boundaries,
the Markov blanket around yourself, and not to dissolve.
And that is kind of the highest norm
in our kind of embodiment and life is,
do not die and propagate your genes.
Those are the two main norms.
And in that sense, we are not free.
I don't know if that goes your direction,
but I think a root cause of suffering
is what the Buddhists have called the craving for existence,
Bhavatana.
And you find it in the best modern computational theories
of life and mind.
You find the same thing if you look at this Kate Knave book,
A Drive to Survive.
For instance, that is pretty much it.
And a completely rational AI could not have that.
It could not have a drive to survive.
It could be ready to shut itself off
if it sees no further reason for its own existence.
So as we are on this historical threshold inflection point,
I think one of the most important targets
is to prevent a further explosion of suffering
in us, in biological sentient systems via AI,
but also in AI itself.
That is really of highest relevance.
And what we don't have is we don't have a convincing theory
of what suffering is in the first place.
I've made some very, very first steps,
but I think that would be high priority.
What is suffering?
And people have shocked me.
I said, if you get at that, if you research that,
then you will get suffering AI,
because people will make formal implementable models
of what conscious suffering is to get a really precise theory.
And then you are there.
You're contributing to the process.
So that's part, I think, of this very difficult situation
we are in right now.
If we have any ethical sensitivity at all,
how to minimize suffering.
And that's also, I mean, it's not only,
that will be one criterion.
You have mentioned this multi-track epistemic thing,
do philosophy, do interdisciplinary philosophy,
do meditation, do psychedelics, something like that,
that you thought that was interesting.
But a general, how do you say, norm or goal
under which you could do this
is how can suffering be minimized most effectively?
And the question is, I read a thing
called intelligence and pain recently,
where somebody says, well, all we know shows
you cannot have intelligence without suffering.
It's part of, I have no opinion of that,
but if that is true, that mindedness
and increased intelligence brings suffering into the world
and more suffering and refined suffering,
that will be really bad news.
I don't know if you have any views on this.
Well, I think since we don't have that much time,
I mean, there would be so much
I would want to talk about in there.
Well, make another date.
But I do want to say this, that just in the spirit of,
with the embodiment and the AI
and all these things we've been talking about
as if they're opposites,
and me trying to say they're not opposites,
because I really think that question,
Varela telling you, oh, it'll never work
because of representations.
I think what we mean by representation is changing.
We don't have to think of it as like a hieroglyph in the brain.
I mean, this is what I've been writing about.
And then you find that all of these things
start communicating in a different way,
that all the stuff we've been doing as if we're separate.
And I really see that as a very promising way to go
in all these directions,
including the one you just brought up
about being able to see the suffering.
I mean, for me, we have to come to love here at the end.
And I actually think suffering is a kind of,
I don't mean that to suffer is to love,
but I don't see these as like, you can't separate them.
I don't think care is a kind of tension for me.
And that's why I think meditation and the Buddhist,
all the stuff you've brought up is very helpful
because it lets us be in that space,
marinate, so to speak, right?
To talk about marinating instead of meditating
and try to handle that,
which is maybe what I wanna bring up here at the end.
Love, I know it's a hard word to bring up
in these conversations,
but what do you think about that word
and your elephant book, for example?
A lot of people could be describing something
like an experience of love in those descriptions
that they give the meditators,
if one wanted to think of it in a certain way,
from my perspective.
But I just wanna put that word there.
Like, what does that bring up for you?
Does it bring up anything?
Do you wanna push back?
I'm not gonna talk about anything personal here
because this will be too personal.
But let me start with one thing I had
in an interesting moment years ago
where Buddhists were trying to explain Karuna
and metta meditation.
And you know, there are these two German words,
Mitgefühl for compassion and Mitleid,
which is pity or whatever it is, pity, yeah.
Suffering with.
And then they tried to explain this to the Buddhist.
And what Mitleid means, suffering
with another sentient creature.
And the Buddhist just said, no, no, no, no, no.
That's wrong.
I mean, the right mindful proper form of compassion
is something that doesn't create suffering,
not in you and not in somebody else.
So you don't want to suffer with them.
That's a complete, the German word Mitleid said
that that's a complete.
Now, that is something that is so much I can say
very difficult for me in my own life
to feel at least a little compassion sometimes
to the ocean of suffering in this world
without getting burned.
That seems to be the challenge to me
because as soon as you see how much suffering this is
and what a kind of a world it must be
that enables so much suffering,
also in the animal kingdom permanently,
it's very hard not to immediately get bitterness,
despair or a reaction.
I must close myself off to this
because I just cannot handle it.
It will burn to me.
And I think people have claimed this.
I don't know if it's true,
but maybe there is a kind of being compassionate.
Maybe there is a kind of non-dual awareness
that can, I say in English, embrace all of this maybe,
embrace of this with love, with compassion,
without getting completely blown away.
And I think that is just, I mean, that is the thing.
You have often spoken about holding things,
but how can anybody hold the suffering of the world
and just look there without going insane,
without becoming bitter or starting to do philosophy
or something weird?
No, I think you're touching at actually the main point
and just about everything we've been talking about
in terms of why people go to extremes
or why we cling to academic groups or whatever.
I feel that a lot since a kid.
It's very hard to just love actually
because you have to recognize how much suffering there is
and also to recognize that the way the world works
is not a fluffy idealistic way.
There's a reality there that you can't get away from,
but makes me think that suffering with
is also what we don't get away from.
I mean, we didn't have time to go into it,
but there's one thing I thought of earlier in your book.
I'm not sure which one, probably the elephant book,
but you talk about you're like rushing.
I think it's you.
It might be a meditator, but somebody is rushing around
and they're like trying to catch a train
and there's a lot of stress.
Yeah, maybe washing dishes.
Yeah, and you didn't meditate
and you think you have to meditate.
For a moment, the room is meditating
and you don't have to or something.
I love that feeling and also the outer body stuff.
Do you have that sometimes?
Do you know that feeling?
I do.
It's those moments you described too
where you're not thinking about your own thinking,
but you're present like that comes up a lot.
I have this very, very rarely
and I was so shocked about this
that I immediately ruined it,
but I now think there was a very important thing.
There was a prior,
as this neurocomputation was said in my brain,
there was a prior thing.
You cannot possibly meditate right now.
And then this came up.
This is the time of day.
I mean, if you look at the Tibetan Buddhists
and so in the more advanced teachings,
the instructions, do not meditate.
There's this whole teaching of do not control,
don't fabricate, don't go anywhere.
And then they have this weird thing of just
be undistracted, but don't meditate.
And it's very hard.
The thing is to get the controlling element out,
the little phenomenology of agency
that is always with, I am meditating right now.
And that was a very rare moment
where there was a strong assumption
it is impossible to meditate right now.
And then it happened.
And with a stupid control freak like me,
he probably ruins the rest of his life all the time
by doing deluded activities,
like sitting down on a cushion and meditating.
It's a form of delusion.
Well, I mean, it's towards, well, gosh,
trying to maybe recognize that thing
that you recognize in that moment.
I mean, there's so much here
because we could sound too mystical or whatever,
but I think what you just said,
that experience exists.
And it doesn't mean that I feel like maybe
whatever's going on with the way
that we're changing right now,
we could change to be able to explore that space
a little bit in a way that we let each other explore,
holding the suffering and the love, so to speak.
And also not, that's what I was trying to get
at the beginning, not immediately judging each other
because we have to fit each other into
that's not analytic enough or that's too spiritual.
All those categories to me are keeping us
from maybe being able to notice the suffering,
which I think actually is a kind of way
of learning how we can love more.
I don't know if that makes sense.
You see, that is one of the things
that always fascinates me.
I live far away in a countryside here
and I talk to people who never really,
I like it more than talking to philosophy professors,
some crazy hunters or farmers.
And the thing is they have
the most horrible political views often
and they do horrible things all the time to animals.
And at the same time, they are the nicest people
in a certain way, in another way,
and much nicer than any intellectual city folk
or something like this.
And in a certain way, they have compassion for nature,
although they destroy it all the time.
And I think this speaks to what you're saying,
this ambiguity you can find in other human beings
once you are open, they are horrible.
They say and do horrible things.
And at the same time, they are nice people,
are part of them.
I mean, there are some for whom everything is ruined,
all capacity for compassion, awareness,
but they have this corner.
And if you find this corner,
I recently had it with somebody who says,
how are you today?
And you say, actually quite volatile.
It's up and down all the time.
Then for the first time, they can talk about
that they're actually sad a lot of the time.
And I would never open up to anybody
but if you can show that you are suffering too,
sometimes in the right way,
there was certainly things will open up
and things will become possible.
So for me, there is a capacity to see
that other human beings are horrible
and wonderful at the same time.
I really think that's a hard thing to do,
but might be what we're all trying to do in a way,
in a very rigorous way.
But that's what I mean by that moment,
which really struck me from that book of...
Because you're in such an extreme state of stress
and that happens too when we're all in emergencies, right?
Then we do realize what you just said, actually,
because we get into that state
where we realize there's something shared
that we can't escape, right?
And it doesn't mean we leave our bodies necessarily to be it,
but it's there, right?
And I don't know, I mean,
it's getting hard to kind of put words on that,
but there's something there that feels important
and actually that I can see in all of these things
we've talked about
if we stop judging each other through the old categories,
if that makes sense.
Because I know exactly what you mean.
I grew up in a farm culture
and there's some of the best people in the world,
even though if you try to put them into
the kind of university or newspaper categories,
you might completely disagree.
But anyway, we're getting low on time.
So is there anything this brings up
that you want to talk about
or anything else about love that you want to share?
That's very interesting
because it hasn't become quite clear
what you are getting at.
So let's do five more minutes.
The thing is, one difficulty in all of this is
that one also has not only tried
to hold them in all their horribleness,
but one also has actually wants to stop,
make many stop doing what they do
because they also do horrible things.
And just being compassionate
and understanding doesn't help.
So the challenge is even higher,
like trying to change people's minds
in a way that they not automatically shut down
or start to fight or something like that.
This speaks to the Bewusstsein Kultur
and the sort of planetary, I think,
direction at the end of the elephant book,
which I guess is like the new book.
I did send you a code.
You sent it to me, but like two days ago,
so I haven't read it.
It's like the epilogue,
but with a little more substance and detail.
Yeah, I noticed that, which is great
because I think that maybe we can talk
about that book another time.
But the thing here is what happens
if we don't push against that stuff?
It's not that we're going to say
it's okay to be terrible to animals,
but instead of creating our stance against that,
which is what kind of happens now,
what happens if we take that as part of
whatever it is that's shared?
Is that a different way of coming at this
where instead of, we didn't talk about it,
but this whole dualistic structure
that I think you from the beginning
were trying to open up,
that this multiplicity is a word that comes up.
I do feel like it's connected to that way
that we assume opposition,
and I think this connects a lot
to what happens when you meditate and stuff
where it opens into more of a constellation
or something.
Yeah, so that, I don't know
if that makes any sense to you,
but to me, there's something about
a different way of understanding
that stance philosophically.
This stance, how would you label it?
I think this is what I'm trying to say
with this holding paradox or something
where it's not that you try to solve.
Right now, I feel like we don't hold it.
We don't hold the opposition
and then see it as an opening.
We instead say, okay, you can be what you are,
but I'll try to change you,
or I'm here, and there's always this...
Yeah, I think, I know,
this is actually deeply spiritual practice.
Yesterday, I read an ancient text
for the Third Times called
Clarifying the Natural State
from the 16th century,
and the guy always says,
Dakotashi Namya, don't touch,
don't correct, don't suppress,
but suspend it in empty, open awareness.
Suspend it and let it flower.
And Krishnamurti always said
something very similar.
I said, don't look at me.
Ask that out.
What happens if you just feel it directly
and are with it without trying to correct it?
What happens?
I'm not going to tell you what happens.
And so there are, I think,
in some traditions, it's even called the remedy.
I mean, it's the remedy of just being with it
in choiceless awareness and letting it flower.
Of course, the intuition,
I don't talk about this in the public
because it's too wild for many peoples,
but if we don't understand this
and we don't somehow learn this,
we're going to A, get blown away by the AI revolution.
I mean, somehow machines have to be better
at this than we are, the stupid apes.
And then the planetary crisis and climate and everything.
In principle, we would have to learn that
to deal with all the majority of human beings
who actively make it worse
or just live in full denial or whatever.
The question is, if there can be a stance,
very hard, where you can do more even of that
and not get burned by the negativity, not get burned.
And I can only say, I think I've understood that early on,
but I'm very bad at it.
I can only do it sometimes when I'm good
or when I'm very alert or open,
and I go off into judging and being appalled very fast.
I don't know how it is for you.
Can you hold that a lot?
I think maybe we started in different parts
of this kind of solar system,
because for me, it's been the opposite.
From a very early age, I was really overwhelmed
by understanding love was a kind of suffering
and having no way to filter it.
It sounds to me like you've been...
I had to learn to be judgmental a little bit
to be able to take that in, if that makes sense.
Do you know what I mean?
That's why I studied critical thinking and philosophy
and science, because it was so hard for me
to structure and judge, if that makes sense.
So I don't know if that...
Yeah, different people need different things.
It feels like the same thing, that it's so overwhelming, right?
You can't just be there with it because there's so much...
I think it's love and suffering.
There's so much.
For me, I thought of it as love.
I love my parents.
I love my dog.
I love my brother so much as a kid that I can't handle it
because they could die.
I can't make things good for them.
It was too much, if that makes sense.
So I kind of learned judgment as a scaffolding on that.
But I feel like that's kind of the same feeling.
Did it work?
Well, I mean, did it work for you?
I think we're all finding our best way to survive and deal with it.
And I think that what you said about AI
is actually really, really important.
Even thinking of AI not as opposite to us as the machine versus life,
because we could actually...
This whole thing we're in now, which we can't see clearly,
could be the way that we can discuss this better
or find other ways to handle all of this.
Because I think it is urgent in the way you said.
The urgency was never higher
because the problem has been globalized now.
And I do feel like we'll have to talk again,
but the way that you...
I know it became a cliche of that
there's no such thing as a self and egotonal and all this.
But actually, we're at a different point now.
But for people, if you go back to before you wrote all that,
it was a way to introduce into philosophy
how to do some of this holding I'm talking about.
Of course, there are some subversive elements there.
Of course, one has to do that,
but an academic environment basically is something very hostile.
And at least I've experienced it as such,
and it's almost impossible.
But then there are people like you who can read between the lines.
And there's some people who see and understand.
There's also, I find it, just to mention this in closing,
in closing, there are some of the people,
most from my MPE group,
they have actually written a big paper,
which I find completely unrealistic on super alignment.
I don't know if you've heard that.
Google super alignment.
So they think there are a lot of these Buddhists and practitioners who say,
either this goes into the alignment debate right now,
this knowledge about all that,
holding and choices, awareness and da, da, da, da, da.
Or there will be never aligned machines.
And I think it's incredibly naive to talk about something like this.
But the best of Buddhists at Rangyong Yeshe University in Kathmandu,
and everybody people are thinking about,
they have the feeling this AI moment is the moment where we either get that right,
either we get that right very fast,
or we're going to just be blown away by the whole development.
Yeah, I don't think it's either or,
but I think what you said earlier about we could destroy ourselves with the AI,
I think we're worried that the AI will destroy us,
but it's more if we don't do what you just said,
if we don't do whatever we're trying to suggest here,
that language doesn't really fit on so well,
then it's very much more likely that we're going to hurt more people and ourselves
and increase the suffering in the way that you described.
But there does feel like there's a portal or opening or something right now
where we could actually go a very different way
that we glimpsed but we haven't imagined or even put language on yet,
which is what I feel opening in a lot of your work.
And I don't know if that makes sense to you,
that it's not that you can put it into words exactly,
but I think there's another whole other set of multiplicities that are possible
that if we do what you just said,
we could shift towards clarifying or just sensing better.
Yeah, they have to be made respectable.
It won't work.
Which is where that critical thinking comes in.
And also where I just want to say thank you to you
because reading your books and stuff,
it was rigorous analytic philosophy for me.
At the same time, I could sense the other stuff in it.
And I think you might not realize what a big difference that makes.
Maybe you do realize,
but that you keep trying to deal with it,
I think has made a really big mark in terms of showing some other paths are possible
in that sense.
So thank you that you see that.
But I mean, after all, we're philosophers, aren't we?
Yeah, and that's what we continue to be and will continue to be.
So thanks for talking to me today.
Is there anything else that...
No, I have to run now, but let's stay in touch.
Okay, sounds good.
Yeah, have a really great day.
I'm going to send you something small and strange right now.
Great. Awesome. I can't wait.
Thank you so much, Thomas. Bye.
Okay, everyone.
That was a bit of an intense conversation, I realized.
So I thought it's good to leave with a poem for the new year.
And I found one of my favorite poetry books, which is called The Pupil by W.S. Merwin.
Maybe some of you know it.
And I thought about a poem that starts about something about the end of December,
but I can't find it.
But the very first poem is called Prophecy,
and it starts, at the end of the year, the stars go out.
But that sounds kind of sad, so I don't want to read that one.
So I found this one, which is on page 62.
And it's called Just Now, or maybe Just Now, or Now, Just Now.
There's a lot of ways to think about that title right now, after that conversation.
So here we go. Just Now.
In the morning, as the storm begins to blow away, the clear sky appears for a moment.
And it seems to me that there has been something simpler than I could ever believe.
Simpler than I could have begun to find words for.
Not patient, not even waiting, no more hidden than the air itself that became part of me for a while.
With every breath, and remained with me unnoticed.
Something that was here, unnamed, unknown, in the days and the nights, not separate from them.
Not separate from them, as they came and were gone.
It must have been here, neither early nor late then.
By what name can I address it now, holding out my thanks?
Happy New Year.
All the best wishes for 2026.
