Hello, everyone. Welcome to Love and Philosophy. This is Andrea, and this is an episode from
the archive. We are starting the new season on March 17th with Janet Levin, and she is
in California, a philosophy professor, author of Metaphysics of Mind, and she's written
a lot of really great papers. She was part of the beginnings of analytic philosophy in
a way at MIT and Harvard around those years when Fodor was developing his language of
thought and Quine was teaching. I think she was even Ned Block's first PhD student, so
it's a really great conversation. I can't wait to share it with you. Today, we're replaying
a conversation with Perry Zern, Provost Associate Professor of Philosophy at American University
and the author with Danny Bassett of Curious Minds, which is the book we discuss here.
Perry and Danny are twins. This one is from two years ago, one of the first ones we've
been playing, some of the first episodes that we had, and this one is about curiosity.
We talk about paths a lot here and how they don't exist until someone walks them. They
come into being through walking, through the body, sensing what's there, reaching towards
what isn't there yet, making way, and this is what curiosity does or is, so it's really
interesting to listen back to this episode and hear how many themes resonate already
in this early episode, the multiple paths, the way making, the walking, the of course
beyond either or multiplicity, even the third entity in dancing, edges, ecological landscapes,
the planetary, more than human, all these themes are already here in a lot of wonderful
ways. One interesting idea here is that curiosity isn't something you have, but it's something
you do. It's a movement, it's a kind of practice, kind of edge work as we talk about
here, towards what you may sense but don't know yet, and we do it at many different scales,
individuals, groups, who knows where else this is happening, but philosopher Perry Zern
has spent a lot of years thinking about this. I've been revisiting Perry's work a bit regarding
ambiguity lately for another text I'm writing for something else, so this was really fun
to listen back to and to think about curiosity and how knowledge comes to be, this idea of
walking through landscapes and the different topographies that we talk about, the many
ways that curiosity can be your companion, Perry says, you do your best work when you
have others with you doing this, and the cracks that often come, the edges that break and
reform, but also this notion of the mountain always having many paths, that comes up in
a lot of other episodes as well, how we're exploring this multidimensional landscape
and there's always many paths to explore it, the way love or care could be considered
differently in terms of how it's actually constitutive of a lot of that movement, and
especially when we think about love of knowledge and if we think of knowledge as bodily, so
there's all kinds of wonderful resonances here and I just am really happy to share this
with you again, curiosity, edge work, curiosity as the capacity to connect, not about capturing
but about living this dance together, trying to find different perspectives, learn from
one another, learn from ourselves, curious minds is really wonderful, yeah, so here we
go from the archive, curiosity, cracking, edge work, paths, walking, I'm really glad
you're here and we'll be back soon with a new episode, if you would like to support
this podcast, please just go to the giving page and give whatever amount feels good for
you and only if you can, only if you want to, we really appreciate it, it also helps
if you sign up for the newsletter somewhere or other or really anything to help support
us, it's just wonderful and very, very, very much appreciated, all right, be well.
Hey Perry, thanks for joining us.
Thanks so much for having me.
So this is a podcast about exploring the love and how love informs the ways that we know
and the ways that we move, and I wonder in all your work on curiosity studies and developing
it and in your recent book, Curious Minds with your twin Danny, if you've thought much
about this word, there is a point where you say that when you were getting ready to write
the book, you were thinking about what do we love as humans and so I wonder, have you
thought much about these two words in connection?
You know, I haven't thought a whole lot about it, as you ask it, I'm reminded that in early
Latin work on curiosity, curiosity was connected to desire and lust and love and it was particularly
located in that kind of nexus of affects and I think today we talk a little bit about
curiosity, you know, when things we're super curious about as also things we really love
to know and think about, so it seems like there is an implicit connection with them.
I haven't really spent a whole lot of time sussing it out, but one of the things I might
say is in my earlier book, Curiosity and Power, I said that curiosity really needs companions
to be its best self and I think love might be a companion for curiosity that would help
it be its best self, so I think we can get into trouble with our curiosity, I think we
can exercise curiosity that is more appropriative or objectifying, but love, like real love,
real relational affection and connection would help guide curiosity again to develop forms
of knowledge and inquiry and experimentation that respect the relationship in which it sits.
What about the idea of the love of wisdom or the love that motivates you to be curious
or to pursue a subject? Have you thought much about that? And also I'm wondering about your
own path and what sort of led you to the work that you're doing because I think it was seven
or eight years of research that went into the book that you did and you've written many,
many papers and you're more or less developing a new field of curiosity studies, so I wonder
what motivated that and if there's any relation to this love of wisdom or desire for knowledge.
Yeah, I mean, there must be in some way, right? I love that you're pulling on the love of
wisdom, right, which is the translation of the word philosophy itself. And I do think that I
did fall in love with philosophy in my first, really in high school and then in one of my first
college classes. And one of the things, I think the primary thing I loved about philosophy was how
kind of rascally curious it was and its willingness to ask questions in areas that
can tend to be kind of put off by other fields or other value commitments and philosophy says,
why not? Let's ask about it. Let's really look into it. And that insistent inquiry was in fact
one of the things that made me love the love of wisdom or philosophy. And yeah, so I went into
philosophy for those reasons. It opened up my world in all kinds of ways. I think I had grown
up in a really restricted intellectual environment where I wasn't encouraged to ask a whole lot of
questions about certain things and I needed more room and philosophy gave me more room.
And then my twin Danny, they were similarly sort of reaching out for new spaces to be and to
explore and they went into physics and we went, you know, we did our undergraduate degrees and
then we did our graduate degrees and then we are twins. And so this was an important moment in which
we distinguished ourselves and our identities and our loves and our passions as distinct. Well,
I'm into philosophy and you're into physics and so that makes us different. But then it turned out,
you know, that we were actually trying to understand the same, some of the same things.
So Danny was studying learning and neural flexibility and I was writing a dissertation
on curiosity and a book on curiosity before our work together. And we thought, you know,
there's really a resonance here and what would it mean to bring our very different fields together
around the same and similar question. So that's really what gave rise to Curious Minds.
In this book, you redefine curiosity in a way, don't you, from the traditional historical
notion of it. Maybe you want to tell us a little bit about that, this idea of curiosity as
connection or not as acquisitional, but as more like a capacity or a practice. I think you
use that word a lot, practice. Yeah. Yeah. So curiosity is, I am really interested in
thinking about curiosity as a practice. It has been conceptualized primarily as a desire or a
motivation or an interest to know new information or to fill information gaps. So motivation to fill
information gaps is really the way in which it's described in psychology. And then a desire to know
is more of the older, more ancient philosophical perspective. But these desires and these
motivations tend to be really located in an individual human. And I wanted to think about
curiosity socially. So I'm a political philosopher by training. I think that most things can't be
understood just from the individual level. And so I really wanted to think about curiosity at the
social level. And to do that, I needed to think about it as a practice, something that we do
to and with and next to one another. So curiosity as a practice, but then a practice of what exactly?
And again, historically, curiosity has been thought of as this need to sort of grasp new
information to go out, get the new piece of information and kind of own it and use it in
whatever way we want to do. But I thought that misses something about what curiosity is actually
up to. Because curiosity really, just independent pieces of information don't help you do a whole lot,
right? And aren't particularly meaningful. The reason that we're curious about something is
because it's connected to what we already know or what we're already invested in or to people we
care about or to communities we care about or to the earth we care about. And so in that sense,
you know, working with Dani, I was thinking about curiosity as relational and then I was
working with Dani and we were thinking about curiosity as networked or as a drive for network
knowledge building. And it's between those two positionalities, you know, curiosity as relational
and curiosity as network that we came to this conceptualization of curiosity as a capacity to
connect. So then you can get that social and relational resonance, but you can also get that
network science resonance.
Yeah, I really love that. And I love how you did this grasping or getting or acquiring motion
in terms of the way we often think about curiosity or the way we need to get information,
have information. And that's very different from the book and the way that you both in your
different chapters write about it as an exploration, as a movement. It's always like a walk,
which we'll get to, but it's a very different kind of bodily presence with others and with the
world in a way. And just to kind of unpack that a little bit, you also think about curiosity as
edgework. I'd like to hear you talk about if it's the same thing for you or what this word really
means. And I also wonder, just kind of as a side note, in my own work or history, this idea of
edgework has come as a connected to risk from the writer Hunter S. Thompson. You probably know
about that, him talking about the edge is the place that you only know if you go over it. And
he actually uses this word edgework. And then I think Stephen Lane kind of picks it up in the
eighties or nineties in psychology and talks about it as people who take great, great risks that are
almost not rational towards pursuing the edge. So I just wonder if you've thought about that
side of it at all, or yeah, how this connects to the curiosity for you.
Yeah. So we do explore curiosity as edgework in the book. And that's a way to try to put feet
to this concept of curiosity as connectional. So if curiosity is this capacity to build and to make
connections, and those connections might be old, but those connections might be near. But if
curiosity is this capacity to make connections, one way to talk about that is as building edges
between nodes or as edgework. And so that term really helps bring out some resonances in network
science, but it also helps bring out resonances in kind of aesthetic theory and ecology, which is
where I ran across the term. In kind of aesthetic or ecological perspectives, edgework is this trying
to build and live and create liminal spaces or to exist and survive in liminal spaces. And there's
all kinds of liminal ecologies and liminal aesthetic kind of spaces. And so that's where this word
edgework was sitting for me anyway. And is there a risk involved? Sure. Sure. I think there must
in so far as the edge, an edge would be at least in network science, right? The edge would be
something that's connecting or relating two different pieces. So the edge itself, at least
from a network perspective, doesn't have to be the edge of the world or the edge of a thought or the
furthest point that one could reach. And yet curiosity does seem to be in its edgework or
its edge laying capacity to be trying to reach these places that are on our periphery, right?
Because it's part of this attempt to build knowledge out from where it is or in from where
it is. And that does create certainly certain risks, especially for the knowledge network
as it stands already. So if we're building edges out and in the existing knowledge network, the
network itself and the shape and the hubs and the emphases of it and the flows of it will
necessarily hopefully change and have some kind of flexibility. So I like that resonance. I don't
know this particular work that you're citing by Thompson and Ling, but I'm excited to go down
that rabbit hole. Yeah, it's a different idea of it, but it's the same word. So that's interesting.
And for me, it was very strange to see the edgework as the way you used it and to kind of realize,
oh, I'd never thought of that before being so interested in complexity science and nodes and
edges. And somehow it was definitely a beautiful moment to think of edgework in that way. But I'm
still trying to figure out too, how it seems so rich, right? Because it depends on what position
from which you're moving, what would the edges would be in both of these takes of edgework.
And also that position would or would not be taking more risk, depending on how you might
look at it from another position, if we think of it socially or whatnot. Which makes me think of
sort of pioneers or people who really set out to explore places or even force other people to
recognize places that they've been or have been living in that haven't been seen before. Do you
think curiosity plays a role in that, in this sense of pioneering politically, socially,
also in terms of just the science that we're doing?
I think it does. And I think it can. I would say that, so, you know,
pioneering and discovery and innovation, these things, for me, these things are double-edged
swords. Even the very word pioneer is kind of... Right. There's, you know, there's several layers
there. And so I think that it's helpful to think about curiosity in relationship to those terms,
because I think it draws out the complexity of the word curiosity itself. So curiosity,
yeah, it can push us into new intellectual spaces. And those intellectual spaces can be
more liberatory in some cases and can provide knowledge that really improves our ability to be
decent humans to one another and decent humans to the planet. But that curiosity can also do
the opposite, right? It can give us tools to be more extractive of the earth, to, let's say,
building more hierarchies and kind of inequities between humans. So I think curiosity does push us
in these ways toward pioneering discoveries and innovations. But again, it needs companions to do
its best work. It needs to be kind of in community with other things like love, where I talk about
ambiguity and opacity and kind of ways in which we don't always have to know everything or use
the knowledge in all the ways that we can. Sometimes we need to respect the things that
we're trying to come to know and let them exist in the way that they already exist rather than
changing and using. I love that. I love the idea of the companion instead of it's too simple to
just say curiosity is good always or bad always. Yeah. So that really offers something to help
us understand where the values matter and when curiosity can be harmful or helpful.
I do want to ask you about complexity and when this idea of complexity science came
into your world or I guess with Danny and their work, it's definitely more, I mean,
it's very much a part of that neuroscience. And I wonder if it was already part of your work
before they brought it into your world writing this book or
when did you first sort of encounter complexity science in the way that you're using it with
edges and nodes and so on? Yeah. So there's some network theory that really predates network
science and was more commonly developed in sociology and in some social philosophies in
the 70s and 80s and so I was already familiar with some of that work. And then of course,
working closely with Danny, I became more aware of network science and the way in which complexity
is used specifically in context. What's really helpful for this book for curious minds was to
think about the brain and the ways in which if you look at really early like phrenology
illustrations, people were locating curiosity or wonder or attention in one specific area of the
brain and saying, that's the place that lights up. And in fact, we continue to get this question.
What's the part of the brain that's responsible for curiosity? The development of complex systems
and network neuroscience has really shown us that the brain works in concert with all of the parts
in some way. And really the question is, what are the pathways and what are the conversations
within it that allow something like curiosity to manifest itself in the world? And that has opened
up, I mean, on the one hand, that becomes frustrating then. Well, what is curiosity and
what is the neural basis of curiosity? And how do we, if it's not one part, then how can we really
say, oh, this is the neural basis? You know, right now we know that there are multiple systems involved.
But at the same time it opens up, it helps us to start to see emphases, right? The attentional
emphases, for example, or the hippocampal entorhinal system and its capacity to allow us to navigate
social spaces and geographical spaces, but also conceptual spaces. So we can start to pull out
as we attend and attune to those various systems in the brain that are activated in curiosity,
we can start to see elements of curiosity we may not have attended to. They might have all been
lumped together in a not very precise definition of curiosity, but we can start pulling those
pieces apart and analyzing them separately. The more we can appreciate that there are multiple
systems in place, not only neurological systems, but also social systems. So complexity science,
of course, can help us understand social systems as well. The more we can understand the multiple
systems involved in inquiry, in the practice of inquiry in our individual minds and in our shared
worlds, the more curiosity can come a lot. And we can see it as a really a practice of many gradations,
right? So that it's not just like you're curious or you're not curious, but rather how are you
curious? And maybe you manifest it in this way or you direct it this way or you practice it this way.
And this can change how we use curiosity in our just everyday attempts to discover or to improve
workplaces, but it can also change how we structure educational spaces.
That's wonderful. I think opening the space and it's not either or, you're curious or you're not,
it's more of how are you curious in the world? In the book, you discuss different styles of
curiosity and also different ways of walking. And I'd like to sort of talk about both of those
and maybe how they are or might be connected. But first, maybe just the styles of being curious,
the busybody and the hunter and the dancer. Maybe you could just give us a little
brief recap of those different ways.
Yeah, sure. So I think typically curiosity, and I work in higher education and so I see this
kind of every day, but most people think about curiosity in very similar ways as being evident
in another human being. If that human being asks a lot of questions, is pretty verbal,
pretty interactive, maintains close eye contact, is often raising their hand or trying to like
unmake something or remake something, there's just a lot of active engagement that's very
evident to a looker. That's typically how curiosity has been perceived. But that loses all kinds of
depth, I think, to curiosity and diversity to curious practices. So the styles, the busybody
and the hunter and the dancer help us zoom in and say, okay, actually, there's different ways of
being curious and that are really quantifiably different. And so the busybody is somebody who's
interested in sort of all kinds of things and tends not to settle down, but creates these really
loose knowledge networks, right? They welcome many different pieces of information to kind of sit in
their brain together. Whereas the hunter is someone who's much more focused and tends to want to know
everything about a small subset of things. So they're far more likely to create really tight
knowledge networks and really try to fill in all the holes, the holes between those, et cetera,
et cetera. And then the dancer is someone who's really creative when they're curious. So they
don't just want to know passed down information, but as they're investigating and as they're
experimenting, they want to be creating. So they tend to put information together that
didn't belong together from disparate areas of intellectual space and say, what happens if we
put these in the same room? What happens if we make them talk to each other? What happens if I create
through my curiosity? And these styles are styles I developed by looking at
thousands of years of history of Western intellectual thought when folks have described
curious behavior. Because again, I'm really interested in curious behavior and curious
practice. What does it look like when we're doing? And these seem to be three styles or types that
were really common historically. And it turns out, you know, working with Danny, I was able to,
or we were able to establish that these are also alive and well today.
It really resonates and it's helpful. As you say, no one is only one of these at all times in their
life or even in the same day necessarily. And you also point out there are many other ways of being
curious and you even offer a sort of bestiary, which is really great in the appendix of various
other ways of thinking about this. So there are many ways to think about it and you definitely
make that clear. But I do think it's also helpful to give a little bit of structure and to show
how these ways are different so that we can become more aware of them. So it opens the space of
what's curious and how that might be manifesting in the people around us. It speaks to what you
were talking about with complexity science of how now you don't have to look at it as either or one
or the other, but there's many different ways of thinking about this nested and multidimensional
system of nodes and edges and the different places from which they connect. I wonder in your work,
if you found sort of shapes or topographies that fit to these different ways of being curious,
and if they overlap, are there places also where they overlap a lot in terms of their shape?
And you're asking specifically about the busy body of the hunter and the dancer?
Or just in different... I guess I'm trying to understand what would be sort of the farthest
ones from one another because these are kind of, as you show in the book, it's really about the
ways that we're thinking and the ways that we're moving through the world in a sense. When we start
to think about your work of how do things change or how might we find better ways of being curious
are also recognizing different forms of curiosity. I just wonder, are there places in that space that
are farther apart that are less likely to acknowledge one another? Are they all sort of overlapping in
similar ways in terms of their topographies? Yeah, this is so interesting. I get the question
fairly often about, how to say this, folks on the left politically really tend to think of themselves
as curious, as interested and willing to take risks and to engage with diversity, adjust their
beliefs and patterns and values, and they perceive typically those on the right as being more
entrenched and less willing to, again, engage with diversity or change values and systems of
belief. But I think it's honestly having sort of... We both, Danny and I, have a family that's
pretty split down the middle of this particular divide. I think it's important to ask, again,
how curiosity is showing up in these different communities? So I think I'm going to answer this
at a community level. The busybody and the hunter and the dancer are simply locatable on
one political spectrum or the other, but rather in each of these sort of worlds, political worlds,
they're going to manifest themselves differently, but they'll be there. But they won't necessarily
be recognized from outside of that world as being busybody-like curiosity or hunter-like curiosity
or dancer-like curiosity. That seems important. And maybe another way I would tackle this is to
talk about... I do some work on social movements and specifically social justice movements.
And I think the perception of people who don't want that particular group to flourish or to
win, whatever is being won, tend to see social movement activists, social justice activists,
as simply hammering down the, like, we know what's right and we're not changing our minds.
We want to fix it and we're going to fix it this way, to see the social justice activist as a
domineering knowledge holder. Whereas I think if we analyze from within the movement itself,
we tend to see a lot of curious behavior. So what really is the problem we're trying to figure out
and who should be leading this movement? How is it that we're going to fix the thing that we want
to fix? So the perceptions, again, of who is curious and how are really different based on
social position or which kind of hubs you're sitting in within the network, the social network
of ideas. That's important. And I think it's important to broadly stretch out and to resist
the temptation to think that knowledge is some kind of universal system that we're all just adding
pieces to and that we all are building the same structure. No, knowledge is like, knowledge is
this complex system with lots of different hubs and nodes and levels, et cetera, and registers.
And some of those don't talk to each other, right? They're so stretched out and far apart
and others of them are really resonating or fighting in some way. But there are links and
threads that you can trace between them. And I think it would be maybe curiosity as edge work
that would help us kind of break down the current polarizations in the network of knowledge
structures and allow us to hear and work with one another better. Excellent. Yes. Thank you for,
you sort of switched the camera angle there because I think I was thinking of curiosity itself as the
patterns and the habits, but actually, yeah, it's much wider, right? It's almost developmental how
we come at knowledge and build patterns and what we think of as knowledge. And it is in many
different dimensions and we may all be curious in similar ways. That might even make us think
that we have had similar experiences or share similar experiences now. And actually, that's
not the case really. So there's something else where we have to really step back even further
and see the larger landscape in a different way. And maybe that gets us to this idea of walking
that you talk about, there's different kinds of walks. I wonder if that relates to, if you've
thought about that in terms of development and how what one encounters in one's life leads one to
walk in a certain way, for example, at certain times to walk these kinds of landscapes, be they
mental or physical experiences.
Yeah. Yes. I'm obsessed with walking. So if I could write another book on walking, I would.
So I do think about this a lot about how we develop our walks when I'm actually talking
about physical walks. So I do think that each of us develops how it is that we physically walk in a
world, not just where we walk and when we walk and how long we walk, et cetera, et cetera,
but also just how the walk sits in our body.
The poison gate. I think you used to talk about that.
Yeah, exactly. And that's important for all kinds of reasons, because I think there are ways of
signaling belonging through our walks or signaling otherness or farness or difference in our walks
that can create community and or create rifts or acts of violence. So I do work in LGBT studies,
and this is one topic that comes up fairly regularly there. But then how we walk in
conceptual spaces is also very socially inherited in a lot of different ways. So the path that I
will take to answer a question that you asked me today will have a lot to do with how I've been
trained and what kind of patterns of thinking I've been most familiar with. So yeah, we're
walking all the time when we're talking to each other as much as when we're striding across a
field. I think as you know and are aware and care about, this has to have multiple
disciplines involved in thinking it through. Yeah, absolutely. I always think of walking
literally as cognitive and in this way of how we learn how to do it and also how we hold ourselves
and how we assume that others think it is or is not proper and so on and so on. There's so much
there, but I guess what I'm trying to get at is so we're talking about physical space, physical
walking, and how this is also a way to understand how we walk through languages and ideas and our
kind of collection of knowledge, what we think we know. And we're also talking about how those
can be very, very different from those around us. So I guess I'm wondering in your work how
you've noticed that people recognize that there are other ways of walking and other ways of thinking
and if you've noticed any patterns or habits that are helpful for just becoming more aware
that there are many different ways to walk in the spaces that we share.
This makes me think of the word method, which refers to being on top of something. And I think
that oftentimes with methods in various fields of inquiry, this is how you do it. There's just one
way to do it. And so we don't really think about it as kinds of walks, but rather this is how you
get from here to there. You ask the question, you answer it this way. So it doesn't even feel like
a walk, but in fact it is. It's important consistently I think for us to return to the
fact that methods are always under up for debate and under critique. And there's constant push and
tug to try to say, well, the method or the path should move. We should be asking questions in this
way or we should be asking questions in that way or pursuing our knowledge this way or that way.
How we ask our questions and where we gather our information and how we organize that information
and then how we share and disperse it. There's many ways and each way has something
not only disciplinarily at stake, but also certainly socially at stake. And so I think
one of the things I think about from your question is not just a kind of everyday way in which people
may not appreciate how many different walks there are in our everyday lives, but also academically
I think that disciplines continue to be really cut out by the multiplicity of walks there actually
are. And there's a constant trying to like, come on, come on, come on. Let's rein these in and let's
do it the right way and let's do it in a way that's traditionally sort of more traditionally
expected or more recently established, whatever the thing is. And I think it limits how we get
to ask our questions and then what we get to see when we're taking those walks.
Exactly. And you bring up a lot of great examples of people who wanted to take walks that
were interdisciplinary in this way or just seemed like kind of crazy by asking certain questions of
the research that they wanted to do or whatever that other people thought
you can't possibly do that or you have to rein yourself in and choose one subject or
there's many examples you give in the book. But those ways do, if one persists, I mean this pioneer
idea or persistence, those ways of walking do can become their own paths and sets for other people
to follow and to come on. I mean, not that you can have exactly the answer to this, but why
so many of us do feel kind of threatened by new forms of walking and new paths when at the same
time we also seem to hold those up too at some point as knowing that they're the change makers,
the things that have changed the world in a positive way. I imagine you've had to deal
with this tension a lot and with trying to sort of figure out where is the point where one can
just be aware and attentive and kind of open the space to new paths without being reactionary.
Or if the reactionary part is necessary, I don't know any thoughts on that.
That's a tough one. I often tell this story of the first time I floated the idea of writing a
dissertation on curiosity and one of my advisors saying, no one's written a book on curiosity,
so you can't. That still sticks with me that there is no book on curiosity yet in philosophy,
so therefore you can't write one because there isn't one yet, because there's nothing to do.
The opposite should be true.
And it seems the opposite should be true, like great, there isn't one yet, go do it.
In microcosm, this is related to what you're talking about here. I wonder,
and this is not my field, a more psychotherapeutic social psychotherapy question,
but maybe it could also be a neuroscience question.
We need to save energy, intellectual energy, where we can. There's just too much to process
and too much to work through to actually take every single question and every new pathway
just as seriously as we would never move. And so I think that in some way that instinct to kind of
share down all the possibilities into some manageable frame of a few is one of the reasons
that people do restrict, I think, new disciplinary paths. That's going to be too energy intensive
and who knows if it's going to pay off and it's just distracting from the thing we know works,
so let's just keep doing this. I do think there's some probably basic neural basis for this
for this instinct, and yet it's obviously a perennial challenge. I mean, if we think about
the history of philosophy, if we think about the history of science, it's just people have to
constantly say, no, I really think this is the new question, this is the new path, and
we're going to do it. And sometimes it gets taken up and completely changes the field,
and sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes it petters out, and that's the end, and that person's not
super remembered. And that's just a part of the story of fields and social life.
Though all those paths are usually parts of bigger paths, even when they're sort of
dead ends, I think they open new ways, perhaps even in subjects or questions or fields they didn't
mean to. I love that. I would love to hear more about dead ends. Just thinking of walking paths
of thought and dead ends. Yeah, because I was talking to someone about motoring, how we're
changing to electric, and the scholar said, yeah, well, some people will spend their whole lives
trying something new and it's a dead end. And I mean, maybe it's the idealistic part of me that
thinks, no, there's no dead end. But just in terms of even complexity or science or something, you
can't really explore without opening new paths for other people. It's just that it might not be
what you had in mind for yourself that you wanted to achieve or something. So I've been thinking
about that in terms of branching and depending on where you move the measuring point, the vantage
point, how those kind of paths realign. It's interesting. Yeah, it's fascinating. I love it.
It reminds me of your idea of this being connective rather than
acquisitional, which I think is just a wonderful way to think about curiosity, too. Because there's
something about the idea of a dead end even or not getting what you want. It also feels binary to
me and stuck in one either or mindset. We have to get all the information and we have to somehow
do what we said we were going to do. I don't know. There's something about it that feels very,
the power of it is different. It's turned in a different direction than I think this kind of
curiosity that you explain in the book or demonstrate this practice, which is more about
getting out of that space in a way and, I don't know, opening it. Does that make any sense?
Yeah, so a connectional theory of curiosity would not really allow for moments of failure or
dead ends, but would always grant that new connections have been laid. And whether those
connections are useful now or useful 300 years from now or never useful isn't really the point.
It's more of the making of the connections and being part of this process of growth, really.
Exactly. And also for me, it calls into question this notion of I and the way we define ourselves
and in that larger space and being able to dance and maybe understand that self is not what you
thought it was that opens up if you can sit with that a little bit. Yeah, I love that. It's so funny.
I do write about dancing in the mind, but I'm not a dancer in my body. But I do think there's
something really wonderful about thinking about the dance of ideas and being a part of it.
Or even just, I guess I meant this movement too where you're not necessarily linear,
but still there's a flow or a rhythm, something like this, which in that case,
you're definitely a dancer in the writing. I wonder how you think about how this is connected
to other form, like how we, it might be too big of a question, but I don't think so. But
with your other work, to bring it in a little bit, how this notion of curiosity helps us think about
other political issues, social issues, but also ecological issues, other forms of life and our
connection to them and their curiosity, be they other humans or plants or animals in a way. Is
there a way to think about curiosity as not just human, I guess is what I mean, or not just
one human individual? Yeah. I love this question because yeah,
my critique in general of the traditional theory of curiosity has been that it's
acquisitional in nature and that it's individual really instead of social. But there should be a
third level of that critique, that it's anthropocentric curiosity. It presumes that
curiosity is a human capacity and a merely human capacity or an only human capacity.
This is repeatedly stated and most people who study curiosity would claim that still today,
thousands of years ago and today, that curiosity is a distinctly human marker or characteristic.
But and I honestly think that divide has been incredibly,
has been really heavily involved in the human animal, human world relationships that have
developed such that we use how many thousands, millions of animals for our research without
thinking about their lives and their communities and their ecologies.
And their trajectories and ways of walking.
And their ways of walking, yeah. And then also our use of the Earth's natural resources,
our curiosity to do whatever it is that we want to do with the stuff that is around us instead of
thinking about its role, the resources, the Earth's resources role in many other
again, livelihoods of multiple beings and futures.
So if we had thought from the beginning of curiosity as a more than human capacity,
a capacity that we share with other animals like ourselves and unlike ourselves, as well as plants
and perhaps even solar systems, right? I mean,
universes, one could think of the creativity of a universe as being curious in some way,
as expanding and creating and then coming back in. That might be a model for curiosity itself.
So I don't know, if we thought about it in this much, much greater perspective,
would we have behaved differently? Would we be in a different place with respect to the other beings
we share this space with? Yes, I think absolutely. So I'm very interested. In the book we talk about,
we have a bestiary of curiosity in which we are looking at other creatures as models of
curiosity. But I think there's so much more to be here to think curiosity at a more ecological level.
I think it's wonderful in the book how connected you are. The work is to other forms of life.
It's very, very connected to plants and animals and so on. It's a part of
every chapter in some way. And it almost made me think in a way that we could be the curiosity of
those creatures if you think of it in terms of evolution and all these many, many different
forms of life trying many different paths and so on. Our curiosity about the plant and the animal
is in a way its own curiosity. I love that such that our curiosity, I like that because then
human curiosity is not the origin of curiosity, but you're suggesting actually human curiosity is
the result of. What is it? Other animal? It's participating in, I think there's a kind of
movement, right? If you really think of it as a practice and a movement in the way that you lay
out in the book and even all the different little animals and what we've learned from them and the
way you lay it out in the bestiary. There's something already, there's a thread there that
was never disconnected. I don't know how to articulate it perfectly yet, but there's a way
in which if we could get our stuff together as humans, our curiosity could be a beneficial
curiosity for those other creatures too. Yeah, I love that. That's really great.
Yeah. Well, your book made me think of it. I really love that at the end of the book, you
talk about the future through this idea of cracks. It's like broken and crack and destruction future,
but it's also very hopeful and optimistic and also just neutral in a way. This is wonderful,
this idea of cracks, and I just want to think about it a little bit. I also want to bring up
the name of someone who I've never been able to say very well. Maybe you can help me. Gloria.
Anzaldua.
Say it again. Could you help me?
Anzaldua.
Anzaldua. Okay. This idea that cracks are where the light gets in. I love that you
think about the future in that way and the way you present it in the book and it opens up.
You just feel the book branching and letting you fly. How did that come into being? Just tell me
what you think about Gloria too, if you can. There were moments of the book that were more
absolutely delightful discoveries or experiments than others. One was the notion of walking and
bringing the philosophy of walking together with the network science of walking. That was
one of the highlights of writing this book with Dani, and then another was cracks when we stumbled
upon cracks. It came about because we'd written the whole book as curiosity, as this capacity
to build connections. That building connections was the primary thing, but the more we were talking
about it, obviously experiencing it and noticing our own curiosities, we realized, and even in
network science, there's a degeneration of edges. It's not just the edges get built, but they also
degenerate and they become lost or become broken and then new ones form. We wanted to capture that
deconstruction as much as the construction that is emphasized throughout the whole book. What is it
when things break or when things break? It was just too fun because we can talk about cracks
in a network sense. We can talk about it in a geographical or geological sense.
Yeah, archaeological. It's all there. Cracking eggs, insect wings. It's amazing.
Yeah, and then obviously the psychology of cracks. As you're pointing out, the sociology,
right? When the cracks in our perceptual worlds and our social worlds happen and how does that
open something for our futures or for hope? I am really interested, consistent. I keep trying to
write things about curiosity and hope because I do think there's a connection. Maybe I've thought
about that more than curiosity and risk, although hope and risk are connected there.
Mm-hmm. But yeah, we wanted to think about the destructiveness
of curiosity and the breaking of edges, not just to build.
And also even further than that, how the destruction itself is created. I think you
show that in that chapter where again, to get away from this binary either into this complexity,
where yes, we need these words in terms to discuss things, but these are just our tools.
And so we need to talk about destruction as being creative and creative as being destructive.
You sort of open that up in a way that you can't quite articulate, but that's why that chapter
also gets a little poetic and you're able to express it. Yeah, it's definitely the most
experimental of the chapters as far as how we structured it and wrote. I don't know. It's got
weird interludes about dictionaries and it's super cool. Yeah, it really works. I mean, it did for me
at least. I'm so glad. We had one reviewer say scratch that. That doesn't make any sense.
It just needs time. It's one of those things people, yeah, more and more people will understand,
I think. Once you think about these issues a little bit and you come back to that,
then it makes a lot more sense. Good. Before we go, because I know you have to go soon,
I do want to come back to the beginning in a TS Eliot kind of way of the book. And this thing
that you actually say of TS Eliot, I don't know if you wrote it or Danny wrote it, but it's that
borrowing poet TS Eliot's words of love to frame our pursuit of curiosity, we lift and drop
each question on your plate. We take the time for a hundred and decisions and for a hundred visions
and revisions. We take the time to wonder, do I dare? And as we do, we find one simple answer.
Curiosity does dare. It dares disturb the universe. I love that. I think it also kind of cracks
something open. But why did you say words of love from TS Eliot? Hard question, I know,
but it struck me as quite a phrase. Yeah, I think we wanted to acknowledge that the
poem itself is about a love relationship and that we're, in a sense, we're taking out of context.
But now that I'm speaking with you on this podcast, maybe it's not. Maybe love and curiosity are not
too different in context. Maybe if we open to this ecological view, it's a little different.
Yeah, maybe. Yeah. So that's what, I guess we were trying to flag that we were, we were
borrowing from a different space, from a different nest. This piece of daring to disturb the universe,
but again, from a different vantage point, perhaps it's actually the same space.
It did make me think about this cracking open that we, if we come back to the individual
level and think about love or experiences, a lot of us do know what that feeling is like.
And I think maybe that's also an entryway into understanding some of these themes of curiosity,
that sort of cracking open too, where then you have to kind of look at
different paths and different ways forward. And it's a disturbance that can be
creative, even though it's, of course, also destructive.
That is so helpful. I mean, yeah, now I'm going to go reprocess all my breakups and my family
through the lens of cracks. And I think that, I honestly think that's a great way forward.
Yeah, it helped me. So I thank you. And last thing, the artwork is super cool in the book
and I want everyone to go look at it. Could you just tell me about the artist just for a second?
We have a piece, a full page piece in front of every chapter. Those pieces are by Poonam
Mystery, who's in the UK. And she does primarily children's books, honestly,
and her work is really centered on patterns and nature. And because of the role of patterns and
nature in the book, we thought this person would be perfect. And thank God she said yes. We ended
up sending her something like a 300 page dossier, where we just collected Google images of all the
things we were thinking about throughout the book. And we said, this page, this, this page, this,
so she could just kind of flip through it and see the images that were in our mind when we were
writing. And she used that as inspiration to develop the pieces for the chapters,
which we absolutely adore. And just since you said they're mostly for children and then your
dedication is to all the children who question whether it needs to be this way. This is really
great too. And I just, I wonder if like where that came from, or if that was just, I don't know,
maybe where did that dedication come from? Last question. Yeah. We, we, I don't know,
we felt that we were these children who asked if it had to be this way. There were a lot of,
there were a lot of mundane, but also painful ways in which we were expected to live and to think.
And we found that our curiosity couldn't be contained by that. And in a real way, I think
our parents were also rebels in a sense. And I think they modeled for us that capacity,
even though they didn't want us to be the rebels in the way that they were. But I think we are.
And we just thought, you know what, there's, it's important as all of us adults are talking about
whatever we're talking about to remember children and to remember the ways in which their curiosity
is kind of lifted up as the model. You know, they're the ones who are the most curious and
that's where curiosity is the most alive. And yet the position of a child is one that's not very
empowered. They often don't get to pursue the things they're very interested in. And they
often don't get taken seriously in their questions or in their perspectives or in their interests.
And I just think, you know, paying attention to that difference and to that location of childhood
and their ability to see through stuff that we've become really acculturated to,
habitual about is so important. So we wanted to highlight that in the dedication.
Well, I'm glad you did. It really resonates also with all these trajectories that we're born into
and that we have, that we follow until we recognize maybe we can make our own. And I think that speaks
a lot to this cracking because that definitely happens when you're a child too, right? And also
the creation and destruction of it. So it's a beautiful way to begin the book. And thank you
for writing the book. And thank you for the work you do. And I wish you all the best with it.
Yeah, thank you for reading it. Thanks for chatting with me. This has been absolutely delightful.
It has been. So thank you so much, Barry. Have a great day there.
Yeah, you too.
Okay.
