Hello, everybody. Welcome.
I like to think or see more clearly.
Think about and see more clearly the features of our
mind and cognition, particularly,
especially e-linguistic and conceptual thought.
But it turns out that if one pays much attention,
there's a gigantic zoo of faculties.
Vigilance faculties, threatened opportunity sentinels,
social and public and private face aspects,
and vigilance over these, oversight.
They're like sub-faculties and overseeing faculties,
if one chooses this perspective and plays this kind of a game.
I say the game is useful, but one mustn't become obsessive
and understand that really what we're calling faculties are
perhaps more probably synergistic transformations in consciousness.
I've been thinking a lot about vigilance lately,
and the recording in which I introduced it is not particularly good, in my view.
But what I was thinking about a moment ago
was a question that plagues us from childhood,
and there's weird sort of pseudo-answers,
and there's all kinds of blather among the humans about it.
But the question is, why do dire things happen?
And whenever something untoward occurs to me, or for me, as me,
there is an aspect of my mind that is concerned about this,
and wonders, is this my fault, is it someone else's fault,
is it something else's fault, is it all three and more,
how did this happen, what caused this, all of these things.
But that's what I'm wondering about a very specific situation in my mind, in my imaginal mind.
But I think the question that we come to birth with, or that we see develop is weirder than
it's not just about specifics, it's something that resembles why is there injustice.
Why do terrible things happen all the time?
Now, it's a naive question, it's an innocent question.
We can turn it into an intellectual charade, or whatever we like, depending on how we relate with a question,
and why we're relating with it.
But for the moment, I just want to entertain the question,
why do absolutely terrible things take place?
And in some kind of seeming enlightenment perspectives, we might find a participant in the conversation
who says something like, oh, don't worry, it's just appearances.
Well, not for those people involved in it, it's not just appearances.
And one could say, oh, yes, even those people are just appearances, and so on and so on.
But this is a rather tedious way of speaking, it's disingenuous, it doesn't respect the question enough to address it.
So I have something like faculties that watch over, they oversee my inner narratives about why something bad,
or seemingly terrible, or quite agonizing, or whatever happens to me.
Why, what did I do?
Did I do something? Did I not do something?
And on and on and on, vigilance of this particular flavor.
And it strikes me that, okay, what I actually want to talk about briefly is something we refer to as superstitions.
And we must understand when we use this word, it's not, like most such words, dream, food.
There are endless kinds of food, and there are dishes that are so astonishing that it's ecstatic to eat them,
and there are dishes that are so horrible that you don't want to eat ever again.
And everything in between.
So there's a vast forest of food, and in the same way there's a vast forest of things we might, someone might call superstitious or superstition.
And some of these things are actually quite profound and unusual, and not to be lightly dismissed.
And others of these things probably shouldn't be dismissed either, but we might look into them and see, hmm, how did something like this get formed?
Why is it that there are these pat theories about constellations of linkages and relationships that are understood to proceed or even cause misfortune?
So I find this humorous because being human, I am not above such things myself.
I may sound articulate or something about this, but I have these old senses, and if they're not given some kind of intelligent training,
they will tend to degrade into compelling delusions mostly.
And perhaps most of us are like me in this sense, or many.
So I have experiences where if a misfortune occurs, I will look into the matter privately within myself.
I may discuss it here and there too, but my main point is that I have these faculties, and these faculties have receptors, so to speak, for causal linkage narratives.
And they have a deep psychological purchase where they are present in the psyche or the mind or the consciousness of someone.
And so what we have in the modern world is the remnants of things that probably used to be senses and could still become senses if trained, especially in a nurturing environment or group.
But like the difference between somebody who collects jokes from a book and somebody who writes jokes and can't help themselves, you can see that once we have the representation, which are what we usually mean when we use the word superstitions, or at least what I mostly mean here.
But I want to say again, these are the results of inhibited senses.
So because of a certain impoverishment that we may suffer, of intelligently applying our intuitive senses and even our narratological linkage games.
So you know, a skillful detective, we could take famous detectives as examples, but these are men who use their vigilance faculties to form uncommonly clear causal linkage narratives about actual events that take place, many of which are tragic, at least in the stories.
They are terrible things.
And the terrible things seems to invent the detectives. All the terrible things, almost the detectives arise because there are such terrible things.
And in a sense, we're all detectives of this sort. We want to know why is there injustice, why do terrible things happen?
Unfortunately, are caught the way we're taught to form causal narratives and the way that we might begin to misinform them in certain delusional states, mostly dominates the field with some degree of objective skill in that field as well.
And people who can sort of pragmatically, objectively take things apart and determine, hmm, was there a metaphysical element here? Though most of those people don't have metaphysics, so it's not really a question.
But this is actually the fundamental question. Is there a metaphysical underpinning to, you know, for us when bad things happen?
Or is it simply, as if that would even be simple, the sort of mechanics of the situation and those involved?
That seems an impossible, totally impossible thing. And yet, it can be useful to entertain that as a perspective.
Because the metaphysics are really tricky. And our psyche tends to warp in that direction sort of naturally. And that's a problem, mostly.
There are cases where it can be coherently maintained. But, yeah, that's a problem.
Now, of course, I'd like to suggest some of my ideas about why terrible things happen. But terrible things is such a general target that it doesn't seem useful.
Now, of course, the basics are like, oh, there's evil. If people believe in evil as a metaphysical force or even as a human force, then that's probably the cause of most bad things.
And thus we get superstition. Because once there's evil, or even once there's something bad, something with negative charge, negative in the sense of undesirable, then we're already in a mess.
Because now we have to divide the entire universe into things with this feature and things without that feature.
And this particular chisel, the chisel of is there evil, is the one that has divided the human psyche for billions of human lifetimes and continues to function very adeptly in that regard today.
Now, of course, I'm not saying that we should never use this word or that I don't believe in it. I'm simply saying that if one introduces this root element in a core position of identity,
in the cognitive lexicon of a human being, not merely the verbal one, the one where meaning lives, if you insert this concept in there, there are a wide variety of necessary repercussions, many of which are extremely dire, and are themselves terrible things happening.
It's a very tricky thing because it inflects, it has no scope. Once you insert it at sort of the core level of what things are doing or about, then all things take this on to some degree.
So it's very dangerous. I'm aware of indigenous cultures that don't have the concept. They never formed that concept. And they might have done that intentionally. They might have been intelligent enough about making concepts that they'd refuse to make that one or sustain it.
Yes, I am curious. Why do terrible things happen? And there's certainly an aspect of me that has a kind of naive, perhaps almost schizotypal tendency to link events or situations in a chain
that produces what I might call a bracelet.
Now, thankfully, this aspect of my mind is well overseen.
So I have good buffers around that rather dangerous little faculty. But it's also a useful faculty, and it's the faculty that unencumbered might see brilliantly, might be prodigiously intelligent, but not necessarily in the same implementation in what it does.
It wouldn't do the same thing. It would rarely analyze a terrible thing. And if it did, it would be to find an opportunity to deeply understand or overcome or transcend it or honor it.
So unencumbered, many of our vigilance faculties have astonishing abilities, but for most of us, they're badly encumbered.
And superstitions are the remnants of something, the remnants of an array of senses that when actually veritably active would be properly understood as super sensing.
But under stress and in cultures where the narratives are so crude, limiting, and dominating,
most of us, the wild land in our minds gets killed back to a park in a city, so to speak.
We can recover that terrain, but it's a delicate job and we need sobriety, discipline, and a good companion or two to reflect off of, I think, most of us.
If we want to go after that.
And by sobriety, I mean essentially something like psychological discipline, something resembling that.
Maybe even psychic discipline, not meaning spooky, paranormal things, but meaning awareness of the delicacy and malleability of the mind underneath our mind.
The place from which meaning and identity emerge to our awareness, which seems an imaginal place and yet it's the closest thing ever.
There's nothing closer to me than that. My hand isn't as close as that thing.
So over time, as the senses were lost, we acquired meme-like superstitions. A bird that gets in your house has to be killed or misfortune will rise.
In fact, whatever is going on is not formulaic in the sense that you could build a lexicon of the portents or omens.
And yet humans have certainly found this fascinating and very compelling.
I think there are a few places in times in history where books of omens, even scrolls and clay writing and so on.
People are very, very compelled by this idea, but it's a representation of its origin.
The origin thing is interesting. The representations are interesting if you want to trace them back to their origins.
But certainly it's not true that if a bird flies in your house, if you don't kill it, misfortune will soon fall.
Not saying it'll never happen, but that's not a true thing.
And even when I say that, there's a little tiny part of me that recoils and says, yes it is because you can say it.
Because it has been said it is true. And this is the other problem with weird old books and especially books of omens and things or dream dictionaries or whatever.
As long as you could say it, it was true. To write it was to make it true back then, in some ways. And it still is today, in some ways.
So this is all very interesting. Of course I'm speaking about the development of human consciousness and cognition over millennia.
We all have these faculties, right? Now, if you think yourself for a moment about something dire that happened to you when you tried to figure out for yourself in some way, why did this happen?
And you may have entertained lots of different questions and had all kinds of feelings and I respect all of that.
But I just want you to notice that there's an array of faculties that are engaged in that or to see your mind as if this is so.
And these faculties, their essence is very profound. But when they are instructed by our cultures and our language, they go wildly sideways most of the time.
Or they create feedback loops that end in delusion or paranoia or both. And I'm not saying all delusion is equal. Some delusions are brilliant, probably.
And some, you know, occasionally, someone who's paranoid, there's usually some seed of value within the paranoia that's being ignored or displaced into it.
But yeah, occasionally, someone gets really scared about something that other people should actually be pretty scared about or do something about.
So I want to honor this question. Why do bad things happen?
And yes, we can kind of the precursor question, is it true that there are actually bad things? But I'm going to, at this level, on this layer, we're going to take it as true that bad things happen, terrible things happen, agonizing things happen.
And they are done. Sometimes they don't merely happen. Sometimes they are executed by humans. They are done by humans. Humans do bad things. Humans do terrible things.
Why do terrible things happen? Why are they done?
And I want to honor the faculties that explore this and try to lift them out of the mire of their common superstition and religion and so on, into a place where they could actually develop again, together with other people.
That would be nice. That'd be a good thing.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again sometime soon.
Bye-bye for now.
