So, here we are for part four of the conversation with Luca Rade, if I got that right, I'm trying
to try to get it.
What give us a taste of your vision, your dream for the humans?
Where can we go?
I like that question.
I'm going to take it slowly.
Well, first I'll say something about the structure of the question, actually, which is the danger
of abstracting to all of humanity.
We're both sensitive about generalizations.
Yeah, well, and I think in particular, this one is really dangerous because it's a way,
when you have a vision, which a lot of people have visions for humans, when that gets abstracted
to humanity as a whole, that's actually a way for the vision to be converted into a
risk.
We agree.
Yeah.
Right?
And then even though the original vision is really genuine, it then gets up, basically,
and then it just becomes another one of the sides in the war of utopias.
The war of utopias, the key in the war of utopias is that they're all not going to happen because
they're utopias somehow, I don't know if that makes sense, but the war itself, it's kind
of like 1984 style, like the war between the utopias as itself is the reality of what's
happening, not that any of those utopias are like being fought for.
And the structure of those utopias is such that they're not realized, they evolve to
become not realizable once they enter the sphere of utopias.
Understood.
In other words, with a vision, it's really important, I think, because of this danger
to really constantly remind oneself, and I try to do this myself, that this is something
for real physical, actual humans that I'm interacting with, and you know, just on the
around, and taking the time to feel that it is these human beings that I'm feeling
love for and have a vision for, not this like big abstract concept of humanity where there's
all these battles going on between all these utopias, I don't want to insert another utopia
there, I want to be on the ground here with other humans, and build up to something that
does affect many humans, you know, maybe even all humans in the long term, but it's like
inverting the structure to start with the humans around, and that really just, it's
really hard to do that actually, because there's so many forces just constantly whispering
to like make it a utopia, you know, make it an abstraction, you have to have a constant
vigilance to avoid that happening.
I agree with you about that, that's beautifully said.
So now some, okay, granted, yes, granted all those caveats, something of a vision.
Yeah.
The universe that as humans, our universe as a human being is our experience, not the
external worlds that we're pushing it out into.
Another way of saying that is the external world is part of it.
But what we're perceiving in our bodies, right, that our experience of our bodies, and of our
minds, like the vastness of our minds is our universe, and actually is as large as the
universe, like when we conceive of the universe, like in a, in a more disembodied state, let's
say, it's vast, right, it's huge.
I mean, there's so much going on in it.
And what I found is that the more I attuned to my own existence of my body and my mind and how
I'm moving through the world and the things I'm interacting with, including the abstractions
of humanity, like, but the key is that it's how I'm interacting with that.
All of that is as huge, if not huger than the external universe, as I used to perceive it.
And that's the, the richness of that is like, amazing.
And, and the, it's infinite.
Yeah, the, the, the fullness of it, it's, but it's not even the way I'm phrasing it.
It sounds like it's a thing to achieve or something.
But it's actually, like you were saying, the excitement is not always activation.
It's actually an unlearning of a lot of stuff.
And I have a friend who's a mushroom guide, like he guides me on mushroom trips.
And he, he's, he's taking some shaman course, like how to be a shaman.
And he said something which really stuck with me, that the key thing they're learning is
how to, is unlearning basically, like how do you remove the layers of interpretation so
that you can listen to the, to your brain, when we were fish, you know, when you, when
fish navigate water, there's ebbs and float, like tides and, you know, like it's complicated.
There's corals, other fish.
And there's a very seamless intuition that they have as they navigate.
So obviously we're not literally using the same thing, but there's a, there's a very
evolutionarily refined navigational intuition that we have that can navigate,
especially in humans, like super complex environments, like very smoothly.
And, and so he's saying that being a shaman, a lot of that in the course he's
learning at least is about, yeah, unlearning your interpretive layers, that it's
just that, that initial navigational intuition can help you navigate whatever the
hell is happening in, in a situation, in any situation.
Yeah, and that struck with me because I think a lot of, like my vision for, for
humans is, is unlearning our repression of our own experience, which, which we
replace with externalizing, like what's valuable as external and what's real as
external to be once more attuned to the, and actually maybe this is with the
remembering of unity.
Maybe this is actually the same thing.
And we just have different words for it.
Yeah.
Remembering the, the, our remembering the universe that is our experience and, and
inhabiting it.
It's not, it's not building it or, or discovering it.
It's just inhabiting it because it's already there and happening.
It's just unlearning the disembodiment, the repression of, of being in that.
And the last little thing to add on that is also the, the, the love that's in that.
We were just full of love as, as human organisms, which were, we repress for, I
mean, good reasons in the context of society.
It's very painful to, to be loving all the time in society as it's, but by inhabiting
this, the fullness of our experience with our, in ourselves and especially with other
people also inhabiting that we can, we can also start allowing this love to, to
exist in ourselves and flow outwards and, and yeah, create the, create the, or enable
the field of love to, to resonate, which is a very pure joy.
That is a beautiful vision, the one I deeply agree with.
Luca, thank you.
I'm so grateful to have this chance and we will have more than this one.
I'm sure.
For sure.
Yeah.
Thank you, Darren.
This has been an absolutely made in conversation.
I'm very grateful for the, for the opportunity and for the, well, for you, for
all the effort you've put into becoming who you are and sustaining that, you
know, in this modern society.
And I appreciate that.
I'm going to end the recording here, but stay with me for a moment.
Thank you for joining us more again sometime soon.
