Hey everybody.
Life's been a bit more challenging lately for all of us to put it mildly.
And you know, things have changed very dramatically in our culture since the last time I made
a video, and they're still changing.
They're not going to stop changing anytime soon, not in any way that I can understand.
However, the domains in which change will occur and the reasons for which that change
will occur are important to us as human beings.
Probably because we are at least here in white middle class America, we're used to having
things being predictable.
Now when I use a phrase like white middle class America, it's a phrase we can all understand
something about what population segment I imagine that to point to.
And I don't presume that my listeners are all part of that.
That segment.
In fact, I hope they're not.
I use that segment because it's the one that many people would use to point to me, which
in some ways would work and in some ways would be catastrophically wrong.
So one of the things we use language to do is to, how should I put this, to walk down
a ladder of identity from the everything to something.
And then we point at that something, and that something is generally, you know, a person
place thing, process, quality, so on.
So breathing is a process.
A person is a being, but we understand in English beings as things, objects, which is
part of the problem that we have with our relationships with language and knowledge.
And what I mean by that is the habitual relationships we have with language and knowledge often begin
by misframing.
That which language points toward.
And some of those misframings are catastrophically, they're just terribly malformed.
And the language doesn't tell us what something is.
We often treat it as though it does.
And in our consciousness, over time, as we emerge from childhood, from the sort of dreaming
of childhood in the direction of maturity, language becomes more prevalent in its capacity
to predetermine identities, relationships, qualities, opportunities, threats, and so
on.
And most of that is unfortunate, even though it's very useful in some ways.
The reason most of it is unfortunate is, as I said previously, our relationships and
habits with language are inclined to deform what we experience of reality.
And this is part of why, as we mature, moving from childhood into adulthood, this is part
of why, for many of us, particularly those of us who are not artists or creative in some
way, our imaginations begin to die.
And so instead of imagining things, we pay others to imagine things for us.
Instead of singing, we're making music, we pay others to sing and make music for us.
Instead of dreaming and entering into adventurous relationships where we have playful, creative,
sometimes heroic roles, we get jobs.
And people play what would otherwise be our adventurous lives back to us on screens in
search of great sums of money, advertising, and audiences, and so on.
And I think that's tragic, and it's something that I want to transform, that's something
I want to change.
The topic of my talk today is one that I've orbited in a number of recent videos, but
is still deeply on my mind every day.
It's the topic of the relationship between ambiguity or, more actively, reambiguation
and knowledge, opinion, belief.
These are the products of disambiguation.
The other night I was talking with a family member who declared that white people had
become a minority in the United States.
And I thought, how could that be possible?
So during the conversation I looked up census numbers, and according to the last census,
white or Caucasian people comprise 76.3, if I remember the number correctly, percent
of the population of America.
And the adult who I was speaking with refused to believe that, and was completely committed
to the pre-existing belief that somehow our nation had been invaded by immigrants and
people from other countries to the degree that we now represented a minority.
Remember to imagine how a person could come to that perspective, accept that.
The political climate and the news and propaganda climate have a vested interest, meaning they
make money, when they produce fear or outrage in certain populations or if they can misdirect
responsibility for problems in our society that, though they have various origins, are
largely the result of our standing failure to have assembled anything resembling a mutually
forged, nobly impurposed, intelligent society to which we all can belong with a sense of
pride and humanity and peaceful cooperation.
Since we've failed to forge something like that, and instead we're sort of conscripts
or subscribers or slaves to something else, something that masquerades as a society we
assembled when we didn't assemble it, we are subject to it.
Now as I'm speaking, I'm using language to disambiguate some extremely ambiguous situations.
For example, the nature and origins of what we call our society, but it isn't our society,
it never was.
We didn't forge it, and that's why it isn't.
And that's why it's incapable of protecting us or establishing intelligent relationships
that are mutually beneficial between our citizens, all of our citizens, all people.
And you know, this is sort of the advertisement of America, right, that all of the people
who live here, being, you know, all of us being immigrants since there isn't any other
way to be an American, and all of those Americans being at least in some way complicit in the
ongoing colonization of these lands that were previously and traditionally the home of indigenous
people who themselves at some point, probably in relatively ancient history, thousands,
tens of thousands, or fifty thousand years ago, came to this continent.
We may presume that at that time there probably weren't other people here that they displaced.
So this thing we call a nation has a very strange history, and it's not like the cartoons
that we paint of it.
And that's part of why it doesn't function to serve or protect or educate or heal or
encourage and reassure and ennoble and nurture our citizens, all of our citizens, which is
in fact the essential mandate of an intelligently forged society.
And ours doesn't do that.
It does all kinds of other shit, really dangerous shit, a lot of really bizarre, violent militaristic
shit, a lot of completely unnecessary and sort of, what's the right word here, inflationary
consumer, corporate shit, banking and luxury goods and bizarre competitions between companies
to capture the dollar or the attention of an audience.
And thus make a profit, that's a funny word, that.
So unfortunately we're in a situation where we're being disillusioned, I would say, we're
being disillusioned.
In other words, we're being slowly deprived of the illusion or the whole library of illusions
that we held about the nature of our nation and our society, its purposes, functions,
its priorities, its infrastructure, its origins, its leaders, the nature of power, the nature
of subjugation.
We're being disillusioned, meaning our illusions are being torn away and the fictions we have
so long been satisfied with have been thoroughly penetrated both by the epidemic, which is
still quite mysterious and bizarre regardless of what anyone likes to think about it.
We don't know much about, in fact, what do we know much about, right?
We have really tiny superficial, we're used to producing tags that we hook on to things
to pretend that we know what they are so that we can stop being afraid.
So I've been told that's a tree, it's a beautiful being.
But the tag has nothing to do with what that is, and the same is true of all of the tags
we use, of righteousness, of honor, of nobility, of intelligence, of heroism.
We have tags, we have tokens, and unfortunately for us, our kinds of intelligence are prone,
they are inclined, they are vulnerable to replacing relationships with tokens.
And those tokens are the result of disambiguation activity.
In order for me to decide what this thing is, here, right, I have to go through a series
of habitual disambiguations from the everything to something, to a machine, to a car.
But I can do that process in all kinds of different ways.
And the waking mind is inclined to prefer concrete derivatives, and that's what I mean by tokens.
So if I see a human being, for example, there's lots of different ways I can do the disambiguation,
right?
And this is part of what our country and our society is confused about and arguing about
right now.
I can see a human being, and I can see in that human being the divine origins of being
itself, if I believe there are such origins, if I believe that origins and beings are divine.
They don't have to be divine to remain sufficiently ambiguous, to relate intelligently with them.
They can simply be mysterious or unknown, right?
In other words, from beyond the known, from outside the library of tokens that we use.
Someone can look at me, and they can see something mysterious.
They can see an instance of the nature of time space.
They can see a soul.
They can see the expression of a vast history of ancestral progenitors.
They can see me as a collective of trillions of complex microorganisms that develop symbiotic
relationships over the history of life on Earth.
They can see me as an exponent of the history of life on Earth.
They can see me as a playmate.
They can see me as a possible teammate or a co-adventurer.
They can see me as a writer, an author, a philosopher, a teacher, a companion, a lover,
a friend.
They can see me as a man.
They can see me as a middle-aged man, or they can see me as a white middle-aged man.
The way we go through that process of disambiguation is the result of our purposes in doing so.
Now I want you to see how powerful it is when we are freed to see the continuum of identity
that is accessible to us.
So I gave you a brief example.
But if there is someone, anyone, who decides that, for example, the color of my skin is
the important, determinative quality in how they're going to relate with me, then part
of what is happening there is that rather than seeing me as any of those amazing things
I described, they're going to see me as a population segment that is either aligned
with their goals, purposes, and beliefs, or opposes it, or is neutral.
And this is part of the problem that we're having, is that instead of seeing human beings,
we're seeing colors for purposes.
Some people might argue that I should be de-platformed because due to my ethnicity, a characteristic
described to me, I belong to both the privileged and the empowered population segment here
in the United States.
And that's a reasonably comprehensible disambiguation.
I neither agree nor disagree.
I have no position on that at the moment.
It's not my purpose to disambiguate that way.
So for me, while I understand that someone else might have that purpose, and might say,
I have no right to speak at all on such matters, that's their process of disambiguation.
I don't have to subscribe, nor do I really have to have an opinion at all.
What I have is a perspective and some purposes, and one of my purposes is to reveal the processes
that underlie how people come to think of phenomena with which they're relating, like this stuff.
So this stuff is called nature, generally.
It's one of the ways we disambiguate it.
But what that word means to me is something so different from what it means to ordinary people
that I might as well be walking through the living body of a God, or the anciently conserved
relationships that are the embodiment of the intelligences in space-time.
I am in a world very few others who I know can't even detect.
And it's because my purpose and the way that I disambiguate is very differently forged
from many peoples.
But what I want to get at here is that the waking mind likes solid, tokenized deliverables.
It wants to know, is that a black man?
Is that a white woman?
Is that an Asian man?
An Asian woman?
Is that, you know, is that person, is their segment in power?
Is their segment in being subjugated?
They have desires, right, to make determinations for purposes.
And most of those purposes are not very good.
They're not humane.
They're not intelligent.
They are the purposes of creating and reinforcing factions.
And some of those factions have to be understood deeply and seen through the lens of their
origins and purposes to be understood.
Now I'm not going, it is not my intention today at all, to try to disambiguate the pile
of spaghetti nightmare that is the current situation in our country regarding racism.
I'm going to steer mostly clear of that bombshell.
And instead what I'm going to talk about is the mechanics that we use to arrive at tokens.
And the way that tokens stand really between us and relationships, or they stand in the
place where relationships would otherwise exist.
And if we look at the problems surrounding racism in our country, we can see very simply
that something like this has happened.
Factions have been produced.
Those tokens created factions.
The factions are, they are in a dichotomy, or they are arrayed against one another, for
and against one another.
And the police themselves are a faction unto themselves.
They are a specially, strangely privileged group.
More privileged even than, well, not as privileged perhaps as the elite, the extremely wealthy,
but more privileged than people who we might otherwise understand to be privileged.
Because they, well, in one sense it's always been this way.
It's a sort of old boys network, the cops.
And by old boys I don't mean there aren't women cops.
I just mean it resembles the networks developed by old, you know, old white males primarily.
And they're empowered for all kinds of different reasons.
They have a unique relationship with the law.
They have a unique relationship with violence.
They are capable of legally enacting lethal force, that is to kill.
They're capable of killing.
They're armed.
They're funded.
And they're expected to carry out the mandates of the instruments of power that they are
representative of.
And those mandates are quite complex.
They have a superficial social face, in other words an outward facing costume, a mask.
And then they have an inward facing identity, an array of expectations and roles and so
on.
I mean when I say those two things are very different.
Police talk to each other in ways they do not talk to the public.
Let's put it that way.
There's a private language and there's a public language.
And we're all somewhat like that.
We all have sort of a private face, the face of ourselves facing inward into ourselves
and a public face, the face of ourselves facing outward toward the public.
Many of us are very concerned about both of those faces, but particularly the one that
faces the public.
Because if that one should become tarnished or in some way injured or impoverished, we
will suffer.
And one of the problems that we have in the bizarre situation in which our society finds
itself at the moment, the bizarre yet absolutely familiar situation, is that...
The public face of certain population segments begins in a way that is unjustly impoverished.
And those people, no matter what the color of their skin, no matter what their gender,
no matter what their origins, no matter how they actually live in the world, can be instantaneously
judged, harmed, killed, tortured, impoverished, denied healthcare, denied rights, denied
education, treated as others, even though they are citizens, treated as enemies, even though
they are companions.
And no matter what population segment we belong to, we've probably experienced something
like this.
I have.
One day in my life, cops came to my house to female cops, white female cops, and literally
told me, without me having been accused of any crime or wrongdoing, that they were going
to take me out into a field and make me disappear, and that there was nothing that I or my family
or my lawyer or anybody could do about that.
That was their initial way of getting to know me.
Now I, being a Caucasian guy, can easily understand that I must have got off easy, because I've
seen and heard of lots of other instances where cops decided to disambiguate identity
in a way that led to the horrifying injury or murder or killing or rape or other terrible
outcome for some person who they encountered.
And let's be clear about something relatively simple.
An encounter with police is, in our time, an encounter with the possibility of death.
It doesn't mean you're going to die, but it does mean that your population segment will
be disambiguated in a way that the police find convenient and habitual, and that will
influence the outcome, whether you live or die or are permanently injured or psychologically
scarred for life and so on and so forth.
So you can see that one of the things the police are doing is they're disambiguating,
right?
That's their job.
Their job is to discover what is happening and who is doing it and what the cause is.
That's the process of disambiguation, and the primary result is the purpose of this disambiguation
is to determine if, well, again, there's a public purpose and a private purpose, right?
So this is much more complex than it might at first seem.
The stated public superficial purpose is, apparently, to preserve what we refer to as
law and order, which means the lawful behavior, orderly behavior, towards society, goods,
property, and each other.
The hidden purposes are so complex it would take hours to try to elucidate them.
I'm sure you're capable of imagining many of them.
And some of them just include things like sadistically torturing common people because
they can get away with it.
Now, I'm not claiming that all the cops do that, but the segment that the police represent
is empowered to do terrible things to common people and is largely protected from the results
of having done terrible things to common people.
And in case that isn't clear, the organization in my city, a very liberal city, San Francisco,
it is whose mandate it is to process and track complaints against the police, the Bureau
of Citizen Complaints or something like this.
In the year when I submitted a complaint after having been essentially kidnapped from my
house by two police officers who were essentially intent on torturing me simply because they
could get away with it, one of those police officers is still an officer.
Her name is Elaine Economist and she was the primary perpetrator.
In the year that I submitted my complaint, the Office of Citizen Complaints lost I think
87% of the complaints that were submitted to it.
Its only job is to track and process complaints against police.
It lost 87% of them.
And it wasn't just that year, it was many years.
So my point is that there are segments of society that enjoy the privilege of being relatively
free from having to answer for wrongdoing.
Now answering for wrongdoing is a very complex topic, but if one belongs to an association
of adult human beings whose mandate is to protect and serve the people of our nation
in a way that is just and humane and fair and intelligent, that mandate is not being
carried out.
And other bizarre motivations are certainly being carried out at a very high percentage
of the results of encounters with citizens.
Part of the problem is that police have power.
They have power over common people.
In that, they have the power to radically or permanently change the course of a human
life, a person they encounter by accusing them of something or pretending they were
doing something.
Now, when I had my encounter with the police, one of the things I didn't realize at the
time because I was naive is that by declaring they were going to take me out into the field
to make me disappear, essentially that they're going to kill me, they were trying to up the
ante.
They wanted, I believe, I don't know exactly what was going on, and by the way, to know
what was going on, we have to disambiguate.
And we do that for purposes.
And if the purposes change, the result changes.
It's the same with beliefs, opinions, ideas, knowledge, but there's something very surprising
here that I'll get to in a moment about this.
In any case, their purpose was to cause me to react in such a way that would mandate or
justify violence against my person, right?
So apparently, at least officer economists thought, if I can scare the crap out of this
guy or threaten him, then he will react in such a way that will allow me to continue
to justify my actual purpose, which is to cause him harm, right?
It's a startling and unexpected result of a relatively innocuous encounter.
And it's not like there's no backstory to the encounter, but the backstory isn't really
important here.
What's important is that police have the ability, anyone who's armed has a unique array of abilities
to disambiguate in a way that an unarmed person is ill-equipped to contend with.
But police, when they arrive on the scene of a situation, or if they encounter a situation,
they have a great deal of power.
And if that power is misused, the result is atrocity invariably.
And they serve a system that, from my perspective, the way that I disambiguate it, is largely
oriented to produce and continue and catalyze atrocity, a system of courts and prisons.
In our country, those systems are businesses, right?
They're essentially for-profit businesses.
If you think cops have power, you should see the powers that accrue to people who are,
for example, lawyers or judges, because those people have the capacity to function in the
framework in ways that ordinary people cannot, much as cops do.
So there are many situations when the police or the courts at least partly accomplish the
mandate for which we imagine they originated, right?
However, in our culture, the idea of wrongdoing is treated as an accounting game, which is
a very bizarre idea, particularly where it relates to corporations, because corporations
can only be financially punished.
So they can commit all kinds of murder and atrocity and violate, you know, obliterate
the oceans for generations to come, burn down the rainforest, frack the underground aquifers
and fill them with radioactive waste and poison.
And the worst thing that can happen to them is they get a fine.
So that's an incredibly dangerous situation where ordinary humans, where the future of
life on earth is competing against this bizarre sort of monstrous entity that's not even human.
It's an array of functions that are generally designed to produce harm in the environment,
hide that harm, and then return astonishing tokens of wealth to those participating in
that harm.
These moths have been very numerous for about the past week and a half, maybe.
Now when I saw that phenomenon, I had to disambiguate, right?
I had to go from everything to something to this process, to this event.
And what I want to make clear, what I want you to understand is that disambiguation is
at least a binary phenomenon in the sense that, as I decide what a phenomenon is, for
example, this is a California sagebrush.
Love this plant, amazingly beautiful organism, love this thing, I love this.
As I decide what something is, there's a kind of illusory process that happens where I think
I'm determining what something else is or isn't, but what I'm actually at the same time
determining is the shape of my own mind and my own potentials for relation with that being,
that process, that phenomenon, that thing, that quality.
So as I'm traversing the tree from everything to something to determine what that is, I'm
at the same time, isn't it funny that our police cars are black and white?
I wonder if that's part of the problem.
Never occurred to me before, sure it's occurred to other people though.
As I'm traversing the tree of identities and I'm coming down toward a concrete derivative
or knowledge, that guy just threw a bunch of ice out of his ice chest, right, in order
to make that statement, I had to do a bunch of very sophisticated cognitive work that
has become habitual to me now that I am quote unquote an adult, but when I was a child,
it was not yet habitual and that means I was still partly dreaming and ambiguity was a
very common aspect of my everyday experience moment to moment.
Ambiguity was everywhere.
That person could just as easily be my best friend as they could be a stranger.
They weren't a stranger simply because I didn't know them, right?
Children have to be taught that there's such a thing as a stranger and that word by itself
is a lethally complex token.
It implies that the safe and correct choice, you know, path of action with people who are
unknown to us is to treat them with suspicion, with doubt, to treat them as a threat.
And primarily, I mean, one of the most important features of disambiguation is it allows us
to determine on the fly whether we're facing a threat, something we don't have to pay attention
to, something neutral, an opportunity, something we should engage with, or it would be good
to engage with, beneficial to engage with, or something unknown and people are very nervous
about things being unknown.
The waking mind depends on full disambiguation on, well, what it experiences is complete disambiguation,
right?
I know that this is a sprinkler head.
For a child, it's a different situation.
That thing could be anything.
It could be a monster, a dinosaur, a toy, something that could hurt me, something scary.
A child doesn't know what things are yet.
Well, small children, they don't know yet because they're still learning to emulate
the habits of disambiguation familiar in their culture, with the adults they're exposed
to, and with their peer groups.
It is possible to suspend the process of disambiguation, and I would argue that if you're capable
of doing that, you're going to experience wonder, awe, terror, and joy, but learning
to suspend that process as an adult is a very challenging thing.
It's one of the things that meditation traditions are organized to assist in.
We have to do the work ourselves, but many forms of meditation will reveal the process
of disambiguation to you consciously so that you will sense when you are doing it and why,
and this will give you new degrees of liberty in that process.
My talk today is oriented to catalyze something similar.
I want us to be conscious of the power of disambiguation, of determining what things are.
I want us to be conscious of the processes and purposes for which we engage in this behavior
commonly.
I also want to talk about the flip side of that coin, but before I do that, I want to
get back to what I was saying a little while ago.
What we don't realize is that as if we were a bird that could fly in a hundred different
dimensions, as we traverse the tree from everything to something, we're actually throwing away
wings.
We're saying, well, I'm not going to fly in that dimension.
I'm not going to fly in that dimension.
I'm not going to fly in this one.
When I talked about initially how someone who saw me might disambiguate me, they might
see like, oh, there is the face of time space itself embodied in a being capable of the
conscious relationship with nature and their own intelligence of expressing uncommon human
intelligence and maybe even transhuman intelligence.
There is something astonishing.
There is a miraculous being.
Someone who sees a miraculous being before them, beautiful and good and filled with the
opportunity for noble relations, beneficial and mutual interactions.
Someone who sees this is much more likely to experience that than somebody who sees
a white middle class male.
Those are both available disambiguations of the phenomenon of encountering me, Darren.
When we're disambiguating, we are under the mistaken impression that we're determining
the identity of extrinsic phenomenon and beings and things and objects and processes
and such.
But actually what we're doing at the same time, it's not that we're not doing that,
but at the same time, we're actually determining our identity.
In many ways, if we could see the freedoms we throw away in that process, our lives and
minds would be absolutely transformed.
We would be incapable of many of the injustices that are common to our personal and collective
experience.
We would be incapable of forming organizations whose purpose of foundation is the commission
of atrocity for profit or power.
We would become uninterested in those things, maybe permanently.
What I want to make very clear is that as adult humans disambiguate phenomenon, what
they're actually doing is they're disambiguating their own identity, and they're not aware
of that.
If we could become aware of that together, we would gain types of liberty.
We have never been bold enough to imagine yet, and that is my hope.
That is my dream.
The other side of the coin of disambiguation is ambiguity.
When we have a belief or an opinion, when we have an argument, we make a statement,
we have a position, then we become inclined to defend a very specific disambiguation of
some phenomenon.
We become inclined to be willing to argue, to have conflict, maybe to go to war, possibly
to kill, to preserve and reinforce a specific disambiguation we have previously made.
Just as when the man I was speaking with the other night, I think it was last night, the
night before, said that white people had become a minority in the United States.
What could that possibly mean?
This person, who I'm very close to, was absolutely committed to this particular disambiguation
and did not care a bit about the statistics or the numbers or anything.
Completely refused to even entertain any other idea.
That person had completely disambiguated this topic.
They had an opinion and a position that they were interested in defending.
What that meant, ironically, wasn't really anything about the question.
A position that confused is actually about the unimaginably and cruelly narrow result
emotionally, psychologically, intellectually of them having either done that disambiguation
themselves or been told that, which is almost certainly what happened, by some particular
news organization or something, having taken that on, that then becoming part of their
internal, felt and known perspective of their own identity, and of the situation outside
of them, the public situation, a disambiguation which has purposes like to promote the idea
that they have the right to feel threatened.
That's one of the purposes in that kind of disambiguation.
My point, though, is that the result deprives that individual of libraries of kinds of freedom.
When they come to that conclusion, their humanity has become so narrow that it's no longer reasonably
inhabitable, and yet we do this all the time.
This is what we were trained to do as children.
This is part of why, as we grew older, for most of us who are not artists and creative
and even for some of those people, vast forests in our imagination died.
They just disappeared, they went away, and for many of us, they will never come back.
Because those habits are deeply entrenched, they are socially and publicly reinforced,
their opposites are rare, their opposites are rarely nurtured, we will almost never find
contexts in which we are encouraged to understand the possibilities of our human intelligence,
to embrace their noblest potentials, to express those, to be rewarded for that, to have that
process nurtured and encouraged, to be reassured that the beauty of the minds that we are born
with is more valuable than the structured identities we see instanced in modern mainstream
culture, and many of the side cultures as well.
So many of the side cultures that appear superficially radical are just another, they're just like,
they've got a painted face, right?
It's the same consumer bullshit with a face painted on it, of some kind of noble, metaphysical
or spiritual perspective.
But once that charade is penetrated, we find the same kind of disease broiling under the
surface.
And again, not universally, there are people in contexts whose goals and capacities for
intelligent humanity are profound.
Occasionally we can encounter them, but if we can't encounter them, and this is the
very important thing I'm trying to say.
If we can't encounter them, we can compose them together, and that's what we must do.
And that's what our failure to do, our failure to have done that, leads to the situations
we find ourselves in today.
So this is the crucial thing we can do, and we can do it with two people, right?
We can do it with five people.
We can do it for 10 minutes.
We can do a tiny little piece.
We don't have to transform the world overnight.
We can get together and explore and learn in ways that are astonishing and beautiful
and noble.
And we can tell that they're good, intrinsically, because we can feel in our hearts and in our
spirits and in our minds when new degrees of liberty that had previously been lost are
being returned, the same way we can sense that this person who thinks that white people
are a minority in America, in the same way that person's humanity has been narrowed to
a defender of some kind of nonsense, some sort of racist nonsense.
Now you can see also, though, that it's sort of important that I encountered someone like
that, right?
Because they helped me to understand what the problem is, or what the underlying foundations
of the problems we face, where they come from.
And one of the places they come from is mispurposed disambiguation, right?
Determining what things are in a way that is clumsy, unintelligent, habitual, serves
organizations and people who have acquired power over us, or who we have somehow inadvertently
granted power over us.
So let me just remind you that as we disambiguate together, and this is really funny, I'm disambiguating
the process of disambiguation, which is kind of a meta disambiguation, but I'm hoping
to return some of the liberties that are natural to our human minds, our hearts, and our intelligences.
Now one of the kind of strange results of our fascination with disambiguation is that
our relationship with ambiguity is damaged.
Although our waking mind is extremely focused on disambiguating while we're awake, it's
doing it all the time, and it's not disambiguating everything all the way down to concrete tokens,
it's just doing enough disambiguation that it can determine whether something's a threat,
mutual or an opportunity, and then sort of guide us through that landscape.
Because if we're comfortable, but there are no threats we have to attend, then we can
go back to doing whatever sort of leisurely or whatever activity we would prefer to be
doing, and most of those activities are not particularly fulfilling anyway.
Though some of them are.
So we use disambiguation to produce tokens.
Language is evidence of historically completed disambiguations.
That's what language partly is.
It produces tokens, little tags that we can attach to phenomenon, like these plants.
As long as I know those are plants, so they're not going to jump up and attack me, and neither
are they going to throw money at me.
Unless I have some specific interest in them, which in fact I do, I don't need to pay any
further attention to them.
I can get on with the business at hand.
But ambiguity is incredibly important for intelligence and for memory, and in fact our
dreams reintroduce ambiguity into relationships and identities, so that our memory can survive
the deprivations that disambiguation imposes on it.
And this is a complex topic that I won't have time to explore in depth, but ambiguity
is the foothold that invites imagination to life.
At night when it's dark and you can't see exactly what everything is, the wood in the
trees begins to take on the likeness of faces.
We might experience pareidolia, which is the visual detection of forms in the patterns
of grass, or the leaves, or clouds, or the wood grain on the wall, or the structure of
stones, and ambiguity links us to a situation in which our imagination
can come to life and participate directly in transforming our own role, and that word
transforming is a bit, is kind of appropriately punny, because ambiguity and trance are related.
In dreaming, though upon awakening, we disambiguate identities and say, I dreamt I saw my father
at his house.
What actually was going on was that I saw someone who represented my father, there was
ambiguity there, at a house that represented his house, there was ambiguity there.
So in dreaming, they can collapse very closely to specifics, though it's dangerous to ask
the waking mind questions about dreaming, because it's like asking sand about water.
But in dreaming, ambiguity is preserved, and that means our imaginal faculties and emotions
that we are not ordinarily capable of having come back to life.
And what do I mean by emotions we're not capable of having?
Don't we know what all of our emotions are?
No, we certainly don't.
Not in a world where everything is perfectly ambiguated.
Look at the emotions of children and compare them to the emotions of adults.
Which one has more range, right?
It's not the adults in general.
You can say, well, adults have developed sophisticated emotional, yeah, go ahead, say that.
I won't entirely disagree with you, but that's an insufficient observation in my view.
The range of emotions available to children is vastly broader than the range of emotions,
and more intense and deeper.
Now, I'm not saying that we don't acquire new opportunities for sophisticated emotional
experience and expression as adults.
We do.
But what we lose in that process is profoundly significant, and part of the reason for that
is that the child's experience of the world is vastly more ambiguous than the adults.
There's ambiguity everywhere for the child's imagination to interface with, even though
most people who know me know I don't prefer mechanical and computational metaphors.
The ambiguity in the child's experience and the ambiguity in the experience of an adult
who has been returned to a childlike state in play or through enchantment, or slightly,
I think somewhat unfortunately, through the introduction of intoxicants, which is part
of why adults are doing intoxicants in the first place, is that their common adult experience
feels so deprived of role and meaningful identity and adventure and meaningful purpose
that they become vulnerable to the introduction of substances that mimic but don't deliver
wonder, joy, interest, ecstasy, momentum, motivation, and that's a tragic compromise of our personhood
in general.
Addiction is a terrifying experience, and, you know, children can experience it too, right?
They can be addicted to ice cream or video games or their smartphones.
And now, in modern times, there are many more dangers for children than there were when
I was younger, because the modern context is so dissociated and disembodied primarily
by emulating the machines with which we so constantly interact, and I'm interacting
with them right now.
I spend more time with this smartphone than I spend with human beings, and even when I'm
spending time with human beings, this smartphone is between me and them most of the time.
In other words, this device occupies the between of my relationships, and that is sickening,
terrifying, and can only have unimaginably bad outcomes, particularly because the corporations
behind our relationship with machines, those corporations have invaded the between of our
relationships, a place that should be private to us, and are using that invasion to form
profiles with which we can be directly manipulated, emotionally, psychologically, relationally,
financially, all kinds of ways.
And that statement that I just made is me disambiguating this phenomenon, right?
It's not the only thing that can go on, but you saw what happened.
I had a purpose, right?
I made a bunch of disambiguations, sewed them together into a relatively coherent whole,
and presented them as my perspective.
It's true that those aren't the only things that are the results of our relationships
with machines.
For many years, I supported myself and my family, and still to some degree this day I do that
because people need help relating with machines.
It's a rather tragic misuse of my abilities, but as they say, it pays the bills.
Another disambiguation.
I'd like to leave you today with the observation that the nature of nature is not disambiguated
in the ways that our languages and habits of language and token use demand.
Nature has both identity and ambiguity, and it preserves both of them.
In fact, the representational intelligence with which we are infected as children is
profoundly powerful.
Unfortunately, for most of us, we will experience primarily the impoverishments of that power
in comparison to the relatively minimal benefits it confers.
Because we will learn to disambiguate in ways that deprive us of intelligence, of freedom,
of the capacity to forge meaningful, noble societies together, or at least the inclination
to do so.
Not the capacity.
Let's have the capacity.
We will enter a world filled with premade tokens and representations, and most of us
will believe in it.
But there are infinite worlds, near at hand, beyond that constricting prison, that the
tags we learn to believe, to propose, to assert, to fight over comprises.
So let us become conscious together of the powers and capacities with which we are born,
and how our common habits with language, knowledge, society, identity, and purpose deprive
us of these abilities, and how perhaps those very same powers can return them to us.
Our world, and our people, all the people, and all the living beings depend on our ability
to awaken to something resembling the intelligence and nobility of which we are capable as human
beings.
May we find a way to stand all our ways together, to move in that direction.
In that tree is a beehive.
Bye bye for now.
