He said, you're going to take all of the drugs that I'm going to tell you about at the end of this after the liturgy.
And you say, wait, liturgy, what is that?
Yeah. Liturgy, liturgy. And all of a sudden, all of the scholars and all of the people who wear the hats of knowledge, they all spit in your face.
Yes. And you don't even realize it. You don't even realize the deal you're getting.
Yeah. Because they take this and they cover it with a layer of dung, a layer of dung.
Let's see what actually happens. Let's see what actually happens.
Those drugs, we're going to look at them and how they're prepared in a minute.
Good news. Good news, by the way, on the Mycenae in front. Do we have the Mycenae?
I think it's this one. There we go. Pull that up. Just, you know, okay, look, the ship.
We went a little bit far back. It was a little bit jerky there.
But I want you to see this, you know, this Miltouessa, yes, or in the Greek, the Attic Greek, Miltouessa, right?
Right with that diagram. Does everybody see that Mycenae in diagram from the Linear B?
You didn't know that was there, right? Because in Attic Greek, you don't see that.
That invisible letter pops in and out of very important places like Korwa, the Queen of the Underworld, right?
The Korwa. Well, look what we've got here. This is the Miltouessa.
This is the Miltouessa. And what is the Miltos? The Miltos is the stuff that we're looking at.
It's the hair, the limny and earth, baby, that you put in your hair. These are special, special ladies.
Special, special ladies. These are powerful, powerful, powerful women.
Yes, you better watch out. You better watch out. This is glorious. I love this.
Let's go one more time back to the main text. Yeah, and I just want you to see here.
This last thing I'm going to talk about is that she is now going to give you the opening of what she is going to say in this procedure, in this mystery.
Are you ready? Hear her voice. Hear her voice. Thank you. Thank you, Petrarch. Thank you.
Hear her voice. Ginesis proti tesimes ginesis.
I... you know what I just gave you? I just gave you, take it down, the Alpha to the Omega.
I just gave you that. You want to know what the Alpha to the Omega is?
You got to know some esoteric stuff, and I'm not talking about walking around like a clown with your big red nose, big red shoes.
I'm not talking about that esoteric. Yeah, no, I'm not. I'm talking about the real thing.
Alpha to Omega. What do you think they never told you?
Because they don't study this stuff. Nobody studies this stuff. Who has the skill, the philologically, to take it apart and tell you what it means?
They prefer not to. I don't know. I don't know. Blame Harvard. Blame Harvard. Can we blame? We should have a session for blaming Harvard.
Okay, one more time to text, the main text, and I've got to communicate this thoroughly.
