For the one riding, the mysteries that are without profit, unsalable, unsalable mysteries.
Things that are given for the sake of the instruction in the right.
Yes, what does he ask for? What does he ask for? He says, I ask for Athanasian for his one and only child.
He has directions to her in a minute. Do you see where we've landed? Bring me off of there.
He has directions. Thanks. Chewie, I told you to fix that.
Okay, it's okay. It's a good thing Chewie's here.
What exactly is happening? This is somebody who's riding for that one child.
And that one child that is being initiated is a she, and she is looking for Athanasia.
What is that? We've got a Greek denied our first little Greek from Alice.
Where's Alice? Alice, come here. Come here. Tell me.
Tell me, what is Athanasia? Alice, you smell like a Victorian's bedroom.
Why is that? Immortality. Okay, Athanasia.
I see it's just an alpha privative, plus the Thon root being death, right?
It's just not death. A state of not death.
Wait a minute. Look at Roman numer number two, an elixir.
Oh, that makes me want to drink it when it says elixir. I don't care if it is a poison, right?
Elixir or antidote, and you see that Galen uses it in connection with the mythrodatic theriac.
You are so deep in the drugs at this point.
Look, we couldn't get two lions into this thing without being waist-deep in drugs.
Now, bring that down for a minute. I just want you to notice, we'll come back to that.
We have an announcement, by the way. Devil wanted me to announce,
for those of you who have sold the mystery, please report immediately to the lowest level of Tartarus.
For those of you who have sold the mystery, please report to the lowest level of Tartarus.
Thank you for your cooperation. Let's go back to Alice here.
Look at the bottom. What is Athanasia that we're giving this girl?
What is it? Is it an elixir or an antidote? Look at that bottom line.
It's the same thing as ambrosia. And what is ambrosia?
Very next slide. Thanks. We're a little bit slow tonight.
Look at that. That's okay. Don't worry. We'll get them tuned up later.
Ambrosia. Immortality. Immortality. Elixir of life.
As used by gods for food, as perfume, as unguent.
