Remember the Petrarch in his secretum? Yes, he wrote a work called The Secret.
And that is from the beginning of The Secret.
And we are going to go to the same place using his long vanished, long charred and devoured skin.
We are going to use that Petrarch energy to power our ship to get us there to the right.
Fantastic. Thank you Petrarch.
But those of you who don't know Petrarch also had a little red book from which he cast the sortace.
And you say, what of the sortace?
Before we get there, let's get past the morons that are standing at the doors.
Let's get past the morons. How many of you raised your hand if you have heard of the Mithras liturgy?
Yes, I see. I see. Many of you have heard of it, right?
And many of you have watched shows on it. Show after show after show with all the explanations and the ideas of what it possibly could mean.
Yes, all the historical Hu-Ha.
Hu-Ha. Hu-Ha. Let's go to it.
Let's go to it. We have to get into that place.
We have to go there. So I want to take you there and things are going to get a little bit...
Well, it might feel like you are on the journey.
So, for those of you who are there and have ears to hear, get ready to get wound up. Are you ready?
Here it comes. Let's bring up that first text, Chewie. Let's hit the Greek.
She was nice, but let's pull up the Greek. Fantastic.
Can you, yeah, here, let me turn this around a little bit.
Look, what is going on? A little bit of Greek. I'm not going to keep this up the whole time.
Some of you like it right off the front. Some of you get into it and it gets your spirit going. You like it.
So for those of you, I'm going to bring this text, but I'm not going to throw this thing up here the whole time.
Let me just translate that for you. Go ahead and leave it up, Chewie. I got to read it too.
This is from Helascomoi. He's trying to create an area of reconciliation.
It's the first thing you do when you're powering your battery. Come on, pay attention.
Helascomoi, who is it with whom he is bringing that union?
Pronoia, and those of you who worship Athena right away will know who we're talking about.
Isn't that nice? The Virgin right up front, right up front.
I don't smell male, divine testicles for a mile.
Isn't that beautiful? The Blessed Virgin and soul, and soul, yeah, yeah.
