It's baked into these, into these gynecological rights. These are originally gynecological rights.
This isn't the most gorgeous thing ever. Nothing is nothing. Nothing. Love it.
Okay. The Mycenaean will clear all of your heads. It's, it's 800 years pre Hebrew.
Okay. So anybody who is going to plop out Jehovah, don't do it.
By the way, next Friday, this coming Friday, Gnostic and Formani will be duking it out on the battlefield for a fight club.
And you will decide, we will pull, and you will decide who is the clear victor.
Yes, it should be a great, great fight. A great fight. I'm looking forward to it. Very much looking forward to it.
If we are going to bring her back and her voice so that Petrarch can stand with us, we've got to understand the power and where the power is coming from.
I want you to look at images of the power of the Uranian Queen, the power of the Uranian Queen.
And I want you to consider, I'm going to give this to you in one short clip.
I want you to consider that the rights of Bacchus, who is guiding us, the rights of Bacchus and the deep things of Satan always lead to her.
They had that expression. They said, always es afroditen. So what is that Uranian power?
Damn.
Damn.
Damn.
Thanks to Petrarch. All of the symbols are there for you to pull from that. That is a compressed stream.
So happy fishing. What I want you to feel here is that Uranian power, that Uranian drive that causes the cosmos to turn as we step out and begin to look at the gods as our eyes are open as we are born again,
as we see the gods, as we see the gods in control of the universe, we follow the muse. Yes, Urania is a muse. You say, what did you just show me? That did not look like something from the museum.
Yes, that's the heart of the museum. That's why Bacchus has a giant dildo set up in every temple of the muses. Every temple has in its interior a phallic medical applicator.
Isn't that something? Isn't that something? We're running a little bit choppy tonight due to some kind of interference. Is there any way we can show that clip again? I want people to see that beginning. Let's see it.
Three, two, one.
For those of you who were able to see the symbols, fantastic. That monkey, by the way, got five to seven. They never caught the donkey though. He's out.
Managed to evade, but that monkey won't be doing that again. Shame on that monkey. When you look at the animal world and you look into the performance of the mystery, you're going to see the mirror image of the vocalizations that you have in real life.
Three, two. They're being given out by the priestesses, by the mustai, and by the participant, by the initiate, we should say. You're going to see those utterances become a part of the performances.
Those are communications. We learn from, we necromancers. We learn from those ravens. We learn from those leopards. Yes, there's a reason we as Balkans ride the leopard. Have you ever ridden a leopard? You should try sometime.
There's a reason that we look up. We have it here. We have it here. Look up at the sky and tell me, can you see the gods in motion? Everything is becoming lucid. Thank you.
Thank you. We are bringing. By the way, what time is it? What time is it that we're performing this right? And thank you everybody for staying. What time is it that we're performing this right in antiquity? Right before the sun rises. You guys all knew that. You were like, you were all on that. I know you were. You were like, oh, this thing's probably at the pre-rising sun thing where we're bringing the dawn.
You know, if we were heralding the dawn, we would want to be a star. We would want to be one of those Luciferians, right? One of those dawn bringers. One of those bears of the light. Here she is. She's being initiated. Let's not turn away from it. Let's watch her. She's being initiated. Let's see what happens to her.
I want to continue. Should we possess these people, please? It's the least that we can do.
Oh, with the most steadfast air that I may be born again in thought and the sacred spirit may breathe in me. You see what she wants? She wants the in breathing of that spirit.
Do you understand that Holy Spirit? That Holy Spirit is a fire, an unquenchable fire. Do you like that? Do you see how it's shielded Aphrodite when the Christians kicked her out of the temple and clogged the mystery with a giant ball of feces?
