And what else does she want? Give me the next one.
She wants others, but she wants the people that are Amitros.
And what does that mean? It literally means un-girdled.
Now you might think, well, that means the opposite, right? It's like a chastity belt or something.
No, no, that is Christian dark age and stupidity.
Are you ready? What is this? It's a headband and or a girdle.
Yeah, girls who have not yet put on the woman's girdle.
You don't put on the woman's girdle until your time has come.
So who protects those who don't have the woman's girdle?
Artemis. That's what she asked from daddy.
She wanted him to give her. She wanted that priest to give her the protection.
I'm the guardian of Ionic virginity.
Do you know what that word virginity means? It means a song.
Yeah, Parthenia. They're songs that they sing.
Do you know what she's doing? She's training nine year old girls to hunt lions and sing songs.
Okay. Okay. This is the origin of salvation.
This is the liberty that we need. Give it to me on the next one. Give it to me.
What is this? I want to live on the mountains. We're going to do these quickly.
I want to live on the mountains. Are those mountains?
Are they connected with majesty and the color purple?
Let's find out tonight when Neil comes in, right?
I want to live on the mountains. And what do I want to do?
I'm going to be a goddess who rules the cities, but I'm going to do it from the mountains.
And the only time I go into the mountains is when the women are in the pains of childbirth.
Do you know why? This same protector of the kids is the one who brings painless delivery.
Think about that for a minute. Painless delivery.
Her poison is the poison they use to get women to give birth.
It's a pain reducer and inducer of birth.
Don't lose sight of lady liberty. Give me the next one.
She wants to live. Let's keep going.
Here's the song by Maidens.
To the what kind of flute? To the aulos, right?
The parthenic aulos. Isn't that nice?
The parthenic aulos, which the professor in Oxford has managed to reconstruct.
It's playing the thing. Love it. That's what we use as our instrument.
Isn't that gorgeous? What is the next one?
So where is this Artemis born?
She's born on an island called Delos. Do we have any pictures of Delos?
Born with her twin brother on Delos. Don't lose sight of who the Lightbringers are.
Born on this gorgeous, gorgeous paradise. Look seriously, people.
Seriously, look at what the, if you don't think climate has some effect on the development of the species, you're moron.
Look at the beauty of this place.
Look, who would not want to live in this place and use a language that allowed you to pull down the stars?
Oh God, what happened? Where are we?
I want to go back. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
We're going to have a hymn to Delos here.
Calimacus says, Hey, I want to point out a couple of things to you that Delos, she is.
Who is she? She's that Holy Curotrophon of Apollo.
She's the one who nourished Apollo. Are you beginning to see some themes?
Are you beginning to see some themes?
This religion that is pre-Christian, pre-Jewish, this pre-monist, pre-Ocnot and BS, right?
This is third millennium.
This religion is based on a child nourisher, on a witch who can raise up a child, who can open a child's eyes.
You can take her from your side and you will be invincible.
The child nourisher. Very important. You mean the first sauter, the first savior is a child nourisher? Yes.
And guess what? They called Medea this goddess. They just said that that's who she was.
Imagine being called that during your lifetime.
Oh God, what an honor. Go to. Brilliant.
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. We're going to bring in the Liberty.
Okay, what else? Look, obviously this nurse of Apollo.
She's number one, man, from the Muses. She's got all the cred from the Muses.
Right? Why? Look at the second line, the last word.
You realize that's the word for Medusa. It's the same word that produces Medusa, right?
She is the Medusa to Phoebus, the one who is that master of songs.
She is the one. Remember Artemis said, I want to be equal to Phoebus.
I want to be the light bringer because the light bringer is that Phoebus.
And what does she do? She bathes Phoebus. She bathes him? Yeah, she does.
She swaddles him and she's the first to establish him.
As God. As God. Do you see what happened?
The child nourishing mother is the one who brings in God.
Who's Jehovah's mommy? Have you ever thought about that? Who's Jehovah's mommy?
And you'll laugh and you'll say, Jehovah doesn't have a mommy.
And if you did, the grace would look at you and say, are you some stupid barbarian?
Are you some stupid barbarian?
Don't you know everybody's got a mommy? Who do you beat?
You beat monists and you beat Nazis when you bring psychologically the mother.
And you force them to look into the mirror with the mother.
Monists always die from the mother.
Why is that?
If you don't make room for it, you got nothing to do with the mystery, baby.
Nothing to do. And remember, these are all mysteries.
We could look into the name, one of the terms that we had up in the beginning that had prophet.
Why? Okay, give it to me.
Next one. We're almost in, we're almost to Gnostic.
We're gonna bring him in.
Right. Here is that. I just blew it up.
So I wanted you to see it.
She is that one who is the guardian, right?
She's guarding that she's doing the Medusa thing with the songs.
Good. And what do they call her originally?
Who is the Stelos? Who do they call her originally?
They called her Asteria.
They call her Asteria? Yes.
In ancient times, he says, in their ancient times, they called her Asteria.
Why? Why? Because she plunges into the depths.
She plunges into the depths.
She is the one who enters beyond the void.
She's the one who crosses over and enters into the water of this being.
Again, I don't know what the, what the physics are of that.
This is her. Okay.
Have you got the picture of who this is in your head?
She is Issei Asteri.
She is equal to a star.
So when you are in the mystery and you are drawing down the star,
you are under the power of Asteria.
You're under the power of Asteria.
Okay. Those of you with ears to hear, here, please listen to the ways of the Scythians.
All right. First, you've got the Scythian way speaking in a minute when Neil comes on.
You're going to have the wizardry side speaking.
Give it to me the next one.
Oh, this is just changing her name again.
Boom. Okay. And listen to me.
I've got one last little, this is what he says.
He's saying, listen to me, those of you who attend the bath.
Do you attend the bath of the Virgin?
Right. If I say that to you now, you have no idea it sounds like it's awful.
Right. I don't know. Is that what they did on Epstein's Island or something?
Right. It sounds terrible.
But when they're talking about the bath of the Virgin in antiquity,
they're talking about a process where one goes from darkness to light only through becoming blind.
Can you see? This is the bath.
Do you know what we do with Medea's Bathwater?
We use it as a medicine.
Yeah. Fantastic.
Those of you who are seeing the bath, this is the bath of the Virgin.
This is the palace. And what happens?
The palace got no mommy.
The palace got no mommy. She came and says, right out.
Right out of the head of Zeus, right out of the head of God.
And you know what happens when you've got this?
Now, those of you who are thinking about liberty in America, think about this.
That goddess, the liberty bringing spear shaking goddess.
She comes to us only through this bath.
And in the bath, we are cleansed and our vision, our vision is made dark so that we may see the light.
If your eyes are full of light, everything is good.
What kind of what kind of what happens to you when you're a Zeus and you bring forth from from up here when you bring forth this girl?
What happens? What happens?
You stop telling lies.
Isn't that weird? Zeus cannot lie.
Zeus, who is the father of the girl who springs from his mind.
He cannot lie. Do you get it?
It's the cure. It's the cure for the Nazis. It's the cure for the monist.
It's the cure for anybody who wants to bomb hospitals, wants to burn books and wants to wants to force you to either be ex or be dead.
Okay. Yeah, it's a meat grinder.
Right. Welcome. This is the Neo Dark Ages.
I've got one or two more and then we're going to we're going to end up.
Look, what can I promise you people that Kolemikus talks about?
This is the transformation. You and I were sitting watching the bath. We're being cleansed.
We're losing our vision. What do we what comes to us when we go blind?
The Virgin says this one person this one person when they enter death.
Yeah, they will live among the dead knowing they will live among the dead having all of their mind intact.
All of their memory. All of the reality intact.
They're the only one that will. They're the only one that will.
And they will foitase. Wait, what foitase? What's that mean?
Give me the next one. I can't wait. What am I going to do if I see the bath?
I'm going to end up what I'm look. I'm going to end up foitase in honor of great king of hell.
Is that Hades? Yes, it is. I guess see like I guess see like.
I guess see like megaloy.
The great. What am I going to do? I'm going to foitase so in front of him.
Oh, God, in his honor. What does it mean? I can't wait. Tell me what it means.
What am I going to be doing? Satanic congregation. Get excited because this is what we're going to be doing in hell.
We're going to be roaming wildly about what that could be fun.
We're going to be in a frenzy. I knew it.
We're ecstasy.
An ecstasy.
An ecstasy into Dionysus. Isn't that great?
Isn't that great? But look at number three.
Oh, it's also used a sexual intercourse to go into a man or woman.
And then it gives a whole. You can go into a woman. You can go into one another.
It says you can go into a woman. Next slide. You go into a man.
Next slide. You can go into a slave.
Next slide. You can. Oh, look at the bottom one. That's dirty.
That's dirty. All that going into people.
And this last line serves it up.
What does that last line say? You Persian men.
You Persian men. You know those Greek women.
You know those Greek women.
It's a lot of going into.
You mean this is what it's going to end up happening?
You thought I thought sex was bad. I thought sex was a bad thing.
Yes, you did. Because you are a victim of the dark ages.
I don't care if you don't believe in Jesus Christ.
I don't care if you don't go to synagogue.
I don't care if you think the religions are stupid.
Like a lot of Israelis do. As a matter of fact, the majority.
At least when I was there, I don't know what it is now.
What happens, people, that monism takes you over
and it reprograms you so that you cannot honor the mother?
That's the way it is. Viral. Give me the next one.
Give me the next one and I couldn't leave you
without letting you know that this island of Delos
where the worship of Apollo is prominent.
It was founded, yes. Look at the first line.
It was founded by Leistai.
Leistai and I know you're going to say,
No, no, no, I didn't want them involved in all of this.
Damn it. I didn't want the Leistai involved.
I'm not a Leistace. Jesus says very famously, right?
Leistace, where are they?
I'm sorry, they're Leistace from Caria.
And look at the last word, foiny case.
These are those traders in the purple.
These are those traders in the purple.
I think that we would have all the worship of Artemis
without the purple, didn't you?
That stuff is all based on where she is working, right?
What part of the planet she is working on
with her hunting cult and what poisons they're using.
They're finding this stuff right now, people.
They're finding it right now.
Finally, last one, four we're going to bring on.
It's too many. I'm 10 minutes over and Neil, I apologize.
Her name was originally Asteria.
I want you to remember that.
For those of you who have begun to see the emergence
of what was the mystery and what that meant to those people
and all of the really human stuff,
like the spreading of the poop on the body
or the getting Christ it in your throat
or the master barry with Mary Magdalene and eating it,
all of that stuff, all that real concrete anthropological stuff.
You should know that this goes back to that great bringer of dawn.
People tell me all the time,
there is no Satan until the Christians make him up.
