If you don't know i'm sorry. I misquoted there says if you don't eat me
Right if you don't eat my flesh
And drink my blood remember that phrase if you don't eat my flesh and drink drink my blood
And when he started talking like that it says his disciples got really confused
Right and they say who can listen to this crap
He's talking right there's he's talking about
His argument is all about the semen
Who can who can take this stuff who can stand to listen to this?
You didn't know that jesus christ was abandoned at one point in his ministry by his followers
This was that point
They walked away from what was the issue that they walked away from about?
The masturbation thing
Yeah, the masturbation
Imagine how many people were following him at that point
Right, he had been through communities and done his healing and done his you know
He had to stand on the shore. It was so crowded. He had to stand out in a boat
People were there to see him
He didn't get the crowd in his hometown because they knew him as hometown, right?
Do you understand
The guy is in up in the countryside with the woman and he's jerking off in front of her telling her if we don't eat this
Oh
My god
Your reality is hilarious
Your reality is hilarious
It is absolutely hilarious
Please
Please show us the end
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going here. Um, and what happens
This is just going to go on to quote things that he's trying to help you interpret
No, blow it up
He's trying to help you interpret the mysteries as they appear and there's stuff that david said, you know, there's be this
Um, this tree that'll be in a place that's nourished by the waters and he says that that's not what that means
Right, you know what that means and in cult speak
He's talking about those waters running out of that erect
Um member of jesus. That's what he's talking about. He's talking about the eyes
Toss to andros. He's talking about the ejaculate of the person man
right
That's what he means when he says the moving out of the waters and well, you know, he's gonna give us the
The fruit what do you think that fruit is that tree?
Right those leaves it says the leaves will never fall
That's something the leaves he says. That's not what you think it is
You know why because we eat the stuff
It never falls from the tree
Never makes contact with the earth
the seed
Why?
Because we eat it
Oh, please
Please make a stop my splash bag is full
Is anybody else a splash bag full?
All right, I think I only I think that's people I think I've got one or two more
But I don't think I can take much more
This is this is too much. Look what's happening here. Yeah, it's just what I just told you
Look at the very last word s theoman. We're gonna eat it. I just want you to focus on that
I can't take this. I can't take this. I only take so much time in this
In in the ether. Okay. Here's what I'm gonna do
I am going to now play the exit, but I'm not exiting
Right, I'm just going to go get the drill sergeant and he is going to give you
Just the basics that you need to know from unit two and he's going to tell you
Go to see the videos that old boy is producing
Because old boy is helping you to walk through the particulars of the chapter
While omen is giving you the big guns that you need to know the things you must master
And show up on a Saturday
We've got two groups now on Saturday one for the Aussies that'll be later in our afternoon over here in the states
And I believe four central four central here central standard, right? And um
Otherwise there will be an 11
Central 11 central right now 12 central
Oh
Nancy's gonna kill me. Nancy. Don't kill me. I think it's uh, it's either 11 or 12 central
It'll say somewhere we'll post it, but you can go to these labs and you can find out
Um, where you stand how things are going. They'll operate the dojo. Those are graduate students. You didn't realize of it
This is the biggest great course in history and we have graduate students
We've got to run this thing like a university would run it a free university. Look, it's fall for free
Right. No, you're selling your soul
Just kidding
don't
Do the master parry thing
unless
You're with jesus definitely always stick with jesus. Um, bring up the exit
No, you love it. Wish you were here rolling other
The beast is purple dragons inhale the indica
Reakin it
My weed is sticky
Chickadilla poisonous kisses
That girl, you know, she's got it
Hail satan
We'll do this all the way to the roads. We'll pave a ride a bear horse in the sunshine
Blue tone big time wolf man
Hillside root cutter grow it
Don't bring a shinin in the morning. They puff a little bit of the chronic
Poisonous dragon venom darkness through dreams frankincide tells up on the hill. I make it rain
I spit the hot fire yells the bubbles versus make sure they got funny ears on the gold horns
Smoking indica purple of the Sabbath. I'm teddy bass. Mr. Black magic singing hallelujah
Deepest creepers hot purple move you root cutter evergreen tree grower
The anti christ you dream of thunder from on high venus in the sky
Heavy on the drums 808 funk black ecmania
Medea dance with me
Where the purple flowers grow
