lives
Right, the soul's the subject the soul eats worms
The soul is the subject. It's got to end in that ate it to tell the person who's reading it. Oh, this is the subject, bro
Okay, look at the one underneath that genitive ace
What happens when you add ace and make psuche ace? It means of the soul
It's possessive of the soul. The purpose of the soul is blah, blah, blah
The purpose of the soul then it's got to be
Psuche it's got to end with that a to sigma. What about the dative?
It's an eta with a little tiny eota every seed a little tiny eota
Subscript and what's an eota subscript an eota subscript is a tiny miniaturized eota that you place underneath
the vowel
And that's a dative I told you that's the indirect object dative indirect object
How do we translate that in greek to for or with
You're going to start with those to for or with to the soul
psuche
For the soul psuche
With the soul psuche. How did you do that? I with my soul psuche?
All I have to say is psuche with that ending and the person knows. Oh
This is an indirect object
Hmm. This is this is something that it's it can be an instrument
Wow
Fantastic, how'd you do it? I did it with my soul
And then finally the accusative look at the accusative ane
Look at the accusative ane. You see the eta new after the accusative when you attach that
To the word psuche and become psuchean
What does that mean? It means that's being acted on by the verb
I eat the spaghetti
I got to put spaghetti in the accusative case because it is being accused. It's being acted upon
By the verb I kick the ball the ball was in the accusative case
I love my soul
Oh, that sounds so didn't sound creepy. That sounds like something something
What do you call those people chewy walk around saying you got to love yourself?
I don't know hippies. I don't know go the next one
Um, look at this people. Um, now here's the second to oh wait. Go back. Go back in all fairness. I'm sorry
I just did the singular. I want you to notice it says underneath it. It says nominative plural
Right, so then you're gonna have to add the alpha eota if you want to say souls as the subject souls do something
You got to add alpha eota psuchei
So I forgot to tell you with nouns. We've got a singular form and a plural form dog singular dogs
Plural look what we do in English. We add an s
English is a lightly
inflected language
Our um our nouns are going to be lightly declined, right? We've got a oh look what we got
We've got dogs. We add an s and all of a sudden it's plural
All right. Well, the greek has its own plural endings, right? You'll see them there. Okay. I want you to
Um, I want you to be satisfied with that go to the next one go to the next one
What do you need to know from this? This is the take home replay this back to yourself
Here are second declension nouns and look at their endings
They're different from the first declension and most of these are masculine or neuter
Masculine or neuter
Um typical word second declension word that you get in your vocabulary is
Anthropos the word for human we get anthropology from it, right human a human
In the nominative case is an anthropos
But when we switch to the genitive case and we want to say of the human
We say anthropo and our accent changes position
Anthropo now you don't have to worry about don't worry about accents right now
I know people fret over accents and i'm going to tell you exactly what they told me at california berkeley when I took the intensive course
And for those of you who want to say oh, that's political. That's just something political
You morons. I didn't I didn't have more than five seconds
To myself we went to school for eight hours a day came home and did four to six hours of work
For the next day to prep for the next day
ho
There's no politics
I have berkeley is
Friggin awesome their classics was friggin awesome
Um watch this people look at the endings here. They're gonna change and you're gonna be able to look at those endings say
Oh, okay. This is how they're this is how they
Relay a case to me nominative genitive date of acute nominative genitive date of accusive hit me with the next one
I just want you to see the words written out
We've only got one two more of these. I want you to see the words written out. Look at this
Oh, they give you logos
Logos right right up front logos
Logos logo logo a log on
now
Um, these are just examples right of now the next one is antropos. There it is
Anthropo, right? You can see how it changes. They're just gonna walk you through how these words are gonna change
Now, what do you need to do?
You need to do exactly what I needed to do
You need to make mental slots for all of these
paradigms
All of these ladders of endings that we go through
You should memorize them
What are the feminine endings?
a ace a aim
I own ice us that was both singular and plural. I just gave you and I can do that in my sleep
A ace a aim. I own ice us
You have to get to that point where you can just it becomes muscle memory for you
So these charts that I'm showing you I want you to memorize
Those endings. I want you to memorize the feminine of the first the masculine and the neuter of the second
Okay, masculine and neuter of the second. Give me the next chart. Give me the next chart
Hmm
Finally, what else does unit one give us it gives us the definite article
This thing at the top in this box and you're going to notice. Oh look, it's got nominative
It's it's also got cases nominative genitive dative accusative singular and then underneath that nominative genitive dative accusative plural
Right dog is subject dog is
Possession dog is indirect object dog as direct object in the singular and then same thing in the plural
Now look at the feminine
It's going to give you feminine forms and look at the
Neuter it's going to give you neuter forms and you're going to notice look at the feminine for example
It's an eta you say wait a minute. That's what that just looks just like the the ending on the first
Declension nouns. Yes, it does
Right. Look at the genitive ace is the ending. Well, it looks like just like the mouth. So you really aren't learning new
forms here
You have to memorize
This definite article
I want you to do it in this way
I want you to take the masculine column and I want you to go right down
I want you to take the feminine column and go right down neuter and go right down masculine, right hall to toy ton
Hoy ton toys toos
I want you to be able to do that. You've got to be able to exercise
Some of you will hate this and you'll say this is the worst part of greek
And there are a whole bunch of english boys and girls who agree with you
From a hundred years ago because what would those english do in their classes all day?
They would recite these declensions
They would recite the endings of verbs and you think what a waste of time
No, no, no, what you're doing is you're programming yourself to be able to function within this heavily
inflected language when I say inflected. I mean the endings of words are going to change
That change will tell you what the word is doing you
Most of my audience
Okay, if i'm talking to modern greeks or something never mind
But most of you those of you who speak english as your primary language
You're used to word order, right? Those english accents were like, oh god
