If your spouse doesn't do that
You um, you're not doing the right thing these you need to imprint these on your brain
We're at the point in the game
Where we need to imprint you need to learn how to march and this is how you march on os a omen ete on
Give me the next one. That was the imperfect
This is the heiress another tense. What am I teaching you? I'm teaching you the present the imperfect and the heiress
Those are called tenses
Tenses don't think time
tense
What kind of tense is the heiress? It's a simple action in the past. I did it
I ate
Today I can eat
Yesterday I ate
All right, the imperfect would be was eating
I was in the act of eating your mind goes right to the person doing the thing
The heiress is just simply referencing a past action
And what are the endings there? Ah os a omen ete on ah os a omen ete on
Look at the third person singular. You got that little movable new that's in there
Don't memorize the movable new because it's not always going to show up
Just memorize ah os a omen ete on
Beautiful ah os a omen ete on and finally
Finally what other
What what other thing must you learn in unit two you must learn the infinitive the infinitive is easy
Infinitive is easy. What is it? You take a verb and you add aim to the ending
And what happens when you do you make an infinitive and it means to do something here by Daewon
to educate
To educate by Daewon
Yeah, it never changes. It's always going to look like aim
That's the present
active infinitive
Gorgeous to do something now that is all
Of the grammar and syntax that you need to learn from unit two
You've learned
The three new tenses you learn the present the imperfect and you learn the heiress
Okay, now
The present and the imperfect will be formed
From the first principle part
The heiress will be formed from the third
The third you got to use the third principle part and when you use the heiress in the imperfect
You got to put an epsilon on the front of the verb
We'll see this when we do exercises next time we're going to do exercises
We'll um, you'll see an epsilon on the front. It's called an epsilon augment and it indicates that you either have an imperfect
an heiress
Or pluperfect you have a secondary tense
The tenses are divided into two families
primary and secondary primary tenses
present future perfect
secondary tenses imperfect heiress pluperfect
I want you to just keep that in mind for now
Keep that in mind for now
Fantastic
That is the basic functioning of verbs now what I want you to do is I want you to jump in
To the exercises from unit two
Jump into the exercises from unit two
If you can please
Go to one of the labs
Go to the discord on saturday
You can go you can show up for the osse section
If you're not osse
I'm sure that they won't give you a hard time, right?
Um, fantastic. I want to thank everybody for coming tonight and I want you
to remember
I really really do care for you. I wouldn't
Give this material to you unless I knew
This will help
This will help
Thank you muse for the dope
Thank you for the night
Hail satan
To the roads were paved a ride a bear horse from the sunshine
Blue tone big time wolf man
Hillside root cutter grow it
Dawn bring a shining in the morning
They puff a little bit of the chronic
Poisonous dragon venom darkness through dreams frankin sides house upon the hill I make it rain
I spit the hot fire heels above versus make sure they got funny ears on the gold horns
Smoking indica purple of the Sabbath. I'm teddy base. Mr. Black magic singing hallelujah
Jeepers creepers hot purple move you root cutter evergreen tree grower the anti christ you dream of thunder from unhigh
Venus in the sky
Heavy on the drums 808 funk bar kick mania
MacDia dance with me
Where the purple flowers grow
Those with eyes to see
A kiss of Athena
Dream of Saturn
Uranus Venus dress
Roots grow from the stars overhead
Orchid hymns to the moon
Oracle ritual
With a kiss and a whip
Lady Babylon is with you
