Oh my god
It's only when the monism comes to the surface
That all of a sudden people got to be put in cages and you can't do this with that
By the way porn is going to be illegal again
right
Do you know how hard it was for my generation in the 70s and early 80s to access that?
Do you know how hard it was because the pressure exerted by the monists was so strong
They had every aspect of your life wrapped up. You couldn't even see
nudity
Oh my god
We had to worry about looking at ancient statues. Can I show these pictures to my students?
Can I show that was a problem?
Right, we're going back. Guess what we're going back there and by the way you brits
By by the way bringing the smacker by the way you brits, which the british class is wonderful
It's wonderful. Love it
Fantastic good
But you brits you got to know
You got to know this stuff is going on
Right and you're perpetuating it. There's a lot of the
What's wrong, man?
Did you not listen to your classicists? Did you not listen to the historians of the language of mother greek?
God, where's everybody that wears the funny hats and stuff?
That's what we need. We need those people back with the funny hat. Where's give me the next one
It turns out jews and arabes. They're from the same from the same religion parent religion
It was by the way, you guys were way nicer to each other when you worship gods of sex and ecstasy
I'm just saying I'm just saying you're kind of on the extreme now, you know, I mean kind of getting misogynist, you know
Kind of going that direction historically
um, that tends to happen historically watch the misogyny and the culture be a reaction
by ultra
And it's why you've got the old the violence, right? It's why you've got the violence
Something's out of balance. You were sitting there on your island and you were saying ah, not us
Not us. I told you england
Not to sleep with america. I told you
You're gonna have to get a prescription now
Right. Oh god. Let's go to the next one. I love saying things that are totally just off the
Um, look what I what do I want you to do satanic congregation? I want you to bring me everything
I want you to spit out everything that leads us to salvation
And that's where we need to go. Um, I want you to confess
What do I want you to do? I want you to betray a secret or a mystery. See how I'm I'm not reading this in there
This is in the greek. I want you to confess what is going on in the mystery
I want to know why we're eating children. Did those children ever arrive? Where's that?
Where where is that?
Delivery guy. That's the last time i'm using that
Service, um, what are we looking for people? He hasn't gotten here with the kids yet. Do you understand?
Um, watch this people look at the second word eo days. Remember the eos is that aero poison. What are we talking about?
We're talking about eodotic flesh
Sarcas
Eodotic flesh. What is that flesh full of it's full peplis menos full of what pharma con
Pharma con
It's full of the drugs
It's full of the drugs. Do you know what you need in the mystery community? You need eodotic flesh
Is that why they call the virgin half virgin half viper?
Yes, because of her eodotic flesh
Remember I told you if you'd been in the mystery you would have understood this already, right?
You would have seen it take place
It would have fried your mind your eyes would have been open and you'd be walking around saying now
You know the best thing I ever did best thing I ever did was go to that mystery initiation
best thing ever
And you the other person would be like well tell me about you really can't
Right, it's the thing you got to go through it. They got to train you
You
Right, this is going to be a work of the muse that is
completely
Othlon
athletically driven
Completely athletically driven
Okay, this is no the muse doesn't mess around. This has got to be done, right? Give me the next one. Give me the next one
That was the last one. Yeah, so oh by the way this eodotic flesh. What do you do with it? You eat it?
Right, what is what do you do with flesh? You eat it?
So you quote unquote eat the flesh
And drink the blood and his question is here. We're asking the we're asking the woman who's been eating her children
What how can you do this and not die?
How can you eat this flesh and not die?
Remember what jesus said i'll give you that death inducer and it won't kill you you're
Remember what happened and eating their eyes were opened
All right
That's where you're gonna go
Into death and back and when you've been into death and back you can tell all your friends
Oh
Don't worry it's for this reason this reason right or you can tell your friends. Holy shit. You know what I saw
Oh, you've got to stop this or that right you can't we've got to we've got to change
things
That's the right that they're performing
But and what do we say? What do we ask this one? How'd you do it?
Did you have any assistance who knew the eos? Look at the second to last word eod
Did you have any assistance who knew the poison and let me tell you what she says?
Do you want you know why I can tell you what she says because I'm going to translate this now is a good time
To reveal the drama
Now's a good time to reveal the drama. Are you ready? Look i'm using the greek to speak for me
It's like automatic writing or something. I love it. Why are we doing this in order that you may escape?
The three emboss
In the day of judgment. What do I need to escape three emboss?
What is that? It's a hymn
to a to who?
Bacchus
Why do I need to escape that because if you hear that you're going to die
If you hear that it means they're coming for you orpheus
And they're going to take your head off
Okay, this is what you need some sort of pardon
From this day of judgment. You mean it's talking about the day of judgment. That's a pagan thing. Yeah
It is a pagan thing most definitely and um, what is she daring to do? So she says look
You got to do this stuff. You got to have some kind of anthropoctonus
Anthropoctonus, excuse me in english
It would be anthropoctonus
You've got to some have some kind of assistance who know about killing people
Right, you have to if you're going to eat your own child. You got to have to know how to kill them
Okay, do you understand
We're taking these children. We're subjecting them to rights that have chemicals involved
And we're putting them into death
To bring them back. Why would you do that to bring them back immortal?
Because once you've been across
You bring back with you the memory
Who's the mother of the muse the memory?
Of what is reality?
You are covered by a fog
a fog of confusion and the only way
For you to come to an understanding of your true reality is through this right
If it's good enough for cicero
You know what I mean? If it's good enough for cicero, maybe it's good enough for me
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who are the servants of this great priestess? Okay, I've shown you
I'm showing you a goddess tonight that she didn't realize she is an amazonian goddess
I've shown her to you. You're on lesbos where they founded colleges for women
For women. Why didn't they teach men because men are stupid
Men are stupid. Didn't she realize that?
okay
imagine a world
where the bias
is against
men
Because of their lack of intelligence
They're not biased because of their physique
And by the way anybody who's watched the olympics holy mackerel. Where was that weightlifter from? Where was she from?
Do you remember Italy? I think it was Italy. Was it Italy? Yeah. Oh my god
I watched her lift and I thought
This is
This is what it's supposed to be
This is like the potential. Is that why the olympics are so fun because they show you the potential
Right, because you know you and I'd be laying on the sidewalk huffing and puffing. We can't go there
We can't go there
right
why because
We stopped we stopped worshiping the gods
All right, it's okay though because you lost the formula you lost the recipe without the recipe. There is no
It's got to work through her and that's it. It's why it's why what's his name that rich guy? Who's the rich guy?
Mr. Brain implant what's his name?
Oh elon. It's why elon never finds historically that fountain
They never find that fountain
It turns out you can't have it. You can't buy it. You can't create it. You can't recreate it
It's got to come through the muse
It's got to be organic
completely organic and it's an organic process that is a
The formation of what they call a new or strange work of the muse
And this muse is the dark muse who devours the children
Give me the next one. I thought christianity was nice. No
No people give me the next one. Um, who are the helpers of this goddess?
Who are they? They're all around you. Are you ready? Her helpers are those?
She says that cannot be born
They cannot be endured
because of their force and that word for force there is the same word for the force that is used in
That word that we can't say
in
violent
Sexual encounters
Yeah
Yeah
Same word
Those diamonase remember I told you what the magic is the magic is controlling those diamonase. Guess what?
Who makes a person insane?
Who makes a person insane? Who makes a person hear things?
Who makes a person afraid and paranoid?
A diamon that word diamonase is just a capacity a power
And who controls those diamonase?
Those whose eyes have been opened
Now
Isn't it gorgeous
You mean I confirm a distance I can
This is starting to affect me. I bet
I bet we could find Henry Cavill. I bet if there's a way to find Henry Cavill
It'll be through dreams
It'll be through dreams
It'll will stand over his head will stand over him while he sleeps
And you can do what it's in the text here. I'm just telling you jewelry. What's in the text? Give me the next one
What happens? Oh god, we're in the middle of this cult. How do we how do we get out of this cult?
um
Look, you're with her
the
Prime oracle and where is she she is confined
In a place
Why is she confined somewhere because she has fled
She has fled her blood
Loving
enemy
She has fled from those
Who have the blood lust
Do you want
The blood of christ? I hear a lot of christians talking about that. I hear a lot of evangelicals
I know the power of the blood of christ. I know that you can say the power of the blood of christ and you can bind demons
Let's do that
Let's do that
Give me the next one. Where is she? She's confined in a they me us
Why is she confined in the void?
Why is she confined? Do you remember the woman who is in revelation?
Do you remember where she is?
She has a place in the void that is up with you
She has a place
Okay
We're with the child we're entering the child into death
We're bringing the child back to life
We must do this from the void
