understand
The quantum reality of the earth
Hiding the drama and it's time to release it, right? It's time this Byzantine
Nameless dead guy. Give it to me. What what do we do with this whole stuff?
What do we do with it?
We worship and serve the priestess
who is
That one who consumes the child
Right, you have to put yourself in that position
Yes, put yourself in that position. She who eats all of those other dead
and
Those beasts
Okay, give it to me give it to me now. We've got to put it in hyperdrive. Are you ready? Are you ready?
Iotalina Caimone
Panathlia
What am I doing? Does everybody see that there's a bachic shout?
This Byzantine author has preserved for us a bachic shout
You know, oh god
Right, who is she? She is this wretched suffer
She
Is entirely engaged in the contest
Do you know what the muse does the muse writes existence and that performance that writing
Is portrayed as an active a very active sport
It's a contest
Right, it's a contest. Let's see who can do it best
You know what?
Love it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. What else is this you Byzantine guy?
This is a dramaturge of
That very strange working of the muse
So what is happening now with the release of achlus?
The mist the death mist that is around you and will dominate you
that death mist
Reduces a new work of the muse and that is what the antichrist
Is here to do
Did we see the antichrist passage again? It's coming up. It's coming up. Where'd he where'd he go? Where'd he go?
Where does Medea
Where what does Medea not do?
He's very specific or Byzantine author is very specific
He she doesn't sacrifice the child the offspring
To her stomach
That's not what you're doing when you consume the child
It is an act that is not meant for yourself
It is an act that is meant for your offspring the earth
The prime oracle
Gives us what she gives us
For the sake
Of all of us
Not for herself
Isn't that gorgeous so the original savior and that's what he's gonna do
He's gonna have us confess for salvation right this because they're in a tribe. It's not a trial anymore
It's a woman who's eating her children who's talking to
Talking to a confessor
Yeah, I forget there's a title for him. It's in the first couple of lines
Um
Something decay it's got decay on the end of it justice minister of justice like anyway
Let's go to the bible because is this whole child eating thing and sacrificing thing in the bible
Of course it is because the bible is written in the third century right and it's reflecting things that are going on around it
So watch this faking
Of history what you're about to see is part of the biggest lie
Of history what is the biggest lie of history that the bible was written like
Eighth century seventh century. No, it wasn't it was written in the third century
Right and so what is going on in the third century? It's influencing the bible watch the story gets
Who is this? This is from the book of judges
This is chapter 11. This is yet. And what does yet the do?
He sacrifices his daughter
His child
Are you ready to watch him sacrifice his child?
Why would this judge of israel?
In this fake history because right when about the period that he's writing about none of this stuff actually happened
There's no archaeology for it
Right and it's obviously a fake
Right, it's a fake watch it watch how they they follow
He sacrifices his daughter. Why does he do that?
Why does he do that? Watch this here's the passage
Who is he after all? Who is this judge?
This judge
Who is he?
This judge of israel is the son of a prostitute
And it turns out
um
Her son was from a dude who you know, he was well off had a lot of things
And he had kids from his wife
And his wife and his kids got together and they're like you got to get out of here. You're the son of a hooker
You got to get out of here
Okay, who is this dude? Look at the next verse 29 at the top. What does he do?
And yet
The did what he gets the spirit of kuryu. He does what?
He enters into that spirit that pnell ma where the prophets enter into and he makes a deal
with yahoo
He makes a direct deal with them if you let me kill the army of amun
Because that's who they were fighting at the time
In the story
Right, why would they be fighting that by the way for the for the jewish people out there?
I want to liberate you tonight that stuff was invented in the third century your actual history is way more interesting
And you come through creed. Did you know that you come through creed?
Yeah
Yeah, it's fantastic. It's fantastic. They knew that in antiquity, right?
Why didn't we just read their works trying to figure it out?
Because the monism that is the modern religion of judaism is no different from christianity islam
Or what they came up with when they worshiped a ten under akhenaten
Who did they stop worshiping when they came up with the monism?
They stopped worshiping the augduad
The eight what what is it?
Uh-huh the eight was led by amun and they are the basic rulers
of the cosmos
It's a physics that's no different from the physics of the presocratics
It's no freaking different the mechanics are all the same
And what are the what are the monists do?
They said we know we're gonna have one god and everybody else is dead. That's all there is to it. It's dead
Right and we're gonna make up history
About this one god
Right, it's the same thing. They all do the same thing akhenaten's group did it
Right 1300 years before this right or a thousand years before the bible was written akhenaten was doing the same thing
He was a king a pharaoh who was coming up with a new system
That was a monism that could exclude all of his enemies
Right, that's that's never gonna work. It's tyrannical right polytheism is inherently democratic
Monism is inherently tyrannical. Why do you think they're all talking? Oh lord?
We're your slaves, but didn't you recognize the tyranny?
Remember what the oracle said straight from the devil man. I'm telling you you'll find no help
In your wealth for what you're about to endure you'll find nothing for it
Why your creed man your creed has ruined everything. It's ruined everything
Give me the next one. You're always like that. What happens with this guy?
He swears an oath
He swears an oath with yahoo and he says look if you give me so that I conquer this army of almond
What i'm gonna do
Is i'm going to uh sacrifice to you the first dude I see
When I get back to my home. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. This is a leader of israel
This is a leader of israel who's talking about a war that ultimately is a genocide
And what is he doing? And why is it a genocide because monism promotes genocide? Okay, so if you look at the history
Look at the history
What happens when you're trying to squash that one ethnic group if this god gives me the victory
The first dude that walks out of my house. I'm gonna burn them alive
In your honor
Okay, do you see?
Do you see what's going on?
Oh my goodness
It's rather sickening. So what happens he gets he gets to his home. This says transit, you know
Yes, I came into mas sefa his home
Place of his home and look look. Let me tell you what happened his daughter
His daughter came out to meet him right out of the house. So what does she come out with?
Watch this people you thought you knew the bible you do not
What does she come out with it says in tumbanois? That's with their drums
And what else horos?
With a chorus
Yeah, she comes out with a chorus. Why?
She is a worshiper of bakis
She's a worshiper of bakis. Watch what happens through so she comes out with her chorus, right?
And it says the text says she is his monogenes
She is his only born
Do you know what the only born daughter?
does
She bears the grief
The unbearable grief and what happens what happens it says she
He got he's got no other kids. That's it. She's the monogenes
All right, and what happens to her so she says okay, let it be right. She's fine with it
You know you made a vow you prayed your prayer
We're bound. It's part of our tradition. And so what does she say just give me two months
I'm translating allow me the time span of two months so that I can go around
On the mountains and I can mourn
My virginity and she says let me go and let all my companions
That is the the who's with her
Who's with her the daughter of the judge has with her a band of mean ads
She says let us go up into the mountain in our chorus
And let us mourn
My virginity
Then she comes back
She comes back when it's time when she's had her two month period
She comes back and she says
Here I am and so he burns her alive
He burns her alive
Now what does the text say you can keep that image up? What does the text say?
That the daughters of israel do it says this is why the daughters of israel
perform
this ritual morning
This is why they perform this festival. This is why they go up in their bucket groups
I just told you to the jewish audience out there. Not only are you originally cretin
right, but
um
You're participating in bacchic orgies
bacchic orgies
Yeah
Your religion is originally bacchic
And i'm not the only one who says that plutarch says that straight up
Judaism is taken from the worship of bacchus and then he starts to rattle off a whole bunch of for this reason
This week he goes through all the symbols and whatnot and all the priestly stuff that's going on
Um, so cool. Cool. That's your real heritage. You were not
honest
And by the way, that's how it works for the um arab community as well
Yeah, no you guys were worshiping bacchus and afrodite long time
Before you the the concept of a monist divinity ever came about
Remember it was only after that monist divinity came about who was a dude that you guys got the 70 virgins
You didn't have 70 virgins before that
Right that don't you think that that's not in the makeup right just
Listen to yourself listen to your inner
reasoning on that one
Right think about that for a minute
I thought we were supposed to throw the acid up. No, no, no
Right no
logic
That is your peg and root. Isn't that interesting what we've done tonight?
Isn't that interesting somebody comment on this? We just said
the jewish people
and
a particular group of muslims
We're originally from the same religions
Wouldn't that shock you?
Wouldn't that shock you to know that they were originally polytheists?
right
Oh my god
