It's whether or not the verb is being done habitually, whether or not it's a simple event,
whether or not it's an ongoing act, or whether the perfect aspect is an act that has already been done.
That is, you are in a state.
The perfect tense is you are in a state of having done something.
That doesn't sound like a past tense to me.
It doesn't.
It doesn't sound like I did or was doing.
It sounds like I have come to a place where I am done.
And that's exactly what the perfect is.
It's from its aspect.
The verbs have aspect to them.
Great.
Fantastic.
This is the morphology you need to learn from Unit 3.
Here are the endings of the perfect.
And you say, wait a minute.
It's just like the, it's just like the heiress, except for the third person plural.
Instead of on is assi.
Isn't that nice?
And look, there's a new movable after in the third person singular and the third person plural.
There's a new movable there.
Good.
You can tack that on the end when you got a vowel that follows it in the next word.
Good.
Here are the examples of I have educated.
You have educated.
He she it as educated, et cetera, et cetera.
Pe pi del cop.
People.
This tense, the perfect is formed from the fourth principle part.
The fourth principle part.
Okay.
So all you do is remove the ending of the fourth principle part.
Right.
You're going to take off that alpha and you got your stem and you just add all of these
endings to it.
I'm an assi.
Good.
Give me the next one, which is the plume perfect.
Plume perfect.
Here we go.
And what is the plume perfect?
Well, you just take a perfect.
I have done it.
Right.
Pe pi del cop.
Right.
You just take that and you add an epsilon augment on the front of it to change it from I have
taught to I had taught.
I had taught.
It's completed in the past.
So you got a past augment on the fog in the front of the verb and you've got that ending
now.
And here's your endings.
Look at the morphology.
A, A, A, M, and S son.
A, A, M, and S son.
Those are your plume perfects.
Right.
I had taught.
Good.
Good.
Now let's move on.
Those are the two tenses you've got to learn in unit three.
And then we've got a couple of other things.
Here is your subjunctive ending.
Now I'm only going to give you two tenses, the present and the heiress.
And here are the present and the heiress endings for the subjunctive.
They're the same in both tenses.
The only difference is you use the first principle.
Part for the present and use the third principle part for the heiress.
And that's how you'll be able to tell.
And that's why I tell people we've got to memorize all our principle parts from the
chapter.
Right.
Lulo, luso, elusa.
Leluca, lelumae, eluthane.
At least remember that one.
That one.
Good.
If we're in class together and there's nine of you, I can call on you.
I can say, what are the, you know, identify this verb?
Is it first person's anger?
What is it?
Right.
You can, you can say what it is.
We can drill each other.
Right.
So here's the present subjunctive.
Do the next one.
And I also brought along, and remember the heiress is going to be the same.
It's going to be the same ending.
So now we go to the obstative, the present obstative and the heiress obstative.
The present obstative is going to have different looking endings.
It's going to have different looking endings from the heiress obstative.
Here are the present.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
You should be saying that to yourself.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
Isn't that beautiful?
And so you just add that ending to a present stem paideo, and you get paideo on me.
Isn't that nice?
Okay.
Now don't worry about what it means.
I just want you to be able to reproduce the forms.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
If I yell at you in a classroom, if I yell at you, what are the present obstative endings?
You'll see.
Oime, oise, oi, oime, oise, oien, oimen, oite, oien.
Give me the next one.
What about the heiress endings?
Well, they're close.
Look, they look a lot like the present obstative, but the heiress obstative,
instead of having the omicron as their preferred vowel,
they've got the alpha.
Just like all the other heiresses have an alpha.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
And I want you to notice there's variants for the second person singular,
third person singular, and the third person plural.
There are variants.
Okay.
So you've got to be aware of that.
If you want to memorize one paradigm, memorize all the alphas.
Don't memorize the variants with them, so at least you've got that.
Oime, oise, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
Good.
Now, the next chart is going to just give us some vocabulary,
and I want people to be working when they work on sentences.
I want them to be working on vocabulary, too.
What is an athlon?
What is Allah?
Allah.
What is andi?
What is adide?
Adide.
Oh, don't be so virtuous, right?
Adide.
You have adide.
Ronan, retain their adide, even though they lose their Lord.
Isn't that nice?
It's kind of virtue.
Kind of virtue.
Then you've got a council after that.
Then you've got the verb right.
Look at the principal parts, people, and compare it to luo.
Grafo, grapso, egrapsa, gegrafa, gegra mai, egrafen.
Right now, we've had the first four principal parts.
We'll learn what the fifth and sixth are later when we get into passives.
But for now, all we've got to know are those first four principal parts.
Fantastic.
Deimos.
We've got lots of people there.
Democratia, right?
When somebody asks you, is democracy a Christian word?
You tell them, no.
It's not.
It's a much older Greek pagan word.
You don't have to say pagan.
It's a classical word, right?
Because pagans do funny things.
Modern pagans annoy the hell out of me.
Diop is a preposition, right?
And by the way, you have two pages of notes after these vocabulary pages.
They'll tell you things like, Diop, look, it can mean through.
That's where we get the meaning diameter.
That's where we derive diameter from.
What is diameter?
It's that measurement through the center.
Fantastic.
Oh, love it.
Love it.
It's not the circumference, right?
That's the runs around.
Oh, the stupid Romans.
Anyway, look at the verb at the bottom.
Thuot, thusot, ethusat, tethukah.
Look at that perfect tethukah.
All you got to do is add your ah, ass, eh, amen, ate, assi.
And you can say, I have sacrificed.
You have sacrificed.
He she had sacrificed, et cetera, et cetera.
We, you, they.
Fantastic.
That is what you have to know for that, this much of that unit.
The rest of the unit, we're going to talk about a couple of constructions.
We're going to talk about how to use the optative and the subjunctive.
And I want to ease into that.
I want to give you a little bit of time to catch up on your morphology.
And I want to give you an assignment, please.
This is magic.
Are you ready for the seven people who just left?
They're going to miss it.
Right.
So here's it.
This is a secret.
Are you ready?
I want you to read Euripides bakai.
Together with Lord Byron's wave came together with Oscar Wilde's Salome.
When you do that, you get the whole image.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I want to say that I'm going to go forward with bailing on Java and try to strike out on my own.
I'm going to try to do it.
And if I can, if I can keep the electricity on and keep the pizzas in the oven, I'll be happy.
So if you think you have what it takes to be in a class like that and that you're going to persist and have some, have some gumption.
Right.
Not see how hard it is.
Oh, mommy.
Right.
If you really are out there and that's the kind of student that I want and many of you have written to me.
Right.
So this is your opportunity to do that.
And I appreciate it.
I appreciate it.
So I'm looking forward to some applications and we'll see.
We'll see a next Tuesday.
Now I've got to decide a time and I will let you know on Friday, the time that will work best.
And if you can state in your application, your preferred time on Tuesday or Thursday, make sure you give a zone.
Make sure you give a zone like where you live.
Right.
So that, you know, because we don't all live in the same place.
Yeah.
So I'm looking forward to it.
I'm looking forward to it really.
And I'd like to have, he gives me an opportunity to whip together a platoon that can, they can do special forces type stuff.
I love it.
I love it with Mother Greek.
Okay.
We're going to, we're going to rock everything.
And by the way, I think we've totally destroyed the Perseus tops.
I think we've overloaded it with so much traffic.
I don't think the old thing was capable of handling at all.
Okay.
Which is a great sign.
It's a great sign to everybody involved.
Everybody involved.
What I want you to do for next week is to finish the description that we get of a grammar in unit three.
And I want you to start the exercises.
We'll go through all those exercises.
You will have a test next week.
We'll just be exercises.
You will have a test after we complete the exercises.
So not the session coming up, but the session following that.
Fantastic.
Love it.
Love it.
And that test will allow you to set your benchmark.
And the book is set up to do this for you.
Right.
So if you're following along, if you're one of the many people who are following along and wrecking, wrecking this class.
Right.
You'll know exactly from the exam where you stand.
Please study your vocabulary.
Memorize your paradigms so that you're saying them in your sleep and pissing off your family.
And thank you.
Thank you.
Keep working hard.
And let's make, let's make your brain huge.
Hail Satan.
Lady Medea.
Lapis lazuli lines the walls.
The muse sings with me.
Extra illumination for the vibration.
I have under me the knowledge of our Genesis.
Crystal towers.
The punisher Frank Castle.
Purple rain for the muse I sing her favorite song.
All night long.
No stems, no seeds that you don't need.
Got a bag of goodies.
Ice creamy cream.
Hail Satan.
Close minds forever.
Coming through in waves.
Towerhouse on the hill.
House of Frankenstein.
Darkness through dreams.
I dream of genie.
High purple.
Let's do your work you.
High purple.
High purple.
High purple.
Let's do your work you.
High purple.
High purple.
High purple.
Let's do your work you.
High purple.
High purple.
High purple.
Let's do your work you.
High purple.
High purple.
High purple baby.
I
