What's in your stomach?
Purple something the little bitch that you give to the goddess Athena follows and do you see a surprise?
She makes men fulfill their desires to be worth a woman
Christian with aphrodisiac
Once you are out producing the theory yeah, watch out your brain will open up
Athena with a purple cup
You begin the place
Welcome back to Lady Babylon this is I'm in you tonight and
What I am going to give you from the beginning. I
Must warn you this is our highest warning level. I
must warn you
This is difficult and I know we've been lots of places look
We got with Jesus on the mountain and m-mary was there and he was doing the self
Pleasuring and then offering it to her to eat or they were both gonna die. I
Thought that was the lowest, you know and
The naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested. I thought those
Were the lowest no
No, you haven't been to the mystery and tonight. I'm going to show you
I'm going to show you the mystery and I'm gonna use four
Dead people to do it
I'm gonna use mark. I'm gonna use Mike
That's cellist
I'm gonna use a
nobody an
unidentified
Joe
from the 10th century to the 13th somewhere in there
I'm gonna use that dude. Is there's nothing that says look there's nothing it says in the handbook
For those of you who've been reading the handbook you can tell me
There's nothing that says that I can't use a dead person
Who's got no name?
Right who's got no name. I'm gonna use him tonight and you're gonna see
Something something incredible. It's absolutely incredible. I'm gonna translate some Greek
I'm gonna translate a little bit of Latin and then I'm gonna read to you some English
But we're gonna start off with the big punch. Are you ready for this? I know I know
It's like that little surprise you get when you're like, oh, I usually saves that for the end of the day
You know what I mean? Here it is out on the table. I'm giving it right to you. Are you ready?
Here's the future
Here's the future pull it up pull it up
Chewie first one hit it
My son my child do you imagine that they will ever again restore literature or
Anything excellent the time is at hand. I
Told you when men will live worse than wild beasts for now
Antichrist is at hand
even at the doors and
Evil precursors in the shape of
Monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices no better than the orgies of Bacchus
must usher in this advent and
Whatever things have been represented by the Greeks in their tragedies as
Saturn and
Estes and
Tantalus devouring their offspring
Oedipus debauching his mother and Kenny Russ
debauching his daughters all these fearful
Enormities will break in upon our state
That is what I'm bringing you tonight. You see in order for the Antichrist
What's what happens in order for the Antichrist to?
Be found be discovered
What must be brought back are the rights of the mystery
Yeah
Fantastic, do you see what happens by the power?
By the power vested in that satanic contract
Yeah, I pronounce you
Apocalypse are you ready for this? Are you ready for this? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Are you ready?
Give me the first one. I just want you to look at the name. I just want you to look at the name here
Here here. Do you know what's going to happen? By the way, this isn't a freebie. This is a freebie from the Oracle
It's a freebie from the Oracle for everybody out there
Who is that?
honest
Who's searching for that apocalypse?
Everybody who's ready to initiate it. This is for you
You got this is straight straight from hell
Okay, here we go. You've got no defense in your wealth
your grade
Has caused you
To kick over the altar of justice
To make her gone
Invisible no longer present. You've done it. And do you know what's going to happen? Madness
the tyrant
Has madness because of your
Desire for wealth your creed your creed
Oh, isn't that gorgeous?
Look it up. Let's go to the next one. Watch this paper. What happens? We're talking about
Medea and
What what are we saying about Medea?
What are we saying about Medea? We're saying she performs
sacrifices and what kind of sacrifices does she perform she performs sacrifices on
Children her own
Do you remember the child sacrifices?
That's where we're going. Give me the next one. What am I bringing you? Give me give me. Yeah, give me that one
What am I bringing you? I'm bringing you
The woman who eats her own children
Who is and by the way, this is nameless dude or you know, he's supposed to be some cleric
But you know, that's who knows if that's accurate or not. It's somebody
Right and what is this Byzantine dude talking about? He's talking about the woman who eats her own children
What does it take
What does it take to perform the mystery? I'm gonna translate now. Oh
Earth
Who is earth? She's our first Oracle. Who is the first Oracle?
The medwa is the first Oracle. She gave her oracles from an island that exploded
She gave her oracles this is a woman in history
who gave her oracles as
Oracular prime
Talking about generations of what would happen in generations. Do you know what she was doing? She was weaving history and
She gave her oracles on the island of Thera, which
Everybody knows there was in the late Bronze Age. There was an explosion and the thing blew it
just blew its top and
probably contributed to
much of the
garbage
Dark Ages
They're followed. Isn't that interesting?
Volcano, oh, it's a beautiful place today, by the way, I highly recommend that you go there and
you visit these
perfectly preserved
Settlement cities
Yeah, it's gorgeous. Anyway, let's keep going. Let's keep going
How do we find ourselves on a picnic? We were just
Praying to earth
She who gapes who both gapes
And that is to open up to speak and what does she speak about what is hidden within her?
What is hidden within earth the drama the drama?
Who is God God is she who writes the play are you ready? I'm gonna show you give it give it
They love it. You know what I mean? What is that first word? She is what she is a spark to the yeah
That's a priestess
It also is somebody her poop who performs sacrifices. Did you forget where we were?
Right, we're in the Kersenese, right?
We're
We're with the temple of Diana somewhere right a bunch of
Amazonians run this place, you know what I mean? And when people wash up they get killed
Rides in there. Who are these people? There's those people who are processing the purple
There the people are processing the purple. Are you ready? I'm gonna show you tonight. Nobody ever believes me, right?
This is all new by the way for the Satanic congregation. It's all new yummy eat
Delicacies she is what she is a priestess and she is the swallower of the child
She is the mother who swallows the child
You see in antiquity
It wasn't a question of
a mother's capacity
To bring life and bring death. It wasn't a question of that
The earth
The prime oracle I'm talking about a woman now
right
Okay, she didn't notice Greek history was
Heavy and Mediterranean history was heavily have an Egyptian history was heavily heavily influenced
by mother Greek and
That's why we have all of this
Right, it's the language. She's the true queen and that's why you'd need a tower of Babel to come through her
Because she is that power. Okay. Yeah, give me the next one. Give me the next one. What else is she?
She's a pomfagos one who eats all
All what all the other dead things?
Earth the prime oracle eats
the dead and
The Therion now look at this word Therion here now. I know when the translators get ahold of this, right?
They're gonna screw it up
If they didn't already
Um
Therion they're gonna say beasts they're gonna say all the all the other dead and beasts does that make sense? No
No
Those beasts are part of the dead. That's all the dead. What are they talking about Therion?
Classes have failed to acknowledge the existence of a drug
class in
antiquity
Right a drug class those beasts are not
Beasts
Yeah, no, they're drugs
Yeah, and that's why we have authors like necander writing a theriac
Right because it's all about the drugs that will counteract all of these different
Poisonous creatures. It's all dotin and ado. What do you do?
Right love it. Love it. Give me the next one watch this news new stuff people. I promise, right?
We're we're bringing the future with us. Relax kids eat your meal eat your meal
We're bringing the future now. What do I do? What do I do? I invoke the
I
invoke the air
What do I what do I force the air to do and if you haven't been through the right?
If your eyes haven't been opened, you don't know what I'm talking about. So don't worry about it
For those of you who are new today magic is all about the control
The vision of and the control the manipulation of the demons
Yes, we're gonna have something so we're still we're doing that now and what are we doing look around you the air
Is taking on the form of a thick?
death mist
Okay, take it down for a second. Listen to what I just said the air around you is
Taking on the form of a thick death mist this death mist is a woman and
They call her
Achlus
Yeah
Yeah, this is what covers
she
covers the eyes of
the dead
She is the death mist
Okay, we talking about a priestess last time I read that I thought we're talking about yes
Anthropologically we're talking priestesses
Right fantastic fantastic watch we're gonna pull the Bible into so many give me the next one quick
We got it's gotta people are gonna run away
We got three minutes left till people run away don't run away
Watch this people. What is the air? What is the air? I just want you to look at number two
Right, they talk about mr. Hayes, right mr. Hayes
Look at number two the mephitic exhalations
These are the airs the Greek physicians like apocrates
Um
They write about the airs of a place you can walk into a room and there can be malaria there
There can be bad air
Or it can be good air
Yeah, can be good air and these airs will influence you like the priestesses who huff the mephitic vapors
Yeah
Okay, if you think
the Christians
The Jews and the pagans did not find
Their spiritual realities without the assistance directly of drugs
