To the winds
Toxication
Ripple cushion the air
heroin painkiller
Take it to the river
Bring the thriller
Goldworn dildos moilla
Medea the mother of invention
creator of the process flowers
Athena stings her songs
from death of a bone
High purple strong
go long
Poisonous arrows the poor of royal purple makes a noble shroud
Amidst the cremation of Venus
All my love for you all my love let zeppelin
Spare way to heaven
Paradise is close
Doing it right superman blimp crystal castle
Hollywood ghosts shimmy by the tree line
You didn't have to love me like you did but you did
Welcome back to lady Babylon. Hey Teddy
That's fantastic, bro. Your music is getting so good that I'm going to play it half way through this
Yeah halfway through I want people to get a little little more teddy in there. Oh god. I love it. Absolutely love it now
You thought last time was the worst
You thought it was the
You
And we're gonna bounce too close to that supernova again, we're not gonna get out of here chewy
Um
You thought last time it was the deepest and the darkest of any of this cult that I've brought out to you
From the ancient world. You thought it was I'm gonna walk you through something tonight that is the step beyond
Remember last time we translated
Untranslated Galen where Galen talks about you know these stick groups of people who are Christing each other
You know and you can get feces down your throat this way because they're doing the fination
Like the people from Lesbos do the fination
So tonight what I've done is I've managed to find a
source
Who describes to you and
detail exactly what
those people are doing and
Jesus is one of those people
He is
Buckle up people because this is gonna get real
This is gonna be so real. It's gonna burn your nose hair off. Oh my god. Oh
My god is this stuff? This is the dope people you
Thank me Satanic congregation. Thank me. Thank me in the comments because what I am bringing you tonight is
It takes that extra step beyond it takes that extra step
Where do we end up last time?
We ended up last time with the Christing in the throat
No, I'm gonna use that terminology
And you who have ears to hear now will be able to follow me
Fantastic fantastic, I've missed everybody in the last few couple of days. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Stephanie
Thank you, Stephanie. Thank you. Who's that Merlin? No, Marin
Marin thank you Marin. Oh and thank you Seth
Thank you, Seth. He has a long name
Bruh, Ray brah shout, okay, let's go for it people. I'm serious
Splash bags out everybody off off the ship. Come on. Let's go down tonight. Who are we pulling up? We're pulling up. Oh
God
Epiphanious
He's a guy from Cyprus. He runs the island. He's the bishop extraordinaire
And let me tell you what he wrote about in the fourth century
Let me tell you what he wrote about in the fourth century. He filled us in on the history of
Jesus and the people who followed him
Yeah, that's what he did. Oh, tell us Bishop tell us Bishop
What about it and we from the Satanic congregation?
We are interested in one thing and one thing alone
We want justice
And for those of you who have seen the king anointed
above
justice
You know
You know, what's coming?
You know, what's coming? It's prophetic. Oh god. I love it
Get me the first text here people. It's tiny one brought you a tiny one
We're gonna I'm sorry people, but we're gonna climax in about four and a half minutes
You're gonna see the crescendo
the crescendo of this entire show
Oh god, watch what happens. He says who is it? You know, it's epiphanious and he's saying look dude
right after
Just right immediately after everything that's happening with the early church
With the few people who started it right at this time. What's happening? I'm just gonna translate you there were these
Gnostics those you know what spread all over the place
You know what they were like they were like the fruits of poop
They spread all over you see that word you see the ending. Okay, here's where the Gnostics come from
We ended last time with our
With our copper on that were spreading on the body remember spreading the copper on on the body and we're putting it
Earwax, we were drinking earwax too. Remember it was a good time. I know you do
I'm gonna hold you to that because you were all there
um
We're picking up from there and what's happening here. He's saying look these these people
There's who these Gnostics. They're getting the wherever you throw poop grow up. Give me the next one, right?
Okay, so let's let's roll with it. Let's roll with it epiphanious. It says there's this one dude named Simon, right?
It's really he's really the first
Heretic he's really the first heresy
Right, this is the
Immediately after the crucifixion
Right, this is the early early church history
Right, we're gonna look at Jesus too. This is great, right? So that's where we got off
