Into coming to climax while you're dying
That must be quite a thing. That must be quite a thing
To undergo. It's no wonder they all come back and they're like, oh my god
Wish I'd have done that years ago
Yeah, some kind of
revelation
the beast
bears up that cup held by lady babelon
Yeah
Go for it next one. Let's get the good. Let's get to the goodies. Get the give me the next one. Look at what is
Ostenosis that paul is undergoing. It's a weakness or a faintness
right when
his
Love magic is strong enough for paul
paul will be in a state of complete
weakness
inability
You don't know the right you've never been to the third heaven until you've entered
That ostinosis. Give me the next one just in case you
Just in case you doubt
Look at ostinicos
Right, it's just another it's an adjectival form, right and it means weekly
And look what what's right next to that? Okay ready? I'm gonna I'm gonna pop that
that
False reality in your brain. What is it to mean to be in that weekly state? It means to be paideon
unless
You come to me paideon
You have no place in the kingdom of heaven. You won't make it
You won't make it the right requires
And that's why
Jesus has to be the way he is. He's got to hide
What's going on?
Because these are all the rights of the initiates
These are the mystery rights
These are those baptisms that we hear so much about you mean baptism is sexual. Yeah, and it involves some dyes
Yeah, good
Good. Good. Good. Hit me with the next one. Boom. And finally ostinums you guys look you can even
And surprise surprise the septuagen is the source here
You can even be in that state of weak mindedness
Think about that for a minute. You're gonna combine that asthenia
And we use this to work today in medicine my asthenia gravis, right? Same thing
Um, same route you can be a weakened soul think about that for a minute. What does that mean to have your soul weak?
Have your soul weak you have to enter in to this position of death
You have to enter into it's part of the if you don't have death you don't have resurrection, right?
Is that person aroused? Yeah, that person's aroused. Give me the next one
boom
Now I want to read this passage to you and I know people look at this and they're like holy crap
It's an hour. We're an hour in this. He's got a gigantic passage yet. But this is going to go fast
I'm just going to read it to you fast and show you a couple of things now
Paul says it was in there somewhere. I think I may have skipped it
But Paul says hey, um, this is how I got to that third heaven
Right, he doesn't know if it was an in body or out of body
Have you ever had one of those experiences where you're like, oh god, did that really happen?
right, and you're not just
Intellectually questioning it, but you actually kind of foggy about it. You know what I mean?
That's part of the experience
Paul is suffering the same side effects right the same mental haze. They describe it as the mental fog
Yeah, he's got it
So that is one right which is which involves you
and god
one on one
in a homosexual relationship
And a place that will take you thanks to that goddess
Will take you all the way to that visionary third heaven
If you want to go there you're gonna have to do certain things
Cyprian is gonna get caught in the cemetery with snake venom coming out of his butt
Right certain sacrifices you got to make if you want that vision
All right. Good. You know, it's the one thing Paul said that he had right everything else was
Everything else was fine. He had some trouble rationalizing it. That's all. Let me give you this. This is about Phineas
This is about Phineas and I just want to read here from the top
Um, and he reverents not a wit even Zeus himself for he foretold unerringly. Oh, um, Phineas is a prophet
He's one of these drug using prophets and we're about to see him
Doing his drug using thing
For he foretold unerringly to men his sacred will right he exposed Zeus all the time
Wherefore Zeus sent upon him a lingering old age and took from his eyes
the pleasant light
He took from his eyes the light
And suffered him not to have joy of the dainties untold that the dwellers around ever brought to his house
When they came to inquire the will of heaven, you want to go find out what the future is?
Hang out with Phineas and bring him some lovelies
Now this is very very common. You might think oh, this was the one punishment of Zeus on this guy Phineas. No, no, no
No, no the seers are always blind
And haven't you noticed that the seers are always blind and the better their sight
The better their sight the less their vision
The ones who are strongest in vision
Are totally blind
Why?
Because when you use the burning purple
It blinds you
It's a sacrifice you make
In order to see the reality
You have to destroy your own eyes
If your eyes
Are full of light
Oh god
Oh god, you mean these wackos or these wackos are doing this
No wonder no wonder he needs glasses. What happened?
He's um on a sudden
Swooping through the clouds whenever he was at his banquets getting high and talking about the future
The harpies with their crooked beaks incessantly snatched the food away
From his mouth and hands
And at times not a morsel of food was left that others put a little in order that he might live and be tormented
And they poured forth overall a loathsome stench
Do you know what happens when you mix these drugs with the foods that you're taking?
You lose the flavor
of life
And he's stuck. He's stuck. Why are these harpies doing this and who are the harpies?
You know who a harpie is do you have a picture of a harpie?
Chewie probably not give me
Um, who knows um the harpies. What do they look like?
Yeah, they are those
ladies
Who rip your soul?
From your body now if you've never had a woman rip rip your soul from your body. I'm sorry
No vision for you
Don't worry about it
You don't need to have the concerns that zeus is going to want to bash you because you know the future
Yeah, you don't want to but that's okay. That's okay. If you haven't had the harpies. You haven't had the harpies
um
Let's let's keep oh no you didn't find it blow that up
Blow that up. Are we on yeah?
And so what happens but all of a sudden, you know, they swoop down right in the harpies
They give you the you know, remember we're seeing these harpies
Right, we're with paul
We're hallucinating
We have those visions those apocalypse
You
You should have paid job
You should have paid job with chewie. I told you okay. I think we're back
Motion to me if we're there people are you live are people in my life? Okay
A fart. Oh god. All right. Look what happens. I leave for five minutes. You start talking about farts
Open put up the screen
redirect this conversation
I just want to finish this and at times not a morsel of food is left and they poured forth this loathsome stench
And no one dared not merely to carry the food to the mouth but even to stand at a distance
