Performing those mysteries. These are the same mysteries
That you pray to Jehovah if you want a gay lover
Okay
Same mysteries. There's sex all over now. You can see what they're doing. You can see what they're doing. They're
Holding up there semen and praying. This is the body
Hi, can you imagine to imagine at your church if you went into your church?
And at the end when you know, I love you seeing your hymns
Past the collection plate and the guy gets up there and blah blah blah
And then while you're getting ready to go and you're like, oh, I'm so getting so tired and everybody stands up and the priest comes out
Masterbates in front of you
Takes this semen and holds it up
Says here's the body come and get it
This is the real
How does that feel?
This is the real
I mean not that I wouldn't mind
getting in a
Time machine and going back. Maybe documenting it right making a documentary about it. Don't be wrong. I would love to do that
Right. Um
Rubs it in our eyes right watch. She's coming. Were you there?
Give it to me the next one give it to me. Okay people are you ready? I'm just going to translate this one to you. Okay, so
Yeah, so, um
The dude, you know in his own hand. He's got that he's got that stuff and he's standing there looking up in heaven
This is we did this one. This is what we just did go
Yep, here we go. Yeah now for those of you who thought what about the children?
Don't worry on the menu of this christian banquet
Is the imbron
I'm sorry stop stop. It's not funny. It's not funny
Shame on me. It's not funny
It's the embryo
Right, what are we going to do? You know what this passage says you're going to take that embryo
You're going to cut it up into little pieces and then you're going to put those pieces in honey
You're going to add drugs and oh a lot of mura
Right a lot of that stuff that mary's walking around with you're going to add that all up here
Everybody gets their own little communion cube
It's the chocolates of the pie. Do you of the little kid?
isn't
Okay, next
I can only stand so much of that
If you want to stay away look people with me anybody who stayed tan at congregation
You want to stay from the embryo or do or you know?
No, it's not or derbs you want to stay away from the the babycube or derbs
Yeah
I was going to say or der
That's different. That's the member. We'll go to that room and come out all covered with the poopy
All right. Give me the next one. Give me. Oh, there it is. Okay. Now. What's happening in here?
Don't forget we're going to use the running of the blood that comes from the monthly cycle
That is all part of it and it's called the blood
Of the non purgation and what are we going to do?
Um, we're going to all in common. We're going to s the uc
We're going to watch does not say what I think it does. Yes, it says we're going to eat it
The blood
and the flesh
Ladies and gentlemen at the banquet of the christian mystery
The blood and the flesh you wanted you wanted them. They're served. Remember
The witches bank where the food is always terrible
so
I highly recommend you take one of the baby cubes
All right, you take one of the little cops of menstrual fluid
and you know
You at least don't insult the host
And I love it. Okay. Who want wait are people? What's that people are messaging me? They want their ticket
They want their ticket money back, right? Did you didn't think that's what they're serving at the banquet?
I wonder, you know in all curiosity, I just wonder about those baby cubelets
Why honey?
Why honey?
Yeah, I don't know. Have they served the hella bore yet?
All right. Are you ready? I bet you need it. I'll bet it's got something in it
Some kind of chemicals you need it to balance the hella bore that's there about to poison you with
I don't know. It's just the thought. Hey, by the way, we all sign waivers, right? Everybody's just here tonight
You can't go back. You can't go back, right? Give me the next
Oh people look what look what else I brought look what else I brought
No, that's it next one
Look at this. Okay. Now. Here's jesus
It's for some of you who wanted to see jesus here in the whole midst of this
He says look epiphanes says look they write all sorts of books. I'm translating
They write all sorts of books, right? One of these is the questions of mary
Right. We're talking mary magslyn
One of these is the questions of mary and they talk about these different gods and whatnot in those books
And they talk about adam
Right. They they have the a book called the revelation of adam
Right adam is not a hebra name, right? It's a greek name. By the way, did you see
those
People in palestine did you see they have greek dna?
I love that. I love that right was learning about yourself is amazing. It's amazing
And what happens they've got other gods
Bulls, you know, I mean and some of them are attributed to those apostles, right?
That they know they talk about the salvation
Right and what oh no
Look at the look at the last word
Look at the last line
Jesus christ himself reveals the ice
Gion what was the ice crew gion? That's when we master body and then we ate it
How does he get away how does he get away? It's because mr. Rogers knows how to speak to the kids
Yeah, are you ready ready? Oh, there's more here. There's more here. Hmm. Uh, yep next one the ice school gia
So let's go see jesus do the ice crew gia
Right. Are you ready?
You will never think of jesus ever the same way again. You're welcome
