So fouley reeked the remnants of the meal but straight away when he heard the voice
Wait, wait, what and the tramp of the band
He knew that they were the men passing by at who's coming
Zeus's oracle had declared to him that she he should have joy of his food
So he rose up from his couch like a like a light. How did he get up right?
Remember remember Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. This is the same
This is the same action the attempt to move
Stumbly bumbly
Right delusive imagine if you're delusive and confused and you're trying to walk around
Yeah, you can you stumbly?
This is how finneas is it's the way the prophets get people. I'm not saying
this
They're saying this. Okay. Let's let's open it up. I can't see it. It's too small
Okay, and what happens and he came forth from the
But but but but no and he moved his limbs trembled with weakness and age
And his parts skin was caked with dirt and not but the skill held his bones together
And he came forth from the hall with wearied knees and he sat on the threshold of the courtyard and a dark stupor covered him
What covers your prophets a dark
Stupor
What is that? Can we see that just let's let's just throw it out. Maybe there's some can we find some purple?
Yes, can we find some purple here it is in the greek?
Here it is in the greek
caros de min am feca loops and por furios
This purple haze
Hid him in mental darkness and when he walked
Felt like the earth was moving around
Yeah
So he laid down
And entered into his coma
All right
All right. Do you see the visions that are happening?
Do you see the visions that are having they're happening to people who were stumbly?
Bumbly entranced ecstatic
and seeing things
Namely the third heaven
Hit me with the next one
That on audos by the way at the bottom that on audos. This is what the person is who is under the influence
Oh, by the way, the caros is just that heavy sleep. Notice they put torpor so the purple haze that you're in
All right, that is a state of torpor
Torpor
yeah
Yeah, excellent. Give me the next one
and
Watch this almost done. What is the on audos that you become now?
A lot of people would say for the greek people here tonight
You would say hey, this is the alpha privative. Look at that first alpha
It's the alpha privative that negativizes what's gonna follow it and you gotta have a new there because you can't say audos
Sounds bad. So you say on audos
Right, and what is audos? It's just that speech
But this is not simply someone without speech
That is someone who is afonos
Nothing is coming out. What is an on audos? It's somebody who can speak
But their articulations
are not
proper
You can't understand them. What's that dude saying? I don't know. He's blah, blah, blah
I don't know that guy's had so many drugs. You see that purple stuff coming out of his eyes
And he's got all those thorn pricks in him. This guy is a junkie extraordinary. He must be one of those christs
He must be
Paul is becoming a christ
You didn't know it did you you didn't know there was a love affair between you and johova, did you?
But there is
Watch what happens this stuff is unspeakable
Keep going. Do you know why paul says he can't say certain things about the unspeakable things that he learned
Because not everybody
Not everybody follows the mysteries
No
You mean
Judaism and its core
Christianity at its core
Is an attempt
An attempt to cover up sexual unions
blessed by
Ya Sabah
Yes
Huh
Maybe those vessels aren't looking so bad, you know, they have to stay virgins
Do you know why vessels have to stay virgins?
Because that flame goes out
That flame goes out when you accomplish the race the flame goes out
You need the person remember she's a poet
And you need that poet in that state
They used to say keep the lover at a distance from her
Never able to reach but close enough to be seen
So that the desire drives your poetry
Okay, we're those sons of were they clever or what?
That's fantastic. That's gorgeous. Give me the next one. We're almost done. Boom. Yep
Oh, you know again, you know what I'm late and you know what being late is late gets my goat. Did we do that one?
Yeah, no, that's okay. I said go so you brought Penelope Penelope. We love you
Say hello to everybody that's here tonight
And why do I show Penelope Penelope is a gift if you look at her cross and you imagine
You imagine that the cross
Is covering a multitude of your sins
You'll understand
What the right is all about
Praise jesus
Hail satan
Give me the give me the next one. Boom. I think we're done. Is that yeah. Yeah, we did that. Okay
I'm gonna bring in look tonight and I'm and you
I'm gonna bring in your drill sergeant
But I'm he's only gonna be here for a few minutes because he's gonna tell you how you're doing
And he's gonna tell you what you need to do to continue to succeed
So let's all sing happy birthday to
Actually, you know what I'd like to do instead of singing happy birthday because chewy his and
Teddy have spent so much time on these videos could we watch
That intro one more time could we could we watch the intro and then we'll watch the exit right after the di is done
Give me that intro
Ballerina come to see you
Fanatos with love Athena
Adrena chroma to your domain and end the war
I'm buying for peace all things hidden will be revealed. I'm freddy kuga with the purple stone
Hail satan
Medusa's home. I'm in the twilight zoning roots. I cut and grow them
Diff the ball you took it take two hits and hold it the witch she keep you loaded so good
They want my mow it I spit dragon venom through hell into the heavens
Hot fire is purple. I'm with the ashy ashtman where the horses ride
Flying through the night. I'm here for the promises. You feel all right
It's a policy
She keeps it tight
All right, thank you for coming tonight to the dojo
I know I've been getting a lot of your email. I've been looking over what you're doing
I want to make a couple of announcements their announcements. There are groups
That are on discord
groups of my former students who have gone through
The intensive course and they are setting up aids. They're very much like aid stations
Where you can be helped whether it's with the alphabet whether it's with vocabulary
Whether it's with the pronunciation that we insist on at almond you whether it's those things
They're helping you through those things and I know a lot of people have commented on how helpful it is
To my former students like Nancy and old boy
Who are working on those on helping people to be able to make it through the obstacle courses that we have to run
Now where are you? You are done with unit one
You read through the introduction
You read through unit one
You did the exercises in unit one and you were able to say okay
What I can do at this point I can recognize basic words
