God, it's gonna go back from here. Isn't it? Yes, it is. Don't worry about it. It fits right into the mystery
But what is Mary Magdalene do?
She is forcibly
The receptacle of the hyma of Jesus
For those of you who thought
These things are all made up. I want you to realize they're coming to us right out of the Greek
Right out of the Greek and as people begin to see this and they begin to say oh my you know
It's there's always that awakening that moment punch in the face
Right, you mean Jesus was up in the mountain with Mary Magdalene and makes sense about why they were calling her
Prostitute and all that kind of stuff like that. It makes sense. Let's jump. Let's jump head first
Right into some words tonight now. I'm in you tonight
Technically we're looking we're starting unit one because everybody hit the alphabet and we all know it
We all know it
We can say it now if they stop us and make a city alphabet walk lines. We can say it. Don't do that though
Here we go and unit one and what I want to introduce you to what is unique to almond you that you won't get anywhere else is
I'm gonna show you how words work in the hands of the great Greek mother
This is gorgeous. Give me the first one. Get no give me the first one up at the top of the top beautiful
Give me the first one here. We go before before we get there
I need you to know for reference sake because you're gonna be dealing with people from the biblical study side and the religious history and that
That religious history is a little bit better
But the biblical study side those people are awful and they take the reality and they contort it
And they say there's a reality that is ours the Christian reality and it's this fairy tale
And then there's paganism and everything else
Right and the two are not the same thing. They're differentiating between two people walking down the same Roman sidewalk
God
What lies?
We're gonna get rid of the first linguistic lie tonight as you're sitting here at almond you and you are
Entering into the study of ancient Greek. I want you to realize what ancient Greek is
What does this say to you? It says how many words did ancient Hebrew have because the biblical studies people are gonna be throwing
Hebrew at you and it's completely
irrelevant
completely
Historically irrelevant. It is a lie a language of fabrication
How do we know that look?
Look how many words did ancient Hebrew have according to the
Gilad Zuckerman the number of attested biblical Hebrew word is
8198 of which some two thousand are
Hopos
Hopox legumina the number of biblical Hebrew roots on which many of these words are based is around 2000
Okay
Bear that in mind
Bear that in mind ready hit me with the TLG. This is the thesaurus lingua graikai
It's a program that was put together when I was in graduate school. I had nothing to do with it
Right, and it's able to search you're able to be able to to
Do searches on specific words and find all the examples of where they are in the
4,000 plus authors that we have
Okay
Watch the number of Greek words in the corpus amounts to one hundred and ten
million
Oh my god, you are so beautiful
Lady Greek you are so beautiful hundred and ten million you can't even fathom how much
Thankery has been
While the number of unique word forms and this is the one that's really important
I want you to pay attention as future classical
Philologist, I want you to pay attention unique word forms is at one point six
million how many did we have in Hebrew a couple thousand
And of those, you know, there's a lot of place names and whatnot
So you only got a few thousand words that you're eight that have been
Left behind right through a fabrication process have been left behind. It's really unworkable
It's unworkable
What is the Greek have it's got one point six million
Okay, one point six
Million unique words and you are going to start forming
Those unique words and I'm gonna show you today how to do that. Are you ready? I'm gonna flash up a word. Boom
Historia look people. How's that spelled? Yoda sigma town on the crown row Yoda alpha
Where is the accent? It's over the Yoda
It's history. Yeah, not history. Yeah
Okay, nice. And what is that little looks like the open an open quotation over the Yoda?
That is the rough breathing
Which means we're gonna add an H sound
Historia
Not history, but history
Fantastic look look how gorgeous. This is now. What does this word mean? I want you to look at this word
Admintally, I want you to kill every vowel
What are our vowels here? Yoda? Oh
Macron
Yoda
Alpha, I want you to kill them. And what do you have left? You have sigma town row
What is that you say that doesn't seem nice?
All the vowels are doing and Greek is tuning the bass
All right tuning that root
Tuning it watch this
Historia sigma town rose
Is our root go to the next one and
What do we do with that root? First of all, what is the word?
Historia mean notice they're gonna give you inquiry right up front, right?
Think about this think about this when you're reading at the third grade level of the Torah
From the Masoretic texts that they back translated in a thousand
Right on Odomini when you're reading at that third grade level
You're not gonna be able to get the nuances that you can in the Greek watch inquiry
Look at look at under a are you ready people people systematic or scientific observation?
Is that sexy is that sexy? It's not sheep
Right, it's sexy
It's not sheep. It's sexy. Oh
God look at it linguistic sexiness
Geometry talking about in relation to geometry knowledge obtained or
Information right what is that science that we're gonna be using it's an attempt to obtain knowledge, baby
It says on the Temple of Apollo know yourself
These people are all about no sis
They're all about
understanding
And that is what is in the word Historia now I tell all of my Greek students
I tell them when you're looking at a word
Most of the time the overwhelming majority of the time that word is gonna be derived from a verb
from an action
Yeah, not always but a good majority of the time
Go back to the verb always go back to the verb that this word comes from
Next slide and you'll see where it'll give you a kind of a sense first of all, what do we have up here?
Look what look what happened to my word?
It's like a rabbit and had a whole bunch under the
Fertility God of ancient Greek and had a whole bunch of offspring while we were sitting there talking look at these
Historia right at the top there practice people. He stole that. Oh, there's your verb
There's your verb and you don't know what that verb means. It means to ask the oracle your question
Is that gorgeous?
Historia ma history that on
Historia
You like that look as we're going through. What are you noticing as your eyes as your eyes?
You're moving over these words. Are you noticing the same route?
The same route look when we get about halfway down. We have
Historiografia
What do you think? Historiografia is if I tell you graph is the route for writing
