Watch what happens, people.
Watch what happens.
Boom.
You know what's wrong with this place?
This house has bad demon.
This line of people has bad demons.
What are these demons?
Boom.
These daimons are going to be destructive.
They are going to be destructive.
And why are they around?
Why are they around?
Watch this.
The children of adipus, the children of adipus are hiding it in time, in chronos.
What do they do?
They very unintelligently go astray.
Okay, wait, what is it that I'm dropping when I run away from Jesus?
You're dropping that linen wrap that we are using to celebrate Pascha.
And there are others who are celebrating it just like us.
And I am telling you, they're going to catch us.
And I am going to get crucified.
And all of you, all of you little bastards, you're going to run and you're going to deny
everything.
What happened to Jesus?
Those are the words of Jesus.
This is the love your mother or your neighbor, like yourself guy.
This is the peace, you know, and love guy.
Who is this guy?
This is the guy that everybody says, oh, your philosophy was so good.
This is him.
He knows before he gets arrested with a naked kid, he knows.
He even knows somebody is going to betray him and he keeps telling them, you're going
to get scandalized, you're going to get scandalized, you're going to get scandalized.
Bring it up.
Bring it up.
Let's just show them.
Show them the cult really quick.
And tonight we're going to Matthew.
I know Mark is going to be walking along with us, but we're going to Matthew.
Next one is when he dropped it.
He dropped the scene down.
Now wait a minute.
Remember the Christians that you just saw who were saying it's crazy, right?
They think he's dressed.
They think that bandage is like some kind of linen suit.
And when the dudes go to grab him, they like rip him out of his clothes.
Yeah.
Why did they put the word garment in that translation that that dude just read, that
he made you think he was translating in Greek, which he was not.
Because he inserted words, the translation, inserted words that are not there like body
with naked.
It's not there.
Yeah.
Trying to make sense of a very embarrassing situation.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
What do we do, Mark?
How much do we put in there?
Right?
They had the letter.
Didn't you see the letter?
Okay.
And look, here's the verse with Neoniskos.
And there was the certain Neoniskos assigned to Jesus, right?
Because that Acolythus verb there is something you talk about with slaves or soldiers, typically.
So it's a kid that's signed to him and he has that scene done wrapped around his naughty
bits, right?
And they grab him and the kid runs away and he's naked.
He's totally naked when he runs away.
Give me the next one.
What had Jesus just been saying?
Jesus said to them, all of you, I'm translating, will be scandalized.
All of you, this is going to go quick.
All of you will be scandalized.
Hold on, Chewie.
We've got interceptors.
Hit it.
All of you, tell me, Jesus, what do you mean I'm going to be scandalized?
Remember, who's he talking to?
It's the night or the early morning of his arrest.
And he has been with 12 teenagers from the age of 10 to about 18, 19.
He's been with 12 of them and he's been washing their feet without anything covering his private
parts because that's what he uses.
He uses his frigate underwear to wipe off their feet.
And then he gets one of them to go nuts and leave after giving him something.
After giving him something.
And later that kid, we've got one description of that kid dying from what appears to be
poisoning, a perfect description, just like he described somebody who was in the right
and ODs on the blister beetle using the same clinical description, right?
You didn't see it.
You didn't see it because you didn't go through the Greek.
And that is the disgusting reality that you produce, you're an embarrassment.
You know what I'm doing?
I'm kicking down the doors of your stupid church and I'm taking your Bible right out
of your hands.
Your guardians are stunned and on the floor because they are inadequately trained.
When I stay, I'll have the Bible.
Thank you.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Boom.
Watch this, people.
Watch this.
Where are we?
Oh, um, if you're, listen, you remember this, I'm going to start translating.
You remember it.
But listen, if your right eye scandalizes you, take it out, throw it out, take it out and
throw it out.
And you're like, wait a minute, wait, what?
Okay.
Um, if that eye, which is dexios on you, what's happening is you just think positionally
your right eye.
I don't know.
Maybe the guy's going to thank for right eyes.
No, it's the terminology, the magic I are using, right?
You always have on the right side for very specific reasons, just like you do on the
left side, cult wise, that turns the tables, right?
Whoo.
Here he's got, if your right eye is being a cause for scandal, take it out.
Now what, what the, I still don't understand it.
Who's scandalizing what, what does it actually mean to be scandalized?
What does it actually mean to be scandalized?
Peter says to him, by the way, Peter says to him, even if everybody's scandalized,
this is not me, not me.
What is that scandalized?
It's trapped because poor Peter, poor Peter believes what he's been engromed to believe.
Yeah, right?
What is that scandalized?
It's trapped.
Have you ever been trapped in a situation where people can look at you and say, naughty, naughty?
This deserves the death penalty.
Crucify him.
That is what Jesus is talking to Peter, the teenage boy, about.
All right, give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
People are like, oh, be quiet.
Blessed is the one who isn't scandalized to me.
You know what I mean?
There's got to be some love between a groomer and his teenagers.
You mean Jesus Christ was a groomer?
Remember what he's trying to beat?
It's why he doesn't say anything when they first question him in the religious court.
It's not a lace days.
That's what he says.
Keep going, right?
I'm not that one who traffics and sells children for sex, right?
Now is that a cult or is that a business or is that a mafia type deal?
No, no.
It's piracy.
It's taking advantage sexually of other people for the sake of a cult.
The cult is the power that keeps everything going, right?
These people have all come to Pascha in order to what?
To be killed and to be raised again, to be given that Thanasimon and to be raised from
the dead.
We're going to see them all do it, okay?
Be patient.
Please with me.
Please be patient.
Give it to him.
Give it to him.
What does this one say?
Oh, my God.
And then Jesus said to them, what all of you are going to be scandalized and what's going
to happen?
They're all going to turn and run away.
He says it's been written down, baby.
It's been written down.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Give me the next one.
Boom.
And what happens when, uh, when Jesus finished all this blah, blah, blah, he said to his
mathetais, wait, he said to his what?
To his students.
I'm going to show you that age group.
Look at that word mathetais.
Great students.
It's a student.
He says, look, Jesus is getting set up here for the Pasca ride.
He's getting set up for it.
And he says, look, I'm going to be betrayed and I'm going to be crucified.
So all night, the student has been talking about, he's been bumming us all out talking
about it.
He's somebody.
You're all going to be scandalized.
You're all going to reject me.
You're all going to like denounce me and you're all going to get out of here.
Right?
Okay.
We're going into Pasca.
So Jesus himself is performing the right.
He too is entering death and resurrection, just not in the way the fairy tale made you
think it was.
Did you think the tomb was a ho?
Here he comes.
Walks in this body.
It looks like it's glowing or something.
Oh, yes.
Is that what you thought it meant?
That's not what the text says, baby.
I got bad harsh news for you.
He was doing a right that other people were doing.
He was performing the mystery and you can't say that it wasn't concurrent.
