To require a remedy
Do you see what's going on in the ancient pharmacy? And this is what I love telling people most because nobody studies this it's fun
The pharmacy is complex polypharmaceutical
So they are using a bunch of drugs to combine with to make one drug that they can use
To fight another drug. It's not fighting it. It's balancing it
Did you want to see the visions? Let's get to Paul
Let's get to Paul when he starts making love to god
don't
tell me that
Did nobody believes me nobody believes me. Can we can we jump down really quick?
I hate to do this. We'll come back, but I want to jump down to right there pull that up
Hmm people I promised you this and I know most people, you know, they they want the goodies
This is a spell
For a man to obtain a male lover now normally what I do is I bring you
our ancient texts in Greek
But this one is Coptic
And I don't even look at Coptic
So I wouldn't dare
Right
I learned my lesson from watching almond and dan
Right if you don't study that language don't say anything about it because you're going to look really goofy
When the tide turns and all of a sudden the guy's contemporary and you should know the term laystace. It's exactly the same time
They're writing the gospels
Is it relevant? Yeah, it is. Well, the other thing dan says it can't be in the same region
Right it's from a different part of the world. No, it's not Lucian was a Syrian
Mm-hmm who ends up in Egypt
That's exactly surrounding Judea
Yes
It was perfectly. Did you like that?
You don't want it takes to generate a hole like that. Oh my god
Let's do this. What is this spell for a man to obtain a male lover?
Look people it's a Coptic text
And it is so what we have is basically an Egyptian
Writing that has been influenced by a Greek culture and is using Greek terminology
They're using these spells. By the way, these are Christian and Jewish spells
Christian and Jewish spells
Still using
Still using those Greek powerhouses
that
Taught them how to perform the magic. They're still using them. Watch what happens here
Um, this text contains the same sex love spell commissioned by one hoo-ha
Um to bind another hoo-ha
Right, we don't care what their names their lovers good
This name literally means the old man and the monk, right? What do we need to know that? I don't know if we need that
By means of a variety of powerful utterances
roost
roost
Roost now
I told you there are Greek concepts all through these things
Um, this is one of them. The roost is the running that you have from your body
It is your seed or your ejaculation
Huh
Like your agonoroya
Is that running that you get when you are infested
With the things that cause you to run from your
privies
Yes, um, cheer here's to the brits for coming up with the words that don't sound dirty but are
privy members
Give me your put your privy member
privies
Now what do I say when I'm trying to attract my gay lover?
Right, it's kind of nice. That's all that matters. The hoo-ha details don't matter
Give me the give me the very bottom the next slide. I mean give me the next one. Boom
Watch this people watch this. Who is this that we are invoking?
Look at the second line. We're talking about the power of yaho sabba off
Who is that?
You know who that is that's johova
That's johova
I told you they were jewish spells
That's johova
What does johova do?
johova brings together
gay
Lovers
Did she make a picture of that
Give me a that's what johova does
Okay, and you thank to yourself
What a world
Is that
being embraced
This is a part of the magic
So at very least
We know that jewish society at the time that this was written in
fully embraced
Yeah, fully embraced one person's desire for a same-sex relationship
The fact that it is magic does not say that it was on the down low
The fact that it was magic was says that this process
Of performing these rights
was
saturated
With spells just like this actions just like this when we meet to perform magic
We know there are sex spells there are spells in there for christian men to inseminate christian women
Did you know that?
Wow, did you know you can do things to people in their dreams?
And the christians are the ones who are piloting the dream vessels
Don't you want vision?
What do you think apocalypse is?
Let's go to paul. He's the he wants vision. He says he wants vision go back up to where we
Oh, good. No go back up to where we'll come back to that go back to where we skipped
Who do we we we skipped over somebody here was the second verb for the father macao
Now before it was father macao and this is father macao
Are you ready that means to medicate and it gives us the varied little reference that we had there
But then I want you to look I want you to look at number two
It's also used of an arrow
And it's used of that really weird witchy thing that people do when they get bewitched
And they get all excited
Do you know what happens when you get excited?
When you get filled with the god
Oh
We're gonna see the purple haze coming up. I'm serious purple haze, baby. I brought it for you. Give me the next one
Oh my god. What is the auntie dome? It's just the antidote, right?
It's just I just wanted you people to know I'm not making this up. Look antidote
Right. I want you to look at one medical author. His name is paul of ejina. Now modern greeks say egina
Right paul of ejina. This is him and he's a physician
He's a physician a Byzantine physician. He's not just a Byzantine physician
He's an encyclopedist or he's a he's somebody who laid down like all of the principles of medicine
Here's where his little hometown
You know, there's the island. Whoo. Nice gorgeous, right paul
Good for you making a living go hit the next one. Um, what does he say?
I just want you to see a text that you will never see nobody's ever going to show you this ever
You can go to oxford. You're not going to see this guaranteed
Um, what is he talking about? This isn't a section I was reading. Um, that talks about what do you do for adenoids?
What do you do for tonsils?
Right when they get infected and he talks about here. Look, you've got to make this trochusk this
Little pasty this little pill and it's got a bee of amber and then you have to take
What else do you got a compounded together and you got to have that limny and earth?
Right and you make the seals. Oh, look, we've been here. He's doing the same stuff. Galen was talking about
Right. Oh, that's fantastic. And what do we do? We employ it this way after we add some blah blah blah
Okay. What I wanted you to see what I wanted you to see is that he is actively involved in using the terms
That you see scattered all over the new testament and old testament
Okay, he's using those still he's later. He's Byzantine doctor
And they are still using them
Huh, they used them before the bible they used them after the bible
Hmm, let's go the next one. Uh, Dan'll never know. He won't know who these people are. Look people just look at
And just peruse this sometimes and pause it and just peruse it. He says at the top here. This is from his
