Right, it's a sacrifice not to mention this human sacrifice stuff
What, you know, it's just not it just doesn't cut it brah
Your prophets. Oh god, right? They got no mother
They got no mother
When the abomination of desolation sits in that inner space, you'll know run. Let's see. Okay. This is gorgeous last
Um, yeah, and it has the oh it has a form of wings
Nobody ever believes me until they actually see the evidence but remember I told you guys the stuff makes you fly
Right
This is where she's going. This is where the kora
Is going
She's flying
Wow
Wow
And it causes the
cattle
That are struck by it. It causes them to skill toss and they skill toss and
What is skill toss those of you or my students who are reading the bakai right now?
Right, and you'll say oh, wait a minute that verb is used
That's what the bakin does the bakin enters that. What does it mean to skill?
It means to jump around the frolic
Like a young animal in spring
frolic
This is what the drug calls you to do. Okay, imagine
group of a hundred women
Under the influence of this drug with weapons
Yeah
Imagine what unholy beauty
Could we possibly
Could we possibly bring
That would outshine that right as the girl shines
So becomes the woman
All right, what does that mean? What does that mean? You'd never hear a christian today?
Evangelical catholic. I don't care. You would never hear a christian pondering as goes
The shining child as the child shines through
The woman is born
Right, it's gorgeous
And it's all based on that fruit and bringing her out bringing out eve people say can you reproduce the mysteries?
You could
But we're all scientists here. We don't care about your beliefs
We're scientists and if you could reproduce the mystery you'd have to end up with the same product
You'd have to end up with eve
all right
Can we bring back eve isn't that the funny that that is what the question comes to in history
And we can stand back when you say no to jon avarque
We can say no your visions are from the devil
right
We can stifle it you can stifle aphrodite all you want. She'll break through
That's why all your preachers and priests are in sex scandals
Right because this is satan's realm and aphrodite is in charge brah
Aphrodite is in charge. You don't get I know I just want to talk to you to the evangelical women who are out there
right
You cannot overcome necessity
You will want
You will want to express the voice of eve you want to
Yeah, why?
Because it's the beauty of nature, man
It's the beauty of nature
These people that we're reading you these texts from
These people understand it and they know the drug connection. So next time some scholar comes to you and starts
Moaning about drugs and if we shouldn't be studying this or this is not important or I don't see any drugs
Right open up your eyes people. Look at the sources
This is something that we have completely abandoned as p as a
As a group who writes our own histories. This is this is completely out of it. Yeah
Yeah, love it
Thank you porphyry genitus for bringing us
The purple I think that was all the I think that was all the you know, I had a couple other
Uh, that's okay. That's the last
Let me just make sure look just to end on this to oyster is to ek my now to ek my know is to be out of your mind
Right. So there is a power
that is feminine
That has the ability
to bring you
out of your mind
to submerge you in death
and to bring you back
into a resurrected
newborn state
and that power is
the savior
Thank you for coming tonight. I'll I'll run off to
Late run off to the lady Babylon site that we're going to and thank you very much for attending
Um
Thank you for your time and hail Satan
