Maybe some people
Recognize their sexual divinity
Um, but in antiquity
We're talking about a ritual
In which sexuality plays a part
So and it's impossible for us to get there
Without the drugs that we're harvesting within the sexual practices
You cannot have early Christianity went hand in hand with sex
Right with hand in hand with sex. We know that their agape feasts were being broken up for having mothers and sons have sex together
Um, we know that people were filleting the male member who was the leader of the
Theosos they would have called it on the greek side. Yeah
Coven if you'd like christian coven, right?
And we know that the ophites
Because they carried the symbol of the serpent. We know that they were um, were told by the christians who
Who didn't want to accept them the heresiologists who established an orthodoxy. We know that they ate semen
Yeah, right, right. So when a christian
fillets
His pastor
Um, it it is after they've invited everybody into the agape feast
And then they say it's a it's probably a ritual expression, but it says they kick over the lamps
No, I don't know if they actually kick stuff over
But they turn everything off. They turn the light sources off and um, then because they've stripped by that point
They just mingle and the problem was the romans were saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, you know, your orgies are fine
We've got orgies all over the place. We don't we're not concerned about your orgy
Right, it's the fact that you're not discriminating man. This is not you can't have an orgy with it
mother and a son
Right, that's just no, no, you just can't do that
So, you know, hey, it was because the christians were born within the roman empire
They had to follow by the roman empire's cultural norms. That stuff was better off. You're better off an asian minor
Right, you can get away with that
Right, you get away with that in parts of greece as well
You know, but you can't you might argue thracians could get away with it, right
But
You're not going to get away with it in rome. So when the romans are breaking up the christian assemblies
Where the mothers and the sons are having sex together, you know, um
You know, it's just a hops giving a jump for us to go to alexandria and arrest all the pirates right and origins like
I gotta cut my penis off, right?
Just doing that and all that kind of stuff
Yeah, it's a crazy time. Okay. Um, I want to pull us back
I'm meant to get there through the violet right and I need to show us a couple more wait
I I haven't hit my climax yet for the
For the top bring that bring bring that up more great flood us
Oh, look, this is tiny. So I'm gonna have to look really close
So I don't mean to be like weird or anything as if you know, because I'm pretty normal guy
But I'm gonna go ahead and read this look
Oh, just you're gonna have to look into my eyes. I don't care. I have by the way in my eyes. I have
I have dead people
Look at no look at my eyes. Can you see the can you see the universe? They used to take me in for
At the hospital to show
The medical students because I have what looks like a solar system
in both of my
Eyes, right and it's a corneal thing. It's a corneal thing, right?
But um, anyway, so I'm a little bit self-conscious. I'm sorry. That's why I don't like to get up close. Um, my students used to
Say don't look into his eyes
Can you believe that they loves me though? Okay, and at these most look at this. What is this thing that she enters into?
um, that
Violet enters into right that io enters into it's the erythesmos, right that which is called wea
This is that fly. This is that gadfly. It's the mania afrodision
And you hear the afrodision, you know afrodite is in there
This is the mania of the aphrodisiacs
And you just discovered a whole new religion
You just discovered a whole new religion
We have aphrodisiacs that will induce a miraculous mania
Yeah, the priestesses of aphrodite
Are the ones that are dealing them and using them and that's why
That's why it's suspicious when these fairy drugs end up and marry Magdalene's hands
Yeah, the popartons are donor
Um, fantastic. What else does it cause? It causes a porosus. This is a porosus this thing
Entering this phase. It's a heating. It's a burning
It is lissa
It is lissa. Do you know what lissa is?
lissa is mania
Lissa is what you get when a rabid dog bites you
You get that mania
You get that mania. Do you want to put this on you can put this mania on
Imagine yourself
Under the influence of the mania inducing aphrodisiacs
Yeah, you're gonna come out naked, but your eyes are gonna be open
Your eyes are gonna be more open than they've ever been
This is what joeva doesn't want you to have
But
You can have it
I'll give it to you
You know, he left me in charge
I'm not going to keep you from it
All right
Remember the devil is the best looking of everyone
Right and the smartest
So I don't know
Maybe joeva, you know, he's just thick brah joe is just thick
You know, he's kind of gangsterous and he's just thick and he's got a problem with women
