Yeah, porphyrygenitus
Constantine porphyrygenitus
What is he like the seventh? Yeah, who cares? Look at his last name his epithet. It's not a name
It's an epithet
He's Constantine born in purple
What?
Yeah
He has this manual put together, right? Can you believe nobody reads this stuff?
It's amazing. You know why because people have called it a farming manual and who wants to read a farming manual, right?
I read cato that bored me to death
Right, it's just got lots of good information. But you know, it's not on the
It's not on the hip list. Nobody's gonna make a
Make a movie out of this thing, right?
So I want to take you to that tonight and I just want to read you a
passage about a woman
and
I want you to see a few terms that are associated with this cult thing that we're watching on full
Before us this mystery religion
Yes, I fear for them
I fear that I know I shouldn't I shouldn't but I fear for them
I'm gonna read this to you. It's a little unwieldy. This was uh, nobody has this by the way
I have not seen an English translation of this thing, right? This is the English. This is the geoponica. There we go
This is the geoponica and it is
It is perhaps the best kept secret. Why because it's composed of a whole
Plenitude of authors
From antiquity that we don't any we don't have sources for any longer
Right, this is where we find them quoted in this thing
And they're all huge into drugs
There's so much drugs and medicine and magic in this thing. It's
It's it's unbelievable. It's unbelievable. Okay, let me get set up here. Give me a second
I
Want to read to you from the geoponica
And i'm just gonna let chewie keep that up for a second so people can see the greek to start with
But I want you to start feeding them images. Okay. I want you to start feeding them images as we go so we can all keep up
Okay, Ion to antos x haste o nomadze taigegonen
This section is an inquiry into violet
The violet yes that you know, um flowering plants
Yes, we're looking at different
Plants that can well give you certain things that can do certain things, you know things to interact with
The violet
Derives its name from her
from
io
or io
Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? And why is that because zeus was in love with io?
And being in love
He coupled he formed a pair
He formed a pair
And in an attempt
To prevent
Hera
From seeing to prevent any sort of proof against him
He created an alteration of nature itself
Yes, what did he do? How did he make this alteration?
When he was spotted
He hid
What was produced?
He disguised it. Yes, he disguised it and he changed a woman
Into a cow
Yeah
And that transformation
That was an alteration of phoenix
I'm working directly with that nature
Right. He's in that garden
It's why eve is there, right? It's that cry that shout
There he is changing. Look at him. He's what what is he doing? He's changing her
For those of you who are my greek students it uses anthropon
Right, but it uses a
Definite article that's feminine before it right. We haven't seen that but you know what that means
Right, that's nice. He made a human who was female into a cow. Fantastic
Fantastic in the earth
honored
The beloved of god
The earth honored the beloved of god
Yes
that
Power
The earth
Put into making that flower
That is the portion that is the nemesis
Of that cow
The nemesis that cows nemesis
What is that?
What is that the thing that was produced they called that which comes from her and through her
We are initiating
Into the mystery
Through what comes from her and through her
Yeah, does that sound familiar to anyone if you've been
living in a mystery religion
if you've been
living in the
