It's too late to be in the dark harbor, sailing paper boats, too late for your necromancin'.
There you go, oh shit that's some heavy stuff, am I driving okay?
I do the thing with Katie Katharina the wheel, Tabas Dark Cheech and Charm, suited up Hugo
Marcelino, won a lot of mushrooms and black cherry jello, left some old.
It's too late to be in the dark harbor, sailing paper boats, too late for your necromancin'.
There is no satire in what I am about to show you.
I appreciate you coming tonight and I appreciate your time and I have some of the finest, some of the finest wares tonight.
Now you don't have to buy them, I'm giving them to you.
It's lovely, it's lovely.
Tonight we're going to resurrect a Roman.
A Roman, so get your stuff together.
This is serious people.
This person died defending his own people against a volcano.
This is a guy who had somebody follow him around and read to him 24-7.
Isn't that amazing?
Would you like to have that?
Would you like to have that?
Well, he's going to be the portal tonight.
Through which you and I, I'm so happy, say Tenet Congregation.
I'm so happy because he's going to be the portal through whom you and I hit those rock bottom vampires.
Oh, if you have come tonight to see the origin, you will find it.
Tonight on Lady Babylon, we're just going to bring up Latin sources.
I know it's a bit of a change, it's a bit of a change, but that's what we're going to do.
And now I must apply the warning, right?
We're still on ships still, right?
Everything's going, times, we're going back, first century.
We're going back to the first century.
Oh, God, you're going to love it.
We're not going to look at anything you've ever seen before.
We're not going to look at anything you've ever seen before.
Yes.
Oh, we're going to get down.
We're going to get down to the fluids tonight.
We're going to find out what it is that makes us rock.
All right.
All right.
This is Rome, baby.
This is Rome.
Did you get the sacred name?
Yes.
Here we go.
Here we go.
Bring it up, Chewie.
Give it to me.
Who are we talking about?
We're talking about Pliny.
And what is Pliny talking about?
He's writing this incredibly long, natural history.
Incredibly long, natural history.
This thing is ridiculous.
This is from book 28.
This is from book 28.
And what is Pliny telling us?
He says, look, we've talked about all the medicines that are derived from nature, right?
And interestingly enough, from that space, which is between Uranos and Gaia.
Uranos and Gaia.
God, can you taste that authenticity?
This guy is educated.
You know what I mean?
This Roman is true Roman.
Do you think you're Roman out there?
This is real Roman.
You know what I mean?
He's the one.
Look, we can look at all the herbs, right?
And all those remedies, right?
Also, once from the animals, right?
These things are things that bring health.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
What can we say then beyond this?
We can talk about the ones that come from people.
Wait a minute.
What?
What?
Right?
Yeah.
You hear surprised, right?
Here we are at the party.
Everybody out.
Everybody out of the ship, right?
Go, go, go.
Okay.
What's on the menu for tonight?
We're going to get to the baby blood eventually.
We're going to get there, but just wait.
Just wait.
First, Pliny's got to set us up.
Look, what are we talking about tonight?
We're talking about those fluids and substances that come from us that are healing.
Let's take a look at it.
Give us the next source, Chewy.
Oh, God.
Let's start.
Let's start.
Yes.
Oh, here.
I'm going to put my glasses on people.
Look at this.
Let's start out, right?
From those things which come about from people, you know?
This subject's not easy, people.
It's not easy.
Okay.
Are you ready for this?
Are you ready for this?
They drink the blood of gladiators.
Wait.
Who?
What?
They drink the blood of gladiators.
Those who are the Cometalis, right?
Those who have that illness, they drink the blood of gladiators.
And what do they do?
They do it like it's a living cup, a living cup of communion.
This is the chalice.
Did you want to know what the chalice is?
Did you want to know what the chalice is?
I'm bringing you.
I'm bringing you the chalice tonight.
Are you ready?
Oh, here's their equivalent of, oh, Jesus, right?
Oh, Hercules, right?
He was a sauteer too, you know?
