the way the grove is.
It's a grove of Aries.
It's a grove of Aries, child of Hera, she who nourishes the soul.
Okay.
So you can't even get in there.
This dude is crazy and he's got poisons and he'll paralyze you right away.
No questions asked.
Right.
Okay.
Fantastic.
This is the kind of woman that we're trying to find.
We're trying to get you and me and Yahoo.
We're all trying to find this Amazonian woman.
We're going to pull her out of Adam.
We're going to pull her out of Adam.
Are you ready?
How are we going to do that?
You'll see.
You'll see.
So what does the servant say?
He says to the woman, not with death, you're not going to die with death.
Right.
Because God knows.
Keep going.
What is this curious now?
He knows in the day you eat from it, your eyes are going to be opened and you are going to
be hostile.
You're going to be like God's.
Now you say to yourself, wait a minute.
The Bible acknowledges the existence of God.
Yes.
Why is that kiddies?
It's because it's written in a time when the people acknowledged the existence.
The existence of many gods.
And here is God and the devil and Eve and a little struggle about who's saying what's
what.
The devil says, look, you're going to, you're not going to die.
I'll give you the Thonisimon.
Did you realize the devil is a Christ?
Did you realize that?
I will give you the death inducer and it won't kill you.
Okay.
Right.
He just doesn't want you to see the world like he does.
Okay.
That's okay.
That's okay.
We're back.
Right.
So here is the devil, right, proving, proving that God is a liar, just like the people who
took the Greek and created a fake Hebrew from a dead language that only had 7,000 words.
That is a lie.
The devil from the very beginning has been one who has towed the line when it came to
that lie.
Don't lie.
Don't lie.
This is the devil's kingdom, right?
He knows.
He knows.
Fantastic.
Beautiful portrait.
Right.
Beautiful portrait.
The Bible disproving itself.
The Torah disproving itself because of the Torah is the original and it doesn't have a
completed set of words.
It doesn't have the concepts that are on the Greek side.
Yeah.
What are you going to do?
It wasn't good enough.
Did you know the text itself acknowledges?
And the person who's speaking is God.
This is in, I think it's either Isaiah or Ezekiel.
I'm pretty sure it's Isaiah.
He says, look, I'm not going to send you to a bunch of people of an advanced language.
I'm going to send you to the people of Israel, right?
So the text itself acknowledges the weakness of Hebrew, right?
And not to mention, it sounds like an insult from somebody in the third century whose Greek
was strong and they were on the side of pro-Greek, right?
People think that Judaism was a reaction, you know, the Hellenistic rebellion against
the Greek was, you know, that was what was Jewish.
There were lots of Jews who were plenty happy to be stuck with Greek and with that old dead
language being just apart.
We didn't even put that in our synagogues, people.
I talked to, bring it up one more time.
I talked to Gnostic today and he reminded me.
He reminded me, he said, you know, is Jezreel, the Jezreel Valley has that kabut there with
the vineyard?
Hey, hey buddy, the Jezreel, we'll pretend he's here.
We're pretending Gnostic is here.
Hey Gnostic, hey.
We were talking about the Jezreel Valley, I just wanted to tell us a tiny congregation.
We were talking about this Jezreel Valley and I lived there, I happened to live there.
And I used to ride horses all over the place.
I was that guy.
I loved it, absolutely loved it, but wait, why did I even start here?
Look what you did, Neil.
Look what you did, you knocked it right out of my brain.
It'll come back to me.
It'll come back to me.
Stop, quick, Chewie, divert him, get him to the next slide.
Don't run away, people, how unprofessional.
I don't understand how this person operates.
Give me the next one.
Here we go.
Are you ready, people?
What's going to happen?
Yeah, and the woman, okay, here's Eve.
What did she see?
She saw that this tree was good for the sake of consumption, right?
This looks like something good, right?
It's, you know, look good to her eyes, right?
It's useful, right?
It's this fruity, fruity fruit thing, right?
It's Orion.
Do you see that word Orion?
That's fruity.
That's fruity, like coming, pop.
There's a fruit.
Oh, it's gorgeous, right?
That's how it's described.
So she took it.
She took it and she ate it, you know, because he told her, you're not going to die.
You're not going to die.
And what happened?
Now, remember, something that is kicking in is analogia, analogia.
You're going to sense a strain of oracular writings here.
The author of this work of Genesis, who is undoubtedly the same dude that wrote Isaiah,
definitely, right?
This dude is now creating a world that reflects the things that are going on around it, right?
And what are they doing in the mysteries?
They're using a vox.
They're using a voice.
So you're going to have to look for that voice here and it shows up.
It shows up all over the place, right?
And it shows up here.
She ate of that thing, right?
And she gave it to him and he ate of it.
Do you understand?
Eat of my flesh, drink of my blood, right?
They are entering these ecstatic states through these processes that involve the botanicals,
that involve all sorts of compounds.
