He put the man whom he had educated into a paradise, a garden.
You can say garden if you want to.
You can say garden into a paradise.
A paradise of pleasure.
That's what the Greek says.
Would you be surprised if I told you the Hebrew dropped us out completely?
Show me what the next slide is.
Where did he put this dude?
He was educating him, you knucklehead.
He was educating him.
What did he do?
He put him where in a place of luxuriousness, a place of wantonness.
I told you, you need to be wanting tonight.
You need to be wanting.
Do you see the anthropology that's behind the text?
Do you see that stuck in the language?
It's like every once in a while you smell an ancient fart.
You're like, oh, God, I know.
You could partake of that again.
It's not to say there's anything bad about them.
The smellers.
Give me the next one.
Here's the Hebrew.
Just in case there's anybody.
Now remember, why would the Hebrew lie?
Now, look, there's nothing.
Go ahead and search it.
Here we are.
Are you ready?
Calm down, Yahu.
Look, who's got authority here?
Genesis 2.15 in the Hebrew.
And look at it and see, are you going to find any sort of garden of pleasure there?
Are you going to find any wanton people there?
No.
Okay.
Then stop.
All the scholars, pull your pants back up.
Okay.
Gird yourselves.
This is supposed to be the Hebrew that was the original that the Greek was translated from.
And you're telling me the Greek dudes or the rabbis, they said it was 70 rabbis who did this.
Right?
They all got the same words.
And don't worry, they were in different cells.
It was all hoo-ha-boo-ha, religious ceremony.
And what happened?
You know, that's the story.
None of us buy that, right?
The Romans are sitting there looking at him like, I got to go somewhere.
Are you going to hurry this thing up?
So that's what we're supposed to believe.
If this Hebrew was the original, what did the Greek dude or the translator do?
What did he do to just pull something out of thin air?
Do you know that's not common to just pull concepts out of thin air when you're translating?
You have to have some basis.
You have to have some rational basis for making a word what it is.
Dropping it now.
If this is a Greek translation of the Hebrew, then the translation is in error because that's not in the Hebrew.
And here's your rational conundrum that kills 2nd century Judaism.
Yeah.
The religion.
This is a religion killer.
Are you hearing what I'm saying?
It's an anti-Christ.
It's an antidote.
It's an antidote.
This text is supposed to be originally Hebrew.
But the Greek translation, suppose it, has a word there that's not even a whiff of it.
And the text.
It's an invented.
It's just a pop.
Just pop it in there.
Just, yeah, totally falsify it, right?
So you tell me.
You tell me, is this that or is this the case that the Greek is the original?
That the original makes sense the way it does and is beautifully, fluently Greek, ancient Greek.
It's gorgeous.
And that the Hebrew translators were sitting around saying, oh my God, how are we going to translate this?
How are we going to translate this?
They only have 7,000 words, people.
They got barely enough for breakfast.
Right?
Now, you confront.
What's odd is you confront biblical scholars about that.
And they just beep.
And if they have to answer something for it, they'll make something crazy up.
They'll make something crazy up.
No vowels, man.
Language with no vowels.
Did I fool you?
Yeah.
The devil fooled me.
The devil fooled me.
I drank the stuff.
Next thing you know.
I got twins.
Give me the next passage.
We're going to show people what's going on at this mystery party.
Remember, we're invisible.
So it doesn't matter.
You can't see stuff and touch stuff and hurt it.
Look at verse 16.
This kurios commanded Adam.
He told him.
He said, look, in this place,
you can take of all the trees you want,
except for the one that is the tree that brings the knowing.
The knowing what?
The knowing what is Kallon and Poneron.
That which is beautiful, good.
And that which is not beautiful or good.
Right?
And he says, look, when you eat from it,
when you partake in it, what's going to happen to you?
You're going to die by means of death.
And you think, well, that sounds like a weird way.
That sounds like a weird way.
Isn't it a natural to die death?
Is there any other way that you're going to be dying of death?
If you take this, it will kill you.
It is a death inducer.
What did the devil tell Eve?
Right?
He said, that Jack is a liar.
That kurios is lying.
And remember, remember, he's still the best looking.
He's best looking around.
Period.
Period.
His job there is to guard the tree.
Is to guard the tree.
Huh.
Okay.
Is there anything in that tree?
Is there anything in that tree?
Would anybody be surprised if there was an association
between that skin of the lamb, that lamb skin,
that lamb of God, that lamb skin of God?
Would anybody be surprised?
Of course.
No.
