It's pointing to somebody masturbating in a public, in a, sorry, he's off in the woods
at that point.
I'm sorry.
I get all, I get all of his meeting places where he meets with kids, Jesus Christ.
Can you please get your meeting, get your spots all squinted.
Get your places.
He takes the children there, he takes Mary there, right?
Give me the next one.
We've got to give, this is the last people.
I know it's coming.
Let's just get that, we're going to keep going.
Boom.
Yep.
Here, go to there.
Boom.
I want you guys to see this, right?
I want you to see the ecstasy one more time on verse 21.
Ecstasy.
Ecstasy.
Please, and tell me what ecstasy is.
Boom.
Look at this people, displacement, that's literally what it is.
That's like the most literal you can be with it, displacement.
What kind of displacement?
Look at number two, under Roman numeral number two, distraction of mind, right?
From terror, astonishment, anger, right?
And then we get the word, entranced, you know how you have these, oh, put a spell
on me, somebody put a spell on it, this is what they're talking about.
They're talking about putting you into ecstasy.
And I know you're thinking spell is in Disney, no, no, I'm talking about the power to affect
your cognitive processes, the power to put you into different altered states.
The Kurios, who takes away the Airwars drugs, he is giving this to people.
You didn't know that God stoned Adam.
You didn't know that God gave him a one-way ticket to crazy fill, did you?
And he ends up, he ends up, the one that he ended, he didn't want to take that one because
he knew they're going to end up, you know, there's music, people are naked, right?
And the devil's like, okay, tell Cain, I'll see him later, give me the next one, okay,
I'm going to give you one more, because this is, I want you to see the reality, go ahead.
We're going to skip that Hebrew, look, there's a lot of Hebrew that drops out.
It's like, you know, you see what I'm doing, you're taking it from a graduate level down
to like a third grade level.
And when you're making that transition from Greek to Hebrew, right, it's just the mechanics
of only having 7,000 words to work with it.
So I wanted to leave you with this verse.
The Lord watered us with the spirit of cotton nukesales, what a spirit of what a spirit
of what the spirit of cotton nukes, what is cotton nukes?
It's a spirit of stoop of faction, people, I can take you all over the Bible, I can take
you all over your Torah, I can take you all over your minor prophets, I can take you all
over the Psalms, I can show you the intoxicating power of God, I can show you how this was
in the minds of the people that made your Moses and your Jesus.
When Jesus is going around doing the stuff that he's doing, where do you think he's getting
all of these ideas?
He goes down to Alexandria, he goes down to Egypt, and he comes back and all the rabbis
are like, oh, isn't that guy smart, smarty smart, smart pants?
Why?
Because you've got no educational institutions, you've got nothing.
Judea is an armpit, check out the archeology, it's an armpit.
It's a place, it's a place on the road, you know what I mean?
You're on the interstate, that's all, and it's, you know, it's not a big deal.
The Romans hated it, they had to come in and build toilets so people would poop without
tromping around in it, seriously?
Do you think that the language that is developed in this place, they're still stoning each
other publicly?
Right?
What do you think the Roman governors thought of this?
It's barbarian, dude, what are they doing?
Do you think that their language, do you think that the language that produced this society
archeologically?
What do you think of it?
Are they going to be leaving a lot of stuff in the dirt?
The scrolls they want, nope, they aren't, they found one pot, a couple of pots, in one
cave, Qumran, and they thought, oh my God, we have a literate society.
No, man, there is no Hebrew, it's only for the freaks, the monist freaks.
The rest of the Jewish world is speaking Greek and reading Greek works and getting, oh, so
high on those lovely, lovely, lovely Greek tunes.
They're doing it.
Why?
Because the history of your cosmos is a history of mother Greek.
It gets my goat when people step forward and deceive and deceive and tell you, this goes
back to the Hebrew.
No, it doesn't.
The word Messiah is never there.
It's never there.
It's Christ you keep translating as Messiah because people through history bombarded,
governments and created their own legitimacy.
But the language in these texts, they never stop.
They're always going to be there and it gets my goat Penelope, it gets her.
When you don't follow the cross to its end, when you can only appreciate the cross without
the sin that is behind it.
Yeah, there's a problem.
There's a problem.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I will report back to the devil and tell him I told him and we'll see.
We'll see what happens.
But for some reason, the dude is obsessed with the Garden of Eden thing.
Totally obsessed with it.
As if it is itself, the performance of a mystery.
They said that Pan was dead.
Perhaps he can come back.
Perhaps there is the eighth man.
Perhaps.
Yes.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I want you to continue to absorb and hold these texts.
There is coming a day and I am just excited by people coming in and just having hunger
for the Greek.
People are so hungry for these ideas.
These amazing ideas that cause your brain to have to sprout.
It's gorgeous.
Absolutely gorgeous and that so many people are hungry for it that we've crashed the textbook
industry on intensive Greek.
I think that's fantastic for everyone who's writing and sending art.
Thank you.
That's absolutely fantastic.
I love it.
I love it.
We need exhibitions.
We need a return and just taking hold of these texts will do it.
It will keep us immune from the people who are coming to us saying you have to learn the
Bible.
Thank you for coming tonight.
It's my privilege and my honor to teach you.
Next week on Friday we'll be back with Gnostic Informant and he will be here as my subject
of an interview.
Fantastic.
I love it.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I'll see you next week on Gnostic Informant and I'll see you next week on Gnostic Informant
I have under me the knowledge of our genesis, crystal towers, the punisher Frank Castle,
purple rain, for the muse I sing her favorite song, all night long, no stems, no seeds that
you don't need.
Got a bag of goodies, ice creamy cream, Hail Satan, close my eyes forever, coming through
and waves, powerhouse on the hill, house of Frankenstein, darkness through dreams, I
dream of genie, high purple, let the issue work you, high purple, high purple, high purple,
let the issue work you, high purple, high purple, high purple, let the issue work you,
high purple, high purple, high purple, let the issue work you, high purple, high purple,
high purple, high purple, baby, high purple, high purple, high purple, baby, high purple,
high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple,
high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple, high purple,
