And what is she? She is one who makes you immortal.
She's one who makes you immortal. She did it to John.
She did it to John the Baptist. Do you remember?
Do you remember how she made him immortal?
Yep. Yep. She did. She did. She did it all for the dance.
This is very capable. When you're in the hands of mean ads,
you're very capable, very well organized, very psychotropically bent.
Yeah. Trained. Trained and ecstatic expression,
but in a militaristic way, very militaristic way.
And by the way, it makes you hungry for that blood.
So, you know, off with his head. Isn't that fun?
When women can be able to tear a man's head off as a group,
you know what I mean? That would be the society
that we need to bring us back to civilization.
At least that's what the fifth century in Athens shows us.
What is this Bacchus? What is this Bacchus?
I wanted you to see people. It's a whole bunch of things, right?
But look, number two, it's actually one.
Number one, of course, it's Bacchus, the God, right?
And you can call him in number two below.
It says Zeus Bacchus, right?
You know, this is, you know, that's like Zeus Amon, right?
Exactly. Look, it can be the wine, it can be the Bacchus,
or it can be a branch carry. Keep going. Keep going.
Boom. This is what we're doing.
Give me the next one.
We're entering that place that Eve brings us to.
And what happens? What happens?
Oh my God, through these locale runnings, right?
Through this compulsion, this woman is pushed, is pushed.
And what does she do? She gives birth.
She expels, it says, from her nadus, from her matrix.
She expels from her matrix, this child, right?
That's who we're talking about. We're talking about Dionysus, right?
And she, what happens to her?
She leaves off the ion in the strike of the lightning.
Yeah. Are you there anthropologically?
Are you looking at the right?
Right? This is stage production, right?
This is something that they're bringing that Bacchic procession
to a place where it can be public.
People can see it, right?
They're taking the mean ads and you've harnessed them as a chorus now.
Harnessed their voice as a chorus.
You still got them running around, right?
Sometimes you got to make them stop doing what they're doing.
They're getting out of hand, right?
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one, son of Korra, a.k.a. Virgin.
Nice. I like that.
Give me the next one.
I'm going to give you, got a couple more here and go.
Did we forget where it was?
What does this God have?
This God is Tauro Keron, right?
That's what he is.
He has the horns of the bull.
He has the horns of the bull and you've seen this image.
You've seen this image, but do you really understand what that means?
Do you really understand what that means?
This is the horned God.
This is the horned God.
Where's Moses?
Did you get Moses?
What are you thinking, man?
Get out here, Moses.
Get out here, Moses, and show us your horns.
Show us your horns, Moses, so everybody in a Renaissance mood can have a nice holiday.
What is he, stage frightness?
Get out here.
Moses.
Moses, chewy.
I can't entertain the troops.
Oh, there he is.
Moses.
Look at those.
What's he got?
What's he got there?
What's he got hiding behind you back there?
It looks like a book.
It can't be a book, Moses.
It can't be a book, man.
They didn't have those books then.
If you had a scroll, I'd have been a little more convinced.
Where's Mike?
Mike, get up here.
Seriously, fix this.
Look at his, what's he got in his head?
He's got horns, right?
He's got horns.
Sitting right there.
Sitting right there with Moe.
Sitting right there.
Why would they do such a thing?
Because as classical civilization was stifled by Christianity,
a pressure built in the Dark Ages, which is what I'll call the period,
and little cracks developed in the fabric of life.
And through this crack came little springs of classical wisdom,
little springs of it here and there.
Little springs that were untainted.
They were untainted by any sort of modest Judeo-Christian Islamic philosophy
or anything vocabulary, anything, no influence.
