It's not just a kid that was like the last Christian apologist I saw explain it.
Jesus walked by and let off a glory bomb.
He was in a cemetery.
He had used the term, you guys saw it, glory bomb.
And out comes the naked kid because he's crawling out of the grave.
He's like a frigging zombie.
Right?
Now, if you believe that, I have a bridge for you to sell.
That kid was there for a reason and he was naked and he was with a medicated bandage.
Somebody wanted me to explain it to them today.
So I'm going to say it really straightforward because I know that most of the congregation
knows this.
Right?
Jesus is arrested with a kid in public park.
Right?
And that kid has a bandage.
He's naked and he's got a medicated bandage wrapped around his penis.
Jesus is using the boy as the cop.
Yes.
And so that medicine from that bandage and the kid's fluids are being used.
It's what's covering his face.
Right?
And they're like, ew, what's the stuff on your face?
Well, it's because they're getting the antidote.
Right?
That kid is becoming the antidote.
And I asked the toxinologist, what is the, you know, what's the deal?
Why can you use castrated boys or prepubescent girls whose breasts have been treated with
drugs?
Can you believe this?
I found this in Galen.
Yeah.
Talking about the small grape-like breasts of the virgins, what do you do?
What do you paint their breasts with?
What?
Right?
The level of tech that we have lost is phenomenal.
It's phenomenal.
And it's because of our language, people.
We're in the mess we are because our languages suck.
They suck.
Give me the rest of the hymn.
Let's read the rest of this hymn.
Right?
What is she doing?
She comes to us.
Are you ready?
She comes to us, this all queen.
She comes to us in the third time.
This is really hard to translate.
It literally is the third times, right?
So here's how the universe works.
So you're ready for some quantum craziness.
Here's how the universe works.
It's in cycles, right?
And those cycles are two on, one off, repetitively.
Yeah.
So time itself, Chronos, is linked to this cycle, two on, one off.
Simile comes in the off time, the third time.
They call it one third time.
Again, I don't plan, I don't, I don't claim to understand this.
I don't know how it works.
I don't know how it works.
I don't know what the physics are of this.
But this is the salvation of the mystery is in this one third time.
Okay.
Give me the hymn one more.
I'm going to read it and then boom.
And then what, what does she say?
This is why they're going to celebrate Bacchus, right?
Because of this birth, you thought the virgin birth was one aspect.
And sometimes maybe somebody said, why is it so important when I was a young Baptist?
I can remember a thing.
Why is it so important that Catholics, that whole virgin birth thing?
Every time I read about the spirit of the Lord coming upon this virgin, I thought, oh, so what happened here?
I shouldn't be watching this, right?
Right?
Dragons are blind, baby.
We don't need to see that.
Oh my God.
Right?
Protecting the virgin hit it.
It's important because the mystery is that birth.
It is that birth.
And you say, wait a minute, I didn't see that coming.
You didn't see that coming when the culmination of Christianity is the marriage?
You didn't see that coming?
Oh my God.
Amazing.
We need a whole room full of anthropologists.
We need to drag them through these texts and just see what their teeth can pull out of the dirt.
Oh, give me the, give me the bottom one.
Finally, why am I doing all this?
He says, I'm praying to you.
I'm praying to you, great Korwa Wanasa.
And it uses that old Greek, that old Mycenaean Wanasa.
There's a diagram on the front of that.
You can't see it.
That last word in the first line.
And what is he doing this all for?
To make her to be gentle-minded toward the initiates.
Gentle-minded.
