You're beginning to see that image. Let's go give it to me again.
Yeah. No, the one before. Give me the one before one more time.
I just want you to see that he's being snatched from that burning.
She is allowing him to go through something that we know is a chemical process
to cause that individual to become invulnerable.
That's what Yahu was trying to do with the Ewa for Adamas, Mr. Invincible.
And what happened? What happened? Devil stepped in.
Oh, and it got sexy, baby. It got sexy.
They ended up naked. They ended up naked.
You know, if you show up, chewy, if you send the best living guy in the universe,
like for you, that's Henry Cavill, right?
If you send the best living guy in the universe in, something's going to happen, right?
It's just, it's some laws. It's the laws of nature.
I love that. I love how nature works. It's a power, baby.
You don't have to, your religion doesn't have to be contrary to nature, right?
As a matter of fact, the ones that are pro-nature seem to be able to perpetuate these advanced languages
and these philosophies and sciences and democracies.
Yeah. Let's focus on those. Those are the ones that we need.
Are you ready? We're going to dredge that up. We're going to dredge that up. Go.
Hey, what is Dionysus say? I have come as the Son of God.
Dan, Dan, here it is, Dan, the Son of God.
I want you to be able to see this. I want you to be able to see this.
And by the way, Dan, Phaos is never used to represent divine.
There's an adjective for that, Phaos.
And they use that all the time. As a matter of fact, we're going to see it in a minute, Dan.
So stop making stuff up. You seminarians out there, come here.
Seminarians and Bible scholars. Get all of you dead people. Get over here.
That had some kind of, where's that cheerleader? Let's go.
Go to the next one. Look at this. What does he say?
He says, I've come as the Son of God to this land of thieves.
I'm Dionysus, right?
Whom the Korwa bore.
Yeah, similarly, when she was giving her locale runnings.
And how did she do it? She did it with the lightning bearing fire, the lightning bearing fire.
I don't even know what that is, but I know that it brings one from a point of having locale runnings
to being alive and having a live kid sitting on your lap.
I know that. I know that. And I know that's what similarly is involved in.
And everybody knows, go to the next one. Everybody knows now that similarly's name is the purple.
Koklias, right? Everybody knows that it is that purple.
And you say, wait a minute. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you understand where the lightning is? Do you see what happens?
There was an ancient saying, if you reveal the mysteries, you bring the lightning.
If you reveal the mysteries, you bring the lightning. Do you know that stuff that was in Deus that was inside of the being horn?
Do you know what it was? It was lightning and it was removed.
It was removed. That power was removed. Yeah.
A poet got it back. A poet got it back for him.
Yeah. And his reward, you could call it, was harmony.
His reward was harmony. Do you understand for a minute?
I just want you to stop and step back and say, how much metaphor are these people willing to use and exploit?
How much analogy do we have to, well, do we have to put up with?
This is what ancient Greek does. It allows you to think in analogy.
It allows you to think as if everything down to the finest material is analogous that there is an organization that you don't need a course from Harvard.
You don't. That you have the capacity inside of you. And what's stopping that from coming out?
It's your stupid language.
It's our stupid languages that's stopping us from advancing.
Yeah. What happened? Who killed ancient Greek?
Who killed ancient Greek? Ancient Greek got defiled.
It got defiled by the ecclesia.
Oh, God. And that union produced a child that was, well, let's just say special.
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Back to the real stuff. Hit it.
What is it? What? It's necessary. You listen to Bacchus now. Are you ready?
We're hearing this. You realize as we're Christing, right?
This is what we're hearing. I heard that on Gilos. Where's Hermes?
Remember, he had the drug that we all got. You don't remember that?
He gave us the drug Hermes right before we came in to Cersei. Here it is, right?
What's Dionysus here for?
It's necessary, he says, to teach these people even if they don't want to learn.
Isn't that nice? I heard a watcher say something just like that the other day.
We got to teach him even though, even though they don't want to learn.
As uninitiated as they are in the Bacchic rites, right?
I'm here, says Bacchus. I have incarnated.
I have taken on flesh under the birth of the Virgin for what reason?
For what reason?
To defend her.
I am here to show you, he says.
Dionysus, this is what he's saying.
I am here to show you the validity of my mother's voice.
Oh, God. Oh, God. Do you see it? Do you see it?
And then he says, oh, yeah. And she bore me to Jesus, right?
To God. God's son of God. Great. Fantastic. Let's go.
Go on to the next one. Thank you, Dionysus. That was gorgeous.
Go on to the next one. Oh, we're hitting a good clip.
Watch this, people. He says, I came from Asia, from Mount Timolus, right?
And I'm coming here flying.
But you know what's going on? This is a chorus. They're like, whoa.
This is the voices that you're hearing while you are under the influence
of that basket with the snakes and the dildos.
Okay. This is what mean ads sing. This is an actual song.
Yeah. Oh, God. It's a chorus. Isn't this, isn't this glorious?
So where have these women come from? They came from Asia, right?
And holy Timolus, right? This mountain, right?
And the labors that they undertook, they're sweet labors.
They're saying they're sweet labors. By the way, good job, ladies.
This dance is gorgeous. I love this. Please don't.
I know you're going to kill me in the end, but okay.
And what are they doing here?
Do you see that word? It's one, two, three, four, five lines down.
Everybody look at the second word starts with an Epsilon.
It looks like an E. Ewa Zomena. Do you know what that is?
That is doing the Eve, making the shout, the bucket cry.
That is what is produced by the right in the woman.
