Yeah.
A Latin text.
And by the way, 12th century Latin is like licking the backside of a milking cow after,
um, after a visit from the vet.
Uh, yeah.
No, it's unpleasant, right?
No, you know, can, you know, counts aside, gets my goat a little bit.
Penelope, did Penelope come tonight?
Speaking of, speaking of friends.
Hello Penelope.
That's gratuitous, isn't it?
It's just gratuitous.
But look, licking that won't get you any, it doesn't matter if it's cross or goat.
Right.
Licking anything like that is not going to get you where you're supposed to be.
You got to be smart about your licking.
Okay.
So the source here, where's the source from people?
This is right out of that book.
It's an insert into it.
It doesn't take it down again.
I'm sorry.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
Uh, it has nothing to do with the texts around it.
And it's, um, reads, um, as an insert would read, but licking that Latin from the 12th
century.
Oh God, it tastes like somebody didn't wash their pants.
You know what I mean?
Ah, you know, maybe they have a hemorrhoid or something and, you know, they need better
hygiene.
That's what 12th century Latin tastes like.
Right.
If you don't believe me, right?
And all the medieval historians out there who just got rankled.
Um, I don't care because you know, it's true.
The Renaissance was the product of people trying to clean up the Latin.
Let me say it again.
The Renaissance happened because people tried to clean the Latin.
You mean your language isn't constantly going uphill?
No, no, it's not.
Sometimes it comes down and do a ditch and in the middle ages due to the lack of education,
people didn't have access to these sources, to these wondrous works of art that were made
by civilization, a civilization that produced democracy.
And these works, these literary works were ignored.
So the language itself went right into the toilet and the Renaissance was the reemergence
of that classical Latin.
Isn't that gorgeous?
Oh my God.
Oh, do you see the potential and that's why this library in Herculaneum is so important.
What we're going to find there will produce Renaissance.
Love it, love it.
Okay, let's go to this text.
I just have a couple of slides here, a couple of, a couple of, a couple of, you know, translations
and I'm, we're going to fly through it.
Look, he says, look, these things are made in very diverse ways.
You know, he's talking about what is that fire of Medea and you're about to find out
the fire of Medea isn't just a napalm like petroleum product.
It was used by the Greek Navy.
That is its adaptation.
Its original form is a mystery formula.
It's a drug.
Guess what?
A drug from a body fluid.
Isn't that nice?
Oh my God, it's my blood and flesh.
I'm the Sotera.
It's my blood and flesh.
Do you see?
Let's go to it.
Let's go to it.
I love this.
I love this.
Here we go.
Look, people can make, people can produce this stuff, but it's quite, it's quite an art to
get to be able to do this.
And there are those who do it, right?
Who have that expertise.
And what do they do?
They build, look, they take this pot.
It's made of copper, right?
And they go up and they hunt these rubitas, these toads, bramble toads, bramble toads.
God, let's go find some toads.
Did you ever hear of licking these toads?
They're about to do it.
Are you ready?
But this is way more sophisticated.
If you've been exposed to the toads in the literature, in the, you know, journalism,
you know, you see one of these people out there and they're talking about the toads.
Look, this is part of their, part of their craft.
The toads are part, blow it up please.
Yep.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Oh God, what happens?
They take this thing and they hunt these toads and they put it in there and they feed these
toads on pigeon flesh and honey, pigeon flesh and honey.
Wait, what?
Yeah.
How long do they do this?
They do it for three months, bro.
And when this time is complete, when this phase is over, you know, for two or three days,
they want, they want, oh my God, they take that stuff that's remained over and they apply
it to the breasts of some beast, some animal, right?
Along with the milk, lactate, prolifate and with some fetal, wait, some fetal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's the full fetal thing going on, right?
You have to remember this is biochemical polypharmacy.
Yeah.
We're dealing with organisms producing drugs.
So we've got to make sure that we're all at the right time.
So if you take that 81 year old man's blood, that stuff is valueless, right?
That's why we're having to give all those people transfusions.
They're giving transfusions.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They live longer, bro.
Didn't you see it?
Oh my God.
Marcus Aurelius.
Marcus Aurelius is not a cartoon character.
He was a Roman emperor.
Yeah.
