Drankin' whiskey, when that whiskey's burned through my veins
Indian goes crazy and the Scottsman wants to bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've got your selling and you got your drinkin' whiskey
Oh yeah, drinkin' whiskey, oh yeah
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation
It's good to see everyone
Tonight we have a little update on some music that will be coming our way
Some music and an artist, lovely stuff
But we are going to dive into the deep tonight
I'm sorry, I'm going to be talking about a lot more drugs
You mean they can have more drugs than the ones that we've already looked at? Yes
And we're going to be following that thorn
That thorn that sinks deep into the flesh
We're going to look for those seven stars tonight on Lady Babylon
Thanks for joining us tonight, I know your time is valuable
So I'm going to absolutely put the pedal to the metal
The ship is set, we are going back to that first century
But before we get there, we're going to stop
Does anybody mind? Does anybody mind?
We're going to stop, make a stop
See some of the mid-19th
Pull out a little bit of Jules Michelet
Jules Michelet, French historian
French historian, he coined a word
He coined a word, what was that Jules?
Renaissance, gorgeous, gorgeous
You finally find the right people
You know what I mean? It's always those who are coining words
Those are the dragons, yeah, those are the dragons
Tonight we're going to have a two-part clip to start us off here to get us into the mood
This is Jules Michelet
Be careful, the punch is spiked with aphrodisiacs
I want you to be looking for them, look for them tonight
Look for the aphrodisiacs who run around
Maniacally, I want us to see them
Oh, they're people, love it
Let's start this first clip, and I want you to
Just enjoy, just enjoy, if you can
Please, this one's on us, Jules, go ahead
Jules Michelet
Jules Michelet
Jules Michelet
Jules Michelet
And the dragon pursues that song
Protects and guards it
Only to be put to sleep
By her hand
I want to find that paradise, don't you?
Don't you, I want to go back, does it just
I want to let everybody know
I want to let you in on a little secret
Those rivers
Those four rivers
That leave paradise
They bound it
And that location, that location
Is as plain as day
It's as plain as day, look to the fossils
You'll find, you'll find her there
With the dragon
In paradise
Who was it, where's that junkie?
Get that junkie Paul, people by the way love
Working with junkie Paul, so let's get him down
Here's my whip, come on Paul, come on
Yeah, it's a don't, down, he looks so sad
He looks so sad, I think I'm beating him too much
Paul, tell me, Paul the apostle
Holy Paul, can I call you Holy Paul?
Tell me, what are your people looking for?
You're looking for that third uranos
You're looking for that third uranos
And tell me Paul, do you remember how you got there?
Everybody that was with us, it was on the ride
We're going back, right? This is warp speed
Oh my God
We're going back to that point in time
Yeah, here we are, we're in that third heaven
Right, okay, everybody's got the throne
Is everybody sitting on the throne?
Those of you with ears to hear will know
You must be sitting on the throne
What comes from the throne?
That's what we're going to see in the end today
We looked at the Mithraic energy
We saw her, we saw her being put through it
Can you smell the kufi?
Smell that kufi, love it, love it
Tonight, let's keep going
Let's go a little bit deeper and drive that thorn into the flesh
A little bit deeper, let's go back to it
Hit those first of those texts that we've got up there
Tomusterion Tomhapterasteron
Who's elis epites dexiasmu
Gorgeous, gorgeous
This is the mystery of those seven stars
Which you see in my right hand
Which you see in my right hand
Are we with that girl?
Are we with her being put through that initiation?
Let's go to the second one
Ho hepte haste des angeloiton hepte ecclesiones
See, who are these people?
Who are these angeloi?
They say, wait a minute, she had seven stars in her hand
She had seven stars in her hand
Right, I am a wandering star, she says
Oh, fantastic
Here they are
They're messengers, they're angeloi
Paul's got one
That's why I told you to throw away those magic books
Paul has his own thorn
Paul's got his own thorn
