What is it?
The linen bandage is used for mommies and then wounds, right?
There's not much else you're going to wrap with this stuff.
But everybody look at number two and remember that it is por furos, right?
Or por fura in the Herculaneum Library.
And when we bring that up, we're going to see what is the purple.
What is the purple?
Remember they're applying this via linen wraps, via linen wraps.
You mean they're putting the burning purple on a linen wrap and then wrapping up a young
kid's private parts with it?
Yes.
What are you going to do at that point?
If you're Jesus, somehow the goop is going to get on your face, right?
Why is that?
For the galene, for the galene, you're going to suck the black death right through that
linen.
Yeah.
It's impregnated in the wrap.
Okay.
Are you seeing it?
Are you seeing what Jesus is doing?
Are you seeing?
That's one of the things that I like that Danny said was he said, oh my God, all of a sudden
this stuff is making sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm sorry to inform you that your God is a child killer and his son is a pedophile.
Yeah.
Pedorast is the technical term in antiquity for those who have the students just like
Hercules and his pedorastic kandauron, his centaur, yeah.
Are you there?
Do you see where you are?
This is your life.
This is your life and you serve a pedorast.
If you're into that kind of thing and maybe throw in some genocide, yeah, that's usually
what happens, but that stuff has to be purged.
That stuff has to be purged and that's coming from the one that you don't.
See, except in the reflection, yeah, you know who she is.
You know who she is.
All right, let's go to the next next text.
Next text.
Who's saying that?
It's the sacred name.
Do you not know the sacred name?
What is this?
What is this purple?
Just look down at number two.
This is that has to do with the clause.
I want you to see that all the way under Roman numeral number two, number four, they
finally give you the concrete form of it, right?
They tell you purple color.
This is the purple.
This is the purple.
It's not like they go to school and learn about the colors, right?
Everybody knows what the purple is and it has symbolic associations to the extreme, right?
To the extreme.
It is royal.
It is royal.
It is divine.
Yeah.
It is that death and if you don't have that galane, eh, if you're not sucking that black
death right out of that linen, your mouth isn't full of the burning purple, yeah, you're
not in.
Right?
That's how you disrupt the signal.
Yeah.
It's how you breach through that dark star.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Oh, God.
It's delicious.
Isn't it?
Let's go.
The purple was there and then I wanted you to see the mordant too, but that's okay.
It's a part of the preparation.
Finally, baffae.
Right?
Baffae.
Dipping.
What is the dipping?
The baptism is a dying and that dying is a drug action.
And a lot of you will say, well, that's obvious, isn't it?
Right?
Yeah.
Not necessarily.
Right?
Not drugs in the way that you think of them.
Yeah.
The dying of the hair was talked about, talked about as the invention of Medea, whose brain
must have been huge.
She must have had connections.
She must have.
Okay.
Her brain wasn't huge, but her calculating power must have been off the charts because
she apparently invented it.
We have ancient sources that tell us she invented hair dyes, which is cool if you think about
it.
They say her native color was blonde, but she dye her hair all the time.
Yeah.
You know, there's a fashion and antiquity of having a purple stripe, having a purple
stripe, you know, what you honor, you know, what you honor to the, you offer to the dead,
you give them the honor of your purple stripe.
Isn't that a gorgeous, isn't that a gorgeous concept?
Imagine the women that we're doing this.
Imagine them.
You can.
Yeah.
Oh, purple stripe.
Yeah.
We're there.
People were, um, this, we're right up that alleyway.
This is gorgeous.
