and, oh, God, perfectly timed thunder.
It was gorgeous.
It was me and the muse and Danny
and Steve who ate his popcorn.
It was fantastic.
I want everybody to critique, to get a chance.
When you get a chance to look at that
and to critique it.
Talk about some of the things that you and I talk about.
So, you know, is this man all right?
Yes, he is. Hail Satan.
Yeah, love it.
So look, as soon as that gets out,
I will blurt it all over the place
and make sure everybody gets a chance.
Snappy, send people out.
Make sure everybody gets a chance to do their part,
to critique almond.
Now, what is my surprise for you tonight
before we jump into the orgya?
What is my surprise for tonight?
Tonight, I want to take a couple of minutes
to talk to you about a transformation.
I've gotten to the point where I have,
I cannot answer people who are requesting classes.
Okay, I'm overwhelmed
and I know that there's got to be a way
for this to proceed.
So, what I'm doing is I'm opening up almond you.
Yeah, almond who?
Almond you.
And what we're going to do is I'm going to offer classes.
Yeah, I'm going to offer classes.
And being intensive Greek,
we'll still have an intensive Greek course,
but I'll have prerecorded.
And it'll be something that you can meet in a lab
once a week in groups with me there, right?
So, you still get that one-on-one time kind of.
But in a classroom environment, right, we need,
there's a lot of people that we have to accommodate.
People want the museum.
So, I am putting together almond you currently,
including filming,
and we're going to have a chance to make that thing come true.
That dream, what is that?
What is that thing that's coming true?
Did somebody wish upon a star?
So, yeah, so it should be up and running.
And I want, I wanted to send a message out there to people
who have been getting in touch with me and have been saying,
look, I want to take your class.
I really want to.
I'm going to have a list of classes.
Okay.
And I'm going to continue the classical Greek.
And listen, the training modules may be offensive.
Yeah, take it, take it personally.
Yes, take it personally.
It will be intensive training.
So, I don't have to coddle you and baby you anymore.
This is great.
I have a platform now where I can just work you to death,
where I can take you to that place where your muscles are all sore, right?
Oh, God.
Oh, God, Neil has caught the bug.
He's running around with texts, getting access to the Loeb classical library
for any of my Greek students for a year.
You can get actually get a year membership to the Loeb classical library.
It's a polyglot.
It's got Greek on one side, English on the other.
And it's a fantastic way to build your vocabulary or to pack your vocabulary.
Yes.
Yeah.
It was in the middle of a tornado warning with all the thunder and lightning.
And it was emphasizing exactly.
It was beautiful.
It was nature brought into some kind of cosmic orgiastic beauty.
Oh, God was gorgeous.
And I have a lot of respect.
I have a lot of respect for Danny.
So, he was trying to keep me on track.
And I think he did a good job.
I think he did a good job and I want to thank you.
And we'll see what happens.
Great.
Everybody who is in the group that has to be doing text translation from Herculaneum.
Right.
Don't forget.
Don't forget.
I know that you're still there.
Right.
And I know this is something you're thinking about.
We got to rev up for this.
Right.
We've got to get going because this is all timing.
It's perfect timing.
Right.
It's beautiful.
Beautiful.
By the way, I really hope your eclipse was fantastic.
I hope it was.
I hope it was.
Mine brought a new beginning.
Yeah, it did.
And I want to say, I hope that you will appreciate the interview.
I hope you'll appreciate it and appreciate Danny's skill.
And cool guy.
Cool guy.
I haven't even talked about his, you know, his talents.
Right.
I'm just talking as a human being.
