Now look at that second word on the, I mean that first word on the second line ex homologic
right ex homologic I'm being literally intensively on the same reckoning or reasoning as you.
Now most of your translations will be like, Oh, father, I praise you.
No, he doesn't say that.
He didn't say that at all.
He says we're on the same reason wave.
You and me were on the same reason, father, father, Lord.
This isn't just this word, curious goes back to, this is old Mycenaean stuff, right?
The core law and the courier, all that irracular stuff.
This Lord goes back to that.
So this is important.
I mean, this is 1000 years before Jesus, this thing is coming out, right?
And he says, what is he the Lord of?
He's the Lord of Uranus and Gaia.
Wait a minute.
What do you mean?
There's a theogony in this thing.
Yes, there is.
This is the family.
Right.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Here it is.
It's from the Bible.
Nobody reads the Bible anymore.
Yeah.
And he's hidden, right?
You hit this stuff, which is what, you know, Christians, if you don't realize all stuff
is hidden, think about it for a minute.
There's no cult religion that starts out with drugs and baby blood and brains.
Remember the brains?
That was interesting that has, you know, any sort of hope of becoming modern, like what
you've got today, Christians, they don't have a hope of becoming modern unless they
un-inject the system.
They take out the antidote so the stuff can't mix and we get, boom, get explosion, right?
That's what's going on here.
They're trying, the translations are trying to hold that down.
Okay.
Go back to the, go back to the, because that's what, you don't have that modern Christianity,
right?
It doesn't make any sense to you.
If you have not had the truth hidden from you in code, right, if you haven't been through
that experience, it's because you don't crack it, right?
Crack it and then you'll know.
This is what it says.
It says, you hid these things from the smarty pants and you what?
You showed it out on napeoise.
You showed it to the napeoise.
Who are the napeoise?
Idiots, they're children.
They're idiot children.
Do you know what an idiot child is?
It's a cool concept.
Think about it for a minute.
Everybody thinks, no, we have child or Anglo-Saxon doesn't permit us to take that extra step
and to say, well, you got different kinds of children, right?
What kinds of children?
You know what the Greek language allows you to do?
It allows you to classify.
Aristotle uses it that way, right?
All the maestros of ancient Greek, Sappho, for example, that's exactly how she uses it.
She categorizes.
What kind of things can you have in the world?
You can have something called an idiot child.
You can't blame an idiot child.
Idiot children, just they're idiot children.
You know what I mean?
It's not every child that's an idiot.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
So you kept this from the wise and you gave it to idiots.
Keep going.
If you're not an idiot, you don't know what I'm talking about.
Just never mind.
Here we go.
At that time, Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have
hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to who to little children.
No, it's not what it says.
Says Napiois, right?
Not Pidois, right?
Oh, my God, nothing with with the kid there is just a bad translation for what they're
trying to do is they're trying to keep it.
They're trying to keep it within the fairy tale.
Right?
Okay.
Muse, show us, show us what they did.
Keep it.
Show us a little more.
Go.
Hit the next one.
Oh, yeah.
Here's your Napiois.
Just in case you don't believe me.
Right?
Hmm.
Silly.
Silly is a nice way of saying it.
It's a Victorian way of saying it.
Silly.
You have any idiot children that you've been around?
Yeah.
I've known some in my time, right?
I understand the categorization, right?
It's very scientific.
Very scientific.
Mommy, am I an idiot child?
You know, is that where we go?
Go.
Next one.
Love it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Look, you know, he's standing there talking with him, right?
