Apollo. Apollo me. Right? Her name. Destroyer, baby. That's what her name means. Whoo. Love it. Okay. And what are these prince boys do while they're there? Oh, well, the text goes on to say in verse six. In verse six, if you can get to say it, fantastic marking. Thank you very much.
Yeah. They're dressed in hyacent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're young. And they're these princes who are hippies. They're on the horseback, right? And they're specifically either chariot or a horseback rider. Yeah. So train professional. These are, these are, you know, civilians would be proud to be around these people. And antiqui, it's a big thing. Their entire cultures that are horse driven. Yeah.
And the Scythians who are always, always, always caught with cannabis. They're the ones who are bringing us these toxins, these wonderful purple toxins. One of the things that you need to know. The purple die from antiquity is a huge trade. It's a huge trade. It splashes itself all over the languages of the Mediterranean. For example, Phoenician, the word Phoenician.
It just means purple. Right? These are traders. And they took this stuff all over the, all over the Mediterranean. All over. They set down colonies. They influenced the language and the development of the language. Oh, God, it's beautiful when you consider it for the delicate history. Right. And remember, Greek is a reservoir. This is several thousand years of language.
And when you get that much development, it's no wonder, like the Romans said, you know, okay, the Greeks got us with the language, right? It's, it's, you know, it is the master means of expression. You know, but we're good at engineering and our language reflects it. That's, that was the excuse, right? But they all knew. They all, they all went over to Elucis, right?
There's reason for that. Anyway, let's get back. Speaking of Elucis and this vampire girl that we're looking for, we're looking for a kid in there, right? Love it. Love it. Okay. Verse seven. Yeah. Verse seven.
And she gave her porneia, right? She bestowed it on them.
The cup that is in the apocalypse, held by the lady Babylon, that is full of her porneia.
Is giving her giving them the princes that cup. Yeah, she's bestowing her porneia upon them. Okay, thank, thank the time and the place. Thank goodness we have all the drugs that we can track. That's so that's we crack everything. Just track the drugs, follow reason.
Right? And watch it show you the history. Did you know they were doing this in antiquity? Yeah. Ritual. Right? Let's keep going. What else? What are you doing these rituals? We know we got the princes there. We got the purple there. We got the, ooh, this is getting exciting. Right? We're going to find out. We're going to find out in a minute.
The Egyptians. Oh, they're centaurs. They're called having the phallus. This, the shape of a donkey. And the size of a horse. And this is what brought Oula.
This young girl because the most threatening thing to Jehovah is a young girl underdeveloped entering entering a right involving a prince.
He doesn't want that. He doesn't want her giving her porneia. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it's gorgeous. Let's keep going and see where where where she ends up. Yeah. Yeah, she didn't.
So she, she, she, they, at the end of verse seven, there's a bunch of me I knowing going on. They're all mean I knowing together. What does it mean? It means to stain.
It means to stain with dye. Hercules, Heracles has some dogs. Their lips are stained with purple. Yeah, their lips are stained with purple. Dogs and dragons.
They're the ones that stand at the portal of the underworld. Yeah. These are the same group using the same pharmacology using the same poisons, right toxins, venoms, right to raise the serpent on the pole.
Yeah, because these are serpent films we're working with right saturnian, saturnian magic, gorgeous stuff. Okay, so when when it says me I know me I know literally means to stain with the dye. Right.
Um, so these are staining themselves.
Yeah. Nice. Nice. Okay. And what else are they doing? Verse eight. Um, she, she didn't leave it off. You know, she didn't left that it leaves that off. I want to jump ahead.
Because we don't I don't want to spend too much time. I want to I want to get you to the act to the, you know, things develop and what happens in verse 10.
Yeah, they apple coluctode.
The princess apple coluctode.
They apocalypsed. They apocalypsed her ice cream.
