Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back. Welcome back. I hope everybody is doing well. Thank you for coming to the congregation of Satanists. Tonight we'll be looking at a very, very dirty Bible text, but it's an avenue for us to be able to jump in our spaceship and move back through time to that period when they were having the orgy.
Yeah. So I want to be able to find this place and to take you there and show you. And we're going to do that. But in order to get there, I need you, Hail Satan, I need you to be able with me to focus on why this is even important.
So, and I'm going to do that with a short video. I'm going to show you a video and I'm going to have us. I'll make a couple of comments on it, but I'm doing so to set up the fact that you don't.
You never stray from principle one, which is faith. No reason. Number one reason first reason first. So we're going to look at these tags, but I want to show you something. This is going to be this is a clip of a gentleman who is critiquing something that has just happened recently.
And that is the discussion of Jesus on the international stage of Jesus as trans.
I think Jesus transgenders himself on a number of occasions. And I think if you look at the foot washing from John's gospel, foot washing elsewhere in both old and New Testament that it's consistently done by by women.
And yet Jesus takes that on. People often cast that as being the servant's role. It was the woman's role. And Jesus does it and becomes the woman at that point.
We got to talk about a story that you only really seem to get in relation to Christianity because the World War Revolutionaries are not brave enough to do this to other people's religions like Islam, right?
And we'll talk about that a little bit later. But they tend to do this to Christianity in the wake of tragedy. What do you want?
What a job that I don't hate.
In which they somehow, someway connect back to Christianity. They try to blame Christians for what happened in Colorado.
We had the lunatic go and shoot up a gay bar, killing five or six people, injuring tens or 20 other people as well.
But another reason, the view found a reason to invoke Jesus and Christians into conversation around his mass shooting.
And it's like, study the whole system when it starts to claim that Jesus would have been the leader of a pride parade. Take a look.
For who they were and someone came to that place.
And what is the second part of the thing that they hide behind religions? Because I've said this on this show once before. Jesus would be the grand marshal at the pride parade.
I don't mean about the white women at that.
I mean, in every argument we have, we're future white women at the religion.
If you're so afraid, why are you going over there?
Yeah, if they scare you so much, leave them alone.
When stuff scares me, I'm leaving them alone.
