If I don't want to be bothered, I don't go there. See, that's the problem.
I don't know what the Colorado mass shooting has to do with Christianity and how we don't know it yet at all.
They love an opportunity to try to attack Christianity because they hate Christianity and morality.
For example, watch this full blown meltdown from Cenk Euger on the young Turks in which again he takes his opportunity to express his hate for Christians.
Yes, sure. They have massive blame. The Republican Party is 100% guilty.
They have passed over 600 laws against the LGBTQ community just since 2018. 100% guilty.
If you're a Republican, you drove this hatred. You drove it. It's your fault, okay?
But my point overall is, guys, it isn't just the last couple of years when they drove that hatred.
My whole life, my whole life, right wing religious leaders have said, hate gay people, hate them, hate them, hate them.
Oh, I'm not saying hate the sinner, but the sin. They're sinning. It is not a goddamn sin.
So, what do we see there? We see a lot of people using something to make a lot of different arguments.
And you have to realize that unless you can be there, unless you can see what's going on, you can't really make any statements that individual goes on to talk about his critiquing the situation, commenting,
goes on to talk at length about why it isn't possibly correct.
And in doing so, he talks about the scholars who talk about trans Jesus now, and one of them came up with a dissertation on paintings later, much later.
I mean, it's not even using contemporary evidence. So, it's poor.
And I've noticed that you, who have interest in these topics, I've noticed that you are progressing down this path that we're going to see in the text.
And in order to do that, you have to be able to access the genuine.
If you're going to make a decision about what is going on now in our society, you have to understand the past.
And the only way to do that is through these sources. I've watched you guys.
I love your comments, by the way. I'm loving the shirt thing and I'm loving, I love the guy kudos to the guy or gal or hermaphrodite who stood up last time and said,
Hey, when we initiated brilliant. Nice.
For your sakes, you will hear a speaker.
And I told, I told Neil this, you're getting molested.
