Neil, you're getting molested by Harvard. Harvard is molesting you, Neil.
Right. And they are. And let me explain how it is.
If you hear someone there, there was a prof in front of the name or a PhD, which they've got their PhD and they're from a big university, you assume what they're saying is accurate.
I told him, Neil, you're being molested by a group of religious historians, Neil.
Religious historians don't work with the texts in the original. You got to go to somebody who's classically trained.
Right. You got to go to some hard case. Who knows how to read these texts. And that's the only thing that I can bring to you.
I can bring you the evidence and hold it in front of your face so that you can see it. Okay, let's let's proceed.
Thank you everybody for everybody for joining. And I appreciate your time. I do.
Hail Satan. If this time, if we can have people chime in on command, I'll ask you any questions, then we can proceed.
This is going to be short. I don't want to hold us here for a while. I just want to splash it in your face because that's the, that's the time that we've got, right?
And I appreciate the fact that you're here when you're here. Let's look at Ezekiel. Let's get right in, jump right into the evidence.
Ezekiel, please. If you'll bring up the text for the evening.
Nope.
Excuse us for not being Johnny on the spot. I'm going to bring up your text and I'm going to show you the great and I just want to read through with you and show you some words.
And as I'm doing so, I'm going to bring some images to your brain and those images correlate with the text itself.
So what do I have up here? I've got that dirty, dirty profit Ezekiel and you'll notice right away it's Greek.
And the first thing that you will do is you will stand up because you have been listening to the people who don't have the training.
You will stand up and you will say this should be in Hebrew because your post 10th century when that Hebrew back translation came into existence and dropped, dropped Christos from the text from the Septuagint.
You're going to love this. There's dirty, dirty stuff in here. Oh, we've got to, we've got to explore this together.
Okay. Let's just proceed, shall we? Where the ships come to halt, you know, we can all step outside and see what it is.
And tonight we're in a dirty, dirty place, Samaria and Jerusalem. And these are times when things are going on. Let's see what's going on.
Yeah. And I want you to hear some of the Greek, right? I want you to hear some of it.
Cae agin ato logos curiw pros melegon. Yeah, this logos comes to me, this logos of the curious. Yeah, our Lord's logos comes to me and saying, what's it saying?
