Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
Bacchus.
get some feedback. I just want to bring you one tonight. This is a great comment.
Thank you very much for sending it and everybody who sends, love them. I love them. Bring them
comment. I do get to them. Bring it up Chewie. This is fantastic. This is from Subhan Allah
InshaAllah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lady Babylon. You will pay for this.
Yes. And my response. Thank you. Hail Satan. Fantastic. I just want to say thank you.
I am sure InshaAllah that I will indeed pay for this. But before I do, I just want to let the
audience know the audience who was not members of the brotherhood of frustration.
But for those of you who have ears to hear the funny thing that we don't reckon,
those 72 virgins, I shouldn't tell them this. I don't know how you can let me tell them. Okay,
I'll tell them this. Those 72 virgins, those are the ones into whose faces you threw acid.
Isn't that interesting? That is what the Greeks call erinus. Fantastic. Fantastic. Hail Satan.
It's such a good thing. It's such a handsome guy rules this prison. You know what I mean? I love it.
I love it. Okay. I'm going to conjure up. I've been distracting you and I'm going to conjure
up now the text. I'm going to put up your text in Greek. And for those of you who are watching
the Medea and commenting, thank you. I appreciate it. I want you to realize that 80% of that,
90% of that is just me translating, direct up. I don't transition into telling you,
I'm just translating, but I do. And I've got the Greek right in front of me. It's my own styles,
my own thing. So where's it coming from? I told you, Diodorus. Here, I'm going to do that again
tonight. But tonight, I'm going to have to dig down because tonight is one that no classicist
is going to want to talk to you about. Maybe. Maybe one or two. Maybe one or two.
But let's get it out there. Are you going to find an English translation of this thing?
Hopefully not. You couldn't. When I was the last time I looked, you couldn't, but it wouldn't
surprise me if there's one now. We don't need one. Let's go right into it. And I want to tell
you, we're going right into a cult for those of you who are hanging in with the initiation.
Tonight, we're going into the cult. And I want to bring it to you. We've seen a lot of the
intercourse. We've been to the orgies. We've seen a lot of the, a lot of the medicated dildos,
and we've seen a lot of the, just to sum up for those of you who are coming in halfway through
the movie. You know, we've seen a lot of drugs. We've seen a lot of drugs. And I keep talking to
you about the snake victims. I know the toxicon. Remember the one that makes you have an erection,
what they call today, priapism or satiriasis. You can worship the God, Priapis. You can.
You can worship the God, Dionysus. You can take on to yourself the form of a satir.
You and I, blessed congregation, you and I have seen the text. We saw the doctor write about it.
We saw the doctor tell us what it does to one's mind. Right. We're looking for that real communion.
This is not your hippie grandfather's weed, right? We're looking for that real communion. I want to
see him doing it. I want to see him doing that communion. Let's go in there tonight. That's
