doing there. Yeah. Fantastic. Fantastic. Let's go. Let's go to the, we've got a couple more. I've got
a couple goodies for you. I'm just going to throw in. Go ahead because I think they're important.
Look at this. Look at this. The silver cup. That's nothing. It's just I wanted you to notice
it's silver. Why are they using the silver cups, by the way? Some of you witches can tell me.
Yeah. Silver cup. Mirror, mirror on the wall, baby. Capture that moonlight. Love it. Somebody
passed the snake. Let's go to the next one. Fantastic. Oh, I just thought this was funny.
I was looking at the Hebrew just to see what kind of nonsense they would pull. Look,
this word signifies to view tentatively, to learn by a tent of observation or experience,
to hiss, to whisper, to divine, to encamp. It's also a serpent. It's also the hissing.
It's also some brass, copper, and iron. Does anybody see what's going on? If you study a language,
take it down. It's embarrassing. If you study a dead language, like I do, and you get a word that
is a shotgun of completely different concepts, you know they're not using a root. Yeah, because those
roots bind you to certain meanings. You can't just slap together what somebody's doing when they do
that. Is they're trying to say this word was also used for this word and also used for this word
and also used in other words, we don't know. Yeah, and when you get back translations of the Greek,
this is what they're forced to do. They were forced. Those orthodox rabbis were forced to do this.
You've got to take what you've got and work with it or else it's not the it's not the language of
God. Yeah, it's sad, sad, but you know, when you they painted themselves into a corner,
I don't think we should feel sorry for people who have betrayed reason. We've got to stay in that
realm of reason. We've got to know, right, because what happens when you betray reason, you start to
believe lies. Next thing you know is you're just living one gigantic lie. Yes, fantastic. Let's
stay true, man. Stay true. Here's a shout out for staying true. Next one.
There we go. I want everybody to look at Bruce Metzger at the bottom of this. I'm going to stop
worrying about those of you who who are under the delusion that Hebrew is the language of the
Old Testament. And I'm just going to show you Bruce Metzger. This is what he said is outstanding
textual critic. There's all sorts of, there's all sorts of people on here, scholars, and I was
going to read all these to you guys about the letter of Aristaeus, which long story short,
is a forgery that was meant to say the world in which we live is one where the original
Hebrew scriptures were translated by the Greeks under Ptolemy Philadelphus. Yeah. And that's not
the case. Not only did Aristaeus never live, but anybody who reads it can recognize right away.
It's just propaganda. It's just a way of taking over a source or an origin and saying that belongs
to us because it's originally in the Hebrew. It's not originally in the Hebrew. So this is what
Metzger says most scholars who have analyzed the letter have concluded the author cannot have been
the man who represented himself to be, but was a Jew who wrote a fictitious account in
order to enhance the importance of the Hebrew scriptures by suggesting that a pagan king
had recognized their significance and therefore arranged for the translation into Greek.
Yeah. What we're trying to do next to what we're trying to do is we're trying to create a world,
no, just go this way. We're trying to create a world where we can justify certain things,
right? And the Christians were perfectly happy to roll with it, right? Because it only buttresses
