where we're going. We're going deep in. Give me that first text up there. Okay. I'm going to read
this to you guys, and I'm just going to translate it to you, but I want you to know there were some
pirates in the first, you know, up above. Lacedace, we got some pirates. Remember your pirates?
That's what Jesus said. He wasn't for people who don't know. When Jesus was arrested with a naked
boy in a public park at 4 a.m., screaming, I am not a pirate. He was using that term, lacedace.
Yes. It's a term for child trafficker. Child trafficker. We've got the traffickers here. Do
you remember Dionysus? Did you guys see in the video? Did you see Dionysus getting abducted by
those pirates? Those pirates. They tried. They tried, but Dionysus defeated them. Fantastic.
Fantastic. Let's go back to the text and let me start translating this bad boy.
Look, if anyone wants to know those things that bring death,
this treatise will teach them. Okay. Okay. It will show them the sort of things mortals
contrive in the depths of their minds, the sort of things, the spirits of the air
that float around them shriek, the sort of things they do when they cry,
emitting an unseen song in the ears of men. These are the prophets of the sky,
the prophets of great Zeus. They hold their youth. Whoever wants, I'll show you how to stop that
whirring arrow that comes from the snake that hugs the ground. I'll show you how to quench the
eos of that serpent, that crawler. I will give to you the light of Selene falling into the communion.
Okay. What do you think? There's quite a creepy bunch of cult stuff going on there.
Wow. Let's just, you know, in a second here, we'll pull up some of the words there and see what
kind of words and why am I doing this on a Bible study? I am prepping you. This is all planned
out, right? I'm prepping you so that you too can see Joseph and his dividing cup and you say,
don't make fun of evangelicals. Where's my wit? Evangelicals. Don't take it. Just take it.
Take it. Here's what's coming. I know. I know. No, no, no, no. I know you love Joseph.
I know you do. I know you do. Here we go. Are you ready? That feels so good.
Bring up the next. I want to just look at some of this vocabulary. What are these things that
floating around us, right? These are the things that walk in darkness. Wait a minute. You mean,
leave that up there. The ancient Greeks have a word for entities that walk in darkness.
Yes, they do. And like I told you, she's erinous, right? The air traversing. Who is one of these
air traversers who walks in darkness? Who is she? Bad news, everyone. The creator is a woman.
Yes. All your phallic oppression. Yeah. Yeah. Good luck with her.
This is Selene, we're talking about. This is Selene. Isn't this beautiful? So that's
what the air wanderers are. You thought that they were a category of mythological beings. No,
we're talking about the moon. Fantastic. The moon. Selene. Let's go back to the next word that
I've got here. Take a look at this one, guys. This is from the text. Who are these people?
These are the prophets, right? These are the prophets. And I just wanted you to see
some of the words that they're using for this, right? Some of the specific words. Go to that next
one. Yeah, look at this one. This is the verb that it's all coming from, right? This is not Hebrew.
Do you mean the Hebrew prophets are not prophets? Did you just hear what you said?
The Hebrew prophets. I'll have you know, my friends, that prophet is a Greek word.
