Dracula.
Did you see the initiates there? It's that light that we want to bring to them.
I am that light. That's what she says. I am that light. And if you have a boy,
do you smell Jesus with his naked boy? Because I do. If you have a boy, you can find that light.
We're going to suck that light right out of that serpent venom. Do you know why they call the
Satanists those who follow the serpent? Yeah, yeah, because it turns out it turns out that chemical
ride is such a biological necessity that you have to open up your eyes. You have to open up your eyes.
If you don't open up your eyes, you're not born again. You're not born again.
Yeah, we bring you the power of Selene. We bring you that in the form of that creature that hugs
the ground, that hugs the ground for you evangelicals out there. Is this Satanic? Yes, yes, definitely is.
And do you know why? Do you know why? Because we're talking about the mother of Cronus.
That's what we're talking about. We're talking about the mother, the light bringer. We're talking
about she who sits next to Dawn. Yes, fantastic. That milky breast that Jesus produces, that milk
flowing breast that he's holding within his fancy apocalyptic brazier. Yeah, you didn't thank you new
cult. Now you're learning some cult. Wait a minute, what? Yeah, it's the milk, brother. It's the milk.
There's a way to say things so that people don't get the word, right? I'm not saying these things so
you can understand. No, I have certain people I want. And those people, I'll open their ears.
Yeah, yeah. So it's through the moon. Isn't that creepy culty? I love it. It's gorgeous.
Let's bring it, bring back, go back to the, to Selene, please. Go to, wait, what was that one?
Yeah, go to the second one. And here's the end of the hymn. By the way, that hymn that we did in
the clip, it wasn't, it wasn't, the first one was Dracula's pot. The second one was attributed to
the Orphics. Yeah, fantastic. And the first thing we looked at tonight was attributed to them as well.
You mean we've got the poison in there in those texts? Yes, we do. So in classes, this
turned to me and say, huh, huh, well, you just don't have sources. No, I do. You people just
don't read them. That's the problem. And that's why I'm bringing this to you so that you can have it.
Isn't that nice? Let's go to the next one. I love this. Here's more goodies
for everyone. Let's spread it around. Look at the end of this hymn.
Look at the end of this hymn. Look what he calls her on the end of the first line.
Pansofecure. Pansofecure. Yeah, it turns out she is the all wise Cora.
Isn't that gorgeous? Their mysteries always come back to that Cora. It's absolutely gorgeous.
And what does she do? She's saving people. She's saving people there at the bottom, right?
Yeah, this is the Sotera. We're right in the cult. We're right in the cult. Okay. Now, what about
Joseph? You promised me Joseph, right? I promise to get intimate. Come on, Joseph. Where'd you go?
No, don't pull that regal stuff. I don't care who you worked for. Get over here. Get over here. Let's
go to the next text here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Here, Moses. Hang on. Just sit down, Joseph.
Moses, get up here. Are you guys ready for this? I'm going to show you Moses, the real one.
There aren't going to be any prostitutes of the daughters of Israel. There's not going to be
anybody pornating for many of the sons of Israel. And there's not going to be a telesphorus among
the daughters of Israel. And there's not going to be a telescomenos among the sons of Israel. Take
