it down. You see Jehovah, who never gets photographed because he's ugly, right? It devils all over the
place. Everybody knows devil best looking, right? Everybody knows that devil best looking. Jehovah,
he don't take my picture, right? He doesn't do so good in camera. Yeah, yeah. You say. There,
I catch you. Everybody knows God is invisible. Yes, yes. Shine a light on him though. And his
ugliness comes out. His ugliness. Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it. Okay, let's go to the,
let's go to the next text. We're bringing him in. Bring him in. Where's the, right after that one?
Yeah, I just want to see Genesis 44.45. Yeah. So what has happened here? Joseph is explained to
us. Take it down. Joseph explained to us what happened. You were tricking your brothers. Yeah.
And you put a, your cup of divination into one of them sacks so that they would call it and he'd
send a guard out. He'd go, Hey, you stole the cup. And they come back and we don't have a big party.
Right. Remember that? Your cup of divination. What is that? What is that? Let's bring up that
text again. Yeah. Watch this. Watch. Isn't this the thing, you know, the cup in which my Lord drinks?
Yeah. He himself works his divination. Look at those words on that second line.
Oh, God. Love it. Oh, you need. So what does that mean? Please tell me. Take it down. Please
tell me that's a translation of the Hebrew. No, it's not. No, it's not. It's highly technical
terminology that if you look at what the Hebrew turns it into, the classical Hebrew turns it
into, it's a shame. It's a shame and it's laughable. It's so bad. It's laughable. Yeah. This is a
terrible. Anybody who's reading a Bible today, if it says Bible on the cover and you are reading
the Old Testament, you're reading garbage, garbage, garbage. Anybody who is reading
a Hebrew based Old Testament is reading a terrible translation of a fantastic, perfectly
normal Greek work. Yeah. Isn't that weird? Isn't that weird? Think about it for a moment. You're
living in a lie where people go to churches and synagogues. People of the book go to go to mosques
and they think what they are reading is based upon what was really written. It's not. It's a
terrible translation of a very sophisticated and beautiful group of Greek works. Fantastic.
And that's where all this terminology is coming from. It's where it's all coming from. Let's go
down to the next one, please. Yeah. So what happens? Here's the entire passage. He says,
isn't this the cup? The one that I have my things. Notice on the first line that I divine from,
this will be transit. Notice on the first line, we notice that the cup at the end of the sentence
It's silver. Take it down. Why does he have a silver cup that is using the same Greek root
that we just saw in the Orphic text that we had, that we translated right at the top?
Because it's part of the technology. That is how you divine in a silver container.
You look into it and what do you need? What do you need to perform Lacanomancy under the moonlight?
You need the holy. You need the holy of that viper. You need that holy and you need a boy.
Okay. You need the holy and you need the boy. So when Jesus is in the garden of Gethsemane
and he's got something that's making him thirsty just like the holy does and he's got that naked kid
with him, he's in a position for us to say in court that he was a diviner. Yeah. He was a diviner.
This guy is historically a diviner and meets all the criteria for it. He's using all the right
titles. He's got all the right drugs. He's got the naked kid. For those of you who didn't know,
Jesus was with a naked kid, Mark 14, 51, 52. Please write to me and tell me what that naked kid was
