What is this person doing, right?
He then takes out and activates his bow.
Yeah, he activates his bow.
He sends out that, ready?
Keep your analog going, people,
because we're getting to the images that you need.
He takes out his curved arrow, right?
He is hitting on the loxious.
They call him loxious Apollo
because of his oblique nature.
Yes, yeah, Apollo prophesies in the oblique.
When that priestess, the Pythia,
like the one that was screaming at Paul.
They prophesy in what's called in the oblique.
They are loxian.
Yeah, good.
So, that last line there at the bottom,
I just want you to notice Ostoy, that word in the end there.
These arrows, these viperine or viper-derived arrows
of the oblique nature of Apollo.
When they are used, they bacheo the air.
They turn the air into the Bacchic mania.
Okay, so we've all been together,
and with these clues, you can see a picture
that's emerging of the right, right?
And you can see an understanding.
The number one, they're using venoms, right?
They're using venoms.
And like our guys from last week,
who are using the purple, they're seeing visions.
And these visions are oracular.
And they go back to the fire-nourished dragons.
And remember, I told you that the dragons are not in order,
but they're actual people.
That's where we're making contact with the real, right?
These are real people.
So when we have bulls that breathe fire, yeah,
and when we have wolves that change their skin,
you're talking about groups of people,
yeah, people who have certain magic abilities.
Yeah, put the, whether they're the singers
or the singers that change time.
Yeah, this is good, this is good stuff.
So amen, amen is a phrase
that you need to get stuck in your head, right?
I am the amen.
When you see those people,
when you see those people stepping forward into your temple
and desecrating it, right?
Your loyalty is not to a political party.
Your loyalty is to that shrine.
It's to that which is the American symbol.
And I think people understand that very well.
The classical world was big on building monuments,
building monuments and bringing that constant veneration
of what was beautiful forward, right?
You don't desecrate those holy areas
because when you do, you lose the benefit
of that power completely.
You lose the benefit of the Republic, right?
It's only when Tom says, it's only when the blood is shed
on the roots of the tree of liberty, right?
If you do not take care of your insurrection,
it will happen repeatedly.
I tell you, as a student of Roman history, right?
When you allow the, when the insurrection goes unpunished,
people end up, you end up with more.
You end up with more.
But what's curious is these insurrections
have to be fueled by a combustible component.
Something that's gonna spark and set things on fire.
I want you to watch again the very last clip
that we showed and this is the modern event.
This is the modern, this is happening.
And as this is happening, the fire that is within,
again, analog, the fire that is within that compound
to be sparked and boom, it'll go up.
And it happens time after time after time, right?
