Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that whore called Destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Goodness, do you have it tonight on our finale of season 2?
We are going to shift gears tonight.
Instead of going to the past to all of these places where the people are using drugs that I've been taking you all,
we are going to go to the future.
So tonight it all comes together in this fantastic finale.
Your people will dream dreams and see visions.
This is fantastic.
Here we are tonight in honor of Lady Babylon in our Satanic initiation.
And tonight I'm going to take you to a moment.
We've got a couple of videos for you and these videos will act as bridges for you to continue within those of you who are keeping packed
for those to continue forward, make forward progress.
So the images tonight that I'll be giving you are very, very important.
Can we pull up?
And I think it might frighten some people a little bit.
Tonight may be a little bit frightening.
And that's okay.
It's a little bit of a Halloween special kind of thing.
Feel to it.
Love it.
It's a little creepy too.
Anyway, here we go.
Here we go.
I want to bring up this first passage to you tonight.
Just so we can figure out before we set the timeship.
Yeah.
Before we set the timeship.
Here we go.
Yeah.
I want us to read this.
It's a little pronouncement.
A little pronouncement in Acts 217.
Yeah.
In the completion, in the days of completion, right?
In that final time, we're talking about a narrative here, right?
So in that final completion, right?
God says, I pour out from my Pnellma from his breath, from his spirit.
He pours it out upon all living things, all flesh.
If you have flesh and you can drink from that flesh.
Yes.
Excellent.
Suck it in.
It's a bucket thing.
Love it.
Anyway, let's keep going.
And what do they do when they're in this moment?
When they're in the mystery, right?
I heard another scholar today talking about, we don't know it's the mysteries.
It's mysterious.
You guys are pathetic.
You're pathetic.
They will prophesy, right?
They'll be that prophet.
They'll be able to tell you beforehand, right?
And who's, well, tell me who's going to be able to do this?
Your sons and your daughters.
That's cool.
Sons and daughters prophesying.
That's nice.
And you're neoniscoy.
You're young people.
Right?
What are they going to do?
They're going to dream dreams, right?
Oh, oh, sorry.
Excuse me.
They're going to see the visions or assays, the things to be seen.
Right?
They're going to have the visions.
And what are the presbyteroids?
What are those people doing?
The old people, right?
The old people are in upnoice.
They're in that incubation.
Right?
