Rise, here we go, here we go.
We're ready, we're back there in time.
Get your setting, right?
We're all in the throne.
Here we go, we're back there in time.
Just take that air in.
We're gonna take one more breath, one more breath of that.
And as we breathe in that air, we are entering.
You're entering the,
what can only be called the space.
It's like a room, right?
You're entering the Eremon.
You're entering the Eremon.
That's where we are, right?
We're in that place where the magus operates, right?
Here we are.
You know the devil's gonna show up sometime, right?
Fantastic, hit it again.
We're here to buy an office and offer the best
and created God for filling this chamber
with your right mind of love, your right mind of army.
Thank you for filling this chamber
with a patriot that loves you and that loves Christ.
Thank you for buying our mission, our mission,
our mission to create God for us
and that we want to us here and now.
Thank you for buying to create a God
that's around you, bring us.
To divine on the present right mind
of love, protection, peace, and army.
Thank you for allowing the United States of America
to be reborn.
Thank you for allowing us to get rid of the communists,
the globalists, and the traitors within our government.
We love you and we thank you.
In Christ's holy name we pray.
Amen.
So who are these people who broke into the state's temple?
This is the holiest ground.
This is the holiest ground of any of us
who call ourselves a part of the American experiment.
This is the holiest ground that we've got.
Yeah, and they took a dump on your image and your image.
You know, yeah.
Who are these people?
How are they, are they known associates?
Are the person we're investigating?
Let's see, they're the known associates in the now.
Now let's project forward.
Are you ready to feel a little bump here?
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're right at the present, right now.
Hit it.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
Yeah, it turns out we got a bad throw of the dice.
Yeah, we got a bad throw of the dice
and the sore tastes have come up, you're boned.
Yeah, this is what, this is where we are.
We're within the structure of this thing,
this phenomenon that's happening.
They're calling it right now, the last revival.
Okay, think about that for a minute.
Think about that for a minute.
And we have them springing up now.
One's been going on for two weeks, right?
These are outpourings.
These are outpourings of anti-government
sentiment.
Yes, yes.
The Romans faced the same thing.
They faced the same thing.
It was like 185, somewhere in that range.
They had an insurrection, right?
They had people who were in a state of fervor, right?
Those people know, those people are tapped in.
Their master was a magus, right?
