Those people are tapped into what the currents
of the magic are.
Just ask them, ask these people,
ask, turn to your evangelical sitting next to you
and ask them where we are in the last times.
They will jump right in and you'll get a complete
total explanation of reality constructed around you.
You get an image of a world, right?
Projected from this individual or this group
of individuals.
Yeah, this is the operation of the mystery.
This is the operation of the mystery.
Your people will dream dreams, they'll have visions.
Yes, yeah, that's all originating
from this world, from this world.
Bring that up, Chewie.
Excellent, excellent.
I just want to read this to you real quick.
Smirdelen de gigantos.
Oh, you recognize the word for giant, right?
Nice, you like the word for giant?
Yeah, idon.
Yeah, he's, what's this, what's going on?
We're talking about Ofiuchos.
Ofiuchos is the next line.
He's there that's shining Ofiuchos.
What is an Ofiuchos?
It's one who holds or has or possesses echo.
The office, right?
The serpent.
Now, the trick for this little game is right now,
this is a puzzle, what I'm showing you.
You have to fit together the puzzle
to tell me what it means, what it means.
And for those who are playing the game
and want to figure it out, if you throw it up first,
the answer first, you get an extra point on next Sabbath.
Yeah, very good.
Okay, so let's look at this shining Ofiuchos,
you know, constellation.
We have bring constellations in.
Yeah, that's nice, there you go.
Notice that it's solar, right?
That this is a sun, moon, and stars.
Okay, this is Bronze Age.
Good, good, oh, this is the old fashioned religion.
Oh, this is gorgeous, this is a thousand years
before Christianity was even a figment
of somebody's imagination, right?
So look at this humanity here,
this is what I love, you guys love this stuff.
I have to earn that love, of course, right?
And I appreciate your, I'm trying to bring you the best.
This is good stuff, let me try to show you.
Look at that third word end on the second line down.
This is line 245, Alexi Takron, right?
He's shaking something from his hands, right?
He shakes from his hands.
What kind of hands does he have?
He has hands that are antidotal, not anecdotal,
but antidotal, it's what it's saying literally,
and not literally in the modern sense,
anything can be literal, right?
In the actual sense, yeah, it's the antidote.
He's got the antidote on his hands.
What's going on, and who's this he?
Yeah, Ophiuchus, Ophiuchus, yeah, so he shakes off.
He shakes off his little seismic trimmer, yeah,
and he shakes off the
translated back, yeah.
He's taking away the power.
He's putting off the back, yeah, of the what?
The back of what?
The back of the fire-nourished dragons.
Wow, okay, so I'm a little bit confused, right?
And this comes across in translation,
read your translation of it, and you'll see it's,
oh, this is a little bit messy for what's going on.
