And that is how we get to Jesus in a public park with a naked boy screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
Okay, let's go tonight. Right, right to it. Let's get right to it. You saw the theme in all of those images that you just got. You take it in the theme.
Now I'm going to take you to the particular mystery. And I want you to focus your attention on this morning.
I'm going to bring you a dead guy. And I'm going to force him to spit out this song of mourning. This was a time when women were worshiped.
This was a time when there are tire ethnic groups where women held all of the power. There were queens. Fantastic. Fantastic.
I want you to take your mind back to that place. And I want to bring you Aphrodite. Thanks to Aphrodite and Adonis.
I'm going to run this clip for you. And this clip is composed of lines from a second century Hellenist.
Yeah, and he is going to be giving you the lament for Adonis, something that spread across the world.
Yeah, yeah, across the world. It's a time when we enter into that midsummer's lament.
Time when we enter that cry. Today we're going to find Hallelujah. Hallelujah. If I were out there, I could hear you on a congregation.
Let's say Hallelujah. Hallelujah is a Greek word. What? Not even Hallelujah. The devil won't even give them Hallelujah.
No. No. No, the devil's not giving you Hallelujah. Let's start through the, let's start. We need to hit the film first, you.
Let's head up and everybody set yourselves for Bayon. Yes, Bayon's morning of Adonis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And who is this Adonis for whom so many women weep every year?
So many women. We take our, we take our pots and we put our little flowers that are going to rise and die and put those on the roof.
Yeah. And we go through this process of celebrating. Whoops, I got on the wrong side of the ship. So we start celebrating, right?
What are we celebrating? We shave our heads because we honor Adonis in his death. This is for the women.
Okay. Historically, I'm just going to put it out there from the text. These are the voices. What I'm about to show you are the voices of the muses.
I'm going to show you that beauty. And it's going to start with the one that was called the 10th muse. I just want to throw her name up here. Throw her name up there.
Yep. Nope. That one. First, that one. Good. Sopho. Right. That's the good attic way of saying it anyway. But if you drop down, you get the eolic.
You'll get the eolic. Yes. Sopho. And what is that eolic? That's the Greek that they speak on the island where Sappho lives and is imprecating or begging or praying to Aphrodite.
And what is she praying to her about? She's praying to her that she will bring her love back to her. That her love, who is a woman, will be drawn back to her.
