Remember that word that we saw? Leave that up there to me. But remember that word that we saw on Nero? Right? Yeah. Yeah. The polutronon, right? That polythronic.
So this is the poikilothronic. The poikilothronic Aphrodite. And it's Aphrodita because of the, because of the Doric. Wait, what? Yes, the worship of Aphrodite and the Donus is Doric.
How do we know? Because the language they're using, it's all Doric, baby. They love this stuff.
Okay, cool. They weren't so sped invaders, after all, were they? Well, look what they left us. Remember, the Eolians are involved. As soon as you get the Eolians involved, you're going to be square and dactylic hexameter, right?
Woohoo! Love it. This is music. This is music. They sang when they spoke. Something higher going on, right? A lot of drugs. Stimulating their brains higher and higher.
You know what I mean? And here she is. She's immortal. Athalata, right? And she's the Paideos, the son of God. Oh, excuse me, daughter of God.
I forgot. You've been with the son of God for so long that you didn't know that there's a daughter of God who is our morning star, the Donbringer.
Yeah, she's the one wearing that golden bra that Jesus puts on in the apocalypse before he wipes everybody out, right? He's got all our attributes, right?
Think about that. There is a religion right now that is waiting for their cross-dressing son of God to come back so he can maniacally slaughter us all. Serial killer, divine style.
Where's that guy's naked boy? Whatever happened to that naked boy that was with Jesus, I tell you, I'm going to find him to 40 minutes or so.
I'm going to find him. I'm going to find that naked kid. I don't care where you guys have hidden him, right?
When we go through it and we end up in the ion, as they call it. Yeah, I'm going to find that kid. I'm going to summon his ghost. I'm going to pull him toward me.
Yeah, and I'm going to use him. I'm going to use him as an instrument of my righteous indignation against the God who comes wearing the costume of Venus in order to massacre.
Remember, David, you can talk about Adonai and Psalms. You can talk about Adonai and Psalms and every time you're going to find a kurios there.
And that's why the Hebrew scholars who screwed up said, oh, let's be unoriginal and say this word goes back to meaning Lord. Thank you. It was already there in the text, right?
They're doing the best they can. They're doing the best they can. What can you do with 8000 unique words against hundreds of thousands? You can't. You can't compete.
In order to appropriate, you have to drag that stuff in. You have to say, well, we're going to cover that up. We're going to give you an artificial surface there. You don't know what's underneath.
Don't look what's underneath it. Why would you want to appropriate that material anyway? Why would you want to steal and create an Adonai? Why would you want to do that?
Identification is a funny thing. And it does. It drives our societies and peoples to do certain things to create justifications.
It's a very dangerous. It's a very dangerous manipulation. What do we hear for is true sadness. We're here for the history. We're here for the facts. We just want to know what happened.
We're just part of the union, man. We're just following along. We want to know. Give us the facts. Bring us up to that. I'm sorry. I'm a little bit preachy tonight. I'm going to lose my audience because I know you guys have important things to do.
Give me that one. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes. Yeah. Who are we praying to? We're praying to that.
That one who has that intense wit. Now, back at the date, right? She is the one who has that intense wit. That way of thinking to be able to weave the cosmos around herself.
Yeah. You have to have a lot of here. If you're going to muse the universe into existence. What? The Greek thought that the universe was the production of a woman's brain?
