Yeah. This symbol on was so powerful in antiquity that even when Christianity took a hold of the state apparatus, it was still able to penetrate society.
This symbol of the rose and what it meant. Yeah. It is the blood. The blood of the dying God. You must become like a child. Do you have the blood of the dying God? Yeah.
Do you have the blood of the dying God? This is the mystery. Fantastic. Bring us up another one. We've got bullets. We've got a few more bullets here. Thank you for taking a little extra time tonight.
I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Yeah. Let all of those, let all of that murr, all of those drugs that we're using, and they're using a lot. I was reading once an ancient treatise on, I forget what the whole thing was about.
But in it, it had a section on different words in Greek for uterus, what we call uterus today. And in it, it talked at length about different kinds of problems. Chafing. What do you do when your pudinda become chafed in antiquity?
This is a problem. And they have all sorts of oils and perfumes. They've got creams. They've got all sorts of things that they're putting inside, outside, taking them in all sorts of ways, cutting their skin, rubbing it on the skin to get it that way. Yeah. All sorts of stuff.
So, and these are sex drugs. Sex drugs. They're ones that will kill, kill things that you don't want to be there in the process. You know what I mean? Like that one that you can get the gonorrhea.
You know, you got to use some plants. You got to put some toxins in a mix and put it on somebody's private parts. Yeah, you've got to wash out. You've got to wash out the area with these, right? This is ancient medicine. This is ancient medicine.
Let's, these are the people we're dealing with, right? And, okay, let's keep going. Just remember these, the drugs have to be there, right? We're trading this stuff all over the place. This is making the economy roll. Yeah, people should be happy. Yeah.
Yeah, not you, personally, but you know what I mean? People in general. Yeah. Let that myrrh go away. Yeah, right? Adonis has destroyed your, your, your myrrh, right? You've got no reason to have it anymore.
Look at the second line, the hotty taste. These are the forces that always accompany Aphrodite. And if you don't understand the hotty taste, you cannot understand the mystery.
The word hottest is the singular. And you'll recognize right away and all the evangelicals will go, what grace, grace and mercy and peace. Do you know what grace is? Grace is the feeling that you get when you look into the eyes of your lover while you're orgasming.
Grace. Grace. Are you kidding? These hotty tastes are pictured. What is grace in the mind of the ancient world? Grace is a beautiful woman. I didn't, I didn't make this stuff up. I don't care where you put it and where your politics are, I really don't care.
Grace is a beautiful woman who accompanies she who is loved. Wow. Wow. Okay. Okay. Do you see how the, how woman centered this all is? It's incredibly woman centered. And remember our goddess poet who's writing this, she is a lesbian from Lesbos.
Right. She has female lovers. She's a school teacher. She's got students. Right. Okay. Say what you want. Go ahead. I can hear them. Let me hear the complaints. Let me hear the complaints. It wasn't me. It was Sappho. It was Sappho. Yes. And she's falling in love with a student again. Right.
So who better to write about the power of persuasion and the power of grace? That's the other entity that accompanies Aphrodite. Persuasion. Yeah. Desire.
Yeah. Love it. Oh, wow. He met us. Right. That desire, that desire. Are you getting it? And this is from women centered societies. Right. Do you know why we're here? We're only here because of Diana.
We're only here because of Diana. You mean that poor of poison? That archerist from up on the Black Sea who Medea's walking around and everybody's calling her? Do you want to saw? Yeah. That's who we're talking about. She's the one who's planting this, that Diana. Diana because of her son and his disrespect.
The fact that he was disrespected. Right. He cursed Aphrodite. Diana's son cursed Aphrodite. Right. Wow. How is this the Virgin Goddess? Because that Hippolytus is that child. She was his leader.
She was the head huntress and he was the follower. He was the devotee. And when you're in a Bronze Age society where women are leaders, there's a special relationship with that devotee that is like a mother to her son.
And what happens to him? He gets killed by Aphrodite. He gets killed by Aphrodite. Do you know why? Because he disrespected her and he was a mortal. Shame on him. Right. This is Aphrodite. Aphrodite has the power to do things. She made an entire island, an entire island of women. She punished them for not respecting her.
This is what happens. What happens when you don't respect Aphrodite? I'm going to tell you from the text. These are the Lemnian women. I'm going to tell you for all certainty. Our texts say the Lemnian women suddenly became very, very smelly in places of holiness where rights should be being celebrated so that they can come to the Hallelujah.
Because the only thing the poet wants is to find that Hallelujah. To drink that Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips. Bring up the Hallelujah. Bring up the Hallelujah.
I'm going to blow that guy up here. He's all timed up there. I can't see it. Aladza. Yeah. Cry or shout aloud, right? That's okay. Cry and shout aloud. Look at, we have it of Bacchus. I just want you to look at paragraph number two or section two. Generally a cry and shout aloud especially.
