And you guys never believe me. I know you don't. It's not you personally, but this always happens. I tell people things and they eventually come back to me and they say, oh my God, you were right about that. You were making that up. Yeah, no, no, no. This is of orgiastic rights.
Right? It's a shout. Hallelujah. Hallelujah when that Seder has brought you to that place of complete and total ecstasy. That's why he's been plugged in. He's got a good 24 hours before that stuff wears off. Yeah, and he's good for it for another 24 hours.
We'll kill him if we take it much further than that. Remember the society that we're coming from. This is a society with a female central authority. Right? Okay. Okay. It's gorgeous, gorgeous. Let's go back to the, let's go to the next, whoever comes next. Right? Yeah. Oh, look at this. Oh, what happens? What does the chorus do of women?
They try to incant him. They try to, they try to bring him back. These are epodes. You know what epodes are? They're ancient songs that can affect your surroundings. Whether it's bringing a hailstorm, whether it's destroy your neighbor's crops, whether it's give your neighbor a disease, start a pandemic, whatever you want.
These are the apotic forces, cosmic quantum force. And that's what we're doing. We're being epodes. We're using that magic. People said Medea's drugs were strong, but even stronger than her drugs were her songs. And that's why the fleece is an animal skin with the song of the queen written there on magic ink.
Guarded by a dragon in a grove of Mars, specific place on the east side of the Black Sea, Georgia, modern day Georgia. Fantastic. Let's translate. Oh, and he's not going to listen to you. So they're incanting him like the witches, right? Do you know who screams hallelujah? Do you know who screams hallelujah in Greek? And we're getting back to the Hebrew. Don't worry. We're not, we're not done with Adonai. Right? We're going to get back to that.
Fabrication because I'm taking smell the original again, 1000 years before they have even proto Hebrew. They've got this.
Somebody wrote to me this week. I'll just take a two minute break with this. Somebody wrote to me this week. I love it when people do it. Somebody wrote to me and said, Hey, I'm curious about this thing called the Moabite steely. Right? What is it? And what?
I don't know. I don't know, but I looked it up and it's not even in Hebrew. Right? Well, it has the name of God. It looks like it's a Phoenician and what people say it's, there's a chance it's fake. You mean it's not a, did they find this at a dig or didn't they?
Right? Well, it's been questioned. I think it's real now. What is it? It's not Hebrew. The point that we're bringing is always do the research with the evidence. Don't come up with stupid ideas. Just present the evidence. We have no Hebrew.
You say we have inscriptions. Yeah, most of them are one letter that could be scratches as well as a letter. There is no library. We are drowning in the Greek. We are drowning in it. And Adam and Adonis come from this Mycenaean old Greek, old Greek.
Yeah. So we're in trouble, people. The reality that we've presented is not there. Let's just go ahead and flash the Mycenaean up there. Here's the root. Look at this. Adinwata. There's your Adon root. You like that? Your Adon root. Fantastic. Gorgeous.
Oh, by the way, that's a personal name. That's just some dude that was, you know, scribe of so-and-so or somebody who owed the palace money or something. Got his name written in there.
Right. Okay, good. So we've got that root straight up. Let's go back to the forms now. Wherever we were next, let's, yeah, go ahead, go ahead. Let's just keep, let's just, those are good texts. Go ahead.
Look at this. And they tried to bring him up, but what happened? He couldn't, right? Why? Because in that second line, the Korra. The Korra wouldn't let him go. Right? She wouldn't let him go. You must be, again, for those of us who are in the right, you must be possessed by the Korra in death in order to be born again. Good.
Good. Do you understand? Okay, we're getting closer. I know. Just focus on that image. Next text. I'm going to hit him again. Hit him with another one. Yeah, look at this. Just so we don't feel that we're out of place with the hallelujah and out of context. This is what the seminarians, oh, let me get my whip. This is what the seminarians, oh, I love this. Stop it. Oh, I love it. Learn your Greek. Oh, it gets so red.
This is, oh, it shouldn't feel so good, right? Something like that shouldn't feel so good, but it does. It feels so good. Okay.
I don't want to get too far away from Jesus because he touches upon the whole Adonai business. Let's look at that quote.
And so they came to, they came to this house, the house of the guy who was leader of the synagogue, right? Remember synagogue? Greek word, right?
Soon I'll go again, right? And what did he see? He sees this crowd of people and their clientele. They're like wailing and they're hallelujahing. You see the alaladzontas? They're hallelujahing.
And what does he enter into the place and he says to him, hey, what are you, what are you crowd making for? What are you, what's all this yelling about? He says the kid isn't dead. She's just sleeping.
Right? It's a crowd of mourners because had a synagogue's daughter has died. Yeah. Yeah. And what are the mourners doing? They're entering into the hallelujah. They're entering into that place of mourning.
It is a right that very much is centered upon what you and I call death and burial. The whole experience of death and burial and mourning wrapped up into a mystery centered around lovers centered around lovers.
Yeah. We're getting closer to bring us the next text. I can hear it. I hear somebody out there is coming, coming to the peak. I know that you are poikilothron.
