And he was in the Eremon. You know what I mean? Dude, help this guy out. He's in the Eremon. And what's happening when he's in the Eremon? He's doing what? He is there for 40 days, right? That's a long, he's a good time, man.
And what is he being doing? What's happening to him for these 40 days of wandering around, listening to the voice from the Uranos? And the funny thing is Uranos is in the plural.
Oh, God, you thought you were in one place. You thought you were in the fairy tale and you weren't. Remember, there's different levels and all of that and Paul gets kicked up to one.
He's like, oh, I don't know if I was there or not. Right. But I saw this. This is where Jesus is. You didn't know that your religions were drug cults, did you? Why don't you think Moses?
How did you stop for a minute? Dude is crouching in front of a bush. He's talking to God, man. Just because you can't see it doesn't mean the drugs can't enable you to go there.
Oh, God. Oh, God. Okay, let's keep going. There's going to be a revelation at the end of this. You're going to understand the Bible like you never did. I promise you, I promise you.
What is the word that, look, people, what does it say that he was, I need that passage once again. It says here, what happened to Jesus? Where was he going?
Look at the bottom line. And he was, he was with the beasts and the Angeloid. They did what? They ministered to him. They helped him out. They served him because he's with the beasts.
Who are these beasts? Now you can go to Sunday school and you can get a picture of Jesus out, you know, and being tempted. And, you know, maybe there's a, there's a goat, you know, maybe there's a snake or something.
These people are so, so stupid. Oh my God. Okay, look, what's a thread? What's a thread? It's a beast of prey. People know this, right? Because I've talked about this a lot. But it's a beast of prey, especially something like a lion.
You know, I mean, some scary like lions and tigers and bears, right? Oh my, this is terrible. This is terrible. Look at number two. It's just living creatures.
Look, look, we sneak dolphins in there. Seriously? Okay, let's sneak dolphins in there too. Oh God, look at the bottom. Look at the Sphinx. What is a Sphinx? I thought, wait a minute, we just talked lions, tigers, bears, dolphins, and now a Sphinx.
What is going on? A Sphinx is not a Sphinx, as you know it. Yeah, she is the one leading you. Remember, the Bacchic Priestess is mimicking, that text says she's mimicking the voice of the black Sphinx.
The black Sphinx was one historical woman. And she is the one, the priestess is all mimic when they are entering the Bacchic Rites. Isn't that gorgeous? She is the one. Where does she come from? Where does she work? Thela.
It sounds just like the beast word that you just said. Yeah, it does. It does. It blew up. It blew up in the end of the Bronze Age, the whole island. It's a crater now with the rounded, it's beautiful, the rest of the island, by the way, the food is fantastic.
Disco is open until 4 a.m., I think it was. Oh, God, you wake up in the sand, you know what I mean? It's gorgeous, lovely. Thera, but it's where the prophecies of the black Sphinx came from. And remember, in the PGM, the black Sphinx, remember who she is.
Okay, keep going. Keep going. It's so deep right now. You're sitting there and you're like, oh, did somebody give me something to drink? Do I have that potion? Hit it. Hit it.
Look, the theerka, the beast. Who are these beasts that Jesus are with? This is what we're trying to figure out. So Jesus is out there. He's just taking his stuff. Take some 40 days, right? With all of these beasts out there. With beasts in these here and what? He's doing the voice thing and the angels.
What do you think that means when it says those angels are administering to him? What do you think it means? You think they're walking around? Jesus, you need some toilet paper? He's got to go.
Look, look, Harvey, Harvey, the angel did. I told you to watch him. If he needs to take a dump, take the divine toilet paper and give it to him. You know what happens to Christing?
Yeah, you know what happens. You know what happens. You can't, right? The the order of the Christ is, you know, it's got the drug in it. So we got to dispose of it properly. Right? What do you think the angels are sitting around sitting talking about garbage like that?
Now these are Angeloid and beasts and the visions that one gets when one is under the influence of the drug. Right? We've got the white paint on our cheeks to prevent the burning. We put the purple in our eyes.
And what do we do for our 40 days? We're around a group of people who are beasts. What are those beasts? Keep going. Keep going.
Boom. Remember people always follow the drugs. Always follow them. All you have to do is follow the science. Right? And you'll be fine. That fair is a what? Is it what? It's a centaur. Huh? Now you're confusing me. And it's satyrs. Wait, a beast is a centaur and a satyr?
What's a satyr? I know. I know I studied these. A satyr is a dude who goes to a doctor and he says, hey, I want some satyrion. And the doctor's like, here you go. Have fun. Boom. He goes home, turns himself into a satyr. What does that mean? It means he has satiriasis.
Unremitting satiriasis. Yeah, that's a readiness for human intercourse. The drugs that they're using make satyrs. When Jesus is out there in the wilderness and you have in the Eremon, the Eremon is the void. Right? It's not like he went. People think you just ran off in the desert. You know what I mean? A trail.
Trail of bison or something. I don't know. Trail of big animals running after him and some angels floating. Oh my God. What kind of craziness will you believe?
Well, now to that picture you can add. You can add. What was the verse? Let's come back to that one. But what was the verse that we were just on? Boom. Yeah. Yeah. There we go.
It's the centaurs and it's the satyrs. So drawing your satyrs in the painting with Jesus. Drawing a bank of people with, you know, how should we say, at full attention. Right? Do you understand why it is that when you are in the void, you're tried by the devil.
Tried by Satan. This is the Saturnian justice. Oh God. It's gorgeous. It's gorgeous. Give me the next one. Give me the next. You thought it was, you know, no, the drugs will take you every time.
Every time when you think it's really calm and nice and sweet, right? Just track the drugs and watch what they're doing. These cults are crazy. Look at the first word fair. That is that beast. And what is the beast?
This is what the centaur calls the person that you and I call Jason. The divine centaur, Jason says, gave me the name. Show me. This is the name. Look, people, you're going to learn the name of Jesus tonight.
Iason. Iason. I know somebody's, I know somebody's going to say this to me. Watch. Wait, you, you, you're sitting right up front. What do you want to ask me? Oh, that's the name of Joshua, right? No.
No, it's not because the original text is not 8000 words of Hebrew. It's Greek and this name goes back 1000 years before any Moses ever existed.
Give me the next one. What does this name mean? The centaur gave him this name. Look at Iosimos. This is the root. We're looking at roots here. Ios and look at now the Ionian.
