Some of you are like, no, no, I did, I did, right? No, you didn't. You did so in an unguided way. You did so in a way that, you know, yeah, okay, I understand.
I understand you're trying to explore, but if you're going to do it right, you're going to go all the way to death. You have to see the sisters.
You have to see the sisters of your doom. If you haven't seen the sisters of your doom, you're not going to be able to bring back with you that reality and wake up and say, I am not afraid of dying.
That's why Yahoo kicked her out because her eyes were open and you can't control somebody with fear when your eyes are open.
Yeah, yeah, it's that simple. Now, have we come across, have we, have we achieved this? No, we are not performing the mystery. We are not. Yeah, we are not.
It's very complex people has to do with that satiriasis. You can bring somebody, there's a sexual element to the ancient mystery, a sexual element.
Can you believe it? There's a death element, there's a sex element, and there's a singing, some kind of hypnotic brain thing coming out of the mouth of the black sphinx, and you'll know it when you see her.
She rises from the dead. She's the queen. It's Lusus people, right? We're at Lusus. And when you're brought back from that, you're alive. You are alive.
Oh, God, I love it. I love it. All right, let's go to the next one. Chewie, hit me with the next one. We'll catch up. Boom. Yeah.
Look at this, people. I'm just taking all the beast words. Thediodigma. What is a thediodigma? It's the bite of a serpent. We're going to do this fast. Look at it. It was diascortes that was on there. See that DSC. These are all the drug texts.
Nobody reads the drug texts, right? Nobody reads the drug texts. I don't know why there's more drug texts than any other genre of literature. Did you know that?
You classicists, hurry up and verify this. I have more drug pages sitting on my shelves than any other. I can take 50 of those ills and pack them into it.
Give me the next one. What is Thediodagtos? It means bitten by a wild beast, i.e. a serpent. And then it gives more. We have more diascortes, more Galen. Fantastic. Next one. Thediodagtos. Who? Who gets bitten by the beast? Are you ready? Are you ready?
Marsus. Who are Marsus? They're the Martians. Not like the guys on the red planet, right? Not like those guys. These are guys that live in Italy and they very famously live around snakes, right? These marsh snakes. Terrible.
Give me the next one. What happened to them? What happened to them? Listen, the sanctuary of Angitia, the chief temple and grove of the goddess Angitia. It stood in the southwest corner of Lake Fus, the Fusine Lake, near the inlet to the tunnel of Bla-Bla-Hu-Ha.
Angitia was widely worshiped in the central highlands as a goddess of healing, especially skilled to cure serpent bites by charms, songs, and the herbs of the Martian woods, which was carried out by local inhabitants until modern times.
Their country was considered by Rome to be the home of witchcraft. Do you know what our ancient Greek authors tell us Angitia was? They say Angitia was Medea. She happened to show up in Italy and showed people how to cure the bites that people were getting from the local snakes using the drugs.
Isn't that nice? Using the local drugs. That's why they called her the number one with the drugs. She was number one. Love it. Love it. Isn't that gorgeous? Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
By the way, whose voice was it that the Black Sphinx is ultimately the model of? It's the voice of Medea. It's her voice. This is a very specific person in history and this is why Julius Caesar took a portrait of Medea and placed it in the dedicated to the temple of Venus.
Venus is Urania, the muse.
She was their muse.
Fantastic.
It's gorgeous. Give me the next one. We're going to show some new stuff. Watch this.
This is somebody who kills. Somebody who kills the beast. What does that mean? Look at the word that they have there.
Pharmacon. This is a description, a word. It's an adjective that's used to describe a type of drug.
The beast killer. It kind of makes sense, doesn't it? Remember, we're at the right and they told you, hey, she gave you that stuff and you drank it. You're like, yeah.
And then you're like, hey, did you shove the beast killer into your rectum? And you're like, what?
Yeah, you got to have the beast killer, right? Oops. Give me the next one.
Out in the Eremon, right?
That means in the form of a beast. And look at the Orphic hymn. Look at the Orphic hymns there in the end.
You thought there was no connection between Jesus and the Orphics. There is direct connection within the language of Greek.
Direct. Give me the hymns. What does it say in the hymns about the Orphic hymns?
Look at this people. This is to the Nereids. This is to the Nereids and what does it say?
It says they are the ones who first brought the holy rites of Bacchus and Chora.
Do you remember the queen? I can't pronounce her name because they said this in antiquity. Look, people, this drives me a little bit crazy
