What a strange title to be walking around with Lady Babylon. She has many names.
The pedarast killer. That is what the priestess who is in the Bacchic frenzy,
who is mimicking the voice of the black sphinx. That's what she says.
I am the pedarast killer.
Yes. Interesting. Interesting twist.
People were writing to me and they were saying,
My goodness, what are you doing? You're just exposing these terrible, terrible rights.
Yes, we are. And the deeper that you get into them, the more you will be able to appreciate the fact that the mystery was hijacked.
It was hijacked by a group in the third century.
It was created. It was propagandized into something that it wasn't in the Septuagint.
And then that same group created a phenomenon that was the modern Christ in the first century BC.
In the first century Anodomia. Here he comes.
Here he comes and he's coming from this tradition.
Jesus Christ, when he's arrested in the garden with the naked kids screaming,
I am not a laystace. I am not a child trafficker.
He is performing the mystery in a perversion of history.
He is no longer the pedarast killer. He is the pedarast.
I want to thank you for coming tonight and now is Nostik. I don't see Nostik there.
He's not there. He must have gotten busy.
Nostik, did you hear? Let's text him really quick.
No, that's okay. Let's see. Let's see if he wants to hear. Go ahead and text him, Chewie.
And while you're doing that, I will let you know.
I wanted to let you give you some announcements anyway.
I want to say thank you to everybody who's coming and everybody who's participating.
But I wanted you to know that the scholarship behind this is getting some attention finally.
And what we need, people keep asking what, you know, documentary wise.
People are talking to me about documentaries now.
What do we need to do?
What kind of, how do we cover this material?
Are there people that can verify it? Yes.
The expertise is in the classical studies.
It's in the language. It's embedded in there.
And if we can bring that out, if we can bring those experts forward, come on and have them look at these texts,
they can verify everything that I'm saying.
It's very important for me that you know that these are just texts that are facts of history.
