We're getting close to somebody. We're getting close to Jesus. Everybody knows who Holy Jesus is. What's that? Look at a people.
Wait a minute. We're in medicine. Yeah, we're with drugs. Look at the first word in Greek on that line.
How do you, Iosimos? How do you, yeah, oh my someone, you, yeah, oh my somebody with farm, my voice with drugs.
You mean Jesus Christ means drug, drug guy? Do you know how long I'm going to take a break here? I'm going to tell you. Do you know how long it will take for classes as first to back this up to look at the text, to look.
First thing we got to do, make them look at the medical side, right? Once they start looking at the medical side and they track down these terms, they're going to say, well, there's something, there's something there.
And then it'll be a while, just maybe a few years and they'll start writing books like they started writing books about drugs in the ancient world.
When I had to publish the chemical muse with material that had to be removed from my decree, now they're going to write about it, make some cashola, smug sons, no, no cursing here, no cursing here on YouTube.
Chewie, what are those people? What are the people that take advantage of satanic congregation? What are those people?
Let's go. Let's go back to the text. Where were we? I had a little break. That's good. We were with Iosone, right? Give me the next definition there. Boom, probably that one, right?
It comes from this verb, ya'll, in case anybody didn't believe me. Look, it means to heal. It means to heal, cure, treat diseases.
Look at number three. Cure the effects or counteract, right? And look at the examples they give. It's going to counteract the effects of the coneon, the hemlock, right?
Well, antidotes, go ahead and take it down. Healing is very much an antiquity, the art of procuring antidotes.
And when I say antidotes, I am saying drugs. Do you know why Eve was told by Yahoo that she would have birth that was painful? Because there were ways.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry, people. Am I back, Chewie? Are we back? We're back online? Fantastic. I'm sorry, that was Yahoo. He needs a little attention.
Can you throw me the Yahoo? Let's give Yahoo a little, remember, Yahoo is born. And when I say Yahoo, I mean Yahoo, I mean he who kicked out Eve, right?
Lied to her and then kicked her out. He's a terrible guy. And he has a birthday. He was born in the third century. Hit it, Chewie. Let's see that.
Yeah, take us there. Oh, you weren't ready. I caught you down. No, Yahoo, Yahoo. Yeah, no, Yahoo. Here, don't worry. We can all sit here while you find out.
No, no. I think, Chewie, what are you on, man? Right here.
Yahoo, Yahoo, when's your birthday? Everybody. Happy birthday to Yahoo. Happy birthday to Yahoo.
Happy birthday, Elohim Hashem Jova. It was in the third century.
There you go. Did you get enough credit now? All right, thank you, Yahoo. Here we go. Look people at the name Jesus, right? It's the same name. It is not the name Joshua.
It is a much older name. And it is the name of the one who is initiated by the Kindarron, by the Sintar. Yes.
Does everybody remember what Sintar means? Do we have any questions? Remember what Sintar means? Give me this. No, this one.
Well, here we go. Watch this. Thadeon. That's not it. We need the next one. Go to the next one. You need to put away the... Here, let me take over, Chewie, just a second.
Let me... Oh, God. It's going to take a while to come up. What did I do? What did I do? It's not your fault. It's my fault. Bad planning on my part.
I'll show you that. But first, look at the Thadeon. Look at the Thadeon. It's a wild animal, right? And it's generally some kind of animal.
And if you go down to the bottom, which, you know, Dan hates when you go to the bottom of things, I don't know what that's from. It's got to be something psychological.
Passionate, you know, poisonous, excuse me, poisonous animal. Poisonous animal, right? We know. Look at what are the Therriac? What are the beasts that Jesus is hanging around with, these saders?
What are they doing? Give me the next one. Boom. Thediacos, something that's about venomous beasts, right? You've got arguments on those.
Look who he gives. He gives diascorides, right? Look at the next author, Philuminous. None of you have heard of Philuminous and diascorides until you've come to Satanic initiation.
These are dudes in antiquity who wrote about all the products that you could use from snakes and from scorpions and from spiders, all sorts of sea, poisonous sea creatures, right?
Oh my God, they're digging a valley in from off the floor. See, what? This is crazy. Yeah, it grows in this funny plant looking thing.
Look at the Therriac. Do we have drugs again, people? We're with the beasts, remember, with Jesus. And do we have drugs again?
Look right in smack dab mentally, you see Therriaca, Pharmaca. What are those? Those are the drugs that are going to treat those venomous, those venoms, right? Those venomous creatures, right?
But it's their venoms that they're treating. Isn't this brilliant? You didn't know that you could make a compound that would put you outside of time and space.
