because this name is pretty popular. It's the last name on the second line.
And they said, if you pronounce that, you're in deep doo doo.
I'm kind of superstitious, so I'm not going to pronounce it.
How would they substitute Chora? The Chora, the bloom.
When you see the bloom rising with Bacchus, that's the work.
That's the work of those who have that beast form.
Along with Apollo, Calliope.
Do you understand why it says Jesus Christ was with beasts in the Eremon?
Watching the Uranus open and hearing the voice.
Ah, and then he's, ah, devil.
God, what a scene. How come nobody puts that stuff together? How come we need a movie about that?
Who could we get to play Jesus? I don't know. I don't know. Not the guy that they're getting to play Jesus though.
He's kind of, I don't know. He strikes me as, I don't know.
Let's go to the next one. What's the other beast form? Who else are we talking about?
Oh, God. Oh, God. We're talking about dragons.
Zeirotupontsemenos morphend dnoferoiodrakontos.
Yeah. What's happening to us? We're taking the shape.
We're taking the beast shape of the dark dragon.
That dragon who brings the mist of death.
The dragon. Think about that for a minute. You're sitting there getting ready to go through this.
They've already given you some drugs.
You're starting to feel funny. Get nervous.
And then they let you know when you see the dragon who brings darkness.
And you're like, what? Excuse me?
You're going to be tried. This is a trial.
This is not hippies doing drugs.
No, it's guided trial. And if you don't know how to get through it, you're going to be in trouble.
Yeah. You're going to not fully come back.
Now, do people die doing this? Of course they do.
Remember Jesus is out there and somebody runs up to him and they're like, oh my God.
I've got this little girl and she's totally zonkered.
She's in the eschatone. If you come and help, she'll come back to life.
Yeah. And everybody in the fairytale says, skip the dues.
Come on, Johnny. Come on, Johnny. Give me your lunch money, Johnny.
No, no, no.
