Nope.
No Jung is right in the middle of this.
Okay.
Then you will see the gods looking graciously upon you.
And oh, first they come and they rush at you.
It's a scary situation.
It's like you have to adjust your frequency.
Because first everybody wants to kill you.
Then you perform an action.
And suddenly everything is normal.
They look at you as normal.
Why?
You're being reborn.
You're being born into an element that you don't naturally flow from.
Right?
This isn't some kind of guru rediscovery of God.
The God within.
Anybody who's sitting around with smoke in the air and feeding you that, I'm God.
Okay.
No, no, no.
What we are looking at is what the subjects of these experiments went through.
And what they visualize in the process.
And the argument is the mystery.
See the mystery is not something stupid or mysterious.
The mystery is that reaction.
It is that vision.
Mmm.
Completely biologic.
I love it.
Completely organic.
Doesn't smell of chemicals or big companies or anything.
It's completely okay.
It's like a human.
It's like a human programming.
You know, it's in there.
It's in the genes.
It's in the nature.
Okay.
Anyway, let's let's see immediately after you said these things, the sun disc will be expanded.
Oh, here it comes to you.
The sun's look at this when we're through coming through the initiation.
This is what we see.
The sun's disc expanded.
Hey, that's why they're all into the solar worship stuff.
And after you have said the second prayer where there is silent silence and the accompanying words make a hissing sound twice and a popping sound twice.
Yeah.
Okay.
You're going to see this.
It's not too uncommon.
So there's vocalizations that go along.
They call the witches the stray.
Right.
The streaks is the screech out.
There's noises that go along with this form of right.
Yeah.
So hissing and popping, hissing and popping.
Yeah.
And immediately you will see what you're going to love this many five prong stars coming forth from the disc and filling all the air.
You see the stars.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
This is this is there's more about the drugs.
And there's much more about levels of initiation things that are seen.
And there's more about how to prepare for this what exactly you have to do and what kind of what kind of acts that you have to perform to get ready.
And he tells you he tell or she or he was writing it tells us lick this up so that you may be protected.
Yeah, lick this up so that you may be protected constantly.
We're constantly getting hit even the even the the the making of totems that will protect us during this process.
You have to have images to help protect you in in this process.
Now the phylacteries require this procedure.
Copy that for the right arm on to the skin of a black sheep with mer ink.
Yeah.
Isn't that funny?
He's putting a song and he shows us what kind of song it is.
And long story short, it's Homer using the sort taste.
So this is a necromanic this myth, right?
Liturgy is harkening back to sort tick necromancy.
And if you have a problem with that, you can just Saturn.
Yeah, something.
Yes.
Okay.
What about you?
What about you?
I want to bring you I want to bring you to Jung.
And why is it relevant?
So Jung now was giving us his little example of the poor lunatic that gave him a vision that he saw then later explained in this papyrus in Paris.
That we just read, right?
He he's he's surfing on that ether.
And he comes up with, guess what, an initiation ceremony.
Surprise, surprise, right?
Here's the neat thing.
He writes incantations and I'm going to take you through the incantations now.
And then I'm going to introduce you to the devil just briefly.
I'm going to let him ask a few questions and then we're going to dismiss him.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Here are Jung's incantations.
We'll start with this image.
Christmas has come.
The God is in the egg.
Okay.
Remember, you're being initiated congregation of Satan.
Listen up.
Christmas has come.
The God is in the egg.
I have prepared a rug for my God.
An expensive red rug from the land of mourning.
He shall be surrounded by the shimmer of magnificence of his eastern land.
I am the mother, the simple maiden who gave birth and did not know how.
I am the careful father who protected the maiden.
I am the shepherd who received the message as he guarded his herd at night in the dark fields.
I am the holy animal that stood astonished and cannot grasp the becoming of the God.
