It doesn't matter.
You're here.
So shut up.
Answer my questions.
A spell has banished me says Jung to this place and time.
Nice.
I'm really not what you see before you.
Devil, you say astounding things.
Who are you then?
Jung, this is irrelevant.
I stand before you is that which I presently am.
Okay, it's going to get ugly.
Here it comes.
Why am I here like this?
I do not know, but I do know that I must be here to justify myself according to my best knowledge.
Not what you're saying to yourself.
I know just as little who you are and as as you know who I am.
Devil, that sounds very strange.
Are you something of a saint, hardly a philosopher?
Jung then picks up in a few lines and says, you are ensnared in your own world,
but you might conceive that one can assess the worth of Christianity correctly without being a downright saint.
He continues, you're stubborn.
What I mean is that it's hardly a coincidence that the whole world has become Christian.
I also believe that it was the task of Western man to carry Christ in his heart and to grow with his suffering death and resurrection.
And now the devil says, hold your ears.
Well, there are also Jews who are good people and yet had no need for your solemn gospels.
And Jung says, you are, it seems to me, no good reader of the people.
Have you never noticed that the Jew himself lacks something?
One in his head, another in his heart, and he himself feels that he lacks something.
Now, meet the devil.
Devil, indeed, I'm no Jew, but I must come to the Jews' defense.
You seem to be a Jew-hater.
Would you like to hear what Jung says when the devil puts him right in the spot where he should be?
He says, well, now you speak like all those Jews who accuse anyone of Jew-hating who does not have a completely favorable judgment.
Do these things sound familiar?
Yeah, you're reading the air of the tongue, of the ion.
While they themselves make the bloodiest jokes about their own kind,
since the Jews only too clearly feel that particular lack and yet they do not want to admit it,
and that's all I can swallow because he doesn't know himself.
It's no wonder that the devil wanders.
What's happening to Jung?
We're taking it to him for writing a magic book with a seal.
And we together can use the throne of Satan to find those places that he calls cosmic.
No money, just art, just reason.
Thank you for coming tonight.
We're going to talk now, we're going to have Rob and I want to talk about a couple of questions that were presented.
And hopefully we can keep embedding, keep embedding back in the souls of the dead, the satanic, the satanic right.
You might be surprised what the devil is doing there,
and you might, when you get to the South Pole, realize that you really could be standing on the North.
Yeah, you might just be disoriented.
Rob, how are you, Rob?
Just unmute.
Yeah, alright, after that, engrossed, fully engrossed in that.
Very, very good.
Can you hear me okay, because I've got a new mic.
Yes, no, your mic is lovely.
Bravo, bravo.
You've got some questions from the gallery, tell us.
Yep, we're going to go from Jung to Nonus.
We want to, it's Lady Rowan, Allie Rowan, and she wrote quite a bit.
I don't want to paraphrase, but I can't read the whole chapter out.
There's quite a few paragraphs.
So I kind of paraphrased, and I hope I've got it right.
You're going to have critics.
She's concerned that you're going to have critics regarding Nonus, and his paraphrase of John.
Maybe some of that is coming through his Diana Siaka, as you might be opening up yourself to some criticism there.
And why would you choose a fifth century paraphrase over all the available Gospels?
Yeah, yeah, great question, excellent question.
There is a little bit more, I'm afraid.
Okay, let me answer that first.
Could you put the question up on the screen, please?
Edited, possible.
Lovely, thank you.
Sorry.
What I would say right off the bat is that what am I doing there?
I am doing in Nonus, following the drugs.
So all I'm doing is I am trying to assemble the picture of antiquity from the perspective of the drugs and the drug users.
So what I would say to her is what Nonus does that's so important is that he recognizes the sexual value of that drug,
not just the monetary value, it's worth so much, and that's why it should have been so given to the poor.
But the fact that he presents her as she does with the Muron that he knows, and why does he know that it's a sexual drug?
It's the same reason that Pope Gregory knows that rust on your vagina is chafing from Robigo,
the activity of the priestesses in the temple of Aphrodite, who are performing their acts and becoming chafed.
So I'm looking at Nonus for the drugs and the drug references.
And when he presents it within the context of her, for example, her sultry hair,
the Muron starts to take on its native aspect.
So Lady Ron, this is what I mean.
If you go to the Dyskordies, or you go to Galen, or you go to Skribonius,
and you start looking, I would advise the Dyskordies, and you start looking at what the Muron does,
and you just put together as a compound what all of its ingredients are used for,
and you see that it's used for all of its practical purposes in antiquity,
whether it be abrasion relieving or abortion inducing,
that you look at that and say Mary is carrying this stuff.
I don't need an argument. I don't need a conspiracy.
You know that Lady Ron, we're just going for the evidence.
That's why I like you, because you look at the evidence.
So look at the drugs and ask yourself, what is that Muron?
Dyskordies, you've got a great first century source that tells you exactly what that Muron is.
So when Nonus brings up, and one of the reasons I like Nonus,
he actually talks about the antidote that was given to Jesus on the cross,
and you could also ask why would I use the Geoponica,
a Byzantine work on farming, on agriculture,
because it talks about drugs and antidotes,
and it says that vinegar is the name for the antidote to the dipsess, just like Nonus.
So what I'm looking for in Nonus is the pharmacology.
The historians, the religious historians, the classicists,
have not caught up with the sources.
They have not caught up with the sources.
So when someone challenges,
the easiest way to knock them off their block is just to say,
hey, have you read Dyskordies?
Okay, say, hey, have you seen Nero's magic formula in Galen?
And they're not going to know any of that stuff.
