I never meant anything I said, just spittin' it up
Everything I've been fittin' to keep it from eatin' away at me
Never said anything I meant, I never said the letters that I should've said
So it's askin' too much for me all to believe
When I say, never meant nobody knows
When I say, never was the cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, thanks for showing up
I want to let you know that tonight we have the most excellent
We have the most excellent clips
I managed to get an interview with Anastasia from Ukraine
She's been featured on Gnostic Informant
And tonight I'll have a few clips
I'll be using the interview that I did with her
Over the next couple of weeks
Running little clips for you
And it's a real pleasure and an honor to be able to talk to her
I'm going to come away from our conversation today
With real humility and a sense of honor
That I think will impact you as well
Thank you for that, Anastasia, thank you
Tonight we're going to start off with those interviews
And then we're going to move into a very dark and difficult topic
That is the child rape ritual of the early Christian church
Let's begin
Let's roll that first clip
And what I want you to appreciate is the fact that I am not in it
in it, that it is her answers and her voice.
Like a sacrifice you need to understand that you may die, it's possible, and yeah, and
just understand that there are more important things than just your life.
And I guess in the age of like very individualistic kind of like approach to life, it's something
not very common, but in times like this you have to, I guess you have a change of perspective
is the best way to put it, you don't see yourself as such an important thing anymore.
You see the, you know, values such as freedom you talked about, and you know, all of that
is more important.
And I want to do anything I can to, you know, to achieve that dream, that dream of, I guess,
Ukraine, of freedom, independence and dignity, and generations of people in Ukraine before
me died for that.
So they were killed either by Soviet, Russian, you know, Soviet Russians or Russian Empire,
whatever the hell else.
And I don't think I'm any like better than them on my life is more valuable than theirs
because they sacrifice their lives to achieve this.
And I think it's quite fair.
So you can see right away, everyone gets excited because what more could we ask of
the divine Athena, that divine spirit that guards our democracy, that freedom from oppression.
As the more I talk to Anastasia, the more I, by the way, her name is Greek and it means
to rise again or to rise from having fallen.
And I think it's a fantastic metaphor for her, what she's doing.
Her thought, remember her father was killed in a missile strike and she was telling me
about the activities that she does.
I don't want to give too much away, but Anastasia has more courage than I've seen, than I've
seen in my entire 52 years on this planet.
So let me just stand in amazement at the idea that there could be something bigger than
your life.
As an American, I find that hard to believe.
I find it hard to believe that there's anything more important than me.
But here is this maid of Harkiv who is telling me that the war brought her to a place and
her revolution brought her to a place that she understood there's something bigger.
It's only on the field of Mars.
It's only in the grove of Mars that the sacred song of the Virgin is preserved.
There are certain places in time where the spirit is able to indwell, incarnate flesh.
And what you're seeing before you is one of those incarnated.
Yes, by the way, Anastasia is of Greek extraction, but she also has connections to Georgia.
I know I didn't want to tell her that she, her bravery.
We talked about her bravery and courage.
She's very humble and doesn't want to admit it, and then she says something that illustrates
extreme courage and dedication, fearlessness.
So let's run the second clip.
Go ahead.
My father would not leave.
I asked him a couple of times, you know, he wouldn't leave.
And that was his choice.
And I respect that still, despite the fact that he is dead and I would prefer him to
live, obviously.
But yeah, but I think it was his choice to stay.
And I respect that because, you know, I cannot begrudge them that much, him that much.
I stayed, you know, I go to the front lines and risk myself.
So why would I ask other people to, you know, to go to safety than when I don't do it?
You know, I guess, hyped us and encouraged us to continue what we're doing because I
don't want them to die for nothing.
And they would not want to die for nothing.
So we should honor them and their sacrifice and their untimely murder, I guess, is the
word I would say for that and to fight for them as well.
And to, they would say for us, we should continue and we should honor the, you know, the losses
and struggle on, I guess, because nothing would make me, I guess you could say, more
sad than knowing that my father was killed for nothing, you know?
I wanted to be for something, right?
So and that something should be a victory.
