Okay, never mind. Ah, this days of scholars make me want to puke sometimes. Yeah. Yeah, I was wild though. They liked me at conferences because I was ready to pounce, right?
I was like, you going to do anything here? Yeah. No, I don't know why. I don't know why. I was always courteous though. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, yeah. Here, one of them people, look, I'm going to destroy the city. I'm pulling on the tower. Take away your drugs. Look at verse 12.
And I'm going to destroy your Glupta and your Stalos. I'm going to destroy your sculpted images and your monuments that have writing on them. Really? Really?
Now, why is there that distinction? Because the people were writing this text, the Septuagint in the third century BC, those people are reflecting what's going on around them.
Right? That stuff, those monuments with the writing and all that writing and writing, writing, writing, your Greek everywhere.
What's because they don't have any Hebrew anymore, right? That stuff is stale and dead. It's only got a few thousand words. How's that functional, dude?
Right? Don't worry though, Hebrew. It happened to other languages like Oscar and Umbrian. Those things died out too.
Right? Even Latin got dwarfed. You know, Latin stayed on the track in the West, but God, the Greeks gave them a thrashing, just a thrashing.
Okay, let's go. Why? Because ancient Greek is superior. Okay, I'm sorry, but it is mathematically, it is more complex than any other language that I've ever interacted with,
that I personally have experienced with. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Yeah, now you know why when you come into a classics program, they say, take Latin first.
Right? Why? Because you don't want to jump into the depths. And that's what it is. It's the depths. And we're so fortunate to be able to have access to these things.
Give me the next one. I want to hear. Yahoo, tell me. What do they call them? Yahweh. Right? No way in Yahweh. Yahweh, Yahoo, tell me.
Holy Yahweh, Yahweh, tell me. What is it that you're going to do? You're going to destroy all that art and you're going to cut down their groves.
And why are you going to cut down their groves? Because that is where they worship.
Imagine the idea is you have a big grove of trees and it usually has like a sacred stream associated with it.
And there are certain animals there and hunting is off limits. If you stumble into a sacred grove and injure or damage a tree, you're in deep.
Right? That can cost you your life. So what do they do? It's like putting ultimate protections. It's like a natural preserve.
Right? A natural preserve. Imagine that. Who got the idea for that? Yeah, I thought it was, I thought some Teddy Roosevelt or something.
No, no, it turns out it's Greek and it's very, very old. So what is Yahoo going to do?
He's going to march into your sacred grove with those sacred trees that mean so much to your culture. And he's going to cut them all down.
He's going to cut them all down. They're not even going to use the wood. They're just going to destroy the place.
Why? Because that's what those people do. That's what those people do. They worship in those groves. We're going to totally destroy it.
We're going to blow up that building because that's their church. That's their mosque. That's their synagogue. They're going to blow it up.
This happens in history over and over and over again. It's cyclical. Right? It's like a virus. It catches a population.
All of a sudden, their military is a genocide driven instrument. Right? It doesn't matter if it's Putin.
It doesn't matter if it's Netanyahu. It doesn't matter who it is in the past, present, or future. It doesn't matter.
It is a fragment of history and you can stand against it. You can stand against it or you can watch it happen and pay for it.
But don't say I, Amun, didn't warn you because that stain will follow you. It'll work on you up here. It'll follow you.
Once you've done it, that's it. You will never be the same. How do we know that? Because we're pagans and we know how nature works.
Right? You think I could look in the mirror and be all skipy if I knew I was starving some kid somewhere?
