When you see how she carries the voice of her ancestors, the dead, she carries the voice
of her father and gives that, gives a place for that voice in this world.
It's absolutely under the most dire circumstances, forging of that psychic diamond, that historical
diamond.
And it's amazing to watch and it's humbling.
And you can see by her speech alone, there's a sacred nature to what is how she meant.
She talks about sacrifice and it's incredible.
You know, I listened to professors for years talk about sacrifice, sacrifice, all sorts
of sacrifices.
Not once did I ever understand what that sacrifice meant until I talked to Anastasia.
I've got one more clip and I want you to, I want you to reflect on a minute yourself.
Look at yourself through her.
It made me feel good because it made me feel like there was some kind of hope.
There was some kind of hope and some kind of beauty in the world.
Go ahead.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I think people have shown, I guess, in Ukraine in general, like with interviews, people, I
like work with a couple like YouTubers, journalists who came to Ukraine and they were very, I
guess you could say impressed with the way Ukrainians handle things, the way they talk
and stuff like that.
And I think the way you say the beauty of it, I guess, it does show.
I don't want to be very, I don't know, pretentious, I guess, this is a word, but it's not about
like that.
It's about when you hear people and what they say just comes off as very beautiful in this
ugliness of war, of like invasion, of terror, of torture, of everything that Russia brought
to us.
And despite that, people still smile, people still care for each other, people are standing
with each other and they are caring for animals, for children, for elderly.
And people do try to remain as human as possible.
This is something I personally really care about because I don't want this ugliness
to stain us, I guess.
She doesn't want the ugliness to stain them.
She also talks about the struggles and the change in the mental attitude and under the
rigors of war and death, watching death, the fear and the anxiety of being blown up suddenly.
She talks about the future.
I had to ask her, you know I did, I had to present her as the oracle and I had to reach
in.
She doesn't know that she's got that Scythian, Amazonian queen.
Someday she'll be in her blood.
Someday she'll be the president of Ukraine and you and I will say yes, yes, we know her.
We know her.
These are the types that emerge from history into places like Athens.
These are the types that create for us the freedoms that you and I have been sitting
around all our lifetimes enjoying.
Yeah, yeah, they're the ones who enter into that place, that sacred place where the price
is paid and the sacrifice is made.
As we're talking about the operation of the mystery and tonight I'm going to talk about
the mystery as it operated in early Christianity.
As we talk about that, you think, oh this is just textbook stuff, it's just history
and no, no, no.
People who study history and the muse of history whose name is Cleo.
People who study Cleo understand that the reason that she is there is as a teacher she's to
show you, she's instructing you.
We can learn from people like Anastasia.
We can learn from them.
They can inspire us to have the same democratic power in our own country.
I was ashamed tonight, by the way.
I wanted to ask her this question and I decided not to.
Just because I had reverence for who she was.
And I'm ashamed at our disgusting Donald Trump.
That moron, that murderous fool stood in front of our country and applauded Putin.
He applauded the invasion.
Shame on him.
Shame.
One of those murders is on your hands.
It's on your hands and it's on the hands of every foul human being who would stand up
and give a voice to Putin's murder, vile and disgusting murder and shame.
Shame on the people who allow Putin to continue.
Eternal shame on you all.
I curse you.
The underworld awaits your disgrace.
Shame on you.
Anastasia, thank you tonight for your interview.
I will be playing it over time.
There are jewels in this interview.
Fortunately, I just shut up and let her talk.
And that was, that's what we needed.
So I'll be playing that over and over and I'm excited to and I'm so privileged to let
to have her allow me to do that.
Thank you again, Anastasia.
Thank you again.
And remember, you know, presidency, right?
Wow.
Love it.
Tonight, we're going to do something just a tad bit different.
I've got a script tonight that was written by this individual.
Pull him up.
