Common members of the early church were secretive and isolated.
Priests were lone intolerant zealots beyond the reach of custom and law.
Priests refused to swear allegiance to the emperor.
Common Christians dropped out of society and became highly secretive.
Mystery and initiations involving the rape of children served to reinforce the church's
efforts to set its members apart from the rest of the general population while rigorously
promoting the not to be questioned authority of the clergy.
The non-christians who lived during the rise of the Christian church claimed they were
witnessing the end of civilization.
So for anybody who tells you, for anybody who tells you that Christianity is the hope,
it's the bringer of democracy, they're lying to you.
They're lying to you.
The world watched its decline with the rise of Christianity.
Let me say that again.
The world watched its decline during the rise of Christianity and wrote about it.
Yeah, the Greeks and Romans might have invented democracy, science and medicine, but their
shared culture eventually resigned itself to defeat.
In the face of the rapidly expanding power of an exclusively male priesthood known for
its novel views of sex, Roman educators, bureaucrats and politicians slowly seeded their cultural
traditions to church dogma.
If you have somebody yelling long enough about people they don't like in school board meetings
and history that they want to burn, by the way Anastasia said that the Putinites, those
who were trying to stamp out their culture and their language, even down to their language,
that they love burning books.
Anytime you see historically a group that burns books or bans books because that's the
same thing.
This group is the one that will eventually try to overthrow the government.
Happens every time.
Every time.
It's machinery.
It's machinery, right?
Information control.
You guys are all super intelligent.
I didn't tell Anastasia how smart my audience is, but you guys, you already know this.
Let's continue on.
The foundation of classical religion was its enthusiastic veneration of beauty.
Unlike the rest of the classical world, the Christians employed general moral definitions
of good and evil that made their followers unique.
The Greeks and Romans believed individual inquiry determined morality.
But for the Christians living anywhere in the empire under the auspices of any ethnic
group, there was one cultural constant.
Jesus was the standard of morality, not nature with a capital N.
Yes, Ignatius, the Bishop of Antioch and student of the Apostle John, was among the earliest
of Christians to establish the concept of, get this, Orthodox language.
Wait a minute.
What?
Yes.
Yes.
In doing so, he helped to limit any form of criticism of the church, a concession that
non-Christian priests would never granted.
The term pagan.
As Orthodox speech and doctrine came to the fore of the ancient stage, Christians began
calling non-Christians pagans.
It was a pejorative term, like our modern hillbilly or redneck, and the word was meant
to describe anyone who refused to follow the Christian Messiah as the source of universal
truth.
Of course, it was arrogantly condescending, but it was primarily a means of isolating
non-Christians as morally distinct from the growing numbers of Christians.
Notice the P word is the equivalence of the N word.
Yeah.
I've seen it in some texts where it was just referencing the fact that these were woodsy,
back woodsy proceedings.
Yeah.
The very heart and nature of the religion of the Roman people, right?
From the countryside.
Yeah.
But the term is used as the N word is used in America.
It is meant to demean in a racial sense to say, I am superior to you.
And of this inclination was born in Christianity, right?
A desire to take the other and to denigrate, to denigrate them.
Yes.
And this becomes very, very cynically dark because the priests take this mentality and
they funnel it into child abuse.
Yes.
Child abuse, 133,000 in Europe from 1950, I think it was.
Yeah.
As Orthodox speech and doctrine came to the fore of the ancient stage, Christians began
calling non-Christians pagans.
It was a pejorative term.
Of course, it was arrogantly condescending.
In the early centuries of the common era, increasingly painted pagans in a negative
more light based on their age, old use of drugs in religious ritual, surprise, surprise.
As you see the anti-drug movement grow in America in the 1980s, where does it come from?
Comes from the same place, Cleo tells us, history tells us, things don't change, right?
Not in 2000 years, maybe in 200,000, not in 2000, good.
The earliest prominent church fathers worked diligently to root out the use of drugs in
their own meetings.
You didn't know that, did you?
