You didn't know the first Christians use drugs?
Yes.
In their own meetings and celebrations in order to distinguish themselves from pagan religions
steeped in the use of psychotropic drugs.
The earliest Christian Eucharist, when I found this, I was shocked.
The earliest Christian Eucharist was referred to as, quote, the drug of immortality.
They called their own Eucharist a drug.
But Christian priests were diligently to distinguish their own drug use from that of non-Christians.
And isn't it funny?
You find that Christianity is so full of hypocrisy.
At its root, it is hypocritical.
Yes, like my Christian relatives telling me all Ukrainians are drug users, and that's
why Putin should be able to go in there.
But you know why they say that.
I mean, come here, come a little bit closer to me.
You know why the evangelicals are supporting Putin and have blood on their hands right
now?
Because they have a plan.
He's the Russian bear who's going to come down, gog and may gog this whole thing.
And Jesus can come and kill all of us.
That's the plan.
That's the plan.
When I was in Israel, I discovered right away, I lived there for a year, and I just do an
archeological stuff, and I discovered right away that the common Israeli is secular.
They don't give anything about the religion, right?
They just want to live like the rest of us.
Yeah, yeah, interesting, interesting.
In his letter to the Ephesians, Ignatius, who assumed a title commonly reserved for
important pagan priests, taught that the use of non-Christian drugs was tantamount to the
rejection of orthodoxy.
He said, therefore emerging you, not I, but the love of Jesus Christ, make use only of
Christian food and abstain from that foreign plant, which is heresy.
Yes, yes, it's from a drug that they're abstaining.
Their drug of immortality is just that, right?
It's a substance.
Good.
In the fourth century, thanks to the power of bishops, Roman laws were written to ban
the use of drugs in any sort of cultic practices, you see these in Libanians, under penalty
of execution.
This gave the bishops legal authority to arrest drug-using pagans and seize their property.
Does that sound new?
Think of a scheme where you can bust into somebody's property, smell some drugs and
arrest them and take their property and voila, now you have a place where your bishop can
have a second home.
He can come there and stay there with his virgins.
Yeah, fantastic.
Pagans from drug seizures were directly absorbed by the church.
The pagans viewed this assimilation of public wealth by the church as an injustice and evidence
of the content of the corrupt motives of Christian priests.
Pagans had long suspected that Christianity was a convenient way to get rich.
Listen to this, the pagan philosopher Porphyry, everybody loves Celsus, right?
But Porphyry is fantastic too, just quite a thinker.
In his work against the Christians, he expressed the common sentiment this way, quote, the
words of Christ, I came not to bring peace but a sword, I came to separate a son from
his father.
These words belie the true intentions of the Christians.
They seek riches and glory, far from being friends of the empire, their renegades, waiting
for their chance to secure control.
Yes, waiting for their chance, the very first flag.
When those creeps went in and took a dump in our capital, the very first flag that was
in was the flag of Jesus.
The very first thing those traders did after they pooped was they set a prayer, set a prayer.
Chewie, what's wrong?
Do you like the image of the pooping insurrectionists?
They ought to give them extra time for just the pooping.
Fantastic.
The first Western drug war started in earnest in the third and fourth centuries.
Bishops and priests were its most prominent backers.
As a group, Christian clergy members may have been separated by doctrinal disputes, but
they all shared a desire to advance their own political causes.
Priests didn't care what Romans and Greeks put into their bodies.
They simply wanted to solidify their growing hold on empire, and one of the means of doing
so was to assign legal control over the non-Christian population in a way that assured right social
control.
Fantastic.
Nature wars people, you don't see any use for them?
They do, and they took down Rome.
They took down Rome.
You don't think they can take down America?
Yeah, yeah.
What is Cleo?
Tonight we have Cleo with us, right?
We've got an answer to history here.
Unable to perform their sacraments legally, the pagans went underground.
In the process, members of pagan religions became politically disenfranchised.
And for the first time in history, drugs took on a negative moral connotation.
I can't tell you how many thousands of years that I've written, well, several thousands,
years worth of medical texts.
