And I keep trying to emphasize to everyone in the Satanic congregation that the mystery
is an action.
It is not a state of mind.
It's not an understanding.
It's not you sitting somewhere, listening to somebody talk.
It is an operation.
It is an operation.
It was a secretive mystery meant to defile young children in such a way as to prevent
their possession by pagan gods, because you see, once a child has been defiled, once a
child has been forcefully coerced into intercourse, that child can no longer be possessed, that
child cannot be used as an oracle, that child cannot be within a priesthood.
Once they are defiled, the Christians know that the Greeks and Romans, the Mediterranean
cultures are using their children within these rites and maintaining them as vessels capable
of absorbing the God, of being possessed, of carrying the God, just like Anastasia carries
that goddess, carries that defender of democracy.
These children can't do that if they're horribly attacked.
Yes, so what do the priests come up with?
What do the early Christian thinkers come up with?
If we defile them, if we put them through this terrible mystery, we save their souls.
Isn't that nice?
In the process, a priest must be, it's totally disgusting, but I'll talk about it more and
we'll pull out texts next time, but they tell the initiate, first of all, they starve them
for two weeks.
I'm sorry, it's not funny.
They starve them for two weeks and they indoctrinate them.
The indoctrination is so severe that it preps the child for the trauma that is coming.
They strip them down naked, they have to be naked, totally naked.
They take them into a basement, an undercroft, some kind of place of secrecy where their
screams can't be heard and a priest will enter who himself takes on the devil.
He takes on the devil and then he forcefully sodomizes the child and if the child who has
been trained to have this response is able to cry out, I do not accept, I do not accept
the temptation flee from me devil, then that child is guaranteed a place in that ionic
scheme that Jesus talks about when he says, I'll give you an ionic life in that world
that child is accepted because they have been completely purged, they have no desire for
that form of intercourse, right?
But no desire, a priest following the way of Cain, isn't that interesting?
It's a trial, a temptation and the child can come through it.
Then we have in the catechetical schools the recommendation in Alexandria that children
like this be counseled after the rape is baptized.
It's not funny, it's not funny in the least, but it's ludicrous, it's ludicrous, right?
I mean it's creepy and it's so ugly and it's typical and it's a very well laid out system
to cater to pedophiles and rapists, yes, it's a very clean system for creating rape, yeah.
But after they've baptized and then they have to counsel them, after they wash them off,
they have to counsel them and it says it can be very difficult and the child will ask you
things like why was I made naked, well and you tell them, he says, it's because Jesus
was naked on the cross, right, when you're going through that trial and it's pain and
it's bringing pain, you are ultimately identifying with Jesus, that's the stuff that goes into
them as they're training them before they rape them, right?
So you're setting up this mindset, people say grooming, it's not grooming at all, it's
way more vicious and way more in your face, so, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And by passing young boys through the fires of sexual temptations, temptation, priests
reinforce the exclusivity of the Christian message.
In a strange twist of history, the first rape of children by Christian priests was a means
of asserting political and social dominance over pagan religions, you remember all of
this is so that these kids can't be used in these pagan practices, this is in the mind
of the creeps who are perpetuating Christianity.
Remember, this is a religion of a man who was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with
a naked boy, your institutions are built upon it, yes, yes, scrub down everything that is
that does not come through the classical heritage like democracy, you'll see your charities,
they're built upon this creator God who has a son who molests children, right, you might
as well say, you know, he doesn't care, you know, Jehovah doesn't care, right?
Because he's having David bash the heads of little babies in, what does he care?
Right?
This, you think I sound a little callous?
This callosity is what drives celsus, it's what drives porphyry, yes, this has to stop,
this has to stop.
I want to end, yeah, I want to end by just bringing it back to Anastasia and her struggle
to maintain, Ukrainian struggle right now to maintain its identity, right, we, the Russians
abduct the children, they teach them Russian and tell them terrible things about their
actual background in order to wipe out Ukraine in a long run in order to wipe them out in
order to assimilate and wipe them out and it's happening right now and Anastasia, resurrection,
she will tell you, she will tell you about that conflict, they're not just fighting
a war over borders, they are fighting for their life, for their survival and as an American
as a rationalist, as a Satanist and by the way, you'll all be happy, Satanic congregation
because Vladimir Putin is now talking according to Anastasia, is using the image of Satanism
to say this is what's being promulgated in Ukraine, Satanic, he'll probably say the
same thing about Georgia when he invades Georgia and we all stand around and look at each other
funny, right, or Moldova, when he starts spreading out to any of the countries that he can, where
he can molest the people and murder the people and destroy in his wake, right, and the Christians
applaud, the Christians applaud, yay, here comes the bear, Jesus is coming, everybody
should get ready to die, yes, Anastasia is fighting it, Anastasia is fighting it, it's
an honor for me to be able to talk to her and to see that real spirit of Athena in the
world today, to see it, I wish the best for our country, we're coming into difficult times,
welcome to the apocalypse, welcome to the field of Mars and Hail Satan.
