Putin is a monster because he is absorbing what is coming through history and using it
for his own murderous pleasure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's disgusting.
The first oracles, the most powerful priestesses of the ancient world were all young girls.
For example, the teenage girls who made up the chorus that staged public performances
in honor of the cult of Apollo on the island of Delos.
They were among the earliest of oracular priestesses in this group.
People came from all over to see their performances, right?
The singing, the dancing, it's all a big deal.
It's all a big deal.
The author of the Archaic Hymns, attributed to Homer, celebrates the uncanny ability of
these girls to engage their audiences in his hymns to Dealing Apollo.
Young priestesses were referred to as Nightingales.
That title, Nightingale, is what they call the muse, that voice of inspiration.
She is that Nightingale.
The order of the Nightingales is attached to the temple of the muse.
Yes.
It's gorgeous.
Love it.
Some of the earliest lyric poems called Maiden Songs were part of this tradition.
Maiden Songs, yes.
Perhaps the maid of Harkiv will write a song about her experience.
The Greeks believed that girls who had recently acquired the ability to produce offspring were
closer to the gods than any other living human beings.
They believed these girls were the most divinely inspired.
They believed they had the greatest sense of justice, which having had my own all girls'
high school class, I can tell you for a fact, you can't get away with anything.
If you're even a thread hypocritical, oh my God, it's like being under constant scrutiny.
It's like their judgment is laser sharp.
Is that a factor of age?
Is it a factor of genes?
I don't know.
I don't know.
But I can attest.
I can see.
You can kind of see why they thought this, why they lived their lives this way.
In short, the ancient Korra earned the right to become the mouthpiece of the cosmos.
As a result of these beliefs, the Greeks created the first Western choruses from the ranks
of these girls.
These ancient choruses composed hymns in praise of their gods.
They performed public services and pronounced oracles.
They were educated.
They were educated priestly colleges.
You know what priests do?
With nuns in antiquity, the nuns do things with the priests.
It's the other way around.
Because the nuns are the ones that are educated.
You only see these male priests in the role of recording the visions that people are having
coming out of the oracles.
Right?
You ever wonder about that?
You ever wonder why Orpheus, who is the inspiration for the Orphic mystery, why it is that he's
the student of the priestess Medea?
Right?
It's because even at his level of accomplishment, it all goes back.
It all goes back to this female force.
It all goes back.
The profound cultural sway of the cults of Aphrodite and Dionysus made them a target
for priests and bishops in Christianity.
Christians knew they would have to destroy the influence of these cults if they would
assume uncontested political power.
Furthermore, Christian church fathers felt obliged to denigrate, destroy, and uproot
the influence of these cults if they were to maintain any sort of spiritual authority
in Rome.
I'm going to skip ahead just a little bit because we're coming to the end.
I want to just pull up to tell him his quote from the Apology.
Yeah, there we go.
Christian man does not see the female form with redeemed eyes.
She's sold as blind to sexual allure.
It is a targeted attack, a cultural war against sexuality that started by the early Christians.
Finishing up here with the social monster, let's go to the social monster.
In the midst of this struggle for power, the Christian leadership under the direction of
bishops and prominent priests created a social monster.
They created exorcists, specialist priests trained to perform the delicate task of uprooting
paganism by preventing any sort of demonic possession.
Exorcists come about as a result of possession.
So what do they do?
They created exorcists, yes.
The exorcists conducted a ceremony they referred to as the application of the fires of temptation.
It's just called the fires of temptation.
It's the trying.
Yes, the paid auspice.
Anyway, it was a secretive mystery.
It's functioning within the mystery, right?
The Christians are still, although it is a corrupted mystery coming through Jesus, they
are still performing a mystery.
