Yeah, it turns out they hold us responsible for that. Yeah, you get a mark. Can you believe that you get a mark? You can never take it off.
And they said the market cane was bad. You know what I mean? Holy mackerel. So we don't want that blood guilt. We don't want it. That is the classical civilized world giving its opinion. That's the world that Christianity cut off at the root and grew a new society where people didn't read.
Eventually they did cause the Renaissance and then enlightenment. Yeah, love it. It was classics that they were reading people. Yeah, now this opening in the new library that's coming. Oh, oh, oh, boom, it's going to be a nuclear bomb of the brain of humanity.
Oh, God, I can't wait to get those. Oh, we got to make those public. Those have to be people's, you know, it's your right as a human to see and to feel these words from the ancient world of people who created democracy.
Right. Love it. Let's, let's keep going. Oh, God, lovely images there, Chewie. Thank you tonight, by the way, for all the lovely images. I think Chewie's doing a fantastic job on the videos too.
I really like tonight's videos, intro and exit. And thank you, Teddy, for the excellent singing. Love it. Oh, God, look at this. So the people who you're going to dispossess, these are the ones who are doing all this mantic stuff, says the Lord God.
And the next one, come on, where's the juicy stuff? Oh, yeah, I want you to be complete. What is complete? The next one will tell us what is complete says God to his people. I want you to be complete.
Yeah, all they that belong to Dionysus. Do you want to hold on? Hold on. You thought it was the other way around, right? You thought God was the originator camp. No, no, no, this God, Yahoo, he doesn't show up to way late, way late, like a thousand years post when you would imagine, or when the narrative would tell you he showed up.
Yeah, Yahoo's late, man. He's late God. And he's all like, kill everybody. Right? You don't think that's Dionysus? Have you read the Bacchai? Main character loses his head and it's torn off by his mom. Isn't that nice? Think of that for a minute. How many of you who have ever had the blood on your hands?
Yeah, how many of you would think that could be purged by your mother ripping your head off? That society is a society that gave us democracy. Yeah, it's a mother oriented society and a mother oriented society. None of the great mother's armies are genocidal.
They don't kill children. They don't kill children. Now, depending on the place, because in some regions women fought. So, you know, women, that's a totally different, that's a totally different, but the children, right? That child sacrifice, when he said, when Yahoo, Yahoo, did you not say that you wanted Abraham to sacrifice his own kid? And what did he do? He wasn't like, what? Who?
What? Are you crazy? No, he was just like, okay. Because he was Abraham. And you think, why? Why Abraham? Why did you accept that? Well, I want to kill my own kid thing so quickly. It's because everybody knows Yahoo. Everybody knows Yahoo takes the sacrifice. Everybody knows that.
Yeah. Why do you think his people can call down fire? All right, Elijah, didn't you notice that? That was Phoenician, baby. Yeah, Jezebel. She's the one, it was her line that was preserving that, by the way. I slept in her vineyard.
I slept in her vineyard. And when I was there one night, a howitzer rolled up next to her, boom, because they were shooting at rockets coming out of, not at rockets, but at the people who were shooting rockets coming out of the north.
Right? And I was like, oh, I bounced out of my bed. It was so, I didn't think concussion would be that great. But there you go. It's probably what happened. Knocks something loose, you know what I mean?
That was in Jezebel's vineyard. She who commands that fire. And you are not to pass your children through the fire. Instead, we're going to go in and kill them all. Yeah, that's God. By the way, that was God. Was I a good God? Chewie, thumbs up for God.
Okay, it's pretty good. I got to get better at God. I got to get God voice. How do you do God voice? Oh, go. Okay.
Look, look what's happening here, people. Oh my God. I just want you to see that Bethlehem is involved. This is all part and parcel of the same beast, right?
All those prophecies, Bethlehem. Guess where they're coming from, right? They're coming from the invading force that is going to cleanse the land of the people who are already there.
Okay, history, baby. Hey, let's roll along with history. Oh, God, let's give him his thirst. Let's say this thirst. I'm telling you, we're coming to a quote by God here that's going to make you totally, totally
love the fact that you're mourning his death. Yeah, love it, love it. And he says, and I will totally destroy the cities of the land.
Yeah, and I will tear down all their towers. And look at verse 11, and I will take away their drugs right out of their hands.
And there's not going to be any more smart talk. Wait, what? There's not going to be any more oppo-thangolmenoi. What is that? That's when you sit around and exercise free speech.
And when you sit around and calculate, no more of that, no more wise sayings. No more wise sayings. What is this an attack on?
This is an attack on the third century Greek culture in which Judaism was embedded and fighting for its survival. And what did they do? They made a war against the Greeks.
And you can see it. It's hilarious. Everything. He says, I'm going to destroy it. I'm going to. You're not in Canaanite culture. You're in Greek culture.
Right? It's funny. The author screwed up because the author was really writing. They're trying to pass this off as something old.
But instead of writing about what would have been old historically, they wrote about what was in their own environment.
This is not just something the knuckleheads that wrote the Septuaget did. There were a lot of Roman knuckleheads that did the same thing.
Kind of misplaced history because they're reading modern ways of doing things into what was going on at a time when that didn't happen.
Right? So the scholars will sit around in their circle jerks and they'll talk about, oh, this is anachronistic or yes, no, this is, you know, he's taking, he's taking these gods in his book.
