It's the ultimate beauty that propelled the natural world forward.
Desire was one of the greatest creative forces.
Aphrodite, the goddess of attraction, was worshipped in Greece and in Egypt and in Phoenicia
and further East.
The same divinity had different names.
She was Venus, a star, Isis and Ishtar.
And I want you to notice from my students, so you notice the STR root and a start and
Ishtar.
We're going back to an earlier Pulaski and divinity.
All right, good.
And her priestesses were known throughout the Mediterranean world.
Imagine a world where we worship, just imagine that for a minute.
Imagine a world where we build our institutions on Lady Justice, where we thrive under the
virgin of democracy.
Yes, and where we live in a world of the museum, under the muses, those women who bring us
these sources.
Bring us this poetry.
Gorgeous.
Love it.
Moreover, her followers, Aphrodite, honored her and worshipped her with the use of drugs.
For example, on the island of Cyprus, oh, and did we get that quote by Ambrose?
Throw that quote by Ambrose and bring that one up again.
She whom the Africans worship as who we're talking about is the heavenly one.
This is Urania, for those of you who are interested, Urania.
The Persians worship her as Mitra.
Oh, you thought Mithras was a boy.
Yes, of course you did.
And you're surprised that the earliest statues of Aphrodite have a penis.
Wow, maybe you didn't know everything.
Right?
Right?
And the multitude as Venus.
She has a variety of names, but it is not a different divinity.
That is a Christian who is describing to you the worship of Venus, the worship of Aphrodite.
Beautiful.
Aphrodite's temple burned all year round in Cyprus with incense that contained potent
psychotropic botanicals in the pagan mine.
These drugs acted as a conduit through which the goddess could possess her mortal followers.
The sailors used to say you could smell it all the way from before you could see the
island.
You could smell the incense that was burning.
They used that to guide them there, right?
Some of those ships we see sink and they're all full of opium pots.
Yeah, people wondered.
People asked me, are you sure?
You can't say these things that people in antiquity use drugs and I have professors
tell me the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
I've got an entire prescription.
I've got Augustus's prescription for opium, the opium cocktail he drank.
You want to see it?
It's in a Roman called Scribonius Largus.
Nobody reads him.
Nobody reads him.
You should.
Yeah.
Doped.
Doped.
Very effective dopeds too.
Fantastic.
Beautiful.
And wine in antiquity was not just wine.
It was a base for mixing alcohol soluble drugs.
We see this in the docs.
We see this in the pharmacology that nobody ever translates of which there are thousands
of pages.
I know from my regulars, you've heard all of that, right?
Like Aphrodite Dionysus was a mantic God that meant he had a power of prophecy, the
power to explain the past, the present and the future.
The lyric poet, anachron, in his fragments makes it clear that Dionysus was nothing
less than a muse.
Dionysus was the muse.
And like Aphrodite, Dionysus was worshiped in both the East and the West.
Whether he was the Osiris of Egypt, the Bacchus of Rome, or Zagreus of Thrace, Dionysus was
the God of Entheos, the God of Entheos, and that just means the God within, the God inside.
He was the God of this, the God of possession.
And according to the ancient world, he always let his followers, as Aphrodite, they would
say, to Aphrodite.
The purpose, when you go to your temple, when you enter into your church, the purpose is
to guide you, as Aphrodite.
Step back and look at your church and ask yourself, how impossible is this?
You are never going to find Aphrodite, ever, in one of your churches.
Instead, you will find a hatred that is projected by these early church fathers.
You find that hatred just leaking into the services.
Don't tell me you don't.
Submit.
My students at university are told to submit.
Learn to submit.
Anastasia is not going to submit to you.
