Because you know that's what the Bible says. I swear on the Holy Bible. It says, you end up naked. When you get the fruit, your eyes are open and you end up naked. Whoops. Yeah. And you know what happens with naked person and other naked person. You know what happens when naked people get together on fruit. You know what happens. You know what's going to happen.
There was a reason that Yahoo was so pissed off from the very beginning. This is not a happy God. Yahoo is not happy. If you wonder why people who are following Yahoo, if they're yelling out, Yahoo. You know what I mean? If they're doing it, you got to wonder why is it? Because that's what he does.
That's what he does. Right? They're gods that the Romans would evacuate from a place and adopt as their own. And they're gods that they wouldn't. Yeah. Yahoo is one that they wouldn't. Yahoo is one that they went and cursed. Why?
Do you know why you got to get up at four in the morning? Because they come to your door, banging on your door. You got to see this guy. We got another child trafficker. His name's Jesus. You get up and you ask him a bunch of questions.
Oh, what do you got? What do you got for me, Jesus? Oh, the truth. Oh, shit. Here we go again. Can you feel the depressive anxiety of Pontius Pilate? My God, man. We got to deal with more of this.
No. Yahoo was never imported to Rome. They did gods from all over the other world, the rest of the Mediterranean. Why didn't they do it for Yahoo? Right? Did you know the name Jerusalem is Greek?
It's not Hebrew. The Hebrew wasn't around. The Greek was there way before the Hebrew was. What is it? It's the perfect name that's beautifully done in Greek.
Don't you understand why the rough breathing on the here and here, Jerusalem? Didn't you understand why that had to disappear in the Hebrew because they couldn't represent it? Right? So, yeah, turns out it's holy, man. It's holy.
Yeah, it's not what you think. It's holy. It's whoever is propagating the history that is not using the sources. Those people are, they've gotten, they've gotten away with a lot, right, in your last 2000 years.
Yeah. Thank, you know, thank Athena that a few people stood up, you know, and said, no, we're not going to do this. Yeah, people got to be free. We're going back to that old way. You know, we're not going to have a theocracy. Thank you very much.
Right? Who wants a theocracy? Anybody out there want a theocracy?
I can tell you a whole bunch of them in history that none of them was good. None of them was good. Okay. Yahoo. What? Come on. Let's get the incriminating evidence against yahoo done.
Look, here's Mark. Here's Mark, right? He says, now about the resurrection from the dead. Right? You know that in the book of Moses, right? What happened? God spoke to him epitubatu through the power of that bush.
The botos. What's a botos? Go to the next. What the, what is a botos? This is the bush that burns, right? But it isn't consumed. Are you listening to me, Satanic congregation?
A bush that burns but is not consumed. I'll leave that with you in your decoder. But if you want to go just a little bit deeper and see why I managed to bring out the redhead, let's go to the next slide.
Boom. Yep. What is that botos? Look, it's a bramble. It's a bramble. It's a bramble. Where have I seen this bramble before? Next, Chewie. Where have I seen this bramble? We're going to hurry up because people are being gracious.
Look, remember that toad? We picked up, wait, wait. Remember, this was last week, we picked up a toad. We went to this cult event. They're sitting there with this redhead. He's like, oh, right? Or did they sedate him first? I can't remember. I think, yeah, there was a DJ and the music was going.
It was a hoppin party, right? We were all going to get that blood. And what happened? Somebody took a toad. Did you drink that stuff? They took a toad and they were fermenting this thing, adding all sorts of kind of stuff to it. And this is, oh, it's the bramble toad. It's the bramble toad. You mean that bush has a toad?
Well, you know, things happen, nature. And the toad speaks through the bush, the fire. Anyway, you can take the ingredients and you can do what you want with them. You can walk on and go your way. But if you want to hear the voice of God, and you want to be a prophet, you have to plug in. You have to plug in.
Right. And that's what Yahoo is doing. He's already plugged into the system. And now he has to get rid of all that is unlike him. He must purge the system. Your God, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, your God is a destroyer of the system.
Do you want to know who can testify to this? There are dead people and people dying who will stand up someday when you and I are there and we have to look them right in the face. And to be honest, I don't like the fact that that blood through the money is all over our American hands.
I don't feel good about that at all. You know, I know the United States Marine Corps. United States Marine Corps, they're not going to be doing that. They're not going to be starving children.
No, they're going to be doing what the Air Force is doing, trying to drop that stuff out, supplies out. Did you see those people get run over? Did you see them get ground into the ground?
Yes, it is a sacrifice. It is a sacrifice from a historical perspective. It is a sacrifice to a God who demands child sacrifice.
Now, let's look at where God actually says, because I'm going to do some magic now. I know you're waiting. You're like, oh God, here we go. Here's the magic. Here's the present. Are you ready for the present? Give me the next one.
Go right. No, no, no, keep going. No, we're going to skip right to here. Go ahead and give me that one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm back to Moses. No, no, no, right here. Let's go right there. Boom.
Okay, God, here it is. Everybody, here's his testimony, and we're going to bring it right into the future. Bring it right into the now. Oh, here we go. Are you ready?
I'm going to bless those of you who grab those children and smash them on the rocks. That's what you do. You go in and you grab those little kids by the ankles and you smash their heads on rocks says God.
Okay, put a dash after that quote and put God. God wants you to smash heads.
Okay, and you're going to say, what is, it's the kitchen again. I'm in Hell's Kitchen again. This lunatic. This is totally irrelevant. Go hit the, hit the news. Let's see the, let's see it. Right. Okay, there it is. Right, right, starving children.
Okay, now how do we know this isn't an accident? Well, let's see. Let's see the next one. Let's go. How do we know this isn't just an accident? Oh, go, skip down. I want you to skip down right to here. Go to there.
