Yes.
Who is that man?
Who is that man?
It says, doctor.
What is that?
Dil?
No.
Dilman?
Seated in front of an ecstatic follower of Dionysus.
I see that.
I see that this drunken satyr promote weight.
Who's the drunken satyr?
This drunken satyr promotes a conception of the gods that provokes a viscerally negative
response from Christian culture.
It's true.
It's true.
He promotes a visceral response when he had hair and when he doesn't.
He promotes a visceral response, the satyr does.
I can honestly tell you that I have been kicked out of more institutions, schools, and poetry
groups.
My poems weren't that bad.
It was just the wrong audience.
I gave a reading about the Black Virgin, who we'll get to, the Black Virgin, the title
used of Medea.
I gave a reading and got kicked out.
Can you believe that?
I kicked out of a poetry group, was populated by 60 to 80-year-old Midwestern women, and
they didn't like it.
They didn't like my poetry, but that doesn't matter.
I'm going to read you a book, the first chapter of Original Sin.
Let's start.
Exclusive sodomy is the name at the heading.
The sodomizing of young children by the Christian clergy is a practice as old as a Catholic
church itself.
Most people today believe that the gruesome activities of priest pedophiles are an unfortunate
reality of religious hierarchy that promotes celibacy and deters its priests from experiencing
any form of sexual pleasure.
However, child abuse in the church is profoundly institutional.
By the way, I just want to pipe in.
I wrote this.
My editor is a Pulitzer Prize winner.
Another thing that we, every assertion that I make, I make from evidence, textual evidence.
That's what I work with.
And I'll sprinkle these texts within our readings.
But I want you to know that when I make a statement like that, I'm doing so based upon
actual texts.
Okay.
Child abuse is not an accident of church history.
It is an integral foundation component of Christianity.
Ritual child rape performed by Christian priests was very much the result of a cultural war
declared by religious zealots during the first few centuries of the church.
The earliest generations that followed the birth and death of Jesus witnessed incredible
social upheaval on an unparalleled scale.
Europe, North Africa, and parts of Asia all inextricably knotted up in the affairs of
the political behemoth called the Roman Empire.
The unity that so characterized the Roman world facilitated a head-to-head social conflict
of Christians and non-Christians.
And for those of you who have heard the term cultural war, yes, it's the same people.
It's the same people with the signs that say, save the children who have the blood of Putin
on their hands, on their hands.
I was called up by a relative at the beginning of the invasion and was told, hey, we shouldn't
support the Ukrainians because they're all drug users and LGBT supporters.
Yeah, yeah, the blood is on your hands.
It's on your hands.
We stand with Anastasia, that's what we do.
The polytheistic core of classical religion effortlessly adapted itself to encounters
with new divinities from the East.
But the arrival of proselytizing Christian monotheists in the common era was the beginning
of the end for the Roman way of life, the Roman pantheon of gods, despite its inclusive
tendencies quickly succumbed to the demands of the Christian priestly hierarchy that flourished
on the basis of its pronounced exclusivity.
Christian priests did not blend into the classical world.
They were known for their uniqueness.
And I want people to remember the first Christian priest was Jesus Christ.
So the academics who picked their backsides and write publications and make papers that
are absurd and do not help society, those people will tell you, wait, the first priest
did not come along.
I have a degree in religion from Harvard.
Yes, and you still don't read the text, do you?
You still don't read the sources, do you?
Yes.
The early church followers are taking the names used by the mystic gods on the pagan
side.
So there is a viable priesthood and the first bishops are right after.
You think bishops go way back to the beginning.
So yeah, this is good stuff.
Christian priests did not blend into the classical world.
They were known for their uniqueness.
