This is from Mother Jones, the dangerous history behind Netanyahu's Amalek rhetoric, behind his Amalek rhetoric. Wait, what? The recent biblical reference has long been used by the Israeli far right to justify killing Palestinians.
Interesting article. Let's see. Seriously, are they serious here? We need a direct quote, maybe from Netanyahu himself. Look at the bottom of this. You must remember what Amalek has done to you, says our Holy Bible.
You must remember. Wait, what? No, what did Amalek say? Give me the next slide, because fortunately, we brought Amalek with us. Right. And what does he say? What does the passage say? This is in 1 Samuel, chapter 15. And what is the, look at the third line, those first two words.
You know who's saying all this stuff? This is the Lord, the yahoo of Sabbath. Okay. And what does the yahoo of Sabbath say? He says, you're going to go into Amalek and you're going to avenge.
You know, we were on the road from Egypt, right? And he jumped us. You know what we're going to do? I want you to go in there. I want you to kill them all. Kill them all. Look at what God says in the fourth to last line.
Now, I've got to warn you, this fourth to last line here was taken out of the Bible. It was taken out. For whatever reason, the Hebrew was incapable of expressing it, or because for some reason somebody thought, oh, this is a little bit stingy.
We're going to take it out. But what does it say? It says, you will dedicate them to the God. That is to him. What does that mean? That means there are sacrifices to be killed. And there is a man there. He says, you can do it to the men and the women.
And I want you to do it. I want you to do it from the kids all the way down to the ones that are breastfeeding. And what do you do? You smash heads. You know, that's the easiest thing that you can do. They're killing an infant.
Apparently, according to the religion of the great and powerful, wonderful God that we all serve. Fantastic. You people are amazing. Love it. Love your God. What a God you've got. Look at this. Look at this.
Yes, right here. Just one more image. Thank you, Reuters. This is from Reuters. That kid is undoubtedly dead. Yeah, starvation, right? And where does the starvation start? Is it going to start with the most vulnerable in the population, right?
But that's how it goes when you're trying to wipe out any group. Do you think these are the first people, humans, who have ever been starved to death? Look, who was doing it? The Romans were doing it to the people of Jerusalem 2000 years ago.
They starved to death. Yeah, they were eating each other. Yeah, can you believe that? You got to be desperate to do something like that. Yeah, but this is how it works, people. This is how it works. If you're going to be stained, you got to call a spade, a spade, bro. There's no, you know, there's no getting out of it. Okay, a couple more. There's just two more and then we're going to cut it out.
I wanted to end with the protomantus. I wanted to end with the prophecy because now that you're looking at the child's sacrifice in the face as you're watching it happen, albeit from a distance, as you're watching it happen.
I want you to hear the words of that earth oracle. Maybe this will make some sense. Open it up, Chorus. What is the prophecy? This is great. You guys are getting a prophecy tonight.
Yeah, what do you say, Chorus? The Chorus says, if someone goes around doing outrageous things with hand or with word, being unafraid of justice and disrespectful of the oracular seat,
may Moira be the one who takes that person into the depths of what is evil.
Let Moira let your fate, because that's the way pagan mysteries were oriented that you can't do anything here that isn't done for a reason. There is no chance.
And you are here for your punishment. Your punishment is bearing that blood. And she, the image that we are bringing as the Satanic congregation, she won't abide that.
She is nemesis. The armies of the world who engage in genocide, and I would include anybody who's shooting at hospitals, anybody who's blown up maternity wards.
I don't care if it's with who made the missiles and where they come from. Everybody who paid for it is culpable.
Everybody who didn't stand up culpable. We are buying this slaughter, and we are giving to Yahoo exactly what he wants.
I'm sorry to end on such a note, but I wanted you to have some sobering present fulfillment of these texts.
These texts are talking about doing things that defense ministers are quoting. The very name Amalek has given a liberty to destroy, and we are all watching it.
Yeah, I say damn Yahoo, and hell Satan.
Down the yellow brick road, with the flowers of evil, the man who left war, from shining trees, with magic beans, darkness through dreams, hit him with the weight of the triple beam, elemental peace.
Cajangalang, doing my thing, purple kush blazing, psychic, powerful dreamer, with a God degree.
