I don't know. Is there something growing out on the trees outside? I don't know. Yeah. It's nature. Always the nature.
When you're with that Thymus, that natural law, I've got bad news for all the misogynists. It is feminine. It is motherly.
Oh God. Eat that. Eat that. Moira. Make them swallow that. That's why it's punishment. Misogynists are just living out their hell.
Haven't you ever wondered that? They're just living out their hell. They got sent here to get punished. They don't realize it. You're already in hell, dummy.
Oh my God. All right. It's okay. You know, there's wardens and there's inmates. Go ahead. Phoebe. Who else is this woman who's Adelon I'm trying to bring to you?
It's Phoebe. Who's Phoebe? She's the lightbringer. She's the lightbringer? Yes. You didn't know that? There's only a Phoebus Apollo because there was a Phoebe before him.
Oh, wow. You mean the Greeks recognized that their system of oracles, their gods of mystery were based upon a woman and her voice?
Yeah. And they had no problem with that, right? Because that's nature, brah. What's wrong? What's wrong with you? You atheist or something?
Remember, they call the Christians atheists, not Christians. Atheists. If you don't have a problem with robbing Lady Justice, you're not going to get along with the rest of us very well.
Yeah. If you will tread all over justice, you will look at these child sacrifices and you will love it. You will lick it up. Love it.
In essence. It's vampiric of you, but that's how the people who've been Christed are. How do you think they got their vampire resurrection bodies?
Oh, my God. Brains, man. It's all chewy. It's fetal brain. Oh, I love this. Not fetal brain. I love the art. Although, you know, let's go to the next one.
Let's go to the next one. So, okay, here's where we're going to land people. Just look, you want to see Yahoo and all of his glory.
Right. Look at verse nine. Look at verse nine. This is where is this? This is a Septuagint. Oh, Deuteronomy. Yeah, Deuteronomy.
So he says, if you come into the land which the Lord God, now that word Lord there, Curios, that's what they always turn into Yahweh. Sometimes it's Yahweh, sometimes it's Elohim.
They couldn't get their stuff together and they didn't have enough words, right? Which is really the funny part. But for those of you who don't know, ancient Hebrew, like other languages around the Mediterranean was not that advanced.
And they only had a few thousand unique words by the time they were trying to reconstruct and create these texts. They took the Greek text and translated it.
What's funny is everybody here thought the Dead Sea Scrolls were Hebrew copies of Greek. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Oh, I gave you the punchline. I'm terrible at jokes.
Yeah, everybody thought they were Greek translations of Hebrew, right? No, no, no, no. They were trying to back translate from the already long-established Greek text.
The Old Testament that you love and adore was originally written in Greek. Yeah, love it. Oh God, third century fits right in. Love it. Okay, let's hit the next one.
Yep, so what's going to happen? You're going to come into this land. The Yahoo is going to give you, right? And yeah, don't do the Delugmata that those people are doing.
Don't do it. Don't do what? The Delugmata. Chewie, give me the next slide. The Delugmata? That word is even hard to say. Look at this thing.
Delugmata. That sounds like a lot. It's plural, so it's got to be a lot of that. Whatever it is, whatever he's got on himself, it's pollution, baby.
Pollution. Oh, doesn't it sound like it? The word sounds like pollution. That's what Karl Ruck told me. Look, I pulled the name.
That's what Karl Ruck told me, only because I have respect for him. That sounds like, we were talking about this couple of these passages, and he said it sounds like what it is.
You know, it's onomatopoetic. Love it. Go to the next one. It's pollution. I mean, go back to the, yep, yep, go back.
And so what happens when you come into this land? He says, yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't pass your children through the fire. Don't purify them.
What he says, a better translation of that would be, don't purify a son or daughter in the fire. What else do the people do? He says that I'm going to give you their land.
I'm going to give it to you. They already have big cities and stuff. I'm going to give it to you. You're going to go in and you're going to make anew.
It's all going to be yours. But there's a plan. There's a plan. We have to kill everybody there.
All right. Here we go. Let's see, Yahoo. What do you want? What do you want to do with the kids, the babies? Let's see what he wants.
