And you don't see the scandal.
You don't see the, they're never associated with something bad.
There's no word for junkie.
I point that out to people.
There's no word for junkie.
They're never illegal.
That's absurd.
They only become illegal when Christianity takes over.
Yeah, they only become illegal, and it's a way to control the pagan population.
Wow, drugs and drug users like prostitutes, homosexuals, they became taboo and illegal.
You know, I tell people this all the time, and nobody ever believes me, but you can read
a book called Greek Homosexuality by Dover, I think it's Dover, and you will find in it
that he admits right off the bat, first couple of pages, there's no word in ancient Greek
for homosexual.
Isn't that odd?
There's no, you mean we have so much homosexuality in Greek texts, and no, they never called
something homosexual.
That's odd.
Homosexuality.
The concept is invented to control.
It's invented to control.
If you can have a junkie, you can have a homosexual, and these are the types that we have developed
disenfranchised, take away their rights, in some cases, their property and their life.
This is Christian history.
This is Christian history.
When you have Russians in Georgia who are killing homosexuals, you'll understand they're
backed.
They're backed by the church, understand that's a church movement.
People are only shocked.
What do you think the Middle Ages was?
That was, they used to call it the Dark Ages, and for a good reason, for a very good reason.
If Christianity had never come about, if Jesus hadn't been caught with a naked kid in a public
park at 4 a.m., and then executed, you and I would be a lot further than we are, because
the Greeks were coming up with some of the craziest things.
They have a basic computer, calculating the next time that you're going to have an eclipse.
Wow, just think, just think where we would be now, if we hadn't, if nature hadn't through
Christianity, because ultimately nature is the mover, nature hadn't through Christianity
oppressed the human mind, yeah, what would have happened, it's amazing.
Let's look back at the priests though, we're going a little bit long, I'm sorry, but I
want to get you to the priests with the boys.
The use of drugs was not the only physical pleasure made illicit by the early Christians
for the first five centuries of the common era, priests, monks, bishops, and church elders
consistently labored to make sexual intercourse itself an act of moral contamination in one
of the greatest reversals of human history, the Western world turned from the embracing
sexual intercourse to considering it a form of pollution.
One set of facts was constant in all of Christian priesthood, there was a patent, open, doctrinal
hatred for women, homosexuals, and drug use.
The cultural war that started in the early centuries of the common era and ultimately
produced modernity was driven by the ideology of these priests.
As bishops gained the ear of the imperial bureaucracy, the court, and eventually the
emperor himself, they promoted the values of exclusivity that have been so successful
in bolstering their own ranks.
Sex is not healthy.
According to the apostles and the early church fathers, sex was not a healthy act that brought
new life into the world as the pagan world saw it, but was the tool of the devil.
Sex merely distracted the Christian pilgrim from the path to paradise, and as Paul famously
argued, was better avoided.
When you evangelicals and Catholics, you can put whatever big bow you want on this present,
it's still a box full of feces.
Church fathers like Tertullian worked incessantly to create an image of sex and sexual attraction
as strictly negative phenomenon.
Despite the fact that bishops were known to keep lovers in the ranks of their virgins,
late church fathers are unified in their public condemnation of sexual intercourse as in Tertullians
on the veiling of virgins.
For the Greco-Roman world, sex was the highest expression of good for your evangelical world,
for your Baptist wives, for your Baptist wives in missionary.
Don't close your eyes.
There is something not disgusting about what you are doing.
This root of tainting sexuality begins with Christianity, it begins with it, and it seeps,
it works its way through.
You should read some of these people talk about patristics in the church fathers and
the early church fathers.
You should read some of the things.
If you read some of the things the church fathers said, oh my God, it was Jerome who
says the ugliest thing in the world.
The most hideous, defiled object in the vision in the world is a pregnant woman.
Seriously?
And do you know you base your theology on this man?
Yes, your God is a reflection of this man.
Yes.
The Roman authorities busted in on Alexandria.
Origin cuts off his privates.
Yes, there is so much in the air.
There is so much in the air.
It makes you want to vomit.
For the Greco-Roman world, sex was the highest expression of good.
And you say, wait a minute classes, wait a minute, not so absolute, but just wait it's
coming.
