Oh, that's a big mistake. If you are in your life and you feel the call, you should not turn away from it. Why? Have you not been reading anything?
These Balkans, they turned on Orpheus and cut his head off. They turned on Orpheus and cut his head off, right? This is our religion, people. Let's get it. Let's see what's going on.
Yeah, so they declined to dance. The cause were of that they desired to have husbands and therefore would not be mean ads to the God. Where at? He wasn't sensed. Of course, he was mad.
And when they were working at their looms and very busy, look at 17th century busy, boozy, boozy, boozy and weaving on a sudden branches of ivy and vines twined about their looms and dragons.
Dragons made nests in the bag baskets. Why would they do that? Because this is Bacchus, baby. And you know what we've got in our baskets that were carrying around while we're frenzying?
Yeah, you know, this is organized frenzy, right? It's good stuff. You've got those vipers, those North African vipers in them. Oh, God, it hurts. We're about to see Jesus, right? You want to see Jesus in pain? How many of you out there want to see Jesus in pain? Let me see it because we're going to go into the Gospels.
You're going to see him in pain. You always thought Jesus was like this. No, he's not. He's not. He's in pain here. I mean, this is enough to turn on Mel Gibson, you know what I mean? This is enough to bring out that that sadomasochistic instinct that wants us to put on the stage.
Ooh, the beating. Oh, crucify him. Yeah. Ride that kind of thing. It's bringing that out in the individual. These are what the Bacchus are doing. It's part of the holy fervor. Okay, let's bring me back to that text one more time and we'll shuffle off to some Greek.
Take down the initiation. Good. Fantastic. And what happens now? He was mad, so they got the ivy growing. They got the dragons in their baskets, the snakes. And from the roof, there's still drops of milk and wine. Were you waiting for it? It's coming, milk and wine. Yeah, good, good, good, good.
Good, good, good, good. Now, I just wanted you to see. For the many of these, seized with frenzy, torn pieces, a young infant. Oops. Oops, you can take it down. Do you know what happens? Do you know what happens when you piss off a god? Do you know what happens?
Immediate, immediate, overwhelming force, immediate, overwhelming force. This isn't a universe of opposite reactions. You know, everything has its opposite. No, no, no, this is no balancing here. Yeah, no. This is you set off a nuclear reaction.
Yeah, now, now you're in trouble. Now you're in trouble. You split the atom. And what happens? So a group of these menads. Now imagine this anthropologically. These menads are under the influence of some psychosis inducing drugs. Not only that, they're heavy on the aphrodisiacs.
So they're all walking around excited.
Satyrs. Anywho, that's why they carry sticks, right? Sticks, weapons, theater soy, they carry them around, got it with all the drugs, right? And what did they do? They came across the person who wouldn't honor the god, and they mistook her child for a sacrifice to die a night.
Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? They took that child. They tore him to pieces. They tore him to pieces. I'd tell you what they did with the pieces. We know what the Balkans did with the flesh. Did you know the Balkans were flesh eaters?
Oh, you didn't. When Jesus is sitting there, and he says, right, knock, knock, knock the door. We're having dinner. We're having this last supper. Yeah. And what's he doing?
He's giving us flesh in his blood.
Okay. Okay, are you ready? It only gets worse from here, right? But we've got to go all the way because you guys love this stuff, right? We've got to see the grit. Yeah, and I appreciate that you're here. Thank you for coming tonight, by the way, my most excellent audience. Fantastic.
I want to bring this up. What is this? You know, this is Jesus. And he said, I said these things. I'm not even going to give you where this is from. It's just G. It's one of the Gospels, right? And Jesus says, you know, I told you these things that I told you before.
In order that you may not be scandalized. Scandalized. What is a scandalization? What is it when, what is a scandal on? What is it to scandalize or someone really like to scandalize you?
