Dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere, strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true, and wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do, then we could tear down the fences at Fences Valley.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences at Fences Valley. Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome to Lady Babylon Friday. It is time for us to initiate the satanic initiation. Fantastic, here we go.
Tonight, what are we going to look at? It's going to be scandalous tonight. It's going to be scandalous, there's going to be some ooh-ah, there's going to be some exchange of fluids.
It's what we have from this great Bible of ours, and it's what we need to look at. Tonight we're going in and we're going to see the reason that it warned everybody.
You're going to be scandalized, and don't forget this guy.
You know what I mean? Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Fantastic. Great to have you back, and I know. Tonight, we're just going to go directly into the meat.
And the loveliness of what we've got tonight with Jesus is scandalon. Yes, and we're going to bring that up to the front, we're going to see.
Does this have anything to do with his trial? Can we bring this in as evidence? We're going to look at a state of mind a little bit.
We're going to look at Jesus' state of mind, and I think you're going to be surprised. I think you're going to be surprised.
Oh, the Greek is lovely, lovely. It's delicious. You look so beautiful tonight, Muse. Oh my goodness. Thanks for this. It's fantastic.
I want to bring you Egeria, who is going to bring us the purge. We're going to get rid of that stink before we begin. Should we hit it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's what the priests of Apollo said, Plutarch himself, about her, Egeria.
Who was this Daimon? Who was this Daimon who gave us our religion? If you and I are Romans, she's the reason that we think what we do.
Egeria was her name. Egeria. Let's bring up right away. We want the evidence tonight. Boom, boom, boom. I want you guys to see this.
The ship's already there. We're getting out. We're going to go see Jesus. Before we do, I want to take everybody, as a special treat tonight, out to the cantina.
