Jesus is constantly doing that.
Give me the next slide. Love it. Thank you, Chewie. This is a state you want to be in, folks, right? In order to become prophetic, this is just the way things are.
I didn't make this up, right? It's just from the language. In order to become a frenzied person, you have to go through this pathway of the sting.
The sting in my flesh, says Paul. There's a sting in my flesh. Thorn. Push that thorn in. Push it in. Here we go. Bring up the next slide.
And that's in order. All of that is in order to produce this. This is what Anonis says, Jesus is. He is this source, right? This wondrous, awful, oracular source filled with the words of God.
Do you see that, Phil? This is such a Greek pagan idea. We get thespian, right? Right? Now you know why the thespians are who they are, right?
Because that stage is divine inspiration. If you aren't possessed, you have never been inside a mystery. If you aren't possessed, you come out of there with your backside hurting because that thing is that bench is so hard and you've been sitting on it.
You finally got up there and you got your communion. You got a little blood flowing in your legs and bored to death from all the blah, blah, blah, dingaling, dingaling, blah, blah, blah, boom.
Yeah, if you're getting possession from that, good for you. Good for you. The Balkans, they did the real thing. And Jesus does the real thing. Jesus does the real thing. Let's keep going with the quotes.
Yep. Go ahead. Look at this real quick. People blow out a giant. I just want you to see this. So yeah, he says, so Jesus says, you know, tells him, he says, you know, you guys are all going to get scandalized in me through through me.
What do you mean, Jesus? You're all going to get scandalized through me. Yeah, it's even a little bit just a tiny tad bit creepier because it uses the preposition in. It's like I got something inside me that's going to scandalize everybody here.
Yeah, it's kind of gross. Let's let's not dwell for that on too long. But I want you to realize as he is getting ready for his time in the garden. And right after that, as you and I know is crucifixion, as he's getting ready for that.
Where's his brain? Where's his brain out? Number one, he's worried. He's worried, right? We got to talk about the events that led up to the, to our transdimensional, you know, crime in the garden.
We're still not going to let that go. We're not going to dismiss the naked kid that's with Jesus when he's arrested at 4am in a garden. We're not going to, we're not going to dismiss that.
Okay, bring up the, go ahead and bring up the next one for me. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead. It's just a couple of, look, this very night, you'll all fall away. Look at how they struggle with it over and over and over again.
Are you kidding? That is nothing to do with, give me another one. Oh God, tonight all of you will desert me. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, and how do you know that this thing is written?
Look, I'm going to dedicate this to all the biblical scholars out there who talk about knowing Greek. You know who you are? You know who you are?
I just want you to see where it said scriptures there. Whoops, go back to that before we get to the screamer. See the scriptures?
There's no, that's somebody modern who's part of a religion creating vocabulary for you. The scriptures. What BS is that? Oh my God. It's ridiculous. Scriptures. Now children, turn your Bibles to be quiet. Let me translate the thing.
This is too much. It's too much. Now look at this guy. This guy had to shout, I will strike down. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. All fall away. Ashes to ashes. We all fall down, right? I'm still not set on what Scandalizo is. Let's go to the next one.
