You have not been raised religiously.
The Bible to you is something new, right?
I mean, you know what it is, obviously,
but you haven't been reading it, right?
Hail Satan, Amen.
No, I'm not religious at all.
I wasn't brought up religious.
I've always been fascinated with religion,
but I don't know why I never decided to pick up a Bible
or really try to learn about it.
Maybe because I was just lazy and I knew it would take a lot of time,
but for that, I'm thankful to you being the catalyst for me
to jump down this rabbit hole that I've been so obsessed with
for the past few months.
I didn't know anything about this three months ago when we met.
Your book was my introduction.
The chemical muses my introduction to religion.
Okay, okay.
My God, do you hear?
Okay, do you hear what we're doing with experiment alpha?
Right?
This is patient one, Danny Jones.
Somebody write this down.
Do you see?
He has no exposure, right?
He just gets stuff that flows in from whatever's in his environment
with holidays and whatnot.
He's not exposed to the core text.
Now, let's see what happens as we go through this journey.
Danny, you have been interviewing people who've been talking about the Bible,
and it seems like just from watching you today,
it seemed like you had, in the meantime,
gotten a degree somewhere or something.
I know you're rapidly assimilating everything.
Tell me a little bit about how it feels to be engaging in something
that's now piqued your interest.
It's totally nerd.
It's just plain nerd.
You interviewed a Bible scholar today.
You interviewed a Bible scholar, right?
I interviewed him about a week ago,
but we just now, today, it actually got posted on our Patreon.
It's going to come out on the YouTube channel on Monday.
I'm sorry for having a Patreon.
It's most glorious.
It's most glorious because I want people to understand.
This is you who are talking to a Bible scholar.
This is a person with many degrees,
and this and that and all sorts of specialties,
and what not, and a minor in classical Greek.
This person is an expert in the field.
That's just the way it is.
You're talking to this expert.
You're talking to this expert.
Danny, there was a question about 8,000 words in Hebrew.
What did you think about the response that you got?
If you don't mind talking about it, I know you don't want to...
I think he said...
What happened was, on the podcast,
one of my main questions was to ask him his thoughts
on what you said on the podcast,
was that classical Greek has, I think,
between 500,000 and a million unique words
and that ancient Hebrew has 8,000 unique words.
I asked him what his thoughts were on that,
and he said it was something around 80,000 or 70...
He said 79, 426 is what his answer was,
but he texted me after the podcast was over.
We should have, Steve, not...
We got to get that whip for Steve,
but Steve didn't Google it while we were recording.
Steve?
Okay, Steve, this one's for you.
Take down and take him down.
I kind of like that, Steve. Don't you like it?
Mommy.
Steve.
That's where the pH...
It's Steve with a pH.
You know what happens, Danny?
You totally up your credibility
when you start beating invisible people with things.
It's a fantastic place to be.
Tell me something.
You talked to him about that.
He told you it was 79,000 something.
There was a little discrepancy, right?
There was a little discrepancy.
79,400 and something.
Yeah.
But obviously, which Steve...
Steve should have Googled it right then and there.
I got home, I Googled it,
and you just Google how many words are in ancient Hebrew
and it shows you right at the top in bold.
7,000 something.
7,000 and change.
Check this out.
Danny, give me your comment on this.
This is from the Jerusalem Post,
the Israeli Academy continuing
the unprecedented revival of the Hebrew language.
Right?
And then underneath it says,
in biblical Hebrew, there were approximately 7,000 words.
Modern Hebrew has approximately 33,000.
So this is not a disputed point or anything.
This is what somebody who is a scholar
of those texts should know very well.
