You can put this stuff on a thorn.
You can put this stuff on a thorn
and you can get it in.
You can incrise yourself.
You can incrise yourself.
Isn't that fantastic?
Oh my God, Elin, what does he say?
Well, okay, look, we're not done with the drugs yet.
In that quote, just bring it up,
I'll go through it quickly
because I know people gotta run.
Quickly, let's do it, look at this.
He says, look, it's okay.
He says it's okay to hate something
that these snakes that have this power to kill,
to do bad, it's okay.
He says, but there's something worse.
There's a beast that's far worse
and something you're not gonna be able
to guard yourself against
and that is the Gune Pharma Kis.
The Gune Pharma Kis.
What is the, I'm looking for this woman,
like anthropologically, right?
I mean, I hate to, go ahead, take it off.
I hate to blow my cover,
but I'm just a trans-dimensional anthropologist
and I'm looking for this woman
because she is going to help me solve the case
of why Jesus was arrested in a public park
with a naked kid, yelling, I'm not a sex trafficker.
Yes, wow, we're gonna find out.
You misspelled lacedace, by the way.
Nice, nice.
I had to get that little dig in there.
I'm sorry, I can't help it,
but if you're gonna be professional and refute,
bring the professional.
Yeah, love it, love it.
Let's go back to the text.
There's something even more dangerous,
that Gune, that woman who is the Pharma Kis.
He says, for example, Medea and Cersei, right?
And why is that?
You can take it down.
He says, why is that?
Why is that?
That snake is killing you
with its bite.
That snake is killing you with its bite.
It's drugs, boom, direct application.
He said, you know what's even scarier than that?
The women who have developed this science, get this.
They can kill you with a touch.
They can kill you with a touch.
Now, this isn't a mystery initiate devotee
who's writing this.
It's not a priest, right?
It's not someone who's gonna have
some kind of axe to grind.
This is, oops, sorry.
This is a person who is writing about zoology.
And using sources that are telling him,
oh, this plant is that plant.
This animal is that animal.
Yeah, fantastic.
This one's poisonous.
That was the most poisonous.
He says that everybody knows the Egyptian cobra
is the one that you can't stay away from, right?
Our antidotes will work on all of them, but that one.
Yeah, isn't that neat?
How scientific.
If that doesn't turn you on intellectually,
nothing will.
Okay, I wanna give you a couple more texts.
Look, people were asking questions.
I'll be the next text.
People were asking questions.
Why is this significant about the Hebrew
not being there in the society?
I just wanna show you a work.
This is, of course, brought to you by 1840s,
German classical philological scholarship in Leipzig.
Something, those people were smoking something
because the productivity was amazing
and their source work, phenomenal, phenomenal.
Whatever those guys were doing.
Woo, gorgeous.
One of them put together lives of different types of writers.
Now, he put it together in eight books
and each of the books is dedicated to one type of skill.
We have epic poetry, we have lyric poetry,
we have rhetoric, we have tragedy, we have comedy.
Yeah, yeah.
And he talks about all the famous people,
whose works you and I know
because how are you and I educated?
We're not from Florida.
Yeah, we were educated from tiny, tiny, on Homer
and other poets.
That language, when somebody comes to you and says,
I think this about the New Testament
or about the Septuagint, about the Bible.
When they do that, ask them, ask them,
where does it come through Homer?
Because that's the standard grammar.
If you're gonna be in the universe, you better know Homer.
Yeah, love it.
That's why every classical ball,
you just have to take a certain amount of Homer.
Yeah, fantastic.
