Scythia, the Savioress, right? This is all mystery, religion. And what did they do? They built this, they built this thing and they put the put their stuff on it. And what happened?
Do you know what the bow and wear gaze were doing? They were doing this verb right here in order to bring that fire from heaven in order to bring it. You got to do the shout. You got to do the shout. It's just part of the ritual. Yeah. Isn't that amazing?
Oh, my God. It's complete buckets. Now, I know people have been saying for a while, we know the Bacchic elements that are in the gospel. What I'm saying is you don't know half of them. You don't know half of them.
Known as is the bridge that will unseal for our generation these sealed books. The gospels are sealed until you have the cipher. You will never know Jesus.
I can't stick around any longer tonight. I'm going to have to go into my cave. I appreciate everything. I'll make up for it next Wednesday on the discord. But for now, I'm going to take a break from this dimension at least.
Thank you very much for your time tonight. Thank you for the exotic and wonderful comments that you're giving. I love them and I take them all into consideration. I especially love the haters. I love it. It gives me joy.
And it's kind of a sick pleasure. So please keep it up. You're feeding me. And everybody who is trying to get closer to the Greek, keep it up. Keep it up. Do you see what's sitting there under the text? Somebody asked me today.
They said, Do you think that Iamblichus is the most difficult Greek author? And I said, No, the person I told that to you is a moron who doesn't read Greek. Iamblichus is about a six, about a six to a seven.
Yeah, known us because of his precision with the vocabulary. His grammar is okay. And he's having to fit meter. So it's a little bit slippery. But that's okay. What's really, and he can play with the words, he can play and lengthen vowels, he can shorten vowels.
But what's really neat is this technical vocabulary and known us will uncover exactly what we called the mysteries in the Gospels. Yes, it's the key to unlock that this season, this sixth season is time to show you the cipher and to allow you to see.
With those eyes of the dragon. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again.
