I'll have to watch it again to see it, to try to remember what I was thinking during that moment.
But I mean, look, he admitted he's a, he's a Mormon and he's got some biases that exist,
but he says he's aware of his biases, which that's good.
I think everybody should be aware of their biases.
But, you know, it just goes back to what I was saying earlier, man.
I think a lot of people, they don't want to touch the stuff because it is so heretical.
And yeah, that's what I ultimate think.
I don't, I don't think, I don't know, I don't know enough to say anything about him or how much he still reads or studies.
But I mean, how much is there to read and study, to learn from when it comes to biblical literature?
Is there, is there an endless amount of literature you can read?
Like in Greek, like how you can, you can read all these medical texts.
You can read all these poems, all these plays and all this stuff.
Yeah.
Is it the same with Christian literature or is there only like a certain amount of testaments and gospels and all this stuff?
Yeah, yeah, I've read a lot of it and I can tell you there's, they've got a good amount.
But they don't read anything around them, which is where you caught this problem when you asked him.
Right, right.
You know, do you know who Lucian is, right?
Yeah.
He should know that from, from his exposure to Greek, to classical Greek.
He should, yeah, he should know that, that should be there.
He said, he said when we pulled up Lucian on Wikipedia, we found out when he was writing and it said, and I think, I think Dan actually said, oh, that's right around the time the gospels were off.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
And you know, and you've also brought out Lucian is from the same area.
He's from Syria and he's in Egypt at one point.
And right.
So you're right.
In the same area as well.
Right after, I think you made the point is like when you're reading this stuff and you're going back in time to understand what these texts mean, you have to consider like, was this person in Texas or in Norway?
Like it's going to make a difference.
So they have to be, you think about geography.
You have to think about the human timeline, which epoch it was happening in and figure out what was happening in the surrounding world.
And we basically did a reverse engineer on Lucian and found out that he was in the same exact part of the world in the exact same time.
You see a little epiphany that happened.
Yeah.
No, and there are several.
That's not the only one who wrote the most about lace days.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So he wrote a whole book about how bad Alexander was.
And look, though, I just want you to notice and I'll stop here because I know you got to run.
I can see.
It was there lightning in the background?
I thought I saw some lightning.
Yeah.
You talking about here?
Yeah.
I'm in the middle of a rainstorm right now.
I'm in the back patio of my little bungalow.
I'm in Costa Rica right now.
Oh, God.
Did you see any iguanas?
Oh, yeah.
I saw a cat ripping an iguana to shreds earlier.
Oh, God, the death and slaughter.
All right.
Hey, you need to get back to your vacay.
I got a question for you.
Yeah, please.
I'm serious.
Why do you think it is that when people get old, by and large, they end up getting more religious and believing in Jesus?
I think it's because if you haven't answered that death question, you're still scared shitless, brah.
Right?
It's coming.
Yeah.
Right?
And I think the closer you are to it, and you can ask me because I'm old and I can tell you the closer that I get to it, the more obvious it is all over the place.
So I don't know.
That's a total guess, though.
Look at my terrible opinions.
I'm not supposed to get it.
Why do you think it is?
That a person starts thinking about that?
I don't know.
I think you're probably spot on with that.
I think it's people are trying to grapple with what happens after you die.
I think you're spot on.
If you can have a mystery.
I just noticed it so much lately.
I feel like everywhere.
Ever since I've started diving into this stuff, I'm seeing more and more people confessing their love for Christianity.
Today, I saw a video of Russell Brand and Alex Jones praying to God before they started the podcast.
They were doing a prayer, and Russell Brand, he's a former movie actor, and now he's a very successful podcaster.
They were literally saying a prayer, and he was talking about his new devotion to Christianity and all this stuff.
I feel like I've just seen that a lot lately.
I think that's why we need the vaccine.
I think that's why we need the antidote.
That anti-Christ is an antidote, and it really is.
It really is a knowledge.
That's how it's represented in the text.
You know what the big enemy is?
The mystery.
If people learn what the mystery is, that will bring the end of the world.
That knowledge will bring the end.
I think it's gorgeous.
I think people need to realize, at least to know this historically, that your ancestors were doing a right that would push you into death and then bring you back
in order that you may lose or might lose your fear of death, and they all walk around afterwards saying, oh, God, I'm born again.
Maybe, Danny, is it possible that there's something out there naturally that we should be doing to reach the other side and get pulled back and realize, oh, this is what it's all about?
It clicks and it makes sense.
I don't know.
You want to go join a mystery somewhere?
Yeah, I do want to join a mystery.
I got scared.
I'm reading Ruck's book, The One You Sent Me.
And he was saying in the book that a lot of people actually died when they were doing the Ellucinian rituals, when they were practicing those rituals.
A lot of them would accidentally overdose, and it happened a lot.
So I want to make sure we have to get the dose right.
