Let's keep going
This is just, I wanted to show you the verb
To protect
A rule over
And then you can trace the history of it
That's fantastic, go to the next one
For people in history
Who think, hey
Women did not rule
The name there
Is that they did
The name tells you otherwise
To the unreality of what the historians give you
Because historians
Suck
And do not work with primary sources
We had an ancient historian
Who came
Into the classics department
And he was awful
And everybody knew it
Everybody knew it
His translation capacity
Was garbage
It was about where for an entry level graduate
Students should be
Why is that?
I don't hold it against him
But because he was a historian
He wasn't a classical philologist
He was a historian
But here's the problem
If you can't read those sources
You don't know what the hell is going on
You don't
All your ideas, you guys know
I don't give you ideas
Pontification
Nundep
Eero, foiito
Sapendato
Deus, oistros
Here's that, oistros
The Dan McClallan doesn't like
Look at the end of the first line
Oistroes, Dan
Now watch, Dan
I know this is up there
I know you can identify
It's Greek, I'm talking Dan McClallan
I know you can identify
This is Greek, but I know
read it. I know you can't. I know you can't. And it shows the
extent of where the Bible education is able to take you.
It's not very, it's not able to take you very far. Here we're
going to go a little bit deeper. What is this? This is
Orphic Argonautica, man. And this is Orpheus. Look what I've
brought you tonight. Shame on you, Satanic congregation. Shame
on you. This one's for you tonight for not knowing that I
would bring you the best. Just a little bit. I took some to
here. Here's one for me. Oh, too. I gave it to I had to. Okay,
let's go to the next one. That one. Yeah. So what happens?
This is Orpheus talking to you. And what does he say? What does
he say? Now's the time when the estrus, the mania, it's burning.
It's burning. It's flying through the air. It's burning my
brain. What is it doing? It's separating me from my bodily
frame and shooting me up on wings to Uranus. You, you can
learn from my voice. All the things that are hidden. Sorry, a
little dramatic, but that was my translation of Orpheus. And
he's telling, he's telling his audience there. He's saying,
look, this is what's going on. And this is the state of
oysters. Give me the next slide, because I think we have the
oysters. Was I smart enough? Oh, I just wanted to see what a
what does the oysters do? It wanders in the air. It wanders.
Huh. You're wondering. Fantastic. Watch this. What is
oysterous? Because some of you have come in new. I know a lot
of Satanic countries, you know what the oysterous is, right?
We all knew when Dan said he was like, this is something, right?
And everybody in here was like, yeah, oh God, you're going to
get it, right? Oysterous. Here's our gadfly. Here's our gadfly.
It's something that stings. And you'll see it metaphorically,
right? Something that will drive you mad. That's how this word
is used to drive a person mad. That's what oysterous does.
That's what the prophet must have. It's what the prophet must
have in order to teach you. That's why I go to the very
bottom. What does it say? What does it say? Any vehement
desire and the frenzy and the madness? Look at the last two
lines of that paragraph in section two, Roman numerals to
madness and frenzy. Look where it's being used. It's being used
of the mean ads. It's being used of the mean ads. Okay, so take
it down. It's an idea floating in the mind of the speakers of
Greek, which by the first century on a Dominic, when Jesus is
around, is everybody is everybody. Okay, especially in
the East, you know, they're still holding out with the Latin,
right? They have a swamp. Greece hasn't swam. They're still
fighting. You know, stuff hasn't switched over where it's just
government stuff, right? It's not, you know, they're still,
they're still working. But in the East, the Greek is everywhere.
It's just, it's too bad. The Eastern Mediterranean, people
think it's the boundaries of the Mediterranean, where the action
is. No, no, no, it's the sea. It's the Mediterranean sea that
thala, so that's the source of everything. Right? That Greek is
spreading through the islands. Oh, God. Oh, it's gorgeous. Let's
keep going back to the text. Okay, I'm going to give people this
thing. Thank you. Look, what's happening, people? What do I
what does Orpheus say he has for you? He says he has
Christmuss. Those are oracles. Oracles. Oracles that are what
aretus unspeakable. Right? Night. Wait a minute. What? They're
oracles about the Wanak's Bacchus. And they're the oracles of
night. And you say, What does that mean? Remember what the
number added up to it? Added up the sibling sibling number. It
added up to pseudo Nick's. Nausea conformant was was, you
know, ecstatic over that one. Loved it, right? Why are they
talking about Nick's because Black Knight is our Uranian
deity Medusa. Isn't that gorgeous? Isn't that gorgeous? Think
of that Aphrodite. Think of that Aphrodite. Isn't that nice?
Right? Mm. Memory. Give me to know Aphrodite. Oh, God, love
this. Love this stuff, right? Now you're in the mystery. And
why do I say Aphrodite? Brother, come here. You don't see that
this is all going to Aphrodite. The people in the Arabian
Peninsula did. They told us, Oh, my God, what? Oh, where are we
going? We're going to Aphrodite because that's who we
worship Bacchus and Aphrodite Dionysus and Aphrodite. That's
the foundation of civilization. The Bacchic Empire is what
brought civilization and it did so through the oracles. Isn't
that gorgeous? We're in third time. Two years of Apollo, one
year of Bacchus and in that one year, that's the third year of
purging. Oh, three and a half and three and a half. Love it.
It's gorgeous. Let's do the next one. Sneak this one in. Look,
people, this has got some some heavy gun stuff in it. Okay.
Bring in the Nephilim. Where's the Nephilim? Come here, Nephilim.
You. I don't care. I don't care how big you think you are. Come
here. Right on the booty. Why? What am I going to sing about if I
am Orpheus? This is what it's saying, right? Orpheus says,
I'm going to sing of you of the offspring of Primo, right? Those
who did these terrible works who were born from earth. What did
they do? Are you ready? What did they do? They dropped down
their semen from Uranus on you. Oh, God. They dropped down
their semen. That's what it says. It's not just any kind of
semen either. It's Lugron. What is Lugron? That's like ill
fated. It's like dark. What's that morning? It makes me want
to mourn. Wait a minute. Did we get to the party and we're
finally here and the stuff is finally kicking in? No, right?
It's it's about to though. And the way it's going to kick in
is I'm going to introduce you to the Nephilim, these
these earth-born ones who are sending down the semen up
Uranus, right? And they were an earlier generation. They were
an earlier set of people. Let's go see what they did. So this
is exciting. This is like the Bronze Age telling us, look,
