there are these older people, right? Who are they? Well, in
order to find them, to find out who they are, Nephilim, right?
Everybody on the there's there's hundreds of thousands if not
millions of views on garbage about the Nephilim. Garbage,
Anunnaki garbage. Garbage. You want to see? I'm going to show
you right now with the text exactly how garbage it is. And
I'm going to pull some Hebrew in. Ready? Are you ready? Give me
give it to you. That's just for Dan and Kip, right? Okay, I
want you to see that these are the earth-born, right? These are
the children of Gaia or the giants. The giants. Go, go, go.
Who are the giants? Gigas is a Greek word. Gigas is a Greek
word. Who are we summoning? Oh, who is this? It's the book of
Enoch. Probably 1st century BC. Oh, who is it? I don't know.
Who cares, right? The fact is this document, this
Hellenistic document, it reads as if it was a contemporary with
the Septuagint, right? Although I'm not sure it's that old.
It may be later, like 1st century, but whatever.
Okay, Ka'elabon. I'm going to read this to you, pre-people.
Are you ready? Now, this is the book of Enoch and people say,
why is that not in Hebrew? Because it's not. It never existed in
Hebrew. Here's what it existed in. Here's the
Giza Fragment that we have of it. Probably from some library that the
Christians burned down. Who knows? And Ka'elabon,
He'altois, Gunaikon. Oh, they got, they, okay, so
they took, they took the, they took wives.
Took, you know, each person, each of these people that we're going to talk about,
you know, on what did they do? They took wives, whoever they, they wanted to,
and they, they entered into these unions with their wives.
And what did they do? They soiled themselves.
Wait, what? They soiled themselves. They died. They stained themselves.
Okay, sounds like something's going on, but let's see.
Let's see. They died themselves. And what else? And they taught,
they taught their wives how to do what, how to do what, how to make
drugs, how to collect roots, how to identify specific plants,
and they stained themselves. Who are we talking about?
We're talking about a group of people with a technical knowledge that's
obviously superior to the groups of people that they're infiltrating or
that they're immigrating to be among. And this is not uncommon. You get it in
Italy too, right? Medea steps off the boat in Italy and somebody's
noticed that somebody's been bitten by a certain
type of snake and she has a remedy and cures a guy and they're like,
huh? Holy crap, we'll build you a temple, right? Because they've been plagued by
that snake for years and you know what? They just, they didn't develop it.
They probably, they were, you know, speaking Martian or, you know, not from Mars,
but Oskar or Umbria, who knows, one of the, maybe Latin, a bunch of
hot dwellers, you know what I mean? Just backwards. So when you come in
with that new technology, are you an alien? Now for everybody who wants to think
that's an alien, just have at it. You know, enjoy,
enjoy. Somebody from space. Yeah, no, that's not what the evidence points to.
The evidence points to here are groups of people who are technologically advanced
and as a matter of fact, that's exactly what it says. They become famous
through their tech and what is their tech? Enoch tells us their tech,
their tech is drugs.
Autononki are not aliens. They're drug runners. Oh, God.
They're people with a superior knowledge, dude. That's all. Go to the next text.
Let's see these guys. Where do they show up? You know, and it's because the,
it's through the, notice it's through the ladies.
It's through the ladies. I'm going to show you some things that are,
you think, is this a man's art? You'd think.
What kind of art is this and why is the text differentiating?
Watch, watch what happens. It'll show us. It'll arc to the original Christ.
It's gorgeous because what we're doing is we're tracing the knowledge,
the pharmaceutical knowledge. Just follow the pharmaceutical knowledge
and see where it ends up. That's all we're doing.
Um, wonderful. Isn't that gorgeous, Cersei? Pull up the Bible.
Pull up the Bible now. That's what we need. Look at verse number four.
This is from Genesis chapter six.
Do you hear the word giant? There were giants there in the earth in those days,
right? And after that, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men
and they knew them in a very, very intimate,
lovely, stinky way. And what happens? There were giants, right?
They're giving birth to these generations that are bathed in the tech that they have got.
They're burning off mortality. And do you know what happens?
You change stature itself. These are hormone analogues, right?
And what are they doing? What are the giants doing?
How does it describe them on the last line? They're op ionis, op ionis.
Wait, what? Okay. They're from the ion. Hang on to that thought.
And then the very last thing he says is hoy atropoy hoy onnomastoy.
These are people who were very famous, very famous, known for that knowledge.
They were big people. Yeah. These people were important, gigas.
They're all, wait a minute. They're the gigas. They're from that stage of the medusa.
Do you understand? They're using the very same serpents.
It's tech and they're spreading the cult tech. Give me the next one.
Give me the next one. Are they from outer space? Why do people always jump?
Right? People, do be scientific. Give me, you got it?
Let's look at the translation of this. In those days and for some time after, giant nephalites.
What? That text didn't say nephalites. It's because everybody has bought the lie
that the Hebrew text comes before the Septuagint.
Right? Remember, the Masoretic text is from the 10th century on odomony.
Right? That's when that thing shows up. That's not real. That's a creation.
What does the old text say? It says what I just showed you in Greek about giants.
So the use of the word nephalites is only coming through a rabbinic tradition.
Right? And because Christianity needs that rabbinic tradition to prop itself up on,
it can't contradict that. So it's a very, very sticky problem for theologians,
for Bible students, for Christians who just are practicing their Christianity.
People who are born again and have seen the forgiving blood of Jesus Christ.
It's for those people. I love this. Whenever the sons of God had intercourse,
seriously, that's not very elegant. They're heroes. It doesn't say that, but famous warriors.
They're a little bit elaborating there. It doesn't say anything about being warriors.
But okay, fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Now you know why translation sucks so bad, right?
Watch this people. What is the nephilim? Look how they define it now, right? So now this lying
translation based upon a lying tradition is telling you this is coming from this word.
And how do they define this word with the Greek word giant?
Do you know what nephilim is? It's a made up term. It was a forced term in order to translate the
word giant. It doesn't exist. It is a fabrication. What is the nephilim? Nothing. There are nothing
in history. Yeah. Historia. That's the inquiry, right? When you know yourself, did you know your
religion was a fabrication, right? Welcome to the school of monism. That's what they do. They
did it in Egypt too, and they ended up getting Okinawan with this terrible art with these big
pregnant bellies on people. I don't know. It wasn't pregnant women. It was on pregnant men.
They looked pregnant anyway. It's the style. Anyway, everybody's like,
and they got rid of it, right? So, okay, give me the text. Give me, watch what, look what. Now,
what is the root? Nafo. What does it mean to fall? To fall. So they're like, huh, how can we represent
because we don't actually know, right? We know that these are famous people, right? What do we
have to do? We have to turn them into something they're not. Who are we making those fallen?
Call them the fallen, right? No, no, no. What are you doing in the third century with your Torah?
What are you doing? You're creating something to justify your past.
You're mimicking what the Greeks are doing with their texts. You're doing the same thing.
That's why you call Adam, Adam, because it's a well-known name within the right, right? It's
all about that right. That mystery is everything. That's the predominant religious engine when the
Torah or the Septuagint, the Pentateuch, whatever you want to call, the Pentateuch and the prophets,
whatever you want to call, that's when that's being written. The mystery is everything.
This is a Telestarian that Moses builds. Oh, God. Oh, God, you mean Moses builds a Greek
invention for telling the future by hearing the voice of God? Yes. Oh, isn't that great? Love it,
man. Hail Satan. It's a Saturnian power, a Saturnian power, baby. Now, listen, you want to understand
it. If you're sitting there and you haven't been killed and revived, if you haven't been killed
and revived, and I'm not talking about just still any killing and revival. I'm talking about the one
that puts your brain in a state where you're able to correctly identify the images that you're
interacting with. What? Yeah, no, it's a mystery thing, right? If you're trained, we can train you
to do this. Okay, let's get to it, right? If you're not woken up, then, you know, and let's
admit, none of us are. None of you are. You know what's funny? All the hippies and the people talking
about psycho death or ego death and all that bull crapery. Yeah, do you realize that you don't even
know what you're doing? There's a way to do this in a polypharmaceutical approach that involves your
death and your entry into a specific state that will allow you to bring back from the other side
real quanta, real information packets. Yeah, congratulations. You know, getting stoned on
something and wandering around in a cabbage patch is going to do absolutely nothing. And the Greeks
who invented this, the woman who started this Christing, she would tell you, first of all,
what are you doing? Right? You don't know what you're doing. It's what Bacchus says. You don't
know what you're doing. It's the awakening that you need. That's what the Renaissance always brings,
and that's what these texts will bring. Are you ready? Oh, let's see that for a minute. Who's
that? Oh, that's, I don't know what's going on. That's fantastic, though. Bring that. It's staining
my brain. Let's go. We got to, we got to finish these. Here's the word for giant people. Here's
where it's originally from. Let's get the next one. The tribe of giants it talks about. That's
beautiful. I want to give you what, um, what is this? The strong or the mighty? Is that how
there? Is that how we're starting to get this? Okay, give me the next one. I don't even know
what the point of that was. It's like taking a third graders copy of something. Today, people,
I just want to tell you, today, I had a lot of downtime because of internet issues. And by the
way, people, I don't need a better camera. Thanks for recommending that all the time. I really
appreciate it. It's my internet. I get a gigabytes per second, right? Eight. I said eight, right?
Megabytes. Sorry. Sorry. Wrong realm. Chewie corrected me. May, you know, I'm even way smaller,
