Something new.
Hit you with the ticket, hands nodding.
Open Kim's to the moon.
The language of the birds.
Death above a pure, wild stallion crew.
Rolling in the main, magic gin.
Six upon a green, diamond shining.
I'm in this thing.
Carnstorm ring, bling and bling.
Hot purple lean, venomous cream.
Silver seven seas, hot fire.
Gasoline, dance with the muse.
Athena, metadata.
Fire in your dreamer.
Doomgate keeper.
Blaze the ganja greener.
Greek fire keeper.
Omsi misima.
Maduro riding with me.
My girl's with it.
Dragon poison.
Every rose has its thorn.
White snake.
Orpheus.
Medicina.
High fire, gasoline.
And Satan come to see ya.
High fire, gasoline.
Medicina.
High fire, gasoline.
And Satan come to see ya.
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon.
This is Initiating Apocalypse.
I appreciate all of you who came tonight.
And I know that you're here not to hear me tonight.
Tonight you're here to hear Danny Jones.
We are going to have Danny Jones on.
Oh, Chewie, look, already spit him up there.
Danny Jones, welcome to the Lady Babylon.
And thank you for coming tonight.
Let me just say what a privilege and an honor it is
to be able to talk with you.
And thank you for coming.
Thank you for having me.
I'm really happy to be here on the Lady Babylon.
It's about time.
Yeah, right, it is, right.
It's overdue.
Let's get right to it, though.
Let's not waste any of these people's time.
Let's get right to it.
Here we go.
You just put something out.
You just put something out.
And I have to say, fantastic, went on Patreon.
And I have to say, it was, the only way I can describe it
is epic in that it brings out a struggle.
You will watch Congregation of Satan.
You will watch Danny go through a process in this interview
with Dan McClellan.
You'll see him go through a process.
And that's what I want to talk about tonight, Danny.
I want to talk about you because you're sitting there
in the middle of, you've heard Neil, you've heard me,
you've heard Dan, you've been investigating
all of this Bible stuff thrown and today,
today I saw you break through.
I saw you break through and it was magical.
It was from antiquity.
It was truly classical.
I thought bingo, bingo, that's it, right?
You broke through.
You didn't have to.
You can't be fooled.
They can't take you into the back alley anymore, Danny.
And I want to share audience tonight, your journey.
So tell me something, a little bit about your background
because you were raised in the Baptist church, right?
That's correct.
I was not, I never saved any souls in my childhood.
My background is in filmmaking.
So when I was younger, I was always running around
with a video camera, filming my friends fucking around,
surfing and skating, and we would all film each other
and make these little home movies and watch each other
just do dumb stuff.
And then that eventually evolved into making commercials
and stuff for like, I had friends who had rich parents
and they owned big businesses and their parents would hire me
to make commercials or videos for their companies.
And then eventually I started getting into television production
and working on feature films, feature major studio productions.
And I spent my whole life thinking I wanted to just be
like a filmmaker and create cool documentaries
and cool content, music videos, movies, whatever.
And once I really got a taste of the film, the real movie industry,
doing stuff for Warner Brothers and Sony,
those guys are all miserable and they're all sort of like
carneys with dental plans because they make a lot of money
but they're never home.
They're always traveling all over the road
and they're all just basically drunks.
Not all of them.
There's a lot of good guys too, I shouldn't say that.
But anyways, long story short, after I got out of that,
I started doing my own documentaries
and I was producing different like mini documentaries
for the internet for about three to four years.
And when the pull podcast thing came about,
