You can get an Amazonian queen.
You get an Amazonian queen who perhaps has worshiped
as a goddess.
Yeah, have you ever been, let me just ask,
sister heard of frustration?
Have you ever been worshiped?
Yeah, yeah, special dedication to my non-friend
in Nazareth, special dedication.
You saw, you saw everything, your eyes were open
and it was my pleasure to be able to give you that fruit.
That's the power.
That's the power.
Oh, can you feel it?
Can you feel that?
Okay, throw in that last, let's go quick.
These people want, they're like, shut up, I need dinner.
Go, yeah, here, more civil stuff.
Look, more civil stuff.
Great.
Look, I just wanted you guys to notice
this Caldean or Persian symbol, right?
All of these symbols are following that structure
that Medea set up as the queen of Babylon.
Did you see the tunnel?
She built a tunnel under the river.
Can you believe this?
And it's, you know, she had to change
the direction of the river.
She had to waterproof everything.
They had to put up art designs.
Oh my God, it's absolutely gorgeous.
Absolutely gorgeous.
This is the most, this is the greatest gem, Medea.
Let me just say this.
Medea is the greatest undiscovered treasure of humanity.
The greatest undiscovered treasure of humanity.
Yeah, you are the product of her thoughts.
You are the product of her thoughts.
If you are a Christian and you are sitting,
watching Billy Graham with your popcorn,
if you are in church,
if you are going to your synagogue,
to your mosque,
you are all servants of the mind of a Bronze Age woman.
Your religions were created by her.
They are corruptions of what she did.
This is gorgeous, gorgeousness and gorgeosity.
Go to another one.
I hope you don't mind, we didn't invite Philo.
Because if we had Philo sitting here this whole time,
you know what we'd be talking about.
Yeah, yeah, wouldn't be this, let's go.
Yeah, that's okay, here's another Orpheus.
I want to show you, look, there's an Orpheus one.
This is the Thracian one, go to the next one.
And look, there's a bunch of other Orpheus's here.
Yeah, did you even know, like many of us,
many people here, be honest with yourself,
you're studying these mystery religions.
Take it down, you're studying these mystery religions.
You want to know what you're studying.
You want to know, that's what's driving us, right?
You want to know, so that you can say
what Jesus was doing with that naked kid.
You want to know.
And right in the middle of all this, you realize,
oh shit, I didn't know there was more than one Orpheus.
Yeah, it's just a name, brah.
Right, and you mean these other ones or poets too?
Yeah, right, and nobody knows.
Look, we've got fragments from them.
This is fantastic.
Right, Bible scholars, and they never touch this stuff.
Why would they never touch this stuff?
I don't know, I'm asking genuinely,
because I don't know, it boggles my mind.
Whenever I come across a biblical scar
who has no idea about anything outside of the New Testament,
I'm always shocked, I'm like, can you claim really
to be an expert in this language?
If all you've read is one thing out of thousands
upon thousands upon thousands,
there's 400 pages of this text that I'm showing you
with these different authors, different ancient authors.
There's 400 pages of it, and there's two to three per page.
Two to three per page.
My God, did you know there was that many?
There's 500,000 copies.
500,000 scrolls in Alexandria alone.
Yeah, don't think that there aren't books
all over the place, right?
If you are wealthy in antiquity, in Rome, you got scrolls.
You got scrolls, you send your kids to Athens.
Why do you send them there?
It's for the Greek, brah.
It's for the Greek, this Greek can open your brain.
Modern Greek, modern Greek's been enslaved by the church.
Yeah, see what happens, people?
Julian was right, we're gonna lose it.
We're gonna lose everything.
30%, they told me in history.
It's gotta be 30% and kicks over.
Go for it.
Well, a couple more and then we'll,
oh here, I just gave you, yeah.
So, Teddy Hus, I just wanna give you,
this is interesting because who is this writer
of epic poetry, right?
He's got Sotera in his name.
I just wanted you to see this,
he's got Sotera in his name.
But, he's gonna be talking about some pretty cool stuff.
