But you tell me now, from your perspective,
as somebody who's investigating
what's going on, right,
whether or not this stuff is accurate,
what's your impression of an answer like that?
My impression of an answer like that?
I mean, can't Greek and Hebrew just get along?
Why can't they get along?
Why do we have to be battling over ancient languages in 2024?
Good point, good point.
Yeah, and they can't, they don't get along.
And this is what really gets my goat about it,
is that these are two biblical experts.
And they seem to be erecting a wall.
Oh, you're talking about Kip and Dan.
Yes, yes.
They're professional biblical experts.
Seeing in, interviewed, right?
Kip has stuff on CNN.
He's a, my God, he's a world authority,
and he doesn't know something as basic
as the number of words in your language
and why that is significant.
Yeah, I don't know.
I just don't know.
Danny, is it just me or did you feel during your,
there was a point in your interview
where I felt like you pierced the fog of any sort of,
it came at this point when Dan McClellan said,
hey, what's going on?
What's going on with this seventh,
eighth and seventh century stuff?
You were asking him, hey,
where do we have documents from the Torah?
Like, what's the oldest one?
You had asked him about the Hellenistic creation
of the Septuagint, right?
You guys had talked about that,
and he said there were some documents
from the eighth and seventh centuries,
and you caught him on it, you saw through it,
and you said, what are they?
He said, well, they're not really there.
It's just, we proposed the stuff that's later,
like Isaiah came from that time period.
How does that make you feel as you're,
as you're swimming through that swamp,
and you're, you know.
It doesn't make me feel good.
It doesn't make me feel good about it,
about the truth of it.
That's for sure.
I mean, I think he used an analogy in the podcast.
He was like, so, okay.
Moses, I think he was talking about Moses.
He goes, the way you have to think about Moses,
he goes, imagine if your grandfather
had this incredible war story,
but he died 100 years ago,
and the story wasn't told until today,
but it's going to be written down,
and you'll see that running for another couple hundred years.
And I said, he goes, it's like that.
I'm like, I said, I wouldn't believe that.
I wouldn't believe that war story,
if that was how it was produced.
So, yeah, I mean, when I was asking him about,
I think it was Hectaeus, right?
I think.
Hectaeus.
Hectaeus, and 320 or whatever,
and I asked him if that was the first time,
like, why was there,
if Moses was supposed to have lived in 1200 BC,
how come we don't hear about him
until 900 years after he's gone?
Like, that doesn't make any sense.
When would that ever happen?
Why, how does that story get carried on?
I don't understand.
His explanation was that it's,
when you read the Bible,
you can make connections to 700 AD,
I believe is what he said, somehow.
You can somehow assume that that's when they were talking about.
This is also slippery.
It's also slippery, and it's also abstract.
Yeah, and I want you to know, Danny,
please understand that when you go to a classics conference
in international stuff, you know what I mean?
Europe, America, Canada,
when you go to those conferences,
you will never catch that, right?
You'll never catch that level of performance,
because the professional circuit,
the academic pounding that you take
is a classical philologist.
I noticed in the interview, there were a lot of probabilities.
Probabilities, and, you know,
not a lot of texts, not a lot of specifics,
but a lot of probabilities.
And this is something that biblical scholars do
that tends to just rankle classicists,
because, Danny, you can't get away with that kind of,
that kind of argument in an academic,
in a real rigorous, classical,
philological, ancient, great environment.
Okay, let me show you.
Go ahead.
