I'm a lightweight.
No, that's why they have so much antidote literature, right?
We've got to do this right, man.
Whoever is coming up with the formula and stuff, those people have to be straight on.
And you know we're going to lose a few people in the process.
Every once in a while, the Oracle, while she's sitting there prophesying to you, she's just doing something crazy.
They had one who ran out the back of the temple, and the temple was built on a cliff.
She just jumped.
She just jumped into the abyss, right in the middle of her prophesying, composing poetry.
Oh, God.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's wild stuff, man.
Yeah, how do you feel?
Can I ask you how you feel having learned so much in the area and having done a deep dive into it?
Does it make you feel like it's something we should have been doing or something?
People always tell me, oh, I should have been doing this years ago.
I should have been learning this stuff.
Does it feel good?
Are you helping your soul at all, is what I'm trying to say, if that makes sense?
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm definitely helping the soul.
I felt more inspired.
I feel a lot more inspired reading this kind of stuff, reading your books, listening to you talk on your YouTube channel,
reading Karl Ruck's books.
I know it's frowned upon, but I'm also reading the John Marco Allegro book just to see where he lines up with all this stuff.
But this world is, it is, it's mind-opening and it's soul-opening.
And yeah, we got to do everything we can to make it more known without having to, I mean, obviously reading,
understanding how to read Greek is the holy grail, but we got to make it more accessible to people.
And it's very clear from your podcast that people are interested in this stuff.
So, you do a great job.
I guess that's possible.
You do a great job.
The Hail Satan throat punch in the beginning.
That really got me.
You threw me off.
I was not expecting that.
I love it.
You used it on me, back on me.
Use the force back on me tonight.
Did you notice Hail Satan always takes them off their guard, right?
It always does, right?
Oh God, I love it.
Everybody who's watching tonight, please, all of my audience,
watch Danny Jones for the sake of the path that he took,
because it's a pioneer's path forward of a renaissance, a renaissance mind.
And I can't, Danny, I love you, man, and I really appreciate.
Every minute that I've ever spent with you has been some kind of divine frigging gift,
and Chewie's nodding her head.
She's sitting there nodding her head.
So please give, please give.
Shout out to Chewie.
Yeah.
I appreciate it, Amen.
I love you too, man.
I love learning more about this stuff, and hopefully we can do another podcast again
in the near future.
Oh God, why are you so gracious to me?
It's gorgeous.
I have to give you back then the best.
You know what I'll do?
I'll dig up the dirtiest, nastiest stuff I can possibly find.
Throw you right in it.
Everybody, please go see Danny Jones and watch the renaissance coming alive.
Thank you, Danny, for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Thank you for having me, Amen, and thank you, Chewie.
Good night, everybody.
Click bang.
High purple bubble roost.
Burning up my love for you.
Wandering star.
Roaming with the sword.
Going door to door.
Saving all the children.
High purple living.
Blazing up on my love.
Inhale deep.
Take two puffs.
Just a touch.
Not too much.
Should get on top of you with a little push.
Three days late.
What happened to your face?
Your shit went flush.
Throw rubber duck.
Latex purple.
Back to work you.
High purple gasoline.
Medea belly dancing.
In the moonshine.
Childless glowing.
Rayman Zeus.
Operator smooth.
High fire gasoline.
Medea medicine.
High fire gasoline.
Hail Satan come to see ya.
High fire gasoline.
Hail Satan come to see ya.
