He's in pain. Jesus. You need to see a doctor, Jesus. Hello. Do you need to see a doctor, Jesus? What's wrong? Does this hurt?
He's in pain. There's no mistaking that word. Let's get the text one more time. What else is he in addition to being in pain? He's a demon.
He's a demon. What does that mean? Literally, it means out of one's deem out of your neighborhood.
Now, the another place you find this word being used is in Galen's commentary on Hippocrates.
Epidemics one, he starts talking about different diseases that are going on and he's describing symptoms and in a, in a battery of diseases that appear to be malaria type diseases.
He talks about fevers and the induction of fever and he talks about what happens to the patient. And one of the words that he uses is this odd demon.
They enter into a demonia and what, what is the odd demon? It's a place of confusion. It's a place of confusion. It's somewhere on the road to total and utter delirium.
Yeah. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? So Jesus is in pain and he's becoming delirious. Yeah.
Did anybody notice that he was sweating? Did anybody touch him? We got that DNA. If we had that boy, we could get Jesus's DNA, maybe.
Right. Right. Remember, go home from the Sunday school and ask a Mark 14, 51, 52. What's that naked kid doing there?
Okay. So here comes Jesus. Let's go to the next. He's stumbling out. You know, he's got his three, he's got his three buddies, right?
And they're falling asleep, you know, because they're doubly bombed. Right. Okay. Good. We just been in this procession.
This stuff's got to tire you out, man. They talk about the Balkans in classical texts laying around totally like you gotta like push them and kind of revive them to wake them up, the whole group of them.
And we're given instructions. We have ancient documents that says, Hey, just pick these people up off the ground, lay them in a bed and give them, give them fluids and nurse them back.
They'll be back. Yeah. We know they're Balkans. It's what they do. It's what they do. And you thought you thought you were there in the mystery, didn't you?
You didn't, you didn't realize what Paul was given the pithiest. That's your hard time. Now, you know, she was outing him. She was outing him for what he was doing.
Everybody knew it. Paul. Yeah, Mr. Immune to Vipervenom. Yeah, you've got to take that into consideration. One of your witnesses comes in the court, and you can tell they're under the influence.
You have to take that into consideration. Fantastic. Let's go to the next. I love that word. Let's go to the next one.
Yeah. And, oh, yeah, I just want to tell you, I want to shift a little bit now. And I just, I'm going to show you how this is related.
Look, it's directly related because on the fourth line, the first word in the fourth line, you see the ademonia.
