Did you know that?
Did you know that?
We have no problem,
because she has such a strong reputation.
We're not worried about our sources.
We have established texts, people.
The Bible is written in Greek, the whole thing.
We have established texts.
We have people quoting that Greek Old Testament.
We have them quoting it.
We don't have them quoting Hebrew,
because the Hebrew is defunct.
It's defunct.
Yes.
Look at all these authors.
Give me the next, give me the next.
Look at all these authors here
that I want to introduce you.
Oh, look, we ran across the Sibyls.
For those of you who are interested in the Sibyl,
the Sibyl is listed among the classical authors
within her genre.
She's using Dactylic Hexameter too.
She's using the Hexameter too.
She belongs with the epic poets.
She belongs with them.
Yes, she's the source of that Dactylic Hexameter.
Yeah, so it's sort of, they belong to her,
but let's just see the Sibyl real quick.
What did that say?
I just wanted to bring them about the Sibyl.
They're talking about the Sibyl of Delphi.
What did they call her?
What did they call her for Sibyl of Delphi?
They called her Artemis.
Wait, are you sure that it says that?
Yeah, it turns out that they're calling,
you can take it down,
that they're calling people, gods,
try to grasp this for a minute, break out of the fairy tale,
and try to grasp the fact that there were people
walking around in their civilization
who were considered, dressed as,
and worshiped as gods.
Yeah, yeah, well that is amazing, right?
That, right there, that's something.
When you have been into the mystery,
and you have been through that
pharmacosexual initiation,
you have seen her, you have seen Lady Babylon.
And now you know why Lady Babylon is enemy number one
of yahoo, enemy number one.
Have you ever thought about that?
Why?
Why in the apocalypse?
Why is it the way that Lady Babylon is, is the enemy?
Why?
Yeah, yeah, it's in the blood.
It's in the blood.
If you want to be born again,
if you want that in Christing,
it's gonna have to come through the blood on a thorn.
Yeah, oh I love it, give me a little more,
give me a little more great,
can you give me a little more great?
Let me just throw out a couple more things.
Those are beautiful by the way,
jewey thanks, fantastic.
Yep, anything, there we go.
Hey, I just want you to see here
that this one symbol that is the Chaldean symbol,
he says her name is Sanbethi, right?
Now he says some people say that she is the Ibraia, right?
Some people say that she is the Persis, right?
And this is her real name of power though.
Her real name of power is Sanbethi, yes.
And she comes from that genus
of that holy priest we all know as Noah.
You say Noah?
No, I said Noah.
Before, before you were ever given a Noah,
you had Noah the father of the symbol.
The symbol, yeah, father of the symbol.
How long does she live?
A better question would be does she die?
And who are all the people in history who claim
that she doesn't?
Yeah, are you mainlining?
All right, if you are mainlining that logos,
you've got to get it.
You see why the Christians can't reach it?
Why the Orthodox Jews can't reach it?
Why the Taliban throw an acid in the face of little girls?
You know why they cannot reach that place?
Because their ancestors all worshiped Aphrodite and Bacchus
and they threw it away.
They threw it away for the sake of greed,
for the sake of a possession,
for the sake of 70 virgins.
They threw it all away.
You dishonor Aphrodite.
You fundamentalists, you dishonor Aphrodite
and you hate women as a result.
And how do I know that?
Because I'm just talking history, man.
That's what happens.
It always goes that direction.
Yeah, when you get rid of the elements of Aphrodite
within the cult, you get religions that are misogynistic.
Ta-da, shouldn't be a surprise.
Shouldn't be a surprise.
Now you can go the other direction too.
