Oh, that's nice. That's nice. And what else is in there? It's one of the Nards. It's one of the real Nards. You know what I mean? This stuff is really valuable. It's not adulterated. It's really valuable. And what did she do? She started applying it to the alabasteran, right?
And then she added her substance that was in the alabaster to Jesus's head, right? To Jesus's head. Do you remember what they do? What do the Medusaid do? They put it all over their hair. They put it all over their hair.
When you have the purple, when you have the purple, it's a drug that is used, not just transdermally, because they're taking it through the thorn, right? Paul's all itchy scratchy. He's all immune to viper venom. And he's all, what are you doing? I've got my thorn, got my thorn.
You didn't realize he was junky. You didn't realize any of these people were junkies. You guys didn't even know Peter was a boy prostitute.
When people find out that Jesus Christ was associated with a young male prostitute, then we may have an enlightenment. We may be able to stand outside, but I don't know. The watchers are telling me no way. No way. And they're just saying, wait, just watch what's about to happen.
I'm looking for those dolphins, baby. I'm looking for them. Last one. Boom. Did I say that already and didn't? Let me give them this one, though, to go tonight, guys. I wanted you to see this.
What is Medea's name? Well, she's got a bunch, as the text tells us, right? She of many names. But one of her names is Colchis. Now, this is not Colchis.
This isn't. This is Colchloss. Not Colchis, but Colchloss. You see what happens? We switched. We switched the consonant pair there, right?
Oh, that's interesting. What happens when you call Medea Colchis? You mean she's the Colchian, right? She is Colchis. She is the place. She is the thing.
If you check in Alice, Alice from Wonderland will tell you from 1850 that this word is the same.
That it is merely a swap in consonants that is typical, typical of Pulaskian magic.
Pulaskian magic, those Cthonian people, predecessors of the Greeks, pre-recorded history, pre-written history.
They do this all the time. I'm going to give you something new tonight. This is fun, but I'm going to give you something new.
As the human language developed, it was driven forward by dyslexics. There is a dyslexia that is employed as a power in the magical papyri.
Do you mean if you're dyslexic that you have a draw that is part of the history of humanity that at one time was compelling our languages forward? Yes.
Yes. They do it in the PGM. They'll flip consonants. And now you know why we have Edim. The Etruscans will do it through that Pulaskian influence.
It comes into the magic where we see the flipping of the consonants. Yes. Love it. Edim is the Medeo. That is the paradise, right?
I didn't want to take you to a place. I wanted to bring a place to you. This is Edim. She is paradise.
Bring that word up one more time. Oh, sorry, Jewy. What is the call close? What is the call close? What is it, people? It's surprise, surprise.
The source of the purple. The source of that which puts us into the oistress. That's what she is queen of. Yeah. Western civilization created by one woman. The mind.
Yes. Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for season six. Next season we start with a brand new world. It is our final season and we bring to you the finish on Satanic initiation.
Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again. Just maybe we could walk together again.
