Okay, look at this. I want to bring up a text. This is also a place, right? All the Bible scholars have fallen off the cart by this point, right?
Because now we're not just involved in circle-jerculating. Now we are, wait, did I say that? What was that? I think I just coined a word.
Now we're involved in the real stuff and I want to show you, I want to just bring you through an expert in the Bacchic cult.
I just want you to see that at the top it says Rhea. Rhea nourished that child. She is the one who dropped forth that child. She nourished him with the milk that is properly balanced for this procedure.
Wait, what? Yeah, just hang in there with me. We're dealing with a kid and we're dealing with burning off their mortality and you say, wait, wait, no, right?
Because that's what people do. If you see somebody burning off your child's mortality, it may frighten you. Don't be frightened. Don't be frightened.
You know, they may die. They may die in the process. But this is the world that you and I are in. What will come from this process will be that immortal child.
Brilliant. Let's go on. Let's bring us that text again. Oops, I hit you just trying. Wrong timing. I was off there. Go ahead, shoot. Bring up the text again.
We've got to throw it out there. I want you to look at that second line, right?
What's happening? I just want you to imagine the sparks of a fire that does not burn. Those sparks of the fire that comes from the lightning. That's what we're looking for.
When we do the purple, when we have the purple communion, when we have the cup of porneia, this is what it brings us. Those sparks that fire of the lightning, the fire of the lightning.
And what does it do? It bays that child. It bays that Dionysus. It bays that child in the breath. In the breath of that child's mother.
Wow. Wow. These people are committed. And you don't understand when you're reading the New Testament, it's your words. Christos.
It's coming from this tradition. And if you have no knowledge of this tradition, your work is bogus. It sounds to somebody who has read the text, you sound like clowns.
Let me just say that, issue that breath from my, my lips.
You classicists who have ignored these texts, shame on you. You religious studies scholars who have created a false fairy tale reality.
I wouldn't want to be you in the coming. I wouldn't want to be you. Shame on you. It's a very serious crime to defecate in a temple of the muse. Religious scholars.
Feed me a religious scholar, please. Okay. Let's get back to it. I'm sorry. Let's get back to it. There it is.
Yeah. Let's go to the next one. We're there with the child, right? Look at this people. What is all this stuff doing? You know, you're going to say, I'll just translate, you're going to say that I am bogus, right?
That bogus found. He's the one who brought us this ewe and ecstatic fruit, right? He brought us, he brought us this ewe and fruit that brings us to that place that we were in, in Edim.
It brings us back to Edim. And what does it do to us? What does this thing do to us? It causes us to be methylated, right? Brings us to, brings us to Aphrodite. You see the circle is Aphrodite. That's what it does.
Bogus brings you to Aphrodite. But wait, that's just what they tell people on the outside. Now I'm going to show you what they tell people on the inside. What does that sacred communion do? It brings the mind that is unstable to a place of slaughter.
Dionysus will bring you to Aphrodite or to a place of slaughter. It's your choice. It's your choice. Do you feel the cult? Do you understand now why this cult could take a male child that had just been born? I want you to visualize this. The historians tell us this.
You deliver, a woman delivers her child surrounded by other women. And if that child is a male, you tear it to pieces and eat it. That's the society where these drugs are coming from.
That's the society, the Bacchic society that is producing the drugs that can put you into the Eremon.
Whereas we all know, you are tested by Lucifer. It's one mechanism, people. Many, many little mysteries. One mechanism. You can only get there on one bus. What does he mean, mommy?
He means that you can only get there one way. Broad is the path that leads to destruction. But the way of life, not so much.
Yeah. Yeah. Are you hearing the words of the Magus, Jesus Christ, for the first time? Yeah. That's life. I love it. I love it. Absolutely love it.
Chewie, get us the next one up there. Let's keep going. We can't keep these people for too long. I think 23 minutes is a lot. I think 23 minutes is a lot. Here we go. Look at that. We're already past that. It's already been done. Let's just come here.
Let's just come here. Okay, people. I wanted to bring you tonight. So here we are at the fulfillment. And let's break these seals. Let's break these seals. I want you. I want you to see. Yeah. Yeah.
And one of the seven angels came carrying these seven files. And they spoke with me saying this, dude, and say, Hey, come here, brah. I'm going to show to you the judgment of the porno.
The judgment of the porno. That's who you and I are looking at right now. She is the one who makes the purple. She is the one who makes the purple. Don't take your eyes off of her. Fantastic.
