It's very frightening.
I wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. Tonight on Bible Studies, I've got for you quite a section.
We're going to be looking into the purple and we're going to be looking at a little fulfillment of prophecy.
We're going to be opening some seals.
And what I want to do is I want to bring you those drugs from the ancient world.
I want to bring you those orgiastic rights.
And I want you to make the decisions tonight on Lady Babylon.
Now tonight, I'm going to take you somewhere you can't go with a Bible scholar.
I'm going to take you into some pindar. I'm going to take you into some prophetic utterances.
I'm going to take you into a place where the burning purple is the communion.
We're going to go there tonight. We're going to see this place and we're going to let it really show us how this book of apocalypse really should be read.
Tonight we have the keys that unlock the doors.
Before we begin, I want to say thank you to everyone coming.
I want to say thank you to Frank Marano for his interview.
It was nice to be able to bring this evidence, these texts, these poets, these poets to the New York venue.
It was nice to be able to speak to the people in New York.
It was nice. Thank you, Frank.
That'll be linked here. You can see that here. It's a short 20, 24 minute interview somewhere in that range.
Thought he did a fantastic job.
But what are we here for at the museum? We're here to protect the sanctity of the muse.
We're not here to create merchandise. We're not here to create some sort of lucrative campaign.
I am promising you that. I will not sell you hats. I'm about to give you the goods.
Oh, this is so good. I knew that you guys would love this. I knew that you would just love it.
Let's purify the temple first. Let's purify the temple first.
And what are we going to do in order to purify the temple?
Tonight, as we see prophecy fulfilled, I know, I know I'm promising a lot, aren't I?
Just wait. It's coming. The prophecy fulfilled is brought to us by that sun, that darkened sun.
This is soul. Let's clean this place up.
Shuey.
