They say it's the rabies of dogs. Have you ever seen a dog on a rabid? Have you ever seen one of Hercules, dogs, rabid?
Yeah, imagine. Imagine just a skin of fur. Just a skin of fur and a madman. And a madman. Fantastic. Lyssa.
Rabies. Give us the Artemis, please. Oh, here's a nice, by the way, here's a nice quote.
From the feet up the crown of the head steals the spasm, the stab of Lyssa, eye, the scorpion sting.
You didn't know that these things were associated with drugs until I told you they were. Now you're going to start knowing.
You're going to start noticing drugs more and more and more. Remember, it's those Cretans. They're the ones that are working on the drugs that will allow you to ejaculate scorpion and snake film.
Have you ever ejaculated scorpion and snake film? You have if you're Cretan and you're part of the cult.
Let's go to Artemis. Let's go to Artemis. Pull us in, Chewie. Here. Oh, we're having a little bit of trouble.
I told you to get these navigation charts with these imperial. Oh, this is beautiful. Pull down the Satanic initiation. Fantastic.
Look at this, guys. And now we'll just work our way down. Artemis. Artemis. Notice what they have at the bottom.
They have Artemis equals Elythia. Right? Who is Elythia? Who is the Elythia? She is the one. Well, it's uncertain.
Derived from, we don't know what it's derived from, but we know we have Artemis and Artemis. And Artemis is somebody who kills for a living.
It could be that because she is a huntress. She is a huntress, somebody who kills for a calling. Yeah, kills for a calling.
Do you know what can be your calling to kill in antiquity? Isn't that interesting? Fantastic. Let's go under Artemis.
Yep. Underneath her. What happens if you take that name Artemis? Play with it a little bit. You can either get a killer or you can get a healer. Strangely enough.
From that route, you can get safety and you can get death. Safety and death. Do you remember what Medea was doing?
Why does it say that Medea was made that princess, that priestess? Why does it say that she was made that one who had the right of killing a stranger?
When you hand somebody over to decay, to justice, they are subject to she who has the power to kill. Yes. Yeah. Fantastic.
If you can hear within that, the principles that those who create a democracy set may resonate. It does with me.
I think we're watching it. Let's go to the next one. Artemisia. Artemisia back. I think we're up one. Yeah, up one. Yeah, Artemisia. What is it?
Wormwood. Oh, it's just a plant. You know, Artemisia absintheum, right? No problem there. But look what we have here at the very bottom.
Ambrosia. You realize we just took a little detour down a bunch of several drugs, right? They're using these as drugs and the ritual concept of a communion.
Ambrosia. That is a substance that will give you ionic life. Ionic life. You see how the mystery is set up? It is the ambrosia that makes the poison pour her, pour who she is.
Let's go back. We're following the first Christ, people. Go ahead, under the ambrosia. Yeah, one more. Here's her title and I just want you to notice what she does.
