She's involved in parturition, right? Goddess of childbirth. You will be under the influence when you come to the place that you will be giving.
You take it down that you will be giving your child to the world. When it comes to that time, you will be given a drug that will put you into a state where your delivery will be your orgia.
Yes, it will be that orgasmos, the introduction of life into the world. Do you see how the orgasmos works? It is a death. It is a death in which we enter only to come to life.
That is the mystery. And if you're surprised that this mystery is pioneered by a goddess who is the goddess of childbirth, it's because you have not yet been informed that we are all meeting the creator.
And she is not what most of us think she is. Fantastic. I love it. Let's see what else about this goddess. Let's keep going with the definitions.
I just want to give you a little more dirt to kick up in your face. Here's her epithet. Think of this Queen Empress who stands there at the gateway in the mystery, she who guards the way.
I am the way. When Jesus was saying I am the way, he was not the first human being to do so, nor was it original, nor was it unknown to the ears of the people hearing it when he was saying I am the way.
They knew he's one of those mystery freaks involved in his mystery freak sex drug stuff probably associated with prostitutes, naked children in public parks at 4 a.m. Mark 1451 52 27 I got it in before 30.
So, yeah, let's keep going a little bit more vocabulary. I just want people to enjoy.
This is what we're really. This is what we, the person who is genuine, right to to the world. This goddess seems frightening.
And rightly so, to those who were born again, who know these implements of Bacchus, who know these implements of Bacchus, keep thinking quantum.
Those are the ones, right? Notice that what is Diana doing directly associated with Bacchus?
Through Medea, Diana and Bacchus have life. The process is Bacchic worship. And for those of you from Judaism, those of you who know the temple, those of you who stood at the wailing wall, those of you who know what medieval historians teach,
it was she who started your rights, your heritage, your practice goes back to a Bronze Age impress who brought the voice of God.
Yes. And when I say God, I mean Medea. I mean Artemis. Yeah, I mean Bacchus. Fantastic. Let's go to one more word.
I've got one more after that. Yeah, please. Yeah, here are the dogs that we're looking at. And I just want you to notice what are the associations of dogs.
This is how this.
Whoops. That was an asteroid. Another one. Tie fighter. Perhaps. Yeah, we good. I don't know. I need more tea.
Who are the scula case? You want to know who, you know, those of you who are interested in magic, and I know that you're out there.
I know you're amassing and a knowledge and esoteric knowledge that you want to practice instead of just reading and studying about. Yes. Yes.
If you don't find this figure, if you don't read these signs, if you don't break this seal, you got nothing.
Yeah. What is that hound doing? That hound is guarding away. That hound has fire in their eyes. Yeah. And they possess the madness, the madness that comes from the dark star.
They possess the madness of the light bringer. Fantastic. What do they call her? They call her Lucifer. Lucifer.
For those of you who hear Lucifer, you are exactly in the right place. Before there was a Lucifer, there was a Lucifer.
