Yeah. So you can say that the origins of Judaism, Christianity and Islam are from Satan. They are Satanic or Saturnian or Satuarnan.
Fantastic. The linguistics is just gorgeous, isn't it? But your religions that you practice are all Satanic. You are following Judaism.
And by that I mean Judaism, Islam, Christianity. Your religions are based on a Saturnian Satanic initiation created by a Bronze Age woman.
Let's bring up that last text. I just want to flash this up. This treat that I want to bring to you. We've talked before about Dracontius and I just want to pull him up. He's a dead Christian many, many centuries ago. He smells a little bit. I'm sorry.
Blow the gas in the wind, right? Nobody got spanked. People have been asking me to spank people here. Let's spank him.
Now, I think he was just pretending. Is it true? Is it true that you were a Christian? What? Yes, no?
Oh, when you feel the pain, you get that madness. Then you want it. Then you're like, oh, get me more. Yes. Yes, you said you were a Christian, but you had so much pagan in you.
Right? This is the same kind of thing we go through at the Transdimensional Agency. This is the same thing we go through with everybody who gets involved.
Next thing, you know, you send somebody out there like Cyprian. He's going to come back with his buttocks full of venom and he's going to be dragging prostitutes out of a cemetery.
Hey, I'm sorry. I repent. I repent in my ways. Right? Oh, God, the mess is out. We can't let this get out, people.
We have to have some kind of court order to keep this Transdimensional Information shut just for now, before trial. Fantastic.
Let's go to this. I want to give you Dracontius. Here, Dracontius. Here it is. Oh, don't you love? I just want to read you a couple of lines.
I just want to read you a couple of lines. It kills my soul to make common for you the things that are so abominable, things done by the art of a virgin.
A virgin who makes God's captive, a virgin who uses the elements of virgin who causes nature to serve her, a girl.
She's the one who manipulates the stars of the pole and the course of the sun and the stars, the constellations. She's the one who does this.
With her mind, it's her decision that makes this way. It's a woman's decision that creates the universe around you tonight. Take it down tonight.
Tonight on Satanic Initiation, I want to introduce you to the muse, the creator, the one who sings the world into existence.
That is the Medwa. That is the Artemis. Go back. Go back for me. What else? What does she do?
She brings the lightning, man. She brings that thunder, right? These are the things that are abominable that she does when she orders the ether around you.
Hang on for the physics. Hang on. She's the one who orders the ether to drop fire, to drop fire.
Those of you with the Asterian, I want you to thank as you're seated on that devil's throne.
But as you're seated on that devil's throne, I want you to thank to take the image of the ether from the invisible and to make it visible to yourself.
From this ether, she brings fire. This is contrary to the laws of nature. Bring us back that quote again, Chewie. Fantastic.
What happens? Her voice penetrates. When all of this is going on, her voice penetrates the wind.
