Wow. Wow. Okay. These people were completely out of the influence. This is amazing and good stuff. Go back, Chewie. One last time. And I just want to point out that they took the golden fleece, right?
And the Greeks call the stuff that you and I call NAFTA. They call it Medea's oil. That's what it says at the bottom. What is Medea's oil? Medea's oil is a petroleum product that is explosive, incendiary.
You can't put it out for some reason. You can throw a bucket of water on the stuff. Doesn't go out. Doesn't go out. She uses it as a weapon, as a personal weapon. Yes. And remember her name from Babylon all the way to northern Italy. All through North Africa.
Medea. Medea. This most pharmaceutical. Now I want to show you in just a second. I want to show you a little bit. Remember we were talking about the translation of the Septuagint. I'm reading from the Septuagint.
So we told you about the translation many, many centuries later into Hebrew that only has that much capacity, 8,000. You cut off a lot of that. It's just extra space. You cut off half of that because they're hypoxlegomina.
And you end up getting just a few unique words as opposed to the Greek. The Greek, which has thousands of years of active, vibrant development, generation by generation through literature, developing genres, pushing, pushing, pushing that religion onto the stage.
Yes. The dance is alone. Right. So that's the language that we're having to deal with.
Let's bring up the next text. I promised people. Yeah. Pindar. Pindar, I want you to notice something. Tell me, Pindar, can you take me to Jehovah's back room where he has his arguments with what's her name?
His wife. Can you take me there and show me Pindar? Pindar, show me. What are you saying, Pindar? Potnia. Oksotaton Beleon. She who is the queen of the sharpest arrows.
She who brought that poikilan yuga, that bird that was tied to that wheel, she brought it from Olympus. And she joined it to that wheel, this monadic bird. This is Kipraganea. This is Cyprus.
This is her. She who taught the prayers and the wisdom and the epodes to the son of Eson. That's Jason. She's the one who taught him that. In order that he might abduct, in order that he might take Medea, right?
He's going to rob her of her shame before her parents and he's going to take her off and he's going to what? He's going to see that she is linked in madness, in madness with these whips of passion.
Medea is the product of Hera, Aphrodite and Athena plotting. Yes, she is. Think about this. The universe is the result of this interaction. These forces interacting. It's gorgeous. You can't.
