Yeah. This is her. So we've, we've gone beyond now and we're at a place where we see what is behind the prophet and his prophecy.
Oh, wait a minute. You said this was about Eros and intercourse. Yes. Just wait. We don't just dive in, right? We take our time. We want that garden for those of you with ears.
We want that garden to be fragrant. We want it blown upon with that breeze. We want the fragrance, the aroma to fill the air. This is Cyprus. This is Cyprus. Do you see the healing?
Fantastic. Love it. Let's go. Chewie, take us to the next one. Next on the star chart. Yes. I wanted to throw Medea in here just so you could see, right? Who is she? She is Medea and I'm going to differ with translators here.
They used, we'll say Medea of Colchis, right? But I've seen her address directly as Colchis. So Medea or Colchis. Remember, she's the one of the many names, the Pambasilea.
Medea is the Pambasilea. When you talk about Hera and when you talk about Aphrodite and when you talk about the Virgin, when you talk about Hera and Aphrodite and the Virgin, the three that we offer the golden apple to, right?
She is each of them. She is each of them. Lady Babylon, Pambasilea, Musterion. She is the source. And in this video, I have narrated for you her activities directly from the sources as the Christ, as the Christ.
Remember, the Christ is a woman, not just the first person Christed. Think about this. Not just the first person Christed, but the person who figured out the Christing. Yeah. This is a single person, a single person through time.
If you hit us with that source again, I want us to keep going on that second one. Yeah. Who is she? Yeah. She's the daughter of EETs. And what is that third, that next word? Pharma Chistate. Pharma Chistate.
She is the most. That's a superlative Greek students. She is the most pharmaceutical. She is the most knowledgeable in drugs. She is the most.
An entire nation of people, an entire ethnic group said we are changing our identity from Arian to Mead. That's what we're going to call ourselves from now on.
And Anisekius tells us the secret of that name. And would you be surprised if it had to do with cult and it had to do with her production of the moisture? The moisture. Remember, this is Aphrodite we're talking about.
Those breezes bring that aroma and with the aroma comes the moisture. That's the moisture of life. That's the moisture of life. To drink of that moisture from that paradise is the water of life.
