Look at that. Do you see how many? That's 50 words that are part of the family of one root. One root. Look at all these brothers and sisters. One root. That is the root, pharmaq, right? The root for the drug. How many ways do we have of saying drug in Greek?
You can have drug users. You can have drug dealers. You can have adulterated drugs. You can have pure drugs. You can have expensive drugs and cheap drugs. You can have drugs for medicine. You can have drugs for your brain to make, they didn't say for your brain.
They said for your mind. You can have those kind of drugs. You want to get over your melancholy. You can have drugs to regulate menstruation.
Yeah, the blood is on your hands says naum. The blood is on your hands, pagans. Yes, it is. Yes, it is naum. It is. Good. Fantastic. Let's go to the next source. We're getting hot. We're getting hot. Yeah.
I just want you to see. What do we do? I'm putting this up now. What do we do with the 50? With the 50 different words that we have there? How about Hebrew? How about Hebrew? Surely this ancient language had time to create for itself a vast vocabulary, rich vocabulary.
Oh, you know, I'm kidding. Right. What? Wait a minute. What 50? What is our definition over on the Hebrew side? What? What is this is hilarious supernatural powers? The supernatural powers used by idolaters.
Can you hear the primitive nature? The primitive nature of the Hebrew itself? And I'm talking classical Hebrew, not modern, because modern Hebrew blossomed, and it has a ton of vocabulary, independent words.
Yes. What I'm talking about is the thing that is claimed to be the source of these texts. It doesn't say the same things. I'm sorry, but the guys that broke into the temple, right? Remember, what's his name was some prophet getting blown off his head with these awful, crazy vision inducing drugs?
Who is that? Abakum? I think it was Abakum. It was one of them. And what is he? He goes into the temple. Yeah, he goes in the secret entrance and once you see all this stuff on the walls, and it's a lot of men.
And what is the Hebrew translation? It doesn't doesn't. But the Greek says they all had sex with each other. It's sex with each other.
We're talking about religion and medicine and cult, mystery, specifically, all wrapped up into one image. Fantastic. Give us another one. Give us the next text down here.
Give me that one. This is the one we'll go ahead. I just want you to see. Look, what did she teach him? She taught him the Aphrodite. She taught this guy Yasun, right? She taught Jesus. What does she teach Jesus? She taught him in the ways of the drugs of the drugs.
This dude had to get Christed, right? Look at he had to get Christed by Medea. And on the second to last line, you see the second word, there it is again. People take it down to people. I have showed you Christ over and over and over and over again in the classical extra biblical sources.
