I'm going to translate to you
And here's the text, you know, yeah, yeah, you like it
Wonderful, wonderful, isn't it gorgeous?
Okay, show them the next one
It's a pretty long chapter, right?
And there's problems, people don't like this chapter, it doesn't
It doesn't fit well, there's manuscript problems
There's some funny things in here that don't make us a little bit uncomfortable
That's what I want to see, right?
As an investigator, that's what you want to see
You want to go in that limo with those stars
And you want to see what's going on
Give me some, can I have some of that?
Let me see, yeah
And so when Sabbath was over, I'm just reading to you from the Greek
When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Jacob
And Salome, what did they do?
They scored some aromata
They got some drugs
They got some drugs, they aggarized some drugs
They went to the market, got some drugs, don't you like that?
Why?
In order that they might treat his body
Yeah, yeah
They're going to put some stuff on him
They're going to alepho him
They're not going to Christ him
They're going to alepho him, his body
Right, he's dead now, right?
Okay, fantastic, nothing new to see here
And really early in the morning on the first day of Sabbath
They came to his monument
Yeah, that's his, you know, tomb
Monument tomb, yeah
They came to his tomb, the tomb
The most talked about tomb and history
What was found in the most talked about tomb and history?
A wee boy, a wee boy
Yeah, watch what he's wearing too
He's party freak, watch this
So early on, they get on it
They're getting there right when the sun is rising, right?
And they started discussing among themselves
And said, who's going to move that giant rock
That's in front of the door of the tomb?
Right, they didn't bring anybody with them
Because it's big rock, right?
Big rock, got to roll it away
And so as they're discussing, they look up
And what happens, what do they see?
They see that somebody's rolled that thing away, right?
And it's big, exceptionally big, they say
Whoo, yeah, good, good, good
It's got some manly business, right?
Love it, love it, somebody's in the background
Somebody's in the background
And going in, here we go
Are you ready to go into Jesus' tomb?
Are you ready?
Most famous tomb in history
I'm delighted to be able to give you a tour
Of the tomb of Jesus, all a mark
And a little bit of celsus in the background
Here we go, going into the tomb
They saw what? A Nea Nisgun
Are you kidding me?
They saw a Nea Nisgun, what is he doing?
He's got themen on, he's sitting in
Deck sea ice pit
Wait, wait, what?
He's sitting on the right side
He's sitting on the right hand
He's sitting on the right hand of whom?
