Whom he picked up and brought back for his education
Look, everybody knew nothing was hidden
Because nobody cared
Yeah, nobody cared
Uh-huh, nobody cared
So we have a pagan who says, hey, this is your Jesus
Your Jesus, they celebrate, those Christians are doing
Let me just read it, let me just read it to you
Chewy, give him some stuff to get the brain going
Yeah
The honor they pay to Jesus is no different
From the sort paid to Hadrian's favorite boy, Antinois
Yes, did Jesus have a male-lover
With whom he was in a pederastic relationship?
That's the question that we're asking now
Sitting in this conference room, we want to know
Look, we've got a trans-dimensional stuff that's going to come through the pipe
And we've got to let them know where we are
And I'm saying part of this investigation has to do with the naked kid in the public park
Part of it has to do with the guy who was caught touching children aggressively
And had the whole group of parents say, stop
And he stood up and said, where are you going to scandalize me?
You want to scandalize me?
I am not a lacedace
Yeah, okay
And you say, how long did it take for that crowd to form when Jesus was getting taken off to get crucified?
How long did those guys show up? How bad did they punch him in the face?
Okay, he got crucified between two other ones, huh?
Alright, interesting, interesting
Let me read that again
The honor they pay to Jesus is no different from the sort paid to Hadrian's favorite boy, Antinois
Now, you're saying naked boy, naked boy with Jesus in a garden, right?
Public part
Give me another one, right?
We have to build, we're building a picture, so we need things like motive
We need to construct motive based upon evidence and only from evidence that we've got
We have this 16th chapter of Mark, where guess what?
Another Neoniscos comes in
And by the way, let me just put this down here, Paul
Take down your pants
Nope, I don't know, huh?
Paul, that's not how it works, right?
Daddy says, Paul, daddy says
Take them down
Okay, the reason we have to do that is because somebody has snuck in
And I said that naked kid that was with Jesus cannot be a kid
He's got to be a 30 year old mature male undergoing a weekend seminar in a cemetery
Neoniscos, the word for young man in Greek is neonias
When you put the sigma kappa onto it, you've created a different word
Because sigma kappa is a diminutive, it's what we call diminutive
So in Greek, you have a pice, a child
And then you have a paediscos
What is a child?
What is a paediscos?
It's a diminutive for child
A little kiddo
A little kiddo, right?
So you also have a neonias, a young man, and you have a neoniscos
A boy
Yeah, he's with his boy
We're going to find another one
Let's go with Mary, quick
Everybody in the machine, we're catching up with Mary, Magdalene, Salome
Nobody asked her to dance, please
We don't know who's who
All we know is the name is a drug
And it's a sex drug too
So let's not get in too deep
Right in this limo as we all jump in Mary Magdalene's limo
Let's not get too deep because the stuff is going to get heated
It's going to get heated
I want to take you to chapter 16 of Mark
And I'm just going to translate to you
