So it's very interesting to watch to see what people, you know, you could put 1339 on it and people would not know the difference.
Yeah, fantastic.
I think it was relevant, but back then when it was attacking education, before it attacked the government, it attacked us first, right?
We had mobs and book burnings for everybody else.
It just warmed up, right?
Yeah, you cannot remember the goddess justice is the last to leave.
She's the last to leave. You have one hope. Keep justice or lose your democracy.
Keep justice. Nobody is above her. Nobody is above her. Fantastic.
Let's go jump right in.
I want us to, I had a couple of comments there for people to maybe just go ahead and run one of those, one or two of those comments.
Let's just let people see what's going on. A masterpiece. Oh, this was my publicist must pick this up.
And how many children will be spared this horror because you have the courage to tell the truth.
You have a beautiful heart. Thank you, doctor. Much respect and appreciation. Thank you, Todd.
Thank you, Todd, for taking your time to watch. Yeah.
And, you know, who knows, maybe it's our, maybe it's our duty.
Maybe it's our duty to bring this reality, right?
How it may help out a lot of people molested and raped or, you know, mentally raped and molested. Yeah.
Yeah. So we're there. You know what I mean? Satanic mission is a humanitarian mission. Definitely. Definitely.
Let's, let's get in the comments. See what's up. Yes, look at this. Help me out here.
What is the alternate explanation? Defends the church. Give for what went on during all of these initiations and ceremonies.
Now, this is absolutely wild. I'm having a hard time imagining what defensive narratives they would offer.
Yeah. Remember that was great comment. Yeah.
Remember that we are in a time where mystery legends are performing riots that are involving sex and drugs.
And there's a lot of people getting busted for a lot of stuff, right? Not the drugs, right?
Romans don't care about the drugs. The Romans don't care about the drugs. Why am I talking about this?
Because our spaceship has reached the time that we needed to reach. And here we are. First century, right?
Here we are. Oh, God, love this. All right. What's the context here? We've got piracy, boys. Piracy.
