And when he was arrested with that naked boy, the first thing out of his mouth is I'm not one of the kid traders.
Right. Let's bring up the next. We're almost at the end. I want to see that one. Yeah. Oh, can we go back to that letter? Take a look at this, two people.
Take a list. Though I didn't need convincing, he says. He says, I was also curious about the abduction of Korah.
And look to see how Harparge and Harpadzo, excuse me, were translated in the English Bible, right? It was watered down to robbery or plundering, even though it's described as rape everywhere else.
Enjoy your day. Thanks. Great. Great. Input, right?
So you see how somebody can step forward and they did from the last time that we met and said that boy who is with him, who is not a boy.
He's a full grown naked man, wrapped in bandage, just on his goom nose though.
Yeah. Those people said, look, he's just saying, I had a lot of indignation. For those of you evangelicals who wrote back, thank you for writing back. Please keep it up. I enjoy it.
And I think it's a good form. But when you write back to me and you say, it means robber, I know right away that you don't do Greek number one.
And that's what this student was showing you, right? This student just came along and said, hey, there's, look, I found another context here where it talks about abduction.
It's not it's rape. The history of the world starts through Herodotus with abduction, rape. You can call it child trafficking, taking a young girl off to be the bride of some king.
It all starts with four of them. One of them is Medea. Yeah. Wow. Wow. And Jesus runs out. I'm not a pirate. I'm not one of these. You know why?
Because he knew what those Roman soldiers can do. Right? Wow. Walk up with his sledgehammer and turn your legs into pulp. So you suffocate. We'd be done with this and everybody can be home.
Look, we got another son of God up there. Right? And Jesus is freaking out saying, ah, and we can follow the fairy tale and say it was at this moment, kiddies, that the sins of the world were being placed upon him.
And he's saying, why'd you turn against me? Right? Why'd you turn against me? Can you imagine? Last words out of your mouth is you're going through a rite is screaming at the power that is that who is and was and will always be and saying, why have you turned?
Yeah. Saying some stuff that's out of a magic incantation that Bacchus use while they are high, high, high. Yeah.
It was that cup of John's, baby. It was that cup of John. Yeah. That's what started the whole thing. That's what allowed him to have that Holy Spirit. Right? And you too. You too, my bride. Who's getting ready to nip? You know, I'm talking to the church. You know his bride.
You're that girl. You're that girl that's getting abducted. That's you. Yeah. And you know what? Madea sends a golden crown and it's going to consume bride, groom, and father. You guys have a great one. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Oh, yeah.
