So imagine this. You are being crucified while you are under the influence of drugs, drugs that are balanced with a sexual act between you and a child.
You have freaked out because they have found you and you have your hands raised up and you say, I am not a child trafficker. And you know what they do? They get a mob up that's pissed and they crucify three child traffickers together.
Do you know what the text tells us? It tells us on, let's show it. Show the people because don't take my word for it, right?
Tote Stoudontae, they were crucified with him. Duolestei. Oh, look, there's a word. There's a word.
We're the hanging on his right hand on his left or on his right hand and on the one that we don't say bad things about, right?
Because we all know it's the sinister one, but that's how they said left. Isn't that funny? Yeah, right? Okay, take it down.
Now, there's Duolestei, right? And watch what happens, people. This is why it's important what we do because we work right now.
We have a museum going. Watch what one of my students said. Put up that email. Don't say who this is Bible. Put it up. Put it up.
I don't think you care, but there you go. Good day, Alvin. I was just reading Diodorus when I came upon this in Book 5.
Isn't that a nice word? That's the word to love. Get that down. That's the word to love and the word for woman together in the same word.
Look at that. The Greeks have a word for woman lover. Woman lover. Are you one of those women lovers?
Well, apparently this tribe that he's talking about have so much love for their women. They love their women more than anybody does.
Yeah. Yeah. You know why? Because when their women get captured by pirates, they'll trade four men for one of their own females back.
That's how much they love women. They'll trade four. Do you know why this tribe did that? Because they understood the resource.
It's that simple. They understood the resource in her voice. These are the people that are starting. They're developing those rights that you and I are studying.
It's coming from a feminine voice. Yeah. Love it. Love it. Did you know there's a feminine savior?
1200 years before the masculine savior that took over and monopolized the system. Did you know it was started by a woman?
Yeah. Does that surprise you? Yeah. Does it surprise you that she could get all the way over into Italy? We call her the Roman.
All the way from the Black Sea. You should see the engineering projects that she worked on. Fantastic. Fantastic.
So here we are. We've been breaking the knees. Breaking those legs of those people so that Roman sold your notes.
Dude is dead already. Dude is dead. Pokes him in the side. Out comes a whole bunch of water. This guy was drinking a ton of water.
Because whatever he was on dips us, then it was making him crazy, crazy thirsty. Who knows how many venom that guy had in his body?
Who knows how much he had, but did you see the rapid death that set in? The rapid death, the prophet.
Remember, what is Jesus doing right before he gets put on the cross? What's he doing? They got him made up like a king, bro.
They got a purple robe on them. They got a crown of thorns. They have an acanthic crown on his head. For those of you who have been in the right, you'll know why.
Yeah. And they've got a purple robe on them. And they're smacking them, telling them, hey, which one of us is going to hit you?
Who was that? Which one of us was that? Right? They're playing a game. Why? Because he's a prophet. He's a prophet.
