It's a, we tray a prime peya. You say, what? It's a glass priapas. And some of you, some of you get it.
Oh, yeah. One of those. I used to know of a store that you could go and get those.
But all the windows were like, had stuff on them. You couldn't see into it, right?
And it had some kind of prohibitory sign on the front. It had to be of a certain age, maybe, or something.
I don't know. But it had these. They were there. These glass priapaya. Yeah. The glass priapas.
John, the Baptist, carries a glass priapas. Now, how would I translate that most clinically?
Most clinically. Let me just give it to you clinically. Let me give it to you clinically. Are you ready?
The proper terminology would be medicated dildo. That would be the only way to politely,
YouTube-erly translate to hermeneuticize. We're following Hermes tonight, right?
All of you were on the throne. You can see it, right? Hermes. People were saying, why is Hermes important?
And people from that clip, people from that clip were saying, why is he saying Medea is the Roman muse?
Yeah. Ever hear of Carmenta? Guess who put her there? Guess who put the oracle in Italy, you boneheads?
Yeah. All the accomplishments of this great queen. None of it. Just go to Topos.
Search tags for Medea and start looking at stuff that she, just the engineering stuff. Just the engineering stuff.
It's amazing. We don't have any care for it on this side. Well, it's leaching. It's leaching into their right, their mystery right, everyone.
Their Bronze Age Saturnian or Satanic mystery right is being taken over by this guy from Nazareth that people keep calling the king, the king.
Yeah. Love it. And that's what got us here. That's what got us here. We got off the ship. Did you guys notice they had arrested Jesus?
You'd already run out of the garden with a naked kid. He's got his hands in there. I'm not a child trafficker. Child trafficker.
Yeah. Okay. So now they've put him on the cross. They've put on the cross and we're watching him. Jesus. This is a special, this is a special occasion.
Those of you who've been here from the beginning, I think you'll understand this, but tonight we have a special witness.
We have the deceased himself. Right? We have the deceased himself. Jesus. I want you to speak to me, Jesus. I want you to tell me what was it?
What was it in your head when they pinned you to the pole after they found you with that naked kid? What is it?
I know it's unpleasant. I know it's unpleasant, but we have to do it, right? It's what, you know, part of transdimensional justice, right?
It's the way the universe works out, right? If you don't like it, you're welcome to complain. Fantastic.
People want to look more at the pirates. Let's go to some Greek. Let's pull out some Greek. What's going on in peoples?
Yeah, go ahead. Bring that one up. Did we finish that one? Yeah. Oh, no. So he takes out the, takes out the sponge with the oxus.
We know what that is, right? And he does what he puts it on a read and he gives him to drink of it. And he says, now watch this.
