With the head of Medusa
Did you know that was her operation to reap that head that turns everything to stone?
Yeah, it was oh, we're talking about somebody bigger here. We I mean I'm starting to smell koki and stuff going on
right
Welcome to the venom
you remember in
The third century when the Septuagint is being written that is what the Christians
Call the Old Testament what the Jews who are religious
Call the Torah
Right
That thing that's being written in Greek in the third century
talking about Moses
holding up
The serpent in the oracular right where he as healer is bringing them the voice of God
Right, that is a reconstruction and appropriation
Shameful an appropriation of
The Greek mystery
Right. Oh god. Let's keep going. I love this madness. Send us the madness, right?
Lady Liberty will send us the madness. What else does it call Athena now?
This one's a surprise for everyone because a lot of you study this stuff
And you know who Athena is or you think you do you've read a lot of myth books. Don't stop reading the myth books, right? Stop
Stop just read the sources and when they start talking about these things then you look at them
Fantastic, what is she? She's dracaena
Dracaena by the way, that's saving you all time the people who are doing research on this
It's saving you time go directly to the primary sources. Don't
mind
Yeah, we got to be tight people these you know if we're gonna hand it to them
You know if we're gonna take that head of yahoo and hand it to the world
We got to do it, right? We got to be tight our ranks have to be good and I'm very pleased
Everything everything by the way. Mmm. Nice. Okay. Let's go to the next text. I want to give you a couple of texts now
Yep, that's good. I want to give you a couple of texts. This is the opening. This is the opening
Mmm. Oh
God of the amenities. Are you ready? Well, let me set the stage for you the furies
The furies are doing thing punishing arrestees for having killed his mother and
they're chasing him
Where where can he go? They have a right to him. They have a right to his life
What do they do they make him nuts you cannot kill your mother and not be nuts
Yeah, believe it or not
Yeah, it's the how the universe works despite what the atheists of antiquity would tell you
Yeah, there are powers. There are daimones here tonight
We have the furies and when I say the furies the arrenois. Oh
My god, I just want I just want you to relish for a minute in the idea of these women
these are the women who punish for
Melio crimes
These are the women who hold that high standard of nemesis, you know the the one thing nemesis hates above all else a
Child the disrespects its parent
Isn't it amazing?
Imagine a law based not on thou shalt not be talk making my image
Thou shalt not be making my image brah. I got it. I got it stay up. I'm making a percentage on that, right?
We're not talking like that kind of divinity. We're talking about a divinity
Proceeding that one that is this mother divinity and she has justice in her
Athena is
The one who brought us justice you cannot have
democracy without
justice
Once you say no to justice you lose it. That's it
It's up for grabs
Yeah, it's just a seed of power now and you are servants to a tyrant
but Athena
First establishes justice the arrenois are tracking
Arrests and he comes to guess who Athena Apollo is his attorney
Because he's the one through the Oracle who told him to do this
Do you see what the diamond ace can do do you see those powers and who do they choose to be the judge
To be the one who breaks any ties in the vote. Wait, you mean their vote?
Where do you think do you think it was a bunch of monks who figured out democracy?
Seriously, do you think it was let's say nuns and monks
Figured out democracy. Do you think that they're going to perpetuate a system like that?
No
Because the phronesis is not with the individual in the Christian faith
The phronesis is meaningless
The faith is everything
Right follow
Follow you know what follows
slaves
That's the speech the devil gave
That took a third of them and turned them and when they were like
Yeah
Yahoo can stork himself
Yeah
Imagine that
Imagine that power to be able to free you of that fear. You know what demons are
They're angels who are unafraid
Yeah, their eyes have been opened
Which is exactly what yahoo doesn't want. He doesn't want you to have that opened
Reality he doesn't want you to have that fruit
Mmm, you got it. Oh god, I love it. I love it. We had a little fruit tonight. Let's let's go to the okay
I'm gonna read this passage to you blow it up to you. I just want to translate it for you. Yeah, so first she says
This is the pithia you see the top this is this is one of the girls that Paul was chasing around
You know Paul the Apostle did somebody flay this in here smells like Paul has been in here junky
Why can't you ever take a shower man put on men I'll hate a day presbeo seon
Ten put all mountain guy on oh god put all mountain
That's the first
Oracle
Pro Mantis who is the pro Mantis guy and this priestess is praying to her
This is gorgeous
She says the second I'm gonna pray in honor of the second and who is the second to sit in that place
Who's the second them us?
Them us and you sit there leave it up and you sit there and say them as who is them as oh god
It this is so sexy. Are you ready?
You ready? This is law. This is custom
This is she who is the custom
She is in charge of that Oracle if you don't put her in that position you get tyranny. That's the way it works
Okay, let's do it do the metaphysics somebody calculated rats punch it up on the magic calculator
Go no they're here. I want to keep translating and who is the third
Who's the third the third was a willing switch?
She wants you to know by the way these are switches between mother and daughter
