Yeah, and she nourished him with her own icor her own
Blood
In communion
She gave it to him
Boy, yahoo would kill for Eve
Yeah, he would instead, you know, I just messed it up the party went wrong kicked everybody out
Incompetence of all the divinities
through all time in this succession that is our quantum reality
Yeah, what a terrible job
Look at it getting done, right look at the Balkans watch how it gets done look at the builders of the museum
Look at the crafters of the stage because these are all
The arts of Athena and you say, whoa, wait a minute. Was there another divinity of all there? I said the stage
Shh, shh
This is about Athena tonight
Yeah, okay
What happens what happens give me another epithet charge me up. I'm getting so hot. I'm hot on my brain. I'm hot
It's a retoce. What is she isn't this beautiful? It's describing her. She's a retoce
In
Affable
We are unable to communicate her
In you can't
But then what are the singers of the hymns say right after that they say that she is the song
She is the communicated song that can't be told
The story that can't be told the song that can't be sung. Oh
God purple mountains majesty, you know, that's where she is
That's where she is. Do you begin to see why the founding fathers?
Created monuments that looks like somebody imported them from Greece
Notice the attention to detail with
Athens and democracy
right
America
was a colony of
Athens
America is
under assault
Do you know what the evangelicals if you will let me take it aside? Come here evangelicals. I know there's lots of dead ones
Do you know what they say?
Right now in their meetings. Listen, can you hear them?
Can you hear there if you can pay to get in by the way? I'm still not monetized
I could be but I refuse to
Right, so we're always gonna have this commercialist enterprise that we've got going. I love it
I love it and thanks by the way to the artists who are sending their stuff and the vitties
Some people are watching these vitties. I feature prominently in one called pharmacone that I'm quite pleased with
Oh
God is it sexy? I love these things a cult examiner
Yeah, fantastic. Does anybody get paid? Nope
No, no these contributions or contributions because it's right
Yeah, I thought you built churches on money you do
It's not a church
Yeah, we got a grotto. We got a little cave pan. I can't see you, but I know you're there
I know you're there. Thank you everybody for coming. Thank you everybody for coming
I feel like I can reach into your living rooms or your cars wherever you are
Some people listen to me at work
Right those Brits that are listening to me at work. Oh
You see those morons you see them
Ignore them ignore them do your job do your job find your way. Oh
God, I feel like I can reach out to you. Hail Satan. This is this is fantastic
Yeah, I didn't want to intimidate you that way, but I'm starting to fall for you. Yeah, the satanic congregation
Chewie, I'm serious satanic congregation. Yeah
Mmm, this is the place and I want to have question and answer by the way at the end so that we can talk
Oh, look at this. We have comment. Beautiful. Beautiful. Shall we can let's see what that was again?
I never learned so much so fast about Athena. Thank you. That's nice
That's nice. Hail Satan
Love it. That's a beautiful thing to say. Yeah, right back at you
Let's go to it into the void Chewie boom
What else is she surprised surprised? What is the mother of democracy?
She is feel oyster
Yeah, she is a lover of the mania a lover of the mania. I thought this is the mother
Virgin nope
Nope, as a matter of fact all this hymn that we're listening to that we can hear coming to us at sunrise
All that we can hear is about this person who is both
masculine and feminine
Wait, wait, wait, I knew it the Medusa
Why?
Why is the Gorgon
bearded
They're women
Do you know what they call asana the they call her I'm giving you the dork by the way, I say me if you want
Asana because that's the older version and that's what we're harkening back to
She avoids the bed
There's no union that takes place
Her offspring are derived directly from the seed. Oh
My god, what are these people doing?
First of all, we know they're on drugs, right?
obviously
It's how you get them a doosai. Oh god. Love it. What else is she you know besides fact?
She loves the mania. You didn't know the mother of democracy loves mania. Did you um?
She actually performs. This is a verb in Greek oyster
She and you can see it's just the oyster in a verbal form
She oyster sizes
She causes people to enter into and it says the tool that she uses money
Use the insanity
Do you know how to how to spot?
When Athena is working
You'll find those who are kakoi those who are evil
You'll find their minds are possessed with an insanity and that comes from her. Oh
Wow
Wow, what kind of insanity it's a raging
It's a raging. It's an insurrection
It's a revolt
This is why you need fronesis
Yeah, wake up says Athena
Yeah, love it love it. Oh god, I love it go to the next one. What's your next epithet?
She is the one who slays the
Gorgon
You mean that goat thing and the bringing of the shield? Yeah, right the aegis
