Right and the third is a willing one. There's nothing that's forced
Right, it's Apollo who kills the python
This is pre-Apollonian Oracle this is old this is earth Oracle. This is all of your
Black sea magic. This is those priestesses of the great huntress
hunting people down
These are Balkans who are eating flesh and drinking human blood. Why would you do this? Oh if you have not tried it
The mental health of your community depends on it. I don't care if you believe that or not
Love it
Keep go to the go to the next one. I mean to that very same one and who else there's another finally. Who's the third?
It's the titania, right? Who is she?
I'm Phoebe
Phoebe. Oh god
And what what does she do? She gave it as a gift
To Phoebus and he gets his name from her
You mean Phoebus Apollo
You you're right, man. You're right. You got it right on the head, right? This
Is who we're in the presence of in order to establish
Justice
Now if you wondered why it was a big deal
To establish justice
There are lots of medieval courts, but there was no justice
Right when you burn people alive for having ideas that are not your own
That's exactly what Julie and the apostate warned us. What happened?
Uh-huh, you know, they'll burn books, right?
You know, they'll get rid of stuff and they'll rewrite the history
Right now imagine this is where democracy is coming from and yet you
Are being bombarded with the message that Christianity
Produces democracy
Because that's what they're going to do forcefully for us
Right
They're going to take ours away and they're going to produce their own and this elacious beast will eat us all
But the one thing the Christians are not telling you I I almost got to this before
The one thing the Christians are not telling you in their kitchens right now
They're saying America
Is an apart
Of prophecy. It's for some reason they have you know, they like to divide up places
They this is so-and-so and this is so-and-so and this is so-and-so, right?
They even know how to read those texts, but they do that
And um, one of the things they say is America is not America
Not in the final days
When the glory of Jesus Christ returns to fail the horse with the blood up to the shoulder blades
Um, why why will they tell you America's not there America gets knocked out?
seriously
So the people are planning right now
For america to get knocked out. Who do you think he keeps telling you to invest in bullets and
Bullets and dried goods
Yeah, it's coming people it's such a special year this year is so hot. Oh god the events
The events
Makes me I smell it
You could smell it when rom burn too
and they were like
Those sybalas
They're they're they're just determined
To bring to reality their prophecies
They're just determined to and if their prophecies say they're gonna burn down rom
They're gonna burn down rom
Their allegiance is not
Is not
To that phronesis
That somehow
those racist
slave-owning
knuckleheads
Managed to come up with we don't need to idolize them
We don't but somehow
Some of them captured some kind of glimmer of some of a reflection from antiquity from a woman
named Athena
And that drove
The freedom that you and I ultimately inherited
That we're holding on to it drove that
Thomas Jefferson said and people said don't get political. I'm not
I'm being an american and I can tell you that thomas jefferson said straight up
The greatest threat to the fledgling american democracy
Is the protestant movement
Yeah known as the presbyterians
At the time that's who it was you say evangelicals now you can say whatever you want
Those people who are trying to rewrite your history right now just like they did in the fourth century
They're doing the same thing again. And if you don't honor Athena
our ancestors
They're not going to let us friggin get anywhere near them
Do you think that's honor my god?
You know what you can do you can take this greek and you can shove it
Where the sun don't shine
Politi cost is a greek word
Used by the people who worshiped Athena
Yeah, long live
Long live Athena. Let's keep going. There's a cut. There's a couple little lessons here
That are just I want to just iron it iron it all out. No, I'm taking people's long time. Sorry 45 minutes
People are like, huh, right? I'm hungry. I need some to eat
Um, look at this get out of here. He says this is apollo. He says get out of here
He's trying to get the furries to go
Get out of here leave my holy shrine
Right before I do what before I unleash my feathered serpent
From my golden stringed bow
Oh, are you kidding me? Did he just threaten when I think he threatened? Oh, yeah, he's gonna get he's gonna get mantic on us
And anthropologically keep it in context of what they're doing that bow technology. It's
driving all of the poisons
Right, they want to find the best poisons as hunters and as
A lot of them are let's just admit they're kind of like pirates
You know, they come into your city. They give you a hard time to steal 12 of your virgins and take them off up into the hills
Next thing, you know, they're bringing back babies and throwing them. We don't want the boys
And their leader is called the strangler
Oh god, wouldn't you like wait a minute my mind just went there
I saw her
Can you imagine this? It's the bronze age
and
