there are
gangs of very powerful
technologically advanced
women
Who can come into your city turn it upside down take anything of value
and
Hall off some of your virgins. They're so good that they just have to approach the city and say, uh, you're ready to pay up
And they are interested in the oisteromania
They're the ones who've developed technologically that ability
To be able to cross into death and to resurrect back that life changing thing
They developed that burning off the mortality. Those are all their little goodies
And that stuff is spreading across the Mediterranean
Imagine being around then. Oh god. Give it to me again. Give it to me again, sherry. Give me the next one
Yeah, yeah. Um, yeah
So look, he says get out of here. He says look, this is not your type of place
Where your punishment is used and what how do the renewees punish these women?
By the way, it's they're getting sexier and sexier the more we go. Um, I'm sorry, but that's just my opinion. Um,
I'm being honest
What are they used to the furies? How do they punish these older?
Diamonds that publish crimes against family members these women
Um
It says right here
Karenis that is
Of Thalmorujoy. Oh my god. Oh Thalmorujoy is when you dig out somebody's eyeball. You ever dig out somebody's eyeball?
They're doing this
Right digging out eyeballs. It's not pleasant
Addis does it himself, right?
Not you know, you gotta appreciate the
The power of that but what else are they they're into the slaughters of justice
Wait, what? Yeah, the just slaughter
Okay, just slaughter. Okay. Um, I guess if you really you know, um, if you murder a
family member
You know, um, I'm just saying
For their sakes
And what else? Oh, uh-oh. Does somebody see the word sped matos? I told you this was going to all be related
What else do the iranui's oversee? They oversee taking the virility of the child
Wait, what? Huh?
They oversee taking the virility of the child
Along with these punishments within the earliest form of western
Governance
Is an element of justice
Woven into the bronze age fabric
And what does that justice directly?
involve with
making
eunuchs
It's the kingdom of heaven
And they're making eunuchs
Some eunuchs says jesus
Are made eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
Interesting that's what these women are
Yep
And who stands between us and them?
Athena
Athena does
What does Athena do? Let's see the next text. Do you love this?
Boom. Um, before we get to what Athena does, this is hera telea
I just want to give you a sacred name of hera telea is her sacred name. What is hera? Everybody knows
Hera is the most beautiful everybody knows
They know that she is that guardian
Of that union
She's what she's guardian of the union the guardian of the bed
Okay
Okay, she's also what telea
She who was the one who accomplishes the right
She is the completion of the right because you see the ride has something to do
With a marriage if you're going to be a christ, you got to talk about your bride. You got no christ. You got no bride
All right, you got a christ. There's a bride somewhere
This is ancient mystery religion
hera telea
Is that protective daimone
That protective daimone. Athena is just enforcing that
What does she do? She is the transition to what you and I call justice
The murderer is brought to her
And she cast the deciding vote
And her vote is to quit
Yeah
And what does that enable us to do?
You can have a city then you can have a civilization that can advance
If you don't have
justice
You will not advance. You will deteriorate. You will degrade
Fantastic. Love it. Go to the next one. Boom. I didn't mean to get preachy there
What are these furies wearing by the way? I want people to see this look at this first word foinicobaptois
Does anybody hear the word baptist in there? Right? They can't read this in seminary
I'm sorry. I don't mean to beat up
It's terrible. It's terrible, but I can do that with you here if we
I just imagine us
in some kind of dive
with
people serving drinks that
Do things to you
You know what I mean?
Oh god, I love it. Don't get the
glass that's shape funny
Let's get to it. What is he talking about? I'm talking about what they're dressing
In what are they dressing here?
foinicobaptois
They are the ones who are dying the purple. You mean baptists originally means the dyers guild. Yep
Yeah, that does get used to it
Right, Mary's fingers are purple. We understand these the the priestesses
the madu sigh
under Athena
Who are performing?
via the purple
Via the purple you mean after you have the purple for the temple practice. Yes
