Right, heracles is part of a cult not like that, but there are cult centers the heracles all over the ancient world
Become because he becomes the sauteer within the cult and look
It's in the fingerprint of the word
Balthus
Right, you can't change that. You can't have an antinomy and step up and say blah, blah, blah, blah
Right, it's evidence. Sorry. No, it's just language. No theories here to argue
I have no theories put down your pitchfork
Be honest
Yes, right
What's the evidence the evidence is that there's a lot of drugs and dyes
And funny things going on here. What happens to this?
um woman
Yeah, she's uh, oh, what is she she's carrying that that
Potadion in her hand that cop with her hand
Yeah, and she's got um these
These delugmaton
these
Abominable
purgations these these
these
running
Oh substances
That flood out when you have catharsis
She's got that
Oh, yeah, thanks. Chewie. By the way, the drinking cup that they're using here notice that it's a drinking cup or wine cup in the beginning
And but then number two is the cup of the Eucharist, right?
So this same word is being used for very very specific
mystery religion purposes
Yeah, okay, and then we look look at the next I believe I got another definition
Yeah, delugma. Yeah
Abomination these are those off-runnings. What are this? These the abominations of the the abominations ton ere mosses on
Or ere mosses on excuse me. You guys recognize that from eremon
This is just ere mosses right an abstract noun
It is the wilderness
These delugma
right these abominable things
produce this
Off-running this catharsis bring a text up one more time this
this drawing away
Right of the things that are
That are unclean
right
What are they? What's their source?
There's a nice genitive there taste porno out taste
All right, where are we getting these runnings these pollutions these abominable things?
We're getting it from her porno
From her porno
Okay, I wanted people to see a poly
pharmaceutical operation here tonight
I wanted them to see the preparation of the cup
And that the process here is taking the individual
and transforming
the individual
So that the individual can then
Transform others around them
Yeah
It's a brilliant brilliant
Use of pharmacology. You're not trying to fight the disease
You're not trying to fight the disease
Go outside of that beyond that you are trying to tune the body
You are trying to tune the body so that the body becomes itself
The administrator of the communion
And this process which is described
Length is the mystery
That ultimately comes down to you when you hear a christian say, you know, celebrate trees or
It is a mystery. Um, they're not saying it the same way. They don't know that any of that background is back there
It's sitting right in front of them, right? I mean, look at this. We're just reading out of the bible
Right, it's there
All you have to do is pull it out. Give me that last quote. Please chew it in
Yeah, kayepito metta ponautes onama. There was a name written on her head
What was that name a lot of people of the translation screw this up so bad
Right musterion was hurting
That was the name
And then after we have a kind of a lengthy description of what?
That musterion means that musterion is
Bablon he me gale he meter ton or non
Kaiton del mat on taste gaze
That is the mother
The great
mother
We are in march
In a few in just a few days. They'll be celebrating in realm
Of two thousand years ago
They will be celebrating then
The rights of this very same divinity
You missed the title. I some of my students got it
but
The titles that you have of jesus
Right, all you have to do is plug them in and find them in the mystery religions of the pagans that were happening
1600 to 2600 years previously
And you'll find that those are very specific deities very specific functions right the savior
Who is the savior?
right, it's it's um
It's the language that'll show you that reality and that's what I hope to bring to people is that that reality
