Um, this is the great mother
That we're talking about
This is lady babalon
Yes, um, I want to show you that elvis video one more time
Only this time I want you to find
The moment
of the rights
Peak the orge
Right the um orgasmos, right? I want you to see that find that point that religious point
Because that's the point we are shooting for in the right
The stretching imagine it this way the taking of that moment
And making it into a present eternity
Yeah
Give us one more time look for the look for the um
The budding the bursting
Oh
Oh
Oh
May cause wanted side effects
And so far they're very positive
Thank you for coming tonight. We're going to bring on now the
Our three guests who are going to give us each at a time their own impression
of
tonight's
Arena where we are with lady babalon. I want to start with neil
I want to start with neil and as we bring on neil. I want to say
neil
Could you please tell me
um the impression of a man who truly
honors the museum
Yeah, you said you we you couldn't have said it any better when you said it's not just about taking the drug
It's about the rights. It's about the
The uh the action
So I want to give you an example. First of all, I just want to point something out real quick the uh
The the plants that the roots are cut from that have the highest content of dmt
Which is acacia
Also happens to produce a blood red dye. I wonder if that's a coincidence or not
But that's all on their top for another day. I have a quick passage that I want to read that just
Highlights what you said if you don't mind it's five seconds long. It's about alexander the great from arian
Okay, this is from arian book five
of
Chapter two verses five through seven
They're in india alexander is all the way on the other side of the continent
And all of his men are kind of getting tired and they're kind of losing confidence
All of a sudden a sudden desire. This is why this is why I'm rocking the ivy diadem. You're going to see why
It's not about just the drug. It's about putting on the diadem and listen to this
a
sudden desire
Sees alexander to visit a certain memorial of Dionysus that the nisians boasted in india
He went to mount meros with his companions and the infantry and he saw the mountain
abounded with ivy and laurel
And the groves of all kind it was thickly shaded and had a manner of wild beasts to hunt
The mastodonians glad to see the ivy
Just on my head right now
For a long time as there was none else in india
And not else where where there and not elsewhere. There's vines either eagerly they fashion the reeds and bomb them at once
And saying Dionysus praises calling on the god by his various names
alexander sacrificed there to Dionysus and feasted with his companions
Some have reported
The inner circle
The initiates
Having crowned themselves with the ivy invoked the god were possessed by Dionysus
Honored him with cries of eva eva yakey yakey
And flew into a bachic frenzy
That's arian
Awesome awesome awesome awesome arian look at that man dredge up. That's a servant of the muse
That's a servant of the muse that'll dredge up a dead guy like that and say speak to us. That's
Necromancy. I love it neal. I love it neal snappy
Give us your impression or your two cents on tonight
What I keep thinking about and I keep coming back to is this
The drugs cause us to die, right? They take you to that moment
And what's clear to me is that orgasmos and that death moment are the same
The point is to die and then extend that right to it's like this paradox
You see the same thing in the myth of the core, right?
She gets sacrificed and that destruction is it's both a horrendous loss, but an infinite gain
It's where we see that paradox
Of the goddess's power at play, right? It's both creation and destruction
It's that cosmogonic arrows like you were describing with the arrows, right
Both the force of division and the force of return happening at once
That's what I got
Brilliant brilliant. Okay for anybody who was able to keep up with that brilliance
Um, I particularly like the idea that you have those opposites
Because that is so both that destruction and that creation
Because that is so orific
Um, okay. I'm that's going to bring me to question number two for you snappy
But rob question question number one your thoughts tonight. Um, you're two cents. I hope you're I hope you're fired up
No, I'm not fired up at all
I'm here for the drugs. That's what that that's two years ago today
Well, not today two years ago either today or yesterday
I
Initiated a quest for these drugs. That's where I want to I want to find these drugs
I listen to the part your podcast on sacred speaks
And from that point on I've been trying to find these drugs and trying to understand these mystery rights and
I can't explain there's loads of theories
