Chewie can you pull the next one up?
Yeah, okay. I just want to do a little bit. This is Bible study, right?
So what does this have to do with the Bible and I'm gonna read you just a little bit of the apocalypse chapter
17 and I hope that you're able to see it now like you weren't able to see it before
Kayelthen haste ecton have the angle so there came one of these seven angels who was holding
seven feet I lost
What is a fee a lay? Oh, it's a bowl or a pan. It's a saucer
Look around the definition. Look at be there under number two and you'll see that it's a use for anguents
Yes, I lost the odys muron in filet. It would be a filet there para tene
She's stretching out those proportions. She's preparing
Right that muron we talked about muron as being that drug that is used by the Iranian cult
Right that's dank
Desire right dank desire. That's the ode. That's the ode that they are using
right not the
Chanel but
dank
Yeah, okay
and
Please the next slide
Yeah, okay up and there was a woman
There was a oh go back up the one before
Sorry guys, we need the one for us. So one of the seven angels comes out and he's he's got these they all have these bowls
Right these preparation bowls for drugs a bunch of drug users, right?
This is a drug using this passage is so drenched in drugs and drug culture and cult that you will not you come away from this
drenched in a weight
Yes, and um
Yeah, he said called me and said come here. He said i'll show you the judgment of that pornae
That whore
That great whore the one that sits on
the mini waters
Yeah
With whom the kings of the earth
With whom the kings of the earth
Have pornated
Yes, and it's become drunk
Everybody's become drunk. What have they become drunk on to oinu taste porneas al taste
Take it down
We've discussed porneas and you know that if you look it up in alice, it'll tell you it's either fornication
and uh
Yeah fornication just leave it with that fornication and i or idolatry, right and you're like what?
How does sex and
Then church what do they have many things to do with each other? Well now they don't
But at one time
they did
and the integration of that orgasm
bring us the
bring us the uh
Yeah, here we go. Show us that one
The orgasmos right coming from or gao
Or gao just means to swell to the point of bursting
To swell to the point of bursting. That's why we call the rights the orgies
It's the same route
right, so
You'll see
You'll see this concept kind of come up and regenerate itself, right and you'll see this on on the
Cult side and medical side. Excuse me on the cult side and the medical side
so, okay next
Back to that passage, please
Yeah, and there was a woman seated there. Yeah, um
Let's see
She is cut. She's covered. Oh, this is great
I wanted to bring this one because we've seen this word before right peri-balo. It just means to throw around
Rides peri-balo men a here
It's the same word that I translated before is wrap with the naked boy that was with Jesus when he was arrested at 4 a.m
That naked boy was wrapped
Yeah, using the same word this time
She's wrapped with what poor food and kai koken on with that purple and the koken on and
I've shown you guys the poor fiery and for the chemists
Poor here the poor fiery is
One of the keys to the burning purple the burning purple is what they call a compound
Right. Okay. So bring us bring us back up text, please. So here she is in her robes
In her robes that are those dies that contain those dies
and
Look at this
Koki knows. Yeah, scarlet color starlet scarlet clothes, but I want you to notice at the bottom the word bap baphi
on baphi
Right that comes from the word baptizo. That's that dying word
So we're talking about dies and the use of dies and antiquity and here she is go ahead bring up the text again
Please
Thank you. And so there was a there was a woman and she's covered in this
these different
died
Things. Yeah, the poor fiery and yeah, it must have been beautiful
Right and she's really decked out. Right. She's gold
Steadified
Right gold and jewels jewel valuable Jews too. Timmy. I right honored, you know
esteemed jewels, you don't want somebody to steal them, right?
Kind of margaritas and pearls. Yeah, and what does she have a husa potato on?
Bring us the potato, please
There we go. No, that's the baphi. There's the dipping people for the
Oh, don't you love it the dying?
Oh, wait a minute. You mean you can halfway down the page. You can see the baphi who does
The arrow is dipped in the hydra's blood
Yeah, now, you know what heracles was doing
