In the presence of witness.
What we have witnesses, right?
To the devil visibly present in some bodily form.
That is an expressed pack.
Yes.
Expressed. Now the tacit packed.
For those of you who choose that path.
Involves the offering of a written petition to the devil.
And may be done by proxy.
Proxy. What is a proxy?
Yeah, someone endowed with that authority.
Okay.
Through whom that deal can be made.
For which male or female.
Or some third person when the contracting party is afraid to see or to have speech with the devil.
Are you afraid to talk to the devil? How many of you have talked to the devil?
I sent you to the devil.
Right.
Brian calls this a tacit packed.
Yet although it is made with another person than the devil.
It is expressly made in the devil's name.
Important contractual.
As is clear from the examples he gives, perhaps we should class as an express pack.
That rather rare insistence of a German woman who jumping backwards out of her tub.
Said that example of a German woman who jumped out of her bathtub and said quote.
As far as I thus sleep away from Christ so near may I come to the devil.
But there are certain matters common to all their packs with the devil.
And these may be arranged under 11 heads.
That's a lot of legal lingo.
It makes you wonder.
But this is what stands between you and the performance of the magic.
A packed tacit.
We tacitly make a packed.
In this temple where we are awaiting the return of Lady Babylon.
We make a packed.
First, they deny the Christian faith.
Looks like many of us are there.
Was draw their allegiance from God.
Anybody out there was drew your allegiance.
They repudiate the protection of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Keeping the vilest insults upon her and calling her harlot.
And the devil arrogates honor to himself.
As Augustine notes.
There's your source you smell that with Augustine.
Always look at who the sources are when you're casing this crime scene.
And you're working in the direction of showing someone of bringing someone so that they can see.
Their religion and their morality are built upon a pedophile.
A child raping pedophile.
Who are the sources?
Here it's Augustine.
That's who he's digging up.
So if we want to put ourselves into his lane, you can see it as it builds in history.
Therefore, Saint Hippolytus, the martyr writes the devil compels them to say quote.
I deny the creator of heaven and earth.
Isn't that fascinating?
There is.
And Gaia.
Once again, can you swim those channels in that cave?
Now you're going to follow some solid rope through that dark cave to the other side.
Yeah, or you're going to die.
Yeah.
So follow the rope.
Reason, right?
Gets us there.
I deny the creator of heaven and earth.
I deny my baptism.
I deny the worship I formerly paid to God.
I cleave to thee and in thee I believe.
How many of you have done that?
My conversations with you.
Many of you are beyond that already.
You've already made a pact with the devil.
You didn't realize it.
Yeah.
Nice.
Nice.
Second, he bathed them.
In a new mock baptism.
Do you remember where the launch pad is?
The launch pad in the son of God's ministry is the baptism of John.
John V.
And if you'll notice, he cracked open.
