Why can't we. Why can't we turn away from the pedophilia by the way. Why can't we. When I went to the University of Wisconsin I discovered where the ceiling was.
And so I picked up a rock and I shattered it. And I said from now on I'm always going to break through the ceiling because the establishment there was saying you cannot say that the founders of Western civilization use drugs.
You can't say that. And after seeing what I'd seen. You know hey it wasn't it wasn't hard for me to say hey you know Marcus Raelias and those meditations you love to read Professor so and so from Ireland.
You know who you are. Professor so and so from Ireland. Yeah you have to realize what's what's going on with some of the material that's around you. Right.
And they didn't want to do this. They didn't want to do this so I'm going to bring that to you and it starts here with Aruo. Let's go to the next. Let's go to the next. What are you raising out of the sea.
Well we're raising Arians. Right. OK. I want to move here and I want to show you the audio and how it is that the Victorians define them. The ancient name of the Medes.
Ancient name of the Medes. Look at that. It's not. We get about Iranian highlands. Oh that's beautiful. Lays later with respect to Persia. Right. Next slide please. Yeah.
This is a section of Herodotus. And I want to read you a little a little bit of Herodotus starting at Apicomines. Apicomines which is one two three four five lines down halfway through the line Apicomines.
Apicomines de Medes te Hockidos ex Atheneon estus Arius tutus. Yeah. Methebalon caithutol. To Unumah. Isn't that nice Unumah. Unumah.
Autoi perisfeon o de legosi medoi. Yeah it says after you know after the Medes. Excuse me after Medea. After Medea arrived from Athens and which which Medea or which Medwa the Kokian Medwa after she arrived in Athens.
The people there the Arians changed their name right to the Medes to suit her. And this is what they all this is what they all call themselves. So they changed their genos. They changed their ethnic name. Yeah isn't that neat isn't that neat. Okay. Next please.
I just want you to notice that the Victorians are noticing that the root is changing from the Ari to the Aru. And why is it why would we have we can read here at the bottom modern philology gives the name Arian of course very much wider extension which was which indeed was beginning even the time of Straybo so it looks like at least by the time of Straybo that this is this is a.
Debate a linguistic debate at the time because they're these excellent things and these are the these are the authors that these people who claim knowledge and just give you generalizations.
Anytime you get a generalization is bunk if somebody's you know we're detectives this is history and we're detectives you better bring me some evidence and you better lay it out religious historians love love love love the ideas and the theories.
Right. They're not so good with the actual evidence. So what about these Arians. What about these Arians are all right that drawing is the very thing that the medoi become known for doing that connection to drawing down an expression to draw down the moon.
Can anybody draw down the moon. Yeah can you draw the stars. You can draw a third of them if you've got the right tail. You can draw a third of them.
Yeah stars. Why would you want to draw stars aren't those the things that we look up at right now just there's just balls sending a slight old light hitting us.
In order to get there to those stars we got to go through a dragon a dragon who is protecting a sacred space. What is a dragon.
Can you please bring up for me the first dragon.
There we go.
Just bring up dracon please the first dragon. Thank you.
Yep perfect. Take a look at this through the eyes of Alice from Alice in Wonderland. Yes. And by the way we cannot give up that pedophilia. We must track down the source of this Saturnian satanic.
I can't Nick I can't abandon the Saturnian way. I can't stop people from seeing via these dead people via these sources that Judaism and Christianity are inventions of Saturnian or satanic magic.
Yeah I'm going to show you Moses a stick here in a second. Right. Follows the muse. Be careful. Okay. What is it. The dragon bring up the dragon right. Notice right away on the top they tell you it's from Derek on my and that's because our ancient etymologist our ancient etymologist the people who sat down and tried to figure out make lexica figure out where these words come from.
And there's quite a few you can read them. I'm saying this door is my favorite. But anyway it's only because he says I was the anti Christ. I don't know why. Anyway so if if if we can look at how the where the word come from remember I tell all my students the first and I love this the first.
I really get into this the first day I tell him everything that you're going to be seeing in the vocabulary in Greek. All of these words come from somewhere they all have roots.
And these roots have histories. They're their own organisms. Tonight I want to show you the S. T. R. root. The S. T. R. root. I'd call it the sigmatal row root because that's how I see it most. But I'm going to use the Latin right. Okay fantastic I'm so excited. Okay let's go back to the dragon. What is that dragon.
Are you ready. What is the dragon. The dragon is a serpent. Yeah a constellation right we know there's we know there's the constellation Draco right fantastic look at Roman numeral number four.
What is a carry on. That's something that a carry carries around. Don't you love that. I love that capital sigma combination. It's a see. Love it.
Anyway so the Cadwx. Who's the Cadwx. He's a messenger bra. He's a messenger of God. Messenger of God. And what does he carry around. This thing called a carry on. And what are the what are the Victorians point out there under dragon.
It's a wand with a serpent coiled on it. Yeah right right so the dracon is the wand with the serpent coiled. And for those of you who want to jump ahead to you shut up you for those of you who want to jump ahead to you.
You'll find the serpent wand and who has it who possesses it in the red book is the girl who is half virgin half viper. Love it. Love it. Yeah did you know about dragons. I think he knew a thing or two and his seal proves it the seal on his text proves it by the way.
Nobody's responding to me yet about young seal. Nobody's found it. I'll show it to you. You will love it. It's it's delicious. Yeah. Okay. It can also be people look at the dragon standard. Yeah. And we have two sources that tell us the dragon like the wolves are temple guardians.
And we know that they're individual people right and we're meeting with these people there's we're talking real concrete history now I don't want funny funny story land. I want the actuality I want to bring you the actuality and that's the sacrifice that Nick has to pay.
He has to see the reality of the Aryans with a why. Why is it the why is it the why. Why is there the debate over the OOPSALON the why English why isn't OOPSALON. Right. So why why do we have the debate over the OOPSALON or the IOTA. Right.
Oh it's amazing. Something's hiding. Something's hiding in the OOPSALON. And it's a diagramma. It's a diagramma. It's an old old old Greek letter. I'm talking Mycenaean Bronze Age letter. I'm talking contemporary with the very origins of what you consider Sanskrit right and earlier.
That's what I'm talking. You think Aryan came from Sanskrit. You don't want to know why they put the W in it because it's a diagramma. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that nice. Yeah. Who are these. Who are these people and what's with all their cannabis.
We know that Herodotus spills the beans on a cannabis. Let's just go now to the cannabis in the ancient text. No put that back up. I like that. I was just starting to. Yes. Let's just go to the cannabis in the text now and look at what these civilians. Nick.
I know that you've never. I don't want to do this because it's painful but I know that you've never met Sita. Right. And she is the name given to Medwah or Medea by the poet with the flattering tongue who is named Dracontius. Yes.
And if you would read you didn't know Dracontius was a source for the city instead you know I know you didn't neck. When you're around the professionals enough. You started you start to see where the knowledge is able to filter to.
I want look look at this people that that's an entire volume 770 pages 770 pages on antidotes antidotes antidotes and great. You see it's translation. No you don't because it hasn't been translated just on the antidotes.
