except for Medea. There's something special about her, and since we know that in the mystery she
is the cup, then we know that there's some kind of distribution, whether it's mirrored in the
carpacrations and the nicolations, whether it's mirrored in them more accurately with their
semen use in Helen, for example, and contributing her semen. If that may be why the right allows
this one female figure, but it is turned to a completely male initiation, and it's pedorastic.
It's a pedorastic initiation. So can we turn from the pedophilia? No. Jesus is arrested in a public
park for an STR reason, and Hercules is providing us with the very same example, the same
religion. It's the derivation, the maturation of the child, and in the process you derive the
communion. Let this cup pass, perhaps unpleasant, but it's one of the avenues. So it looks like
as a Bronze Age phenomenon, this serpent on a pole is used as a feminine art that then can be
kind of taken and changed a little bit into a masculine art, and hence, and you always have to
have naked boys, right? Naked boys, naked boys, right? All the naked boys. I can't stop
educating you about the pedophilia in antiquity. We can't. Yeah, it's the reason that those priests
that are involved, according to the gentleman, the Monsignor that I knew, it's the reason that
they're so arrogant, and when they get caught in their ways, in their ritualistic
rape of children, that they get upset like it's your fault. You know, they should be free to do
this. I'm trying to show you a world that exists that you don't know because you are following
the fairytale dream that everybody is having. I'm offering you the rod with the serpent wound
around it to come out of the dream. Rob, what else questions do we have? Yeah, I love that. What
well said. I like that. I'm going to go to Darren G next. This is of discord too. I'm not saying
encourage everybody going discord. It's just these are the questions that I've asked previously
and created like 24 hours before the show. So I'm not going to ignore them. I'm going to
pull them out. There was a conversation you had on discord and the warrior poet
Arman was talking about is one of our discord calls that I don't think we ever got to the bottom
of who it actually was, who the warrior poet is. Now, I need my memory, John. It really bugged me
because I've got a feeling when you want to see so what we'll do now with a marble head
for me, maybe. Maybe I don't know. Can we bring the dawn? Is that the trick? Can we bring the dawn?
Yeah, please. Excellent. Yeah. So who is this warrior poet? Yeah, who is the warrior poet? Right?
Today we're introducing you to the dragon. So we get to see the one who guards the voice
and that voice uses the power of the muse to write your surroundings, to write your existence.
Yeah, the dragon guards that voice. And there's only one way, there's only one way to master that
voice if you master the dragon. Yeah. Okay. So does that, I answer to you in parables.
Yeah. So that those of you with ears to hear will be able to hear. Yeah, I wanted to read you.
There's a little section. I didn't want this to get missed tonight, but I had brought you guys,
Valerius Flacus, who writes about the dragon, and he's, Medea is bringing Jason to the dragon.
And Jason is afraid and, you know, she's guiding him because he's big jigging. And
he sees the lightning in the flashes. And he says, what is this? And she says, that's the dragon.
And he says, how can I possibly get the fleece? Because he wants the voice that's on the fleece.
And what's the dragon to sleep? But in very eloquent Latin,
it, it tells us that this dragon has a crest from which flashes great lightning. Yes,
here we go. Oh, this is wonderful. Look at this. Yes. Yes. Yes. So she said these things
