thinking about it and reflecting upon it, complying to it, you move on to the next one and the next
one. You start to begin to gather a list of interesting facts, but you really need to
acknowledge what you're reading and reflect upon it because you've got to take that to the higher
level in my estimation. That's what I try to do. That's my goal. I think we could safely say that's
the path of reason, isn't it? It sounds like you're one of these crazy Saturnians who follows
that reason to its conclusion. I love that, Rob. I love that. Thank you. We've got Brian Ryan following
instructions from previous stream. He's endured some cannabis with the powers of the gods and he's
now ready to become an oestromania. It doesn't have to be a question. I've just picked out comments
as well, which I feel, and it's like that. He's now ready for the oestromania. I want to bring
up for his sake. I didn't put it together. I just stole it from Alice. By the way, everything
that I do, guys, is stolen right from the news. I just ask her and she opens it up.
Somebody asked me today to come and to do the sortase in front of you. Somebody else has asked
me to do this in the past. You're looking for something, so show me this and you take a book
off the shelf from the library and there it is. I have to give credit to her because I just ask her
the muse and she shows me. That's the dawning. That's the dawning. There's a reason we worship
Urania. There's a reason the Arlong are using the Areis. There's a reason they're using it.
If you could understand these and all this stuff is buried in the language, watch this.
This is your question for oestromania. It is brilliant. Look at this chart.
Look at this chart and I just want you to see on the left side in the entry.
Yeah. Oestroboleo, that literally is just to throw or to beat something with the
oestros, to inflict the oestros. Oestrodinatos driven round and round by the gadfly.
Well, that's an interesting. You mean you have a word for me to be chased by the sting of the
gadfly? Yes, they do. I want you just to jump down to oestromanes. Oestromanes, mad from the
gadfly sting. So when we have the sibling oracles, that's okay. Leave it up. When we have the, please.
When we have the sibling oracles and she says, I enter into oestromania, you will know that she
is not following fairy tale as we do. That she is using a drug compound. It's a compound. In order
to enter into a state, a quantum state where she can draw down the stars and bring dawn.
Oh, it's gorgeous. Yeah, I'm glad you went there.
Because I wonder Brian Ryan, do you really want oestromania, that frenzy, that fury?
Yeah, yeah. I must consider that fury. It's not frenzy.
Moving on. Cranium maximus has listened to half of Cain today at work and so far it appears
that we should hear might be the bringer of truth. It's just a comment. I like that comment.
Any thoughts on that comment? Because you were asking, it's in response, I guess,
kind of a response to who was saying that. Yeah, I think he, yeah, I think that commenter
would appreciate Petrarch for bringing
it up.
I'm even muted. I'm talking while I'm muted as it is left me alone. This is my night there.
Welcome back. Thank you. I was talking to the gallery on mute asking the gallery,
am I, does anyone in the gallery lip read? I'm not made for YouTube.
You're doing great and I need your profound intellect to help me break down. Most of you
don't realize it, but Rob is digging into the deepest and most beautiful British soil possible
