Do you know you'll see that Rio means to be stung by the gad fly so the one who is stung by the gad fly that is the Christos that individual is able to enter oyster mania and complete the mystery.
By means of the Trinity.
And this is so teria.
S T R salvation.
Nick will we ever get away from the will ever get away from the boys I'm trying from the naked boy in the garden with Jesus no right our job here as Saturnians as Satanists is to show you that naked boy.
And that means we have to go to some pretty awful places and deal with some pretty awful people.
And and see the reality.
Yes and isn't that the moment isn't that when you perceive the reality and that awakening isn't that the real profound moment.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
Ruffies it's gorgeous it's gorgeous.
Arends and drugs and how will you guys can get this anywhere you can't.
This is this is this is the depth right this is the underbelly Rob has joined us.
a Rob will go ahead and end out our satanic initiation for the day.
Rob, I know that you've been doing a lot of work and a lot of research and I know that you've been
watching questions. Is there anything you want to bring to my attention now?
Yes, quite a few things. First, I'm going to go first with a gut wrench who's been in there
ac rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud, ac rwy'n cael ei wneud, ac rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud.
Rwy'n cael ei feu hyd rhai, alech ti'n ardu'r wahne, ac oh, ond... ym Рuð.
Ym Rhunodd.
Dym ni'n gweithio effaith,呼, rydw i'n ddarparu
繁 a gyddoi'r r intersection
Rhaid am trydenau
I love it, good stuff. You should do Scrobonius Largus, too. He's the guy who talks about the witches taking the
livers of the gladiators and picking up their mouths and being like, ah, and stuff like that.
Go ahead, whoops, turn that off. Okay, I want to take you back to the last episode.
A question Lord Snappy asked, and he asked, and he's asking again, and this is through the discord,
so he says, could you ask Amen to repeat his academic guess as to who thinks is responsible for
turning the savior figure male? He answered last stream, but the internet caught off due, and he's
answered, and nobody heard it, and I put that down to, like, you're profaning, and I've noticed as
you have these cut-offs, you have these happenings, we've discussed it, and I put it down to you
profaning every internet. I think there's some sort of restraint aspect going on, but maybe now you
can answer that question. Thank you. Yeah, perhaps that restraining force is being removed. Yes, it started
out right from the beginning, right from the beginning after Medea invented the thing, right?
Heracles and his offspring took it up, took up the cult, and converted it into a masculine form
that only she was allowed to to be present for, only Medea. There's no woman that's allowed
