Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation. We have a great service tonight. Praise be to Lucifer. We finally have a sacrifice.
But before we can get to that, I need to reiterate the two principles. Number one, we follow reason in this temple space that we have constructed. We follow reason.
Number two, any of our efforts are thwarted by profit. Anybody choosing to profit off of this sacred space is polluted and to be outcast.
Let's proceed then with the purification, shall we? I want to bring up this lamb of a goodie before you, and I want to present to you some of a comment that was given, and I want to look at it reasonably and discuss it just for a second.
And that will be our springboard into the dragon because I know that you all have come here to meet dragon. So it is my honor and privilege tonight to introduce you to the dragon.
I'm warning you, there's quite a bit of esoteric meaning and ritual and linguistics. You can love this. It's beautiful.
Where's it? Bring the sacrifice. Hit the number one, please.
This is from Nick. Thank you, Nick, for the input. Amon, I respect you for popularizing and reviewing ancient texts, but because you are not even aware about city and culture, you are butchering things.
It's the first time I've ever been called a butcher, but I'd rather like it.
Anacarsus wrote about sitting. Anacarsus explained the Scythian history to the Greeks. He's this figure that's kind of the George Washington of the Scythians, right?
Yeah, but late. He's late, right? He's real late. So, you know, this is six. This is well beyond when the late Bronze Age Scythians were at their peak. Yes.
But anyway, let's keep reading. Ares, for example, was a Lord ruler and a God. In ancient papyri, a God is the ruler who has the trust of his followers.
I've been reading ancient papyri all week, and I can't say that that's the case. Yeah, yeah. If you're talking about specific references, I think you're being, I think I just smelled just a slight, Nick, a slight taint of the trust in his followers.
That's somebody who hasn't really, I can tell you, your feet haven't been deep into the Greek and the Greek traditions about the Aryans and the histories of the Aryans.
Oh, you're going to love it. Herodotus would smile, right?
Yeah, let's look at. Let's look at the origins, but I'm going to take you back, Nick. I'm going to take you back and I'm going to make you look into the face of that queen, that queen.
And so what else do we say about Aryans? Yeah, his people took the name Aryans with an eye. Notice that Aryans is with an eye, and all of a sudden you smell. What do you smell? You smell 1898.
Yeah, and you smell some scholars and some intellectuals in Germany. Yes, this is fun. I love this stuff. And descendants, I assume you meant descendants here, decedents, but descendants of them are now in places like Iran, Ireland, Romania, Armenia, et cetera.
And then Nick has a request. I beg you to distance yourself from Satanists. I told you people get me in trouble and pedophilia, or you guys will soon end up hanged by the neck in the public square.
Yes. Yes. Let's look. That provides us the perfect springboard. And Nick, look, you know, between you and me, it's the sources that matter. You're like a detective when you do this, when you look at history, and you have to piece things together.
And you can say that cadaver was shot. But if you don't find a hole and a bullet, you got problems to the Satanic congregation. I want to address. I want you to see what Nick is doing. This is what I warned. I warned about.
Right. There will be those of you who will be seduced, who will be seduced by the academics. I worked with academics. Right. I went. I went to a conference in England once. And at this conference, just so you can know who I am. I went to a conference in England and the London Times happened to be there.
They were they were doing reporting on it, and they came and reviewed the work in my panel, and they said of my work that it was the last wild frontier of classics. An Oxford professor that nobody apparently never talks to anybody happened to approach me and say, you may be right.
To which is graduate students that. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. This is wonderful. Right.
Once you're in these texts that provides you with an immunity. There's two types of people. There's people who know this evidence who can read it. And those people read every day. They wake up in the morning. They read ancient Greek.
Okay. It's just the way it is. It's their occupation. And then there are those people. There are those wolves who have come in amongst the sheep who claim a knowledge of the Greek and somebody who's been doing this for 30 years like myself has developed enough skill to be able to tell right away when somebody in his field is a beginner.
Or doesn't have that breadth of knowledge that they should. And I'd like to bring you some of that knowledge right now. Some of these texts. We're going to look at some things that people don't ordinarily look at. And we're going to look at the Aryan connection and we're going to look at the dragon.
And what is the dragon. Okay. So let's let's get into it.
Would you mind pulling up the very next rule please.
I want to show you a couple of definitions.
Yes. Excellent. Good.
I want you to typically so I come over like this typically. So as you can see from Nick's paragraph he spelled Aryan with an I right and I'll show you in a minute how the Victorians very nicely sifted out for us but that by the time was stray bow.
There's this active debate about what's the real route. Right. Is it alpha row OOPSALON or is it alpha row IOTA. And Nick would be jumping around saying this is a Sanskrit route. It's not. It's not. This is a vestan. It says nothing to do.
Here's the problem on the Greek side in this word has its own derivation and I'll show you the text that talk about that derivation and I'll show you a little cannabis in antiquity.
The question tonight is what is the street name of cannabis. Yeah in antiquity the street name. What do you call it. I can't wait to show you.
OK. So here I just want you to notice that this verb in Greek is shown to us in the Oxford lexicon is going to be some type of drawing or pulling a movement that has to do with out of something toward the drawer toward the one performing the action.
And you can see at the bottom there's a lovely little quote about it's used the stars rising out of the sea. Right. So to aroo is to draw.
That's interesting and wonderful because we have the same route that is used in words like Hera and Aris or Aris.
And you'll notice right away. Oh we have names of gods that are creeping in. Yes we do. You're in the right cult. Don't worry. Right. This is where we're supposed to be.
