So let's blow the lid off this thing and let's look at what the actual history was bring us up. Did you bring us up the diascorties. I hear by summon diascorties great pharmacologist. We really don't have some people want to say he's a physician but he doesn't really classify as a physician.
He doesn't look like he practices as much. He looks like he's more on the pharmacology side he's more like the buddy of the root cutters that we were looking at. Yeah and anyway he's got a great section if you could bring that up now.
Yeah it is here. I will show you excuse us folks. Yeah so we need to get to the oysters as well. Oh and yes for us. Here we are. Looks like this so diascorties. Thank you Chewie appreciate it. You're doing a sterling job by the way everybody out there says what a good job you do. So I appreciate that. No not that one. That's a nice one. But here yes this one. This is a nice one.
This is it. Okay so this is diascorties who is himself. You'll have to excuse me this background. Diascorties is the one who is writing about all the botanicals and where to get them and what they do and what powers they have and he's also writing about the poisons and the poisons that you use to counteract those poisons. Wonderful stuff.
Oh love it. Love it. Let's anyway bring us back to text there of diascorties. Yep no there we go and cannabis. There you guys see cannabis in its original breed form. Hey Meadows that's just the cultivated kind right. There's wild agria. There's wild cannabis and the kind that you actually work with. Yeah and now he's going to say
Cannabion. Hoi de Scuiniostroffon. Hoi de Asterion Romaioi. Cannabemma. The Romans call their stuff Cannabemma. He has street names for the drugs that are used. And as you can see here Asterion is one of the streets.
You take it off please. One of the common names. And he says that the street name is Asterion. The common name is Asterion. You go to the marketplace and you order up some Asterion. And what is Asterion? Notice that it's got the STR route that everybody is looking for. The STR route.
Do you see the STR? The word for star is Asterion. Asterion is star. Little star. Give me some little star man. I need to go where the Aryans go because the Scythians you know are into the star. The Scythians are into the star. They love that star.
Okay so let's what can we do with the star right? What can we do with the and why did they call it that? Because of the one of the reasons that is explicitly stated is because of the shape of the leaf. Yeah that's nice. I kind of like that five pointed star thing. That's kind of nice.
Not to get too overly satanic Nick. But there you go. There's a nice connection. Give me that really ferocious look of Satan there. Oh no that's just more star. We're transporting into the star. There we go. There we go. That's a nice one. Fantastic.
Okay so now I want to take you to some oysters. A couple of people have asked what's the oysters. Right and please remember that we are entering an initiation. Right so these images I want to tell you to be careful these images could cause you serious discomfort.
Serious discomfort. Yes in a in a series of discomfort is we can get on YouTube and still maintain the historical accuracy of our research. Right we're scientists here reason first. Right we don't just jump in. Nick remember that. Okay so here we go.
I want to bring up. Yes for us please. Yes for us. That's fine. That's fine. I can do that one. But we have that one a smaller. I want you to bring up this one please. Yes for us. There you go. Yes for us right. Look at the Doric.
Aos for us. You like that. Ios an aos. So there's I tell everybody in the Greek class it comes from the verbs and the vowels are really adjusting the are adjusting kind of fine tuning the root but it's really not the vowels that matter. It's really not the vowels that matter. It's the consonants that carry the weight and under certain circumstances that can change like.
Hey ra that first Ada is is a part of the route. So. Okay here we go. What is this word? Ios for us. Ios for us. The bringer of Morn say the Victorians the morning star and you'll notice that it equals Hesperos. Yes and Afrodite's.
So this morning star or Afrodite or the one that for root is carried right the one who carries the dawn. I asked you all who it with the utmost sincerity and I think this area and exhibition is the perfect place to do it. It's the perfect sacrosanct place to spill this blood.
The mother of Lucifer I heard recently on a podcast of Harvard religious studies expert say that it was that it was Lucifer didn't exist right this is a later invention etc etc.
What I'm saying to you is that Lucifer is a bronze age. That's the oldest we can we can track him back and he is that carrier of Ios right he's that carrier of dawn his mother the mother of Lucifer is the dawn and for those of you who are interested in the vampire side of that remember this is a half version.
Viper we're talking about for those of you who are interested in the viper side of that and the actual vampires and the order of the dragon and Vlad and the impaler and his court poet you're going to find that this dawn bringer will introduce you to she who is of the rose colored skin.
Yeah. Yeah. Our Aryans. Yeah.
What are they doing with the rose colored skin now they're bringing us vampires they're bringing us a girl who is half vampire half I mean this is okay back to the dragon back to the dragon and the oysters there there's the dawn bringer by the way so for those of you in religious studies from
the big Ivy League schools trace simply trace Ios for us and you will find that Lucifer is indeed there and that Saturn is just a de-rotified Satan.
What that contradicts the 10th century on a domani sect who said we have a Hebrew manuscript right that's the complete edition we're going to make it we're going to back translate right it contradicts that yes it's not Semitic it's not it's actually not a Semitic word.
Nice Satan Saturn S.T.R. What is the oysters if Satan and Saturn have a bunch of satyrs are you a satyr of Saturn if you really want to strive to be a good satanist you have to be a Saturn satyr of Saturn.
Yes you have to have satiriasis by after taking satyrion and why would you take satyrion in order to become a satyr of Saturn.
Why would you do that because you entered the oyster mania and you are alive you have experienced the mystery and now you your eyes are open right and you you wonder was that guardian there for the sake of the oysters bring us oysters what is oysters.
Yes a gad fly.
Yeah probably it gives us pieces Jansen species of which which one of these bugs that stings cattle right look at number two an insects that infest tiny fish right a small insect divorce bird metaphor a sting oysters is a sting.
Anything that drives somebody mad.
Yeah and the Greek there talks about by means of the oysters of the air renewies the renewies you know what the renewies are there what's produced when you castrate Uranus and his blood meets with the earth.
You get the renewies and what do they do they send you oysters in the orphic hymns.
There's a beautiful one dedicated to millinowy who is the.
The one who dances with the dead.
I love this I love this when you like to worship this guy imagine this a queen.
Who dances with the dead whose power is to put you into a maniac state.
Yeah it's very bachic it's very bachic I love it I love it where are these things where are these things why don't we ever discuss these things anymore anyway and if you'll notice in the bottom so that's the that's the gad fly they call it.
Now let me go excuse me chewy go to the source go to the source.
Of Rio I want the verb Rio can we bring up Rio for me.
I want to show people I've talked about this a little bit before but this this is relevant for the dragon for us understanding the dragon and if you'll notice at the bottom of this definition of Rio right which.
To rub anoint with scented ungwents nice nice rubbing anointing stuff to wash to wash something over and you can wash with other things you don't have to be water right you wash with oils.
Yeah you can apply things this Rio is just the application process but then at the very bottom at the very bottom I rob will be with you in a second at the very bottom of this definition.
