and he is digging into his roots with with how this purple, how this burning purple was accepted
and received where his ancestors walked and lived beautiful. But you would like that last
commenter, you would like the Petrarch because he is bringing Veritas. He puts Veritas in the position
of the muse. So I would say you are very Petrarchian with your approach and I believe that it smells
of the fine incense of purification. I believe that I can smell your purification. Love it. Love it.
Okay. A question mewn now. How do you think the devil's wall was the trick of Robert
Sudden? Would you recommend the devil's wall? I've no, I've not. The devil's wall, tell us Rob,
tell us about the devil's walk. I'm completely, completely unfamiliar. No, you're not. You know
who Robert Sudden is. You just need to remind him, I'm sure. The poet from the Lake District.
Well, obviously, Charlie paid him a visit once he'd settled down. But when we're talking about
Byron, then I like to also include the devil's walk. He met his friends and he must have had similar
ideas and similar methods of laying this down. It's, he was a working man from my understanding.
He comes from a layman background, not Craig Least. And I like, it's similar to my background.
So I appreciate the terminology he uses and each part, each part you can go into it and
it's offering quite a lot of knowledge that you can research and you'll spend a good deal of time
researching if you can reach wherever you're called. Does this dead, does this dead man lead us to the
lead us to the virgin who's half viper in the cave? Does he lead us to her? Well, in part, in part
early goes, he goes in part. But for me, he gave me a better impression of the world
and how it runs essentially. That was the reason I got out of that, out of the devil's walk.
Anyway, I just want to suggest it. For those of you who want to read and discuss, I encourage
you and that would be something good for the, for the, the inquisition or what is it called?
We talked about getting bitten by the Godfly. I got bitten by the don't, the don't fly
when live stream is in the mix. Yeah. Rob, that's a, that's a discord discussion though.
You need to bring that up and resurrect these guys for the people to see. You've been working with
numerous authors. And I mean, Mary Shelley is out there for all of you women specifically who want
to hear the, the voice at its most clear or what they call in Greek legaea. You can either read
Edgar on pos legaea or Mary Shelley. And you've been, you've been working with Mary Shelley, Rob.
What, what can you tell us about? I mean, I heard she crept into the caves at Kumai and she was able
to find the leaves upon which were written the oracles and that she was able to rearrange those
into a story. I mean, there's a reason that Frankenstein is Prometheus, right? I mean, wow,
what's going on? She wrote, she wrote Frankenstein while in the company of Byron and then the company
of Percy. It was the, the, the, behold a kind of competition and writer and a cult story,
something off the wall and an 18 year old Mary Shelley, Shelley came up with this Frankenstein story
in that competition, one competition where it's real. But she's the history of Mary Shelley, a mother,
a father, very interesting story, very interesting group to go down and you can see why Percy was
attractive. It's a, it's a very, very, very interesting narrative and you put me
onto it basically through Queen Mav. You sent me to Queen Mav and I found, I went down to
Braddysole and found a cave. Yeah, you'll find it. I really enjoyed the last man on all day.
I can't take credit. At the time, I've got
Orgy's of Words at the time, which is revealing Nannys' mystery terminology. Oh, supposedly,
it doesn't go deep enough for my liking. What went deeper for my liking was the last man. I was
