I let that liquor drown in my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Bible Study.
And we are here tonight. I've got you the direct consent of the devil.
I am bringing you texts. We're going to first dive into that dark place in the Bible
where we bring out the most lurid sex acts.
We're going to bring these to the fore. And then we're going to talk about
we're going to talk about sacrificing your children.
We're going to talk about burning off mortality.
And we're going to talk about drinking abortions tonight on Lady Babylon.
Tonight we're going to have to dig deep and uncomfortable.
I can tell you right off from comments that I've been looking at.
This is not going where you think it is going.
You see, I don't take that common path that the religious historian from Yale does.
I don't take that path. We're going to go to some sources and look at some of the most hardcore Greek on the planet.
Hardcore. We're going right into the middle of it.
But before we do it, I need to pass on a message.
The message is I've been talking to preachers.
Preachers out there. I know in my audience, I know there are several of you.
Preachers who have come out. Preachers who have seen the light and died again.
Yes. I would love for you to come on the show.
I would appreciate it if you would come on and stand up and give your thoughts perspective for the rest of us.
If you are a priest or who has lost the faith or if you are a nun who's thrown away the habit.
I would love to talk about your experiences in order to come.
Same rules for everybody set for us by Lucian.
Either you cut your hair completely off or you present yourself in public to honor Aphrodite.
And how do you do that?
I think you're adult enough to figure that out.
Or you can come on as a challenge for a fight club in which case you just have to be wearing beautiful ladies lingerie and a platinum blonde wig.
Those are the same rules.
But I'm being contacted by people who really do have good input.
I'd love to have you guys on.
So I'll leave away for us to get in touch, which is just my professional email.
And we'll go from there.
Let me know.
Now Devil's Word.
Tonight we've got to go deep into the abortion in order to get there.
I've got to take you through the Virgin.
So I want tonight to hit you with these images and this particularly vampiric poetry.
This is called Poetry of Mike.
Poetry of Mike
Poetry of Mike
According to the pagans, justice was the last goddess to abandon mortals.
Justice.
If you have justice, you have everything.
You have freedom.
So let's let's proceed with the Virgin.
I'm going to give you a group of texts now.
And I want you to realize we're going to, as the ship is going right now, blast it off.
We're moving through time.
We're coming to a place that's going to make you uncomfortable.
Now I know I've said that quite a few times and we've talked about drugs and we've talked about sex.
Today we're going to talk about abortion in antiquity, but we're not going to talk about like a medical historian
or like a social scientist.
We're going to talk to you about it through the text.
Yes, just directly through the text.
And these are not all abortion texts.
I'm going to have to take you in the cult doors.
And once we get into the cult doors, and these are the things that the people who are charging you right now in their channels.
And they got this site.
And if you go there, you can watch these videos and see the mystery.
It doesn't exist.
They cannot come here.
So I am inviting all of you now to step on outside of this ship, this beautiful ship that takes us through space and time.
And I want you to look.
I want you to look at the Virgin.
I want you to look at her right.
And I want us to find out what are we doing with the kiddos.
Let's go to the first.
Let's go to the very first one tonight.
Our first text here is yep.
Very good.
This is brought to you by a physician.
And I just want to throw out there.
I just want to throw out my glasses.
I'm going to need that closer.
Thank you very much.
So what are we doing?
This is a text for people.
I'm just going to translate it.
It's a text for those who were smearing this stuff into their skin.
What are they smearing?
They're smearing that dipsass.
What kind of dipsass?
What kind of snake venom?
The stuff that is unstoppable.
The stuff that is incurable.
And what happens when they do this?
Well, a lot of them die.
And I know that some of them also consume the dipsass venom of that specific viper, the horn viper.
The stuff that makes you thirsty and cry out, especially when you're getting crucified.
Oh, I'm thirsty.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
And I didn't mention them yet.
I'm not going to mention them.
Okay.
And what do they do?
What are they also doing?
They're eating this.
They're drinking this particularly antique wine.
Yeah, this is old stuff.
This is the aged stuff.
They drink it along with the dipsass.
And what happens to them?
Well, you know what happens to a sailor when he gets abandoned?
He's out at sea.
He doesn't have anything to do there.
He's got to get some water.
So what does he do?
Eventually he's going to get thirsty enough to drink the sea water.
And we all know what happens to those people, right?
I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
This is what the physician says happens to those who are using these venoms.
Yes.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's go to the next one.
Why am I taking you to snake venoms?
Don't worry.
It's all related.
I'm going to take you to Cleopatra now.
Now all of you religious historians out there at Harvard and Princeton and Yale,
you worthless bag of bones.
You would never get such thing.
I'm probably looking at this for the first time in your life.
Let me talk to you, Jake, you Harvard.
Let me show you something for the first time that you have never seen.
I'm talking to the oldest, most experienced of your people.
You don't know this.
You don't work the sources.
You sell it and the devil says the word from the devil is this is your prison.
This is your prison purveyors of garbage.
