A thousand years ago, there was a lie that altered our timeline and that lie said this
is the holy language of this text.
Only it wasn't the holy language of that text and that text was the original.
It's not a translation and I'm about to show you how this can't be a translation.
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Let's go back to the...
Go ahead.
Hit it.
Yeah.
This is why they all say sacrifice because they all looked at the lie.
The oldest text we have is the Septuagint of the Bible and it is a native Greek.
Don't believe the fairy tales.
Follow the evidence.
Ask somebody, please, from the devil.
Here's the word of the devil.
Anybody from a seminary who starts talking to you or from a church who starts talking
to you about the sacred Hebrew, ask them how many Hebrew medical texts are there.
And when they tell you there are none, ask them again, bombard them.
How about pharmacology?
How about astrology?
How about any of the things that were in the museum?
There aren't any.
Why?
Because they weren't being written and why weren't they being written?
Because the language was dead.
The language was dead and had been for many hundreds of years.
Fantastic.
Let's go back to the living language that captured it.
That's all I'm saying.
Let's go back to what the evidence has for us.
Now you can see why all the people who make such a big deal out of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
you see why they do it.
Do you know how many scrolls?
Do you know how many pieces of parchment?
How many pieces, fragments that we've got of papyri?
Do you know how many of those are in Greek for straight up Greek?
Oh my God, there's so many that you would drown if you threw them all in the swimming pool.
All these papyri fragments, you could drown in them.
Yes, the Dead Sea Scrolls.
The Dead Sea Scrolls, I'm going to tell you right now.
There's an entire museum to them in Israel.
Yeah, and I'm going to have to tell you this.
They are translations of Greek texts that were with them.
Oh my goodness, somebody was trying to resurrect the liturgical dead language.
And we, because of our position looking through history, think just the opposite.
We see ourselves as in a mirror.
We are the reflection.
Isn't that great?
You're not seeing yourself for who you are.
You're seeing a reflection.
Let's go through it.
I love this.
Let's hit the next text.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Drive.
We're taking these things back, right?
And what else did they do?
Because you're my hontoed.
Yeah, what is my honto?
My honto is translated as to have sex or perform idolatry.
Wait a minute.
I thought you said that was what porno is.
Yes.
Yes.
You mean they have two verbs that we have to describe by a whole set of words that
mean something about sex and mystery, something about sex and the practice of religion.
Yes.
And we identify them the same way.
And you know that's bad.
You know that's bad.
It means our people cannot express what they were expressing.
Let's go see how these texts are explicitly Greek.
Okay.
And what did you do?
You got the blood all over your hands, right?
You got the blood.
Why do they have the hand?
Why do they have the blood in their hands?
What are they doing with the substance there?
You even entered into a union of the things of the mind, the intention, the passion.
You entered into a union of that.
And what happened when you did that?
Back to the text.
What happened when you did that?
Yeah.
You what?
The agagon.
You led your children through the impuron.
Bring up the next.
Through the impuron.
Look at it.
Take a look at it.
Oh, I love it.
Getting scorched.
Did you ever get scorched?
Did you get the mortality burnt off you?
Did you get scorched?
You see, this is not fairy tale BS.
This is not mothers bringing their children to be killed.
This is mothers participating in a ritual that derives itself from the midwives.
This is a process of bringing your baby to a place where it can survive.
And what are you doing when you're amplifying this child?
You're introducing this child to the invisible, to the invisible.
Oh, my God.
And if you don't do this to your child, don't expect anything immortal.
You mean that chemical has that much power?
You mean that group of drugs has that much power?
You can take a child and you can develop.
Think about that for a minute, people.
They took their children, their newborn children, and they developed them with drugs.
Sometimes it killed them.
But you know, sometimes the oracles died too.
Yeah.
Yeah, sometimes the oracles died too.
Let's see somebody taking this stuff.
Let's see what happens to them.
But before we do, one more dirty passage from the Bible.
Let's go to it.
I just want to read you this.
Look, you people will recognize this right away, but I want you to know it's the Septuagint, right?
Yeah, who are you, my beloved?
My beauty?
You're a garden that is secluded.
You, my sister, are a nymph.
You are a garden that is secluded, shut off.
Your spring has been sealed in the shoots of your paradise, those growths of your paradise, right?
Those are the pomegranates.
Oh, goodness.
And those are the cuproy and those are the nardon.
Wait a minute.
We're getting into drugs and, yeah, nard, right?
And what else would the nard, the crocus, right?
And the calamus.
Wait a minute.
We're back to the calamus.
