did a much better job when they were all using the drugs
and entering the orgies.
These are sex rights people.
Did you wonder why we're talking about a virgin?
We don't sacrifice a virgin.
We don't sacrifice the virgin.
Are you kidding?
She's the source of our medicine.
Don't be stupid, right?
But if she says somebody else should be sacrificed,
that's different, right?
Because we entrust that power.
We entrust that power to the God,
because you see all of this is built upon possession.
People ask about possession.
Oh, I'm sorry.
OK, we're almost.
People ask about possession, and they think, oh, my goodness.
This is a weird esoteric topic.
No, no, no.
It is the driving force of classical mystery,
the driving force.
It's a central element.
When Jesus comes to Mary and casts out her seven demons,
what do you think he came here to do?
To exert control, command over those forces.
Fantastic.
Hence the boys, right?
You need the boy for the Jesus.
He's going to be doing the Christing and chasing the demons
and commanding the power of Beelzebul.
He's going to be using this magic.
OK, let's go.
There's the next test.
And so the spirit threw him.
Now watch this, people.
I'm going to prove to you right now.
And this is not a heady argument.
I'm just going to point out to you.
These last three words in this sentence
are a prepositional phrase.
Into the Eremon, right?
Into what's translated as desert, wilderness, or void.
Into the void.
Now, people think this is a place, a location here on Earth.
He walked out into the Judean desert.
No, how do we know that for a fact?
Because when that desert is an actual location,
give me the next one, you're going
to see Mark himself invest in a word that, well, it's
the next one, but wait.
Yeah, go to the next one, this one, that one.
You're going to see Mark use a word to explicitly express
that this is a location.
And that is the second word on the second line, top on place.
Notice that it's right next to Eremon.
Because at this time, Jesus and his buddies
go off by themselves.
And by buddies, I mean all of his children that he's with.
They go, we know, right?
Did you know the apostles were all teenagers?
Yeah, you didn't.
And then I told you, you know now, so let's go on.
OK, so he's taking his boys off for a lunch break.
Because it says on the bottom line,
he didn't have any time to eat, bro.
He's getting bothered by people.
And so what happens?
What happens?
He gets sent into the, he says, hey, let's go.
Take a lunch break.
Go off into the place, the Eremon.
So this is very specific.
Mark is not talking.
When Mark says, Jesus went into the wilderness
to meet with the devil, to be tried of the devil,
he's not going to a taffos, a place.
He is going into the void, which is what we do when we
participate in the mysteries.
Do you see why we all come out of it, demon possessed?
It's a process.
It's a process.
It's an anthropological process, a place for you
to get your mind to.
A place for you to get your mind to.
Good.
Let's go to the next one.
We've got to hustle through some of these sources here.
No, I won't hustle people.
I'll treat you good, I promise.
But I got a lot of good stuff.
Look at this.
Oh, who are the people who are going
to enter into the Hothanatos Hodeuteros?
The second death.
Now, remember, take it down for a minute.
The second death, when Adonis dies,
he leaves Aphrodite.
And he is welcomed on the other side while she mourns.
He is welcomed.
We are going into the void with Adonis,
for those of you with ears to hear.
He goes into the void.
Now, flip your polarity around.
You're no longer with Aphrodite mourning the dead Adonis.
You're with the Korah, the queen of the underworld.
And what are you doing?
He's coming.
He's coming back.
He is resurrecting, but he's going the opposite direction.
This is the second death.
And this is what those of us who participate
in the mystery of Anomia, this is what we pursue.
We pursue the second death.
Bring that back up.
And do you know what kind of people
are involved in the second death?
These are the people, these wretched apistois,
these wretched, faithless people, right?
No, we don't need faith.
You don't need faith.
When you're in the second death, you don't need faith, right?
You got a whole pharmacology to back you up, right?
We'll take you right there into the second death.
Imagine a cult where people were being purposely
put into a death state and then resurrected.
Why?
Because Adonis, the pole has switched.
