that they, what happens to them?
Oh, that they narcotize their legs.
They narcotize their legs.
They get faster walking in that path.
And what is that Lukos?
People, I'm about to give you a priest.
I'm going into full hierophant.
You have to be a hierophant to hear this stuff.
Watch what happens.
We're going to the next one.
Here's our wolf, right?
What is it, what is the, what kind of, look at, wow,
what does it say, number 10?
At the very bottom, Orobache.
Wait, and then it gives diascortes.
Remember that I mentioned that just briefly?
What is it that the horse is doing?
What is it, he's involved in harvesting some kind of
bachic fruit?
He's involved in, yes, the priest Nicander talks about this.
Turns out your horses are faster if they're bachic.
Now, wait a minute.
Your horses are faster if they're bachic.
And they don't seem to have any pain in their legs.
Yeah, I guess you can run for a real long time.
Yeah, bachic horses, I wish I had bachic horses.
How much would I love to have bachic horses?
Let's go on to the next one to see where this trail is going.
Let's go to the priest.
Let's go to the priest that mentions this drug.
And he mentions it in the context of his theriac,
of his theriac.
Do you remember who is with Jesus?
Take it down for a second.
Do you remember who was with Jesus when he goes into the
Eremon?
Here's your epsilon, are you ready?
Who is with Jesus, the Anguloid?
They serve him.
They serve him.
They deacon him.
They serve him.
And who else is there?
Nobody ever notices this, right?
It's so ridiculous.
It ends up so stupid in the Christian paintings.
It's stupid.
The therion come to him.
The therion, what are those beasts?
Oh, let's draw some animals and let's draw Jesus out there
with them.
Maybe we can do a Mel Gibson and put him in some kind of
situation, have some snake crawl out there.
Be really cool, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You don't even realize that the dude is in a state, is in a
high, where he is using the drugs to project his vision
into the ion.
You want to know why he needs those beasties there to
listen to the angels?
Because he ain't hearing or seeing any angels unless he
is stoned out of his brain on those serpents.
This is a serpent cult.
When he tells his children, his lamkins, when he tells his
lamkins, you can drink this stuff that'll kill you, this
Thanasimon drug.
You can drink it.
It's from snakes and it won't hurt you.
He's going to show us how to do that.
Those of you who are sitting in church today, who are going
to churches, who will be in churches, who are sitting
there, all of the snakes are gone.
But the snakes were central.
Why do you think she has seven stars in her hand?
Why do you think the formula is composed of those seven plus
all the other ingredients?
It's a look.
It's a mystery.
You are part of it.
You've never been initiated.
I've been born again.
No, you haven't.
You have not.
Let me issue this challenge to the Christians tonight.
And those of you who have seen, those of you with eyes to
see, who have seen the reality, you've seen Jesus with
naked boy.
Maybe this is something you could step up with.
Next time they try to ram them down your throat, tell them,
give me the snakes.
Give me the snake venom.
I want to know what my Lord and Savior was doing with that
naked boy.
I guarantee you, if you tell your Christian relative this,
it's going to end the conversation.
It's going to end the conversation.
I, right now, am trying to figure out how to bring this
information to the public in a way that they won't just walk
away as soon as they hear it, because that's what happens.
It happens in regular conversation, and it happens
in interviews.
You start talking about Jesus as naked kid.
You start talking about Paul being a junkie.
You start talking about John with his penis-shaped cup.
You start talking ancient bonk at ritual, and people get
scared, and they run.
They run.
So we have to have a platform to bring this to people so
that they can see it.
They have to be able, it's the museum.
We've got to bring it back.
Let's go.
I'm taking, I want to take you to the priest here.
I just want you to look at the first two lines here.
Look at the first two lines.
Yeah, we're talking about a kid now.
We're talking about vipers, these terrible biding vipers,
right?
And so this is kind of sandwiched in the work of a priest
of Apollo.
And you say, what is a priest of Apollo?
Pion, right?
Pion the healer.
Did you ever wonder why the Christ is the great physician?
Did you ever wonder that?
Jesus was a doctor.
Where did he get his dead?
Was he down in Egypt, went to medical school?
