I'm sorry, it gets me gassed though
What does this have to do with the Bible?
Devils only give me another quarter of an hour
So what does this have to do with the Bible?
Let's run to the text now
Chewie, get us quick to a star system that has the next set of quotes in it
Here we go, perfect, nice
Look at this, here we are in the sixth month of her pregnancy
That's Mary, Mary, I told you this had something to do with the Bible
Joseph came from his house building and went into the house to find her swelling
And he struck his face and threw himself on the ground and sandcloth and wept bitterly
How can I look to the Lord God?
What will I pray about her for?
I took her as a virgin from the temple of the Lord and did not guard her
Who has set this trap for me?
Who did this evil in my house?
I want to come back to this but I want to stop there and just comment on it
You see what's happening, he's saying, who came in and raped my virgin?
Somebody came in and raped my virgin, I'm in trouble now, I'm supposed to be guarding this virgin
And as she's pregnant, who did this?
Who stole this virgin from me and defiled her?
Has not the story of Adam been repeated with me?
For while Adam was glorifying God, the serpent came and found Eve alone and deceived her and defiled her
So it's happened to me.
Did you hear what he just said?
He's saying that Eve was entered into sexual intercourse with, you know who, serpent himself
Everybody knows he's the hottest, you didn't know that all of Genesis came down to one fact
That Eve saw the hotter of the two choices and ended up having intercourse
Now this doesn't strike me as odd, it does a lot of people that Eve would be having sex with the devil
Right, but we know that the devil used to scrape his skin and put it in her water
Yeah, isn't that cool?
Now if you were covered in paint and psychedelic paint and you were going to influence someone
To try to bring that sting of air off to them?
Right, that's why we have air off in front today
If you're going to try to bring that sting to them, you can do it with a drug
You can do it
Isn't that, that's hasperous, gorgeous, gorgeous, right?
That evening star
We all know, what did people say?
Hey, Neil and Derek, you guys have a lot of shows with experts and I talk a lot about the devil
Now once, have I heard any of these people talk about how hot the devil was?
The devil was the best looking of everybody
This is a doneness for a reason
Do you see it?
Do you see the morning star?
Now I'm giving you the images that those of you who have ears to hear will be able to know exactly where we are
Okay, let's go, next quote, we've got to hustle through this
And the High Priest said to her, Mary, what is this?
How have you humiliated yourself? Did you forget the Lord your God?
You were raised in the Holy of Holies and received from the hand of an angel? Wait, what?
Yeah, it looks at the Greek, it's very the same thing
It's literally you're nourished, you were grown
You were grown in the Holy of Holies, not just the temple, it doesn't say the temple
In what the Greeks called the Ataton, the inner space where you met with the God
That's where she was raised
That's where she was raised, she made the purple and the scarlet dies for the threads
Beautiful, beautiful, okay, that's the same quote we need to
You heard their songs and danced before them, what?
You heard their songs and danced before them?
