Hera wants you to go on the Argo
because she doesn't want you to sit at home with your mommy.
Living an Ion that is without danger.
Living an Ion that is without danger.
Now, what's funny is further down the line,
a la evi caitanatoy.
Despite the death, even against death,
they should go to find what?
To find a Calystone Pharmacon.
To find the best, most beautiful drug.
Wait, the most beautiful drug?
Yes, the most beautiful drug.
What kind of drug?
A drug, aretas.
The most beautiful drug of virtue, of arete.
You know, you can't get that if you're sitting at home
with your mommy, says Medea.
It's good stuff.
You gotta love it.
You don't realize this stuff is written by women, right?
They're like, oh, all the literature we have is,
no, it's not, no, it's not, it's not all men, right?
There's great stuff out there, great stuff out there.
Anyway, and yes, did you notice?
What are they on the journey for?
They're on the journey for the Pharmacon.
They want that drug, that drug that leads to virtue.
So they go and kidnap Medea.
It's logical, right?
Right, she's a source.
Okay, so what I wanna do next is,
I wanted you to see that within its context.
And now I wanna go to, yes,
I guess we're going to pull up Jung now.
Let's get Jung, before we do,
can you just show the folks Jung?
And I want you to, I just want you to thank Redbook
or leave her to know him.
Now what's, and what, shut up Jung.
Read it, just read it before he, just okay,
put the text up, let's just do this.
Here we go, are you guys ready?
We're gonna be transformed.
Why is Philemon a magician?
Oh, look, it's got the root of Ammon in it.
Yeah, that's nice.
Does he conjure up immortality for himself?
Jung is listening, do you see what happens?
Jung is listening to you.
He's watching you, I told you.
Is he conjuring up immortality, a life beyond?
He was probably only a magician by profession.
And he now appears to be a pension magician.
Speak, you old fool, speak.
Who has retired from service?
I'm not that old.
He's desirousness and creative drive.
And this, do you know why I beat him now?
Now you know why I beat Jung.
I know, every once in a while it feels good.
Yes, his desirousness and creative drive have expired
and he now enjoys his well-earned rest
out of sheer incapacity.
Like every old man who can do nothing else
than plant tulips in water, his little garden.
The mat, okay, now here's where, just give it to us.
Give it to us, you dirty old man.
You dirty old man, I'm gonna tell him
what you did to your patient.
How old was she?
You creep.
Jung, the magical rod.
Now get ready, get ready for, you know,
this is the big stuff, okay, of all of you esoteric people.
Anybody who's interested in the magic and the necromancy,
watch what's going to happen.
This is gorgeousness and gorgeosity all together.
