He's got a bra on.
Why?
I told you, Fane's was the bi-gendered one.
Nobody ever believes me in that.
But look, here is Jesus, right?
We're talking about Jesus.
And it says in that very time
with that first line, prostos mastos, right?
Zonen, he's got the zonen, he's got the bra
and it's around his mastos, right?
It doesn't say it's around his stern, his chest.
It says it's around his breast.
It's around his breast.
And this zonen is a very important thing.
It's a ceremonial thing worn by priestesses
who are collecting the cirrus exudate
from their breasts for the sake of ritual use.
Yeah, Jesus is wearing one in the apocalypse.
Jesus is wearing one, can you believe that?
Okay, and it's anyway, verse 14, and his head, right?
He's got white hairs on his head and they're white,
like a lamb and yeah, he on like the snow
and his eyes are the flocks poros, right?
Fire, it's that eruption of fire, the flocks.
Oh, it's got so much meaning.
He's the one that you can't see, but appears.
Oh, this is fantastic.
And his feet are like bronze.
Why does he have the bronze feet?
Because she has the bronze feet.
If I show you the vampire text that I have,
if I show you the vampire text from Mike Maroulas,
who's the buddy of Vlad, the impaler,
in his perfect, perfect cult Latin, by the way,
which in 1450 or whenever he wrote this,
maybe it was before then, but for the time,
that was the most outstanding Latin
and way too close to the cult to not be
right in the big darn middle of it.
But he will tell you, and it's him to I turn it off,
he brings you the ion.
Yeah, why?
Because he's the guy who knows the purple, right?
And they use the purple, remember the wings of purple
right before the, in the Oracle of Medea.
You guys have to read this stuff.
You love it.
Pindar, Pythianodes.
Okay, let's go on with the apocalypse.
And having in his right hand, what did he have?
He had the Asteris Heptai, he had the seven stars.
Yeah, and from his stomatos, from his mouth came what?
A very sharp sword.
Yeah, very sharp.
Yeah, distomos, cutting two ways.
Woo, that's sometimes rendered as two edges, the double edge,
but it literally says cutting two ways.
Anyway, and yeah, so he's got a star in his face,
his opus, his expression, his glare with that light
that comes out of your eyes, these are all magic.
This is magic physics, right?
Yeah, what is it?
What is this glare?
It's like the Helios.
Oh, okay, wait a minute, now we're getting close to it.
Can you smell the sorcery?
Can you smell the drugs?
Can you smell what's going on in the text, right?
He's got the bronze feet and all that kind of stuff.
He's got all the witchy stuff there from the PGM, right?
From the magical papyri, he's got it all.
And he's also got the power of the sun, right?
Who is the granddaughter of the sun?
Who wears the breastband that collects the galene?
Who is she?
The Medwa, the Medea, the Medea.
Or when you look in the mirror and you face Edim.
