Yeah, what ground are we treading here?
We're treading here the mysteries.
And we're looking at the Ion, let's images of Ion.
Images, where are they?
Bring them up, love it, love it.
Just keep bringing them up, forgive me,
forgive me and just keep whatever you can bring up of Ion.
Yeah, you'll notice the snake association,
you'll have the robot ulcers here for all of you cats
who were interested in the dark side of the esoteric.
You'll know the images that are there,
for those of you who've been somewhat initiated.
Yeah, you'll know, you'll recognize,
you'll begin to recognize them.
Show them the serpent, right?
The serpent around Ion, right?
AKA Faneis, Faneis.
What is going on with the language?
It's the same divinity, right?
Faneis, bring them up, Faneis.
Oh, take feast your eyes on this guy, right?
With the serpent around him, he's got the wings.
Oh, you gotta love it.
Does anybody smell Saturn?
Yes, you should, because this is Saturn.
Hail Satan.
Judaism and Christianity are the children of Satanism.
Yeah, the children of Satanism.
Yeah, yeah.
There he is for you, there is Ion.
And if you go into the synagogues in Israel,
from the first, from the second and first BC,
the first and second Anno Domini,
you're gonna find Ion, you're gonna find Ion.
The worship of Saturn.
Love it, love it, love it.
It's good stuff, it's good stuff.
So, as we, I just wanna hit a couple more texts with you,
but as we wrap up then, come full circle,
this Ionic life is a part of the mystery.
The initiate who enters death
and is brought back to life is born again.
Yeah, yeah, you're born again.
Uh-huh, and that Ionic life is the state
that the initiate enters.
It is not the word eternal.
And the mistake comes through Latin.
It's the church pushing it, I will,
and what I will means,
and whether it means I turn it to us and it doesn't.
The Ion, Saturn, is outside of Kronos.
Wait, what?
Yeah, Kronos, time.
The Saturn, Satan is outside of that time.
Yeah, it is only by the castration of Uranos
that anything proceeds.
He has set that time.
Mm, I'm first and last, apocalypse.
Here we go, are you ready?
Here's the funny thing,
this Fane's Ion is bi-gendered, it's dual, dual-gendered.
Yeah, yeah, feast on that guys
with your serpents on your poles.
Feast on that, right?
Oh, gotta love it.
Bring the apocalyptic chapter in here.
I wanna, this is from the beginning of the apocalypse.
We're gonna go right there.
I'm gonna bring it up on my screen here
so it's easier on my old eyes.
Yes, mm, fantastic.
In Mesoi ton luchnion homoion huion antropon.
In the middle of these lamps was this dude
who was very much like the son of man.
Yeah, he's dressed all the way down to his feet, right?
And he's got this girdle thing
that's a bra, yeah.
