And then he says something really weird because Paul is high. He's high right now. Did you know he's high? He's high. He's describing visions he has. Visions.
These are visions that are caused by the messenger of Satan. Are you ready? I don't know. He says whether it was in body. I don't know whether it was out of body.
Only God knows. Only God knows. But this guy was pulled all the way up into the third uranos. Next one. Wait, what? The kid that you're with was pulled into the uranos? How do you know?
How do you know when the kid that you're with, okay? How do you know that he's entered into that, into that area?
Facial expression. You are bringing out pan within the person. You are causing that possession through your drug sex act.
Yeah. It is a brilliant form of control of ancient cultural control. And this stuff comes from the Bronze Age people. It's when they're developing it. Now, it may have, it may have happened prior, but we don't have any records of it.
We do from the Bronze Age sorcerers. We know what they were doing and what kind of boy slaves they were making and what kind of prostitution they were pushing. We know what kind of drugs they were using.
And we know what people were saying at least about what they were doing.
Because we have that literature. We have that evidence. And remember, this is hundreds of years before the Bible ever existed.
Okay. So this is the real that we're looking at. Let's go to the text one more time. And again, I appreciate your time. He was taken up next one to the third heaven. Okay.
What is that? Yeah, let's keep going. I'm going to check that with the next text. And I knew a man. I know this guy, Ryan. Well, I don't know whether in mind or body. I don't know. He says it twice.
He's, wait, Paul, your visions, they're either they can be out of body, of course, of course, he's taken up in the spirit. He's taken up in the spirit. When Jesus sees uranos crack open, right?
And you're standing there on the shore. You're standing there on the shore with the baptism. And he comes out of the water and the stuff John is giving him has allowed him to see uranos open.
It's in that cup. Did you drink out of the phallus shaped cup that the satirist juvenile tells us about? Did you drink out of that Jesus? Is that why you're seeing uranos the way you are? Is that is that why you can do this?
You know, are you just the one who's requiring the awa? Is that what you need? Jesus. Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ. What is going on text? Let's go back to text.
Okay, before we get to dizzy next one, these are the last couple. And yeah, so what happened to his boy? Now, what happened to his boy or the anthropon? What happened to him? He was hot?
