People, we got to take the humble route. Let's go back to the source. I'm going to show you something. I'm going to show you the poisoning. I'm going to show you the attempt to turn Adam into a slave of the Curios.
Are you ready? Are you ready? This is a real, this is a real mystery thing. Did you see Moses sitting there right next to the Muses? Did you see him? Let's go. Here we go. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, people. This is for the people among you. And I know you're out here. A lot of you are like this. You're the smart ones. I want you to figure out this has a little game going on in the Greek here.
You know, it's explaining to you the way that we drive the name for woman, the Greek name for woman, which is Gunay. Gunay. And it says that name Gunay is derived from the fact that she was taken, that she was taken from him, taken from him.
Okay, just conceptually, hang in there with me. She was taken from him. So wait a minute. This, this word Gunay, this word Gunay, the word for woman, it's got to be, does it say taken from man? No, it doesn't.
So the phrase is nonsensical. What about if it's in Hebrew? What about if it's in Hebrew? What about if it's in Hebrew? I can hear you. I feel your energy. I know you're out there. I feel you.
It doesn't work in Hebrew either. Hebrew is just Isha. Right? All you do is put a feminine on the, on the root. There's no taking out of, there's no word coming from it. But now remember this text, this Bible is written in the third century.
Third and second and maybe even first in the third century. So what do we expect to happen? We expect for it to reflect learning from the third century and customs and culture. And guess what it does? It does precisely bring it up again.
Chewie, bring it up again. She was taken from the man. Where do, how are we going to make this thing make sense? How are we going to, because it's the linguistically it doesn't, they call her Gunay because she was taken from them on it.
No ish from ish. Ah, no. But if you go back to Etruscan, what? Etruscan, Pulaskean, the old stuff. Watch this. You know where Hephaestus comes from? That old stuff. Lucifer, the old stuff. The old stuff. Are you, are you kidding me? This is worship.
Oh my God. Bring up the next one. Bring it up. Look what happens, people. Look what happens. This is the word, we at all go. We at all go in Latin and it literally means led from the man, led from the weir. It means that if it were this word, it would make complete sense.
Well, what is this word? This is the word for a heroic maiden. A what? A female warrior. A female warrior. You see any female warriors? Right? We got them. We got them too. I've seen them. They say they make better snipers than anyone. Yeah? We're all go. We're all go. They all let them control everything too. You know what I mean? Because I'll bet you. I'll bet you a few of these as generals would be outstanding.
Love it. Love it. We at all go. We at all go. Okay. Let's keep, keep. How is that a trust getting in there? You tell me. You tell me we're reading a book that you didn't realize. See how you trampled over this just like I did? You just walked over it with King James. You just walked over it with that Hebrew Masoretic text because the Hebrew Masoretic text didn't know how to render that
pleasurable sex garden. It didn't know. Should we? No. And that's how stuff gets buried in history. That's how stuff gets buried within texts. This is the advantage of being in classical
philology. This is not a recruitment, but this is the advantage of classical philology. It gives you access. It gives you access to the sources and you figure out. You read them. You read a hundred other sources around them and then you figure out what the vocabulary is doing. It's logic and science, bro. It's not voodoo, right? Logic and science. This is the, trying to bring back this presocratics, bro. Let's keep going. Let's keep going.
Yeah. What happens here? Yeah. So look, nobody's around for Adam that is a Boethos. He's got nothing. What is a Boethos? This is what he needs that God makes for him, that God makes for him.
