Okay, he was snatched. You ever been snatched? The harpies are snatchers. Harpies are snatchers. Yeah, they are beautiful too. Don't let them tell you they're ugly. Right? That is a modern misconception.
The snatchers came and got them. They came and got them and they took them to where? They took them to the Garden of Edom. They took him to paradise. They took him to paradise. Why did they take that boy to paradise? Does anybody?
Does anybody smell the cult? We've all been here, right? We all watch this ceremony. Eye to eye. You guys know this. We've seen these sources. We know what's going on. This kid there. What is he doing? He is receiving the things that are not to be repeated.
Wait, what? These are the things that we cannot talk about. These are the things that if you are a mystery initiate, you do not talk about. Now, I'm going to make a personal appeal. Why don't you flood your minds with images? I'm going to make a personal appeal to those of you out there who have suffered this silence, who have been forced to remain silent,
not to speak about things because these things are the things that we who are initiated keep quiet.
And there's a certain place that you just can't go. We've been there. We've been there with Jesus. Yeah, we've been there with Moses.
And now, unfortunately, we're on our way back. We're on our way back. Tonight, I'm hoping that you are beginning to see that the lace days is not just the robber.
I'm hoping that you're beginning to see that the cult of the mystery as it develops in the Bronze Age, that that cult is a cult that involves sex, drugs, children, and Jesus Christ, who was arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4 a.m.
Screaming. I am not a trafficker. I am not a trafficker. This book that you thought was so holy. It was, but it wasn't yours. No, it doesn't belong to you.
This book is a Greek work from the third century. And it has within it some of the greatest gems of this mystery initiation in this mystery. Right.
God, the courier from the very beginning was establishing the mystery of the oracular fire. Who is this ion? Who is this ion? And will he be castrated?
Thank you for coming tonight. Friday, I'll be at Lady Babylon on discourse. I appreciate your time. We will return to lace days part two on the night before we can enter into that inner sanctum. Thank you and Hail Satan.
