Many of you will want to take it.
Many of you will want to take it.
Many of you will be able to complete it.
All of you, all of you should.
As long as you have the desire.
It's up to me to push you through the program
so that you can get to the other side.
Doesn't matter what your IQ is,
doesn't matter how smart or how stupid you are.
We all start out the same place, ignorant of ancient Greek.
Yeah.
If you want to be part of a very distinguished group,
a group that includes people like Thomas Jefferson.
A group that includes some of the greatest minds, Sappho.
You want to sit with Sappho.
You want to be in her club.
This is the avenue for you to access that.
This is Wednesday night.
This will be on YouTube.
On YouTube, good question, thank you.
It'll be on YouTube, why?
Because the devil said, you know how it is, Omen.
You know, it's like, you know how it is, Omen.
When you get in this game, the contract says,
you want the knowledge?
Can't take any money for it.
You can't get rich off it.
You can't sell it.
Yeah, fantastic.
I'll make my own way.
I'll pay for my pizza.
I'll do it, people.
I don't want you to pay for my pizza.
So this channel, Lady Babylon, will never be monetized.
It will never be monetized.
I can guarantee you will never watch commercials.
And what we have to do is break the algorithm.
We break the algorithm because not taking money
is not acceptable in the world of the profit makers.
That is what we're here to break.
We're here to break that system.
Does Omen have a Patreon?
No, no, aren't she?
I do not do that.
I cannot do that, aren't she?
I can't.
The contract will be broken.
Satanic contract right out the window.
There's one thing Satan hates.
He hates greed.
He hates greed.
Oh, God, in humans.
Oh, God, humans are so for it.
It's like we breathe it.
Oh, my God.
So no, I would love to see us break the system.
Oh, what?
That's amazing, on YouTube.
Yes, the nut, I think that's me,
will not be sacrificed for the flower.
No monetization, no corruption.
Thank you very much.
You got it, HT.
You got it, you got it.
Give me the next comment that I pulled up
because that's guiding us as we're going through our talk.
Now, Wednesday night will not be presented
in the same way that Lady Babylon, Friday,
or the Bed of the Muse on Sunday will be presented.
This Sunday presentation is just you and me and the Muse.
This is our time.
This is our time to relish.
There's gonna be no arguments.
There's gonna be no, none of us,
none of, no controversy.
We don't need that.
What do you need to do if you're going to enlist?
Go ahead, put it up, Chewie.
Here is the bad boy.
I have taught with many, many Greek texts.
This intensive course is the best.
And why is that?
Because I took it in a second.
I think it was second or third year that they started it.
You know what I mean?
And I went to Berkeley and took this intensive course.
This was Hanson and Quinn who made this.
This is the second revision.
So make sure you get that second revision.
And I've used this with students and I can tell you,
I have the greatest success from this text.
And if I push you, take it down, like a drill sergeant,
people rise to the occasion because people want this.
People want to excel.
And what this is is elite training for your brain, right?
I'm not going to stuff your head full of facts.
I can't.
I'm going to give you the machinery of the ancient Greek
and that will reshape and remold your brain.
They can take your CAT scan beforehand,
or your PET scan, give that guy a PET scan.
Wait a while until he's done.
Give him another one.
Oh my God, look, he's lighting up.
He's lighting up.
That's the power of the language.
And you will be humbled by that constantly.
For those of you who have the desire to jump into that stream,
for those of you who have the calling,
I'll be waiting on Wednesday nights for one hour.
And I'll push you through the program.
