You know what an agri-anathon are?
They are your jaws that are wild with frenzy.
What comes from these virgins
who have the frenzy jaws?
I-nigma, oh, listen to the meter.
I-nigma, I-nigma, I-nigma, I-nigma.
That's a dactyl, long, short, short, right?
Oh, God, why?
Because the sphinx, you thought the sphinx was a cat,
was like a human head, seriously?
No, no, no, these are Syrian tribes
and these are women who are governors, Medusa, right?
And what traditions are they pushing?
They're pushing the venom traditions.
What do we cry when we cry iobacos, right?
Why do we cry?
We cry i-o, we cry i-o.
Could you tell me what the i-o is?
Give me the last, it was the whole bunch of things.
There's enigma, it's the whole bunch of last things
that we, hang on, we skip these.
Now we gotta go back, we gotta go back.
Look at this, oh, here's one, iadzo, right?
Same route, to cry aloud, to cry aloud.
Here's another one, i-a, oh my, what is the route
when you're crying i-o, right?
Heal, we are healing.
What are we using?
We're using that violet-covered stuff.
And what else?
The ios, the poison as of serpents.
Mad dog, venom, mad dog, venom.
You wanna go deadly nuts?
Take this virus, what?
Virus, virus is the Latin term.
And it's got a diagram in it
because the Mycenaean Greeks were so into drugs.
Okay, let's keep going up.
Ios, what is the Ios?
It's an arrow, people.
Remember we're talking about poison arrow using cultures,
marauders, sphinxes who come in and say,
give us 12 virgin boys.
What, what do you want?
You don't want taxes?
Nope, money's no good.
They want virgin boys, fantastic.
Okay, well here we go, round up your kids.
For those of you who don't like pirates,
like Julius Caesar, you can hunt them down.
You know, somebody asked me,
I thought this was a brilliant question.
They asked me, you can take it down.
They asked me, they said,
what happened between Caesar and the pirates?
I said, Caesar got abducted.
He was pissed that they were asking too little for ransom.
And then when he ransomed them,
when he got ransomed, he came back with a fleet
and he insisted that these guys be put to death, right?
So he crucified them all.
It looked like they were gonna get away with it.
You know, there's a lot of stuff going on.
The pirates were kind of a buffer zone against the Romans.
So people were using them and somebody asked me,
why crucified?
I said, because they weren't thieves.
You don't crucify thieves or bandits.
You find them.
Yeah, you find them.
They may spend some time in jail, but you find them.
That's not what you do.
That's not what you do with a laystace
when Jesus said he was a laystace, right?
I mean, he said he wasn't, sorry.
He said he wasn't a laystace, right?
They came out against him with the big weapons.
That's what we're looking at.
We're looking at that type of person.
That's the type of person we crucify.
Didn't you notice there was a mob there?
Did you ever wonder that?
There's a mob there.
Why is it so many people hate Jesus all of a sudden, right?
Because it was a problem.
It was a problem.
What those organized traffickers,
basically child prostitution is what they were pushing.
But you can't really call it child prostitution
because it was also, it was a range of ages.
But to us, it would be technically child prostitution
because they're picking the age groups, right?
That are just pre-puberty to post-puberty.
I'm thinking of it as, you know,
they're kind of farming humans, right?
So yeah, that's, people were not happy.
And you go after those guys with big weapons.
And that's why Jesus is saying what he's doing.
Okay, let's go to the last two.
I wanted you to see too,
that Io also is connected with the moon
and the person of Io who is an Argyve princess, right?
Oh, daughter of Enochus.
And that is why the Bacchians are called Enochian.
Yes, oh, the women, right?
Io, think of Io.
Great, fantastic.
Give me the last two.
Watch this, pull up the Bible here and what happens?
Simon Peter answered him and said,
Su ei ho Christos.
