you are not part of those born of the ion.
Do you understand me?
Right?
No, you don't.
Because you haven't been through initiation.
We didn't kick you over to the other side.
You didn't see what was there.
You didn't come back.
And now you're full of the knowledge
of what the actual universe is.
Yeah, eyes open, ended up naked.
Why do we always come back naked?
If there was another way to get the drug
that wasn't so efficient, trust me, we would do that.
But for now, shh, shh, just shh, okay.
It's why they give them sedatives.
Oh, God.
Okay, bring it up one more under the Christ.
I just want to see under the Christ right there.
I want you to notice that the Christ here
on that one, two, three, four, five, six line down.
I want you to see, what is that Christ doing?
That Christ is mustipolo, chrionto, pareia leucadic yupsui.
What?
What?
What kind of drug is this that they're using?
It's a mystic drug.
It is, what does that mean?
That's a drug that is used within a mystery right.
You mean they have their own classification for drugs
that are used in mysteries?
Yes, they do.
Yes, they do.
You mean I thought just this week,
I woke up like Dan and I thought Jesus Christ
was some kind of special thing,
that term Christ was some kind of special thing.
It was Jesus made up or was given to Jesus
to the sacred and inerrant word of God gave to Jesus.
And you mean that is an older title,
a concept that's not at all unusual,
that we all know what it means and it's pharmaceutical?
Yes, salvation is pharmaceutical.
How do you think you get ionic life?
You will lift up serpents, you'll lift them up,
you'll drink.
I'm Jesus, I'm doing my Jesus impression.
You'll drink the death inducers,
but they will not harm you.
Oh, Jesus wants me to drink death inducing drugs.
Jesus, I love you so much.
Oh God, it's all that arrow stuff.
I thought it was the arrow stuff, let's take them there.
We got the arrow, come on, give me the next one.
We're going fast tonight people because
this is the sacred bed, man.
This is Hera, we protect this environment.
I just want you to notice the people that are doing this
on line 732, the Omegeras Politae.
Who are the people who are involved
in the Bacchic ritual that you're watching?
These are citizens, these are citizens who work together.
That's what the Bacchic initiation is.
Servants who work together, and what do we do?
We get into these groups.
Are you ready to get a chorus going?
Are you ready to get a chorus going to purge the state?
Get your mask on.
Get your mask on, did you wonder why they wore masks
in tragedies?
Because they are Bacchic celebrations,
they are Bacchic rituals.
The priest of Bacchus sits right up front.
Make sure that nothing is done incorrectly.
They say that stuff that you put on your face now
is going to be able to combine with the purple.
And strangely enough, it may make the goop
that's on Jesus's face when he's got that bandage
wrapped around that little boy's private parts
and through which he is drawing the child's galene,
the antidote to that combination of the purple
with the venoms that he has impregnated
in that linen wrap.
It's a chemical right.
Salvation is a chemical process.
What you see today is nothing
what original Christianity was.
Nothing, it's not even close.
It's a laughing stock.
Yes, oh my goodness.
Didn't you think she would come back?
Didn't you think Lady Babylon would come back?
Ryan, what do you think she,
what do you think the whole deal is?
Let's see the next one and we're done.
Let's see the next one.
Nope, yeah, the next Greek text.
Maybe that one.
Yeah, go ahead.
Chewy randomized this thing.
Here we go.
Who do we need people for this cult?
Now let's just call the name of the God.
Let's just call them.
What are they doing?
Remember, we're watching them.
We didn't even have the ship take off today.
We just went right there.
Here they are.
We're watching a Bacchic ritual, right?
Who are we calling on?
