Solo
Another drip from the glow and chalice
Glow and chalice, a trading venom
High purple, volume 211
When Tia hits you with a ticket to heaven
Open trends, bring her back from the dead
IMB, darkness through dreams
Everything in what it seems
Drake the snake, I got some magic beans
Riding horse back, I'm with my Diaz team
Everything I see is cream, straight from the bang
Up the dragon, the track's bump, it is the thing
Athena knows my slang, in the dark harbor
The drugs weigh a ton, Kachanga Lane
Creed Moore hit the mark, bang, bang
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
Empty Christ prescription, trading venom
Illins, glow and chalice, a trading venom
High purple, volume 211
When Tia hits you with a ticket to heaven
Open trends, bring her back from the dead
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
We're here to save the children, the museum we're building
I know you guys like this stuff
Oh written out right in front of you without somebody feeding you ideas and theories
But just straight up reason establishment cause straight up sources
That's all we need cause nobody's here for my ideas
Ride, I don't have anybody ask me
Do you have some ideas? No. I don't have ideas
I've got texts though, if you wanna talk texts
I want to start with a comment! Bring up this first comment
Go ahead Chewy! Bring us up this first comment
Brain sees salvation from salway.
Now, Amen Christ makes more sense to me.
Thank you, Eric.
Thank you, Eric.
You're right.
You're right.
And if anybody, if anybody's listening, buried here,
buried here is just a faint wind,
a faint wind of the sacred name.
Fantastic, that's that hidden name.
Shh, don't tell anyone.
Hit the next one.
Oh, goodness, a five minute video would suffice.
Would it?
Would it?
I wish Amen would talk about Christus
as used in spiritual context and hear his explanation
why he doesn't agree with that.
You want to hear what?
You want me to explain something?
I don't agree or disagree with anything, person.
I don't.
I'm a goober.
I don't agree with anything or disagree,
but since you want to see what a real Christing is,
I need you to know, I'm a goober,
that there is no separation and antiquity
between the religion and the salvation and the health.
The drugs are all a part of it.
And I know it's rough for you to consider.
I mean, it's probably rough for you to consider
that God is a woman, right?
People are shocked, by the way, if I can just say this,
the word for God, theos, is not a masculine form.
The oldest references we have to it,
it can be both masculine and feminine.
The concept of feminine divinity,
which is entirely lacking in the modest traditions,
was a basic part of language of ancient Greek.
So you got to get that into your head right now.
You got to be fully happy to appreciate
the fact that God is a she, fantastic.
Boy, that'll give him a hard time, won't it?
Let's hit the next one.
Oh my God, where's the best place to learn ancient Greek?
This brings us to the next point.
Thanks for your clarity.
Thank you, yes, on the real.
It's fantastic to experience, yeah, fantastic.
I'm glad you, it's because people have been asking
and I have been trying to devise mechanisms.
First, I donked to the wealthy and I said,
wealthy, give me some.
And they said, we got nothing for you
because you can't accommodate.
Oh God, where can I build my spring?
Where can I guard the temple of the muse?
I turned away from the rich.
And then I thought I could do it myself.
And I got an email from several of you
saying the same thing.
I can't afford to pay for any kind of classes or anything,
but I'm really interested in this material.
It's to those people, the devil eventually convinced me.
It's to those people that we owe this right, this privilege.
So what I am announcing tonight
is it's starting Wednesday night.
I'm in university, we'll open on Lady Babylon.
Now, over 20 weeks, I will take you through
an intensive course in ancient Greek, 20 weeks.
And what we will do is we will get people enlisted
and through basic training.
