Take me to that happy hour I never had Show me the girl I never met, I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace Where is that hawk called destiny
I think she ran on without me
Hey, thanks for coming back to Lady Babylon.
We have our Wednesday night Bible study, and tonight's topic will be a little bit dark
and spooky.
We're going to look at some coded language within myth that is used in cult, cults with
vampires.
In order to warm up tonight, I thought I would introduce a new segment.
It's called testimonials, and I'm so humbled at the responses that people have had to the
material that I thought it would be important for you to hear their voices, or to hear your
voices.
I'm going to ask these people all the same questions, and if I didn't get you in tonight,
don't worry, it's because the question wasn't yours.
The question that we have tonight is, how has reason freed you from a cult?
But reason got me out of the web of the Churchianity that had been strung around it, so I reasoned
out of that, and just saw the flaws in it and understood the worship of the Bible, which
is what Christianity is, it's the false God, alright?
Because they want every word to be true, they want, somehow God is exonerated because the
Bible is true, and when you realize all the holes in that, that is reasonable.
And that got rid of that side.
So I was left on my own to discover this, and so my family encouraged me, they're like,
well, we ain't going to tell you what to do, but try to go to a church.
And so I went to some several churches, and I had a bad experience at a Catholic church,
where I remember where they wanted to baptize me.
It took me in a back room, and I ran out, I remember being like 12 years old.
It was some years later that once the family situation got cleaned up, and all the bad
kids, the older siblings were in jail and have you, my father converted to Jehovah Witness,
and they would come over to the house, and I had long hair then, because I was rock and
roll, and they used to tell me, you got to cut your hair, you got to shave your head,
you got to cut your hair.
And I showed them the magazine, the Watchtower Track Society, they would have these little
magazines they'd bring, the Jehovah Witness, and I said, well, Jesus had long hair, and
I showed them the picture, and I go, why can't I be like that?
And they said, well, that was different.
And that's what set me off on my study of what is Christianity, who is Jesus, and where
do these books come from?
So yeah, basically what happened with me is, as a young person in high school, I got involved
with evangelical Christianity through youth groups and through friends, and I became very
heavily involved into that religion and way of thinking, and it became quite abusive.
And even after I left because of abuse that was happening, I was still in that kind of
mindset for a long time, and it wasn't until I got into academia, and I went to the roots
of these texts, like in the Bible, and I realized what these people were telling me was wrong,
and that they were lying, and I started to embrace this reason approach, and I started
to think about and face reality as it is, and I realized that for me, the reason why
I fell into this trap of abusive religion is because I was looking for some kind of magical
