makes perfect sense if the word we're all girl is used, but it makes no sense either
way in native Greek or in Hebrew.
Now there's no way this Etruscan tradition is coming through the Hebrew.
The words are different, but the words overlap, the roots overlap in Greek.
So what is likely to be happening, your Septuagint, your Greek Old Testament is the original
and it is conveying as Greek does aptly Etruscan ideas.
That's as close as we can get to that original source.
Now you were told that this isn't how the world is put together and you will have somebody
come to you, a Semitic study scholar, and they will throw the 10th century at you.
Yes.
And you can tell them.
You can tell them that you are looking for that original.
That original is the secret of the vampires.
Yes.
It's the secret of those who suck the hyma.
Yeah.
It's the secret that is both medical and individual and personal.
Their secret is a woman.
Yeah.
And that makes me want to make statues dance.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Now that we know the secret of the vampires is a woman.
Let's next time we meet, we're going to traipse through in the Bible study, we're going to
traipse through the Renaissance and we're going to follow those who also followed her.
Isn't this nice?
I want you to see the Saturnian rights through time.
I want you to see the dragons who protected those rights.
I want you to see the order that was established and what exactly the vampires moved into what
they became and what they did and how your history is not a history of Bram writing
about a guy in a box.
There are real, real roots of Dracula out there and these are preserved for us thanks
to the people like Mike who was able to write down perfect, possessed, Orphic Latin hymn
was able to write down exactly for you.
The description of her, yes, beautiful, beautiful.
Have a good night.
Thank you for coming tonight and for all of you who are asking me questions, I'm getting
to my emails.
I'm getting to them as quickly as I possibly can, but I just want you to know again how
nice it is to be conversing with people who are stepping up and who are saying, oh, well,
you know what?
Let's go investigate this.
Go look at this and using their reason.
So thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you for your time tonight, everyone.
