answer.
You know, I was denying the reality that was staring me in the face.
So I think it's a huge important thing that we embrace reason, and we think about and
approach the world from that perspective, like we're looking at things as they really
truly are, because if you don't, you open yourself up to be lied to and exploited, you know.
Thank you so much, everybody who participated in that round of questions.
We'll have more to come in the future.
Tonight, I want to start by turning to the friend, poet, warrior, who created the
hymns that were used in, at a period of time in history when Vlad the Impaler was doing his
thing.
This is Mike Maroulis.
Mike Maroulis, I want to bring in tonight.
He's the first ghost that we bring.
Mike, can you tell me from your century, can you tell me, Mike, where is she?
Where is the Minerva?
I want to go with a little bit of the Etruscan tonight, because we're going to be looking
at some coded language, and I want you to be able to absorb that from the Etruscan.
So let's go to Dracula's Poet Warrior.
Let's go to Dracula's Poet Warrior.
This is Mike Maroulis.
His hymn to the palace.
If we can bring that up, that first reading, please.
Thank you.
Oh, it's gorgeous.
Te te Suprema Maximi Proles Joes in Nupta Palas in Wocco.
Let me take my position here.
Nupta Palas in Wocco, hasta e potente nobiles viraginem, quam forkes asperat ferox, qum multilingue
sibilis quasans kaput prokul profanus submoet.
And with those words, the Orphic Way is begun with purification.
She stands there, this manerva.
She stands there with her many languages and sibilations, just bringing out this tone
that causes all of us to be purified.
It prevents the arrival of what they call the profane, the profane, fantastic.
I want you to go to the next page of this then.
This is the end near the end of the invocation.
This is, I just wanted you to read, this is round line 64.
I want you to just look at line 64 and see the Latin word fanata, fanata.
That should sound familiar to those of you who have ears to hear.
Wait a minute.
He's calling manerva fanata.
No.
I'm not just calling manerva fanata or fanase.
He is invoking the light bringer.
Yes, he is fantastic, fantastic.
E adim virgo, virago, excuse me, mas e adim, e adim furor sapientiakue, e adim et quies.
She is the virago.
