up this clotted blood congealed with in the milk.
That's fine.
You can take it off.
In the milk.
Yes.
Drawing up this clotted blood in the milk, in this act, yeah, gorgeous.
What is happening?
We know the glane is drawn from the breast, so there we have a reference, a balancing
of our dote and our antidote.
Right in the hymn, it's nice that it's right there snug, and in the context of the drugs.
Great.
Now, how do we take this and apply it one step more outward so that what's the utility
of this so that we can see our own reality?
Look here at the top.
It says, Adam said, this is now bone of my bones and sarks of my sarks, flesh in my flesh.
Right.
She will be called Gunay.
She will be called Gunay because from the man she was taken, yeah, yeah, from the man
she was taken from LA thing is the Greek here.
And people will say, wait a minute, wait a minute.
I thought the Old Testament was written in Hebrew, right?
You've been paying those guys in Harvard too much.
You thought it was written in Hebrew, right?
Okay, well, let's see if it was because in the Greek, the idiom doesn't work.
She'll be called Gunay because she was taken from the man, but the man's name doesn't have
anything to do with Gunay.
So why is it saying she'll be she be called this because she was taken from man?
Now, linguistically, it doesn't work out, right?
Okay, must not be written in Greek.
Mm, must be Greek, must be a translation.
That's what we've all thought for so long.
The problem is the Hebrew is Isha.
The ah on the Isha is just a feminization.
It has nothing to do with the verb for pulling out of or coming from.
So once again, it doesn't make sense.
The only language that it makes sense is the Latin that uses the Etruscan, old words.
We find old words in Latin that are from Etruscan, from Etruscan, like paulculum.
That special cup that you drink the ceremony of potion is, that's a paulculum, yeah.
And here we have one as well.
We have a word that's coming through the Etruscan tradition here.
Yeah.
And that is where I go.
And it means from led from man.
Where is man and I go?
The agroot in Latin is the word for leading or driving.
So what's funny is this statement should be called woman because she was taken from man
