She is that masculine, feminine form in its perfection with complete sapientiakue with
that wisdom.
That's her.
This is the person that we, if we are with Vlad, that we are approaching to bring a cleansing,
to bring us to the place that we can establish our templum and its practice.
Yes.
Oh, did anybody smell the Etruscan connections?
And by the way, there's Etruscan bits and pieces all over being spread with the mirrors
looking through the mirrors into both the Asia minor influence, the influence within
modern day, what you call Ukraine, Thrace down into just following the coast, right?
And down into, this all starts with those people on those horses.
So those people on those horses, yeah, yeah, wonderful, wonderful stuff.
And it ends up, it ends up in Romania.
Yes, it ends up in Romania after years just blossoming, blossoming under Vlad.
Well done.
Well done Vlad.
And I might remind you for those of you who can't taste the difference, this is wonderfully
classical Latin, wonderfully.
The Latin surrounding that came before this is terrible.
It's terrible.
It's, oh God medieval Latin, sorry medievalist out there, but I'm a classicist and your
Latin is terrible.
Yes.
You might be good at it.
Don't get me wrong.
You might be good at that terrible Latin.
Okay.
I'd like to go to the next hymn.
We're going to continue on and bring dawn, right?
This is Eos de dawn.
And I just want you to see that in the first two lines, Cluthi Theob, remember the images
that we're putting into your mind are the images of the Thesmaphoria, right?
You're here if you're a man, you're dressed like a woman, so you don't get kicked out.
If you're a woman, you're here because your rights are the oldest.
Oh, and that makes it makes me want to make the goddess dance like every mystic God does.
And that brings us back to the hymn, to dawn.
And here she is in these first two lines.
I just want to read them for you, Cluthi Theothnatois, Faizim Brothon, Himal Agusa.
Oh, isn't that beautiful?
Yes.
What is it about dawn that we must enter into her worship in order to perform this mystery?
It's because she is bringing the mystery itself.
She is that one that brings that light.
She is the one.
Let's go to who follows her?
Who follows light?
