and what else, there's a rock, there's a rock with them.
Wait a minute, you mean the bride
has to be around that rock?
Yes, that's the Greek that I showed you.
That rock goes with the process of the mystery.
Are the Jews performing the mystery?
Yes, are the Christians performing the mystery?
Some of them, right?
Fantastic, the rock is there, one more time, one more time.
Oh, let's just go.
Okay, yeah, and somehow they ended up getting extruded
into the wilderness, but anyhow, things go bad
and God gets mad and people die.
And these things are there for examples for you people.
See, you might know not to have these tendencies
to be able to go into this process of using these drugs
and becoming born again.
You're gonna have to stop doing this, right?
There has to be a real skein here.
There has to be a limiting tent where we can go,
a limiting tent where we can all go, right?
There's gotta be a place, hence Jesus in the temple.
He's reestablishing, he's taking over the Bacchic tradition.
One more time with that verse,
I just wanna see if there's anything there at the bottom.
Yeah, so there's a lot of pornating.
I just want you to see at the bottom,
there's a lot of pornating, right?
And a lot of people get killed for the pornation.
Now you can follow the fairy tale
and you can say something like the ground
opened up and swallowed them.
You can say there was a fairy of death that came down
and caused everybody, I like that one.
I like the fairy of death.
Yeah, it's fun.
I don't read that to my children at night.
It's bedtime story.
The angel of death.
What a terrible job.
Okay, but what happens?
What happens?
These people are pornating, right?
And that's what's the wrecking the problem.
That's why thousands of them are killed.
How many thousands?
A lot of thousands, several thousand, right?
Okay, take it out of here.
Moses is presented by the author of this pistol,
if it's Paul or whoever, who cares?
I don't care if it was the actual junkie.
I know they trust this one,
but if it was the actual junkie Paul or not,
Paul knows the thorn and the flesh.
He knows this.
So he knows that when Moses goes out
and he's with his people and he's getting ready
to build that skeine so that he can have that one right
so that he can control the oracle.
Because if everybody's doing it,
gives us no power.
Why do you think people in the loses kept it secret?
Why do you think their priesthood kept it secret?
Because people went every year to a loses
to be able to have this life-changing experience, right?
It was keeping the territory.
They were guarding the territory.
And Bacchus says in this text, he says,
hey, this isn't that cup that Athena gave you.
This isn't that.
This is the gold of Bacchus, right?
You're about to go there.
This is the right that Christianity emerges from,
makes changes to and then perpetuates
with its own bastardization of the right.
Now, the early church fathers messed up
and had them remove the drugs from the right.
And as Christianity came to power in Rome
and as they found their Trump and Constantine,
they found access to that power.
They then regulated all of the experience
that you would get from the use of a drug,
i.e. idolatry they regulate.
Haven't you ever wondered why modern evangelicalism
and Nancy Reagan go hand in hand?
Haven't you ever wondered why people just say no
and why it's a good religious person doesn't do drugs?
Haven't you ever wondered that?
That is the mechanism of a people
who lived in the third and fourth centuries
trying to get you to have your access cut off.
So much so that now we don't even have
the concept of the drug community.
We don't even have the concept of it anymore.
We're having to rediscover it.
We're having to rediscover it.
Yeah, I want you to be happy tonight
knowing that all of the religions that are around you,
that you're hearing, that you're feeling,
the ones that are propelling you forward,
those religions have an anchor in history.
This is where we're from, people.
We're from this right.
It was this mystery that forged Western civilization.
It was this mystery that creeped across the Atlantic
on some ships and ended up with you and I
celebrating Thanksgiving.
A holiday that Thomas Jefferson said
should never have been a holiday.
Never should the government have supported
a holiday that was a religious holiday.
Why?
Because everybody knows from history
as soon as they take over,
as soon as you have a man, woman, or child
in a Christian office, you will lose your democracy.
You will lose the voice of the people.
You will lose the golden age
that you've managed to bring to the world.
And if you doubt me, the last thousand years will show it.
Have you seen the sacrifice?
Have you seen the children's sacrifice?
They want to make a personal appeal
because on the breasts of a lot of people out there
are let's save the children.
While all of us watch the thousands.
How many is it up to now?
5,000?
6,000?
Imagine 5,000 children slaughtered
on the altar of greed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Justify yourself.
Justify yourself.
Take that to the watchers.
Try sometimes, sitting with a watcher
and try speaking up as if there's something good
about the human race.
Try it.
Thanks for coming tonight.
I will see you next Wednesday
for what is the downhill end
of Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation.
Thank you for coming, Hail Satan.
He never cared for his payment for June
or the worldly renown.
On the day that it came in again,
he just turned it down.
On the way,
why did you ever change your name?
On the way,
why did you ever change your name?
Hey!
