And Ganymede, he said previously, right?
So you must have stolen this stuff, right?
Who took the mixing bowl of the gods, right?
Wow, this is where you are mentally.
Next one, next one.
Tell me, speak.
All right, speak.
Something's gonna come from your stoma.
What's gonna come from your mouth?
What's gonna, we're under the influence
of this sweet potion.
Notice here in the first line, it's not a wine,
it's a potion, it's a drink that's been concocted.
And what happens?
I become Hedumanes.
Look at that, I've got problems in my brain, right?
I'm in mania.
Don't you feel like you're in mania?
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but this is meant, right?
We gotta have the music, we gotta be dancing.
Remember, we're dancing, because people dance
when they're under this influence.
It's half the death metal.
That's why the devil dances.
Sisters of repression and dissatisfaction.
You know you want it.
The people are even commenting that you want it.
Does that satisfy you?
The repression is too much.
The communion allows the Bakant, my class,
to enter into the place where the repression is loosed.
Isn't that nice?
You wanna see the Villa of the Mysteries sometime.
We should all take a field trip to the Villa of the Mysteries.
Yes, right, we should all go transported.
Transported through time and space.
Let's go to the next reference source.
Yeah, oh, where are we?
Look at this, just look at the thing that's underlined.
That's all you gotta know.
Where's my mind going under the influence of the gold?
It's going to Lyssa.
To Lyssa, who was Luce, madness, mania, right?
And it's theiatic mania.
This is specifically Bakic mania.
This is the glorification of the mother.
The virgin who made it with Zeus
to produce the Son of God, to produce the Son of God.
She birthed within the lightning.
Are you ready to see the lightning?
Do you have the oistress on?
Because it's sad, this is giving us the oistress.
It's sad, it's giving us that sting.
Are you ready?
I don't know what Paul said, this stuff was so good.
All right, go to the next one, please.
Yeah, oh, look at this one.
Look at this one, just, ow.
Okay, I got to fill in the blank
for what happened between here.
You can leave it up to you if you want, it's your call.
You have good judgment.
Thanks for all the navigation
and none of this will be possible.
What happens?
So when you're in that oistress,
when you're in that state, something strange happens.
The music and the dancing will focus the group of maniacs
into one machine.
And they will turn on a carious and they will kill him.
Together, they will understand why his death is necessary
and they will kill him in their mania.
And there's a very graphic description of them doing this.
And now here's where you start feeling regretful, right?
They kill him, they pound him with their fists,
they bludgeon him, yeah.
And then they start with a cudgel and aerating him.
It's got a spike on it, a thorn,
and they start aerating him.
And the blood is splashing around.
And this verse says that that blood,
it combined with that dew,
purpleizing the wine, purpleizing it, making it purple.
The blood is absolutely necessary.
You cannot have the mystery without a sacrifice.
Do you wanna see the sacrifice continue?
It's gonna get graphic, that was nothing, okay?
Don't feel bad for the dude, right?
He's the one who was given the gift.
Yeah, he's the one who was given the gift.
This is a God.
This is a God not to be, not to be toyed with, right?
You can't make a deal with the devil and then renege.
You can't, she's just done work.
All right, let's see what Bacchus does.
Are you ready?
I know, a lot of you are like,
oh, I'm not sure I wanna go here, right?
We're going, yeah, sit, love it.
Let's go there to the next one.
Yeah, yeah, they're screaming crazy stuff too.
Crazy stuff too, no, go to the next one.
Oh, this is what I want.
Yeah, that's fine.
I want you to notice that all of this spiraling down,
this mania is a controlled psychosis
that is driven by eros.
This says eros is a prophet,
the one who is the fire.
Okay, unless you are in this state,
you'll never make it to that vision and prophecy.
If you think Isaiah and Ezekiel walked around
with a little notepad and did a little,
no, no, no, they didn't,
those guys were warped out of their minds.
I was standing there on Mount so-and-so
underneath a blank tree and all of a sudden,
the Lord God smacked my nogget
and I ended up in the wilderness.
Right, and the angel standing there,
what did I do?
I bent over and I was urinating on the ground,
you know, in my pants,
because I was so scared and shaking and oh, right?
There's only one way to get there.
This is what the gold is for.
This is what the gold is for.
It allows us to find that place.
That place we can come back from,
yeah, and have a new birth.
Yeah, love it.
Let's go to the next one.
This is poetry people and I want you to notice here.
Remember Carl Rock?
Here's a little tribute to Carl Rock.
I mean, he's still, you know,
I mean, it's nice to tribute like, you know,
gotta email him too, but I'll do it here.
Look,
what is a thuepolos?
It's somebody who leads the thue or thuo,
who leads that sacrifice
that is the burning of the incense.
This is Mr. Fumigator.
He works for Hera and he is Entheos,
my tribute to Dr. Rock coined the word Entheogen, right?
Well, here's Entheos, right there, right?
That priest who is the one officiating that right
who is bringing you to the place
that you need to be brought,
that priest is Entheotic.
They have a connection that you don't understand, right?
Now you can obtain that connection through the mystery
and the Christians would say, this is your demonia.
Exactly, right?
Exactly.
So do you see the drugs are there,
