Lady Babylon in the flesh
The little bits that you give to the goddess
Athena follows Odysseus around
She makes men fulfill their desires
To be worth the woman
Christen was Aphrodisiac
Once you are out producing the theory egg
Watch out your brain will open up
Athena with a purple cup
Cheats you all up, control the crush
You begin the pace, roll the move
As you get better soon, wish you were
Cheats you all up, control the crush
You begin the pace, roll the move
As you get better soon, wish you were
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon
This is Initiating Apocalypse
And I have lined up
A beautiful, beautiful date for us tonight
I want you to have this gift that I'm going to bring you
And I'm going to spring it on you
I'm going to surprise you with it when you see it
That's what I'm going to bring you tonight
Just a little bit of extra, a little bit of extra
Hail Satan everybody, that's right
That's right, blind Lewis
Hail Satan, love it
Thank you for coming back tonight
I want to bring you something that is Lady Babylon
But in order for us to get to her
We have to go through centuries of lies and liars
We've got to cut through what was placed
Over the narrative
We've got to cut through that and get back
Beyond to the original dirt
To the original dirt
And that's what we're going to do tonight
And we're going to at the same time
I want to apologize ahead of time
I'm going to be making
Merciless fun of languages that are inadequate
I'm going to bring you to take you to look at those languages
And their third grade level that got swallowed up
Got swallowed up by this masterpiece of beauty
Number one prize, Ancient Greek
Ancient Greek, you know those apes didn't get any
Didn't get any further than they did
But they did have Ancient Greek
Yeah, yes
1.7 million unique word forms
That's a lot, that's a lot of different thoughts to have
That's a lot of different places to go that we've never been
And it's a continuous swim in this gigantic bottomless lake
You can go as deep as you want
Tonight we're going to go deep
We're going to go deep and we're going to start out here with number one
Hit me with that number one
We're not going to start where you think we're going to start
We're going to start with Wikipedia
This is the first time we're going to be using the entry
Because I want you to see here
What is this entry? It's Nahum, the minor prophet
Right, everybody knows their Bibles
You didn't want Nahum, right?
What does this say about him? Nahum, Hebrew
Really, really?
It was a minor prophet whose prophecy is recorded in the Tanakh
Also called the Hebrew Bible
And the Old Testament, the Septuagint
What does it say? How is it different?
Okay, well tell us, who is this guy?
He wrote about the end of the Assyrian Empire
Oh, really? You really think so?
How are you getting all of this information?
Now pay attention, this person is trying to take you into the back alley
They're trying to pull a quick one on you
And these people who do this, who commit this crime, history, these liars
They do it with these figures like Isaiah
Do you really think Isaiah existed?
No, he didn't
No, he knew anything
None of the writings, none of these people's writings survived
And the funny thing is, that's the only quote-unquote Hebrew that we've got
That's the only
Do you know what this, I'm going to give you something, this is a surprise
But it's not a surprise, I'm bringing it for you particularly
You are dealing with a language that is fake
These texts, the guys copying the stuff
In the case from Qumran, they're copying that from the Greek originals
That language is defunct, it's dead, it's gone
And people are faking it
They're faking it
My God, imagine that
How could we tell? How could we tell that this is happening?
It's all in the language, it's all in the Greek
It's beautiful
So remember, this thing is being written in the third century
And it's being written at the level of, I'd put it like an eighth grade level
Yeah, I put it about there
Yeah, and by the way, this fakery that's happening can be very easily traced
Did you know that the same person who wrote Lamentations also wrote Esther?
Yeah, you can just show it from their language
Now, you couldn't show that before because you thought it was from Hebrew
Which is a later invention from a language that didn't leave any libraries, any literature
Did you know the only ancient Hebrew that you have are from the document that we know is from the third century?
Greece, right? Well, Greek, Egypt
But the area of the world that is actively using Greek
Where Greek is just coming and kicking the life out of the weak languages, weak languages, watch this
We're going to show you some weakness
Give me that next one, watch this people
Nahum's writings could be taken as prophecy or as history
Okay, these writings, those are genres, right?
So no, it's either prophecy or it's history
So two very different things
And these genres have been well established for many centuries by these crazy Greeks
And when I say Greek, all different ethnicities and different types of Greeks
But people who spoke the language that swallowed everything else up
Look at this, Nahum's writings could be taken as prophecy or as history
One account suggests, why does it suggest it?
Because you're making stuff up
One account suggests that his writings are a prophecy written about 615 BC
Just before the downfall of Assyria
Oh, I wonder why we think he's from there because that's what the document says
That we have from the third century
We already have the fricking Septuagint in the third century
Nobody has heard of it before
Nobody, there's no records of any of these fictional characters
None of them
Julius Caesar, what does he want me to say?
He wants me to say he is more real
Do you understand?
Oh my God, watch what happens
The book was introduced in Reformation Theologian Calvin
Who's a murderer commentary as a complete and finished poem
Calvin caused all sorts of death, nice job
How do I know that people? Because I'm a friend of the devil
And every once in a while he shows me the chambers where all of these bastards are being tortured
And it's gorgeous, it's absolutely gorgeous
It's for a prison tour sometime
You'd like it, they used to make a picnic out of that
Odysseus went out just for the sake of going to hell, right?
It's nothing new, nothing new man, going to go see grandpa
Doesn't anybody want to see grandpa? Give me that, blow it up Chewie
What does he say? Now listen to this, this is total silliness
I'm not going to dwell on this, no one of the minor prophets seems to equal the sublimity
The vehemence and the boldness of Nahum
Do you want to know what that vehemence is? He talks about his intro, right?
And he says, look he's got a beautiful, he's got this beautiful ramp
What? Have you read any ancient literature?
This is child's play, it's not just child's play, it's insulting
