and trees. It sounds like Orpheus. It's an Orphic Psalm. And so this character, let's just put up
the screen one more time real quick. And this is the last one. This character, Moseius of Athens,
was the son of Orpheus, who was considered to be, look at this. This is how they describe him.
He is a polymath, a philosopher, historian, a prophet, a seer, a priest, a poet, and a musician.
Who does that sound like? Sounds like Moses, man. It's a lawgiver, all that stuff.
Yeah. One of the stories about him, he came to the, he went to the Phrygians and gave them laws.
So he's a lawgiver too. And he's mentioned about, he's mentioned all these sources, right? And by the
way, if you look at the early Jewish writers, philosophers, and, and this is mentioned in
Eusebius, Preparatio Evangelica. Artipanus of Alexandria, Alexander Polyhistor, Numenius of
Epimea, and it doesn't say it here, but Hecateus of Abdera too, all say that this is Moses.
So this Greek Athenian character is, they're saying is the real Moses, that Moses is sort of
based off this guy. They're sort of taking the story of Mousses of Athens and sort of rewriting
a story of a lawgiver from, from Egypt. Instead of going from Athens to Phrygia, he's going from
Egypt to Judea. But the stories are, they line up like perfectly. So anyways, that's my, that's
my, I brought, I brought some texts on a little scatterbrained today, but I just wanted to try to
compliment what he's saying about the linguistic side and give some of the historical side.
That was gorgeous. Absolutely gorgeous. Oh my God. How many degrees have you gotten in the last
couple of years? My goodness, man. I don't care about. I care about, I care about the text. I care
about like finding stuff out. I don't like give a shit about a degree. I don't care about an award
from the SPL. I don't care a shit about none of that. Yeah. You know, you're doing what they're
not doing. So isn't that funny? You are really the ideal scholar and you're not sucked into the
BS that is academia and the selling of books and peddling of position and authority and
who, who. So nice job. Beautiful job. My God. Somebody asked me, somebody asked me recently,
if I think there's a conspiracy for academics to like, like, you know, whatever. And I go, no,
it's not that. It's an environment of, of strong dogmas. And, and you, it's, there's no conspiracy.
There's no, it's not like one scholar secretly like telling them, oh, I think they're all right.
And we need to hide the truth. It's not, none of that's going on. What I think is going on is
New Testament scholarship is so dominated by people who want this stuff to be true that it's sort of
when, when scholars get, when new students come up in these seminars, they're being pushed in a
direction where they can't even challenge the status quo because they won't have a job. Their books
won't get sold. They won't be part of the crew. They'll be outcasted and they don't want that.
So they sort of subconsciously just, just go along with whatever is being taught to them. And
they're not really, they're not really, they're not really being, being given any
reason to go outside, to go outside and discover. They're, they're, it's like they're being
conditioned to just be part of the system that's already there and just serve the system rather
than go out and discover something that no one's discovered yet. And, and I'm not saying people
don't do that, but I'm saying there's so much dogma and trying to keep all this historical
and try to keep, oh, the, uh, Israel's so ancient and they're way, way older than the Greeks and
they, it's all, yeah. And that, that whole dogma is just so strong that it can't be questioned.
That's what I think is going on. Yeah, it's always a matter of whether or not you can crack that
ceiling of what, um, where the control mechanism is, right, to shut you down because whoever brings
you that history is that stuff floating around the air around us. Um, I thought that was, uh,
brilliantly done. I have a question. I have a question for you. Um, you think that old, um,
that fifth, you know, 5000 BC, you think that that's crazy, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Do you think
that's probably Pulaski? Um, yeah. Is that, is that, is that where you would go with that? I mean,
that's where I want to go, but God, how can we break that down and figure out if it is? Because
it sounds like, how did that thing end up in a Neolithic village surrounded by Neolithic pottery
with a, on a piece of wood that's carbon dated to that same Neolithic period? How the hell did
that get there? And I'll, I'll admit that's an anomaly. It doesn't make any sense. But like,
then you look, but then, okay, that's because we're jumping from 5000 BC to 2000 BC. When you
start seeing similar, which is what they call the Trojan script. When you start seeing similar
scripts, linear A comes, comes from, uh, Crete. So the whole Mediterranean seems to have similar
style of writing. Whereas in Egypt, it's hieroglyphics and, and, and soon, and Middle East, that's
cuneiform. But in the Mediterranean world, you see this, what looks like proto-alphabetic scripts,
which is what the whole point I was trying to make was, it looks like the alphabet isn't coming
from cuneiform or hieroglyphics. It's coming from over here. And the evidence, people are ignoring
the Trojan script. They're just writing it off. No, no, no, that's not real. But it's like, what is
it then? It's something, it's something. It's sitting there. Let's figure out what it is. Why
does nobody care? And, and you know, when you brought up, you were like, well, it doesn't really
look like it, but maybe I'm telling you, I'm telling you, when I went into Emmett Bennett who
cracks linear B, the first time I looked at a linear B tablet, I, it is nowhere near, um, any of
the Greek that I had been taught. Um, so yeah, the fact that there's something there is actually
what's most important. It'll take the egghead some time to crack that one. But I sure hope it's
Pulaski and, you know, it's been 30 years since they discovered it in Macedonia. And no, no peer
reviewed articles have been published, zero. So it's just sitting there. No one's done any work on it.
It's like, do they, do people, do people not, is there no incentive for anybody to talk about this?
And I'm not saying there's a conspiracy, like I said, I'm not saying the conspiracy. I'm saying
there's nobody care. Is that what's going on? Nobody cares. They just want this to be,
oh, the Phoenicians created the alphabet from, from Egyptian and they gave it to the Greeks.
So what the, what the fuck is this? What are these inscriptions then? Why are they, why does it look
so similar to Greek? Yeah, I think it's, I think it's laziness too. You got to factor that in. If
there's not money in it, and let's be honest, cracking something like this, you know, it's
probably not going to yield you a big, you know, nobody's going to make you rich over it and give
you sponsors, right? Unless you can successfully, if you can successfully slam dunk 100% proof
and change the academic consensus and say, look, we think the alphabet might have came from somewhere
else. And then if you can do that, that, that'll make you famous forever. But don't promise you're
up against a brick wall right now. That doesn't work. If you, if the Wikipedia article shows you,
every person who tried to sit publish, say it's Greek, got shut down. I mean, no way it's not
Greek, can't be Greek. We know the Phoenicians made the alphabet shut up, sit down. No, that's,
that's really what's been happening. So the question is, if it's not Greek, then what is it?
Yeah. Yeah. The, that's exactly what they were saying about linear B, because they did not know
it was Greek to start with. So yeah, it's a, it's a great candidate. With everything the Greeks are
saying about the Pulaskians. And you know now, Neil, because you've been reading the sources,
it only makes sense that the language is going directly back to that ancestor. So,
yeah, yeah, I think we're ready. Just to clarify, when I say Greek, obviously what I mean is
proto Greek, Pulaskian, Mycenaean, I'm talking, I'm not talking about like they didn't, maybe
they didn't call themselves Greeks. I'm saying that this area and this, and similar Indo-European
language structure, that's what I mean by that. So what I say, you mentioned Medea too. If you
don't mind, I want to ask you your opinion, because they also said that Medea was Helen,
and that she was the one who was projecting her image into Achilles' mind, because you know,
Medea and Achilles end up in, in Elysium, as the bride pair in Elysium. And when Achilles
was in his all-girls school, Deidemia was there, and she's the only priestess who had intercourse
with him, as he was disguised. And our ancient sources actually say Deidemia is another way to
say Medea. Wow. So yeah. I'll check this out. People don't know this. There's a text written
by Homer. It's lost. But Statius, a Latin Roman, in the Roman period, he wrote, I don't know if he
translated Homer, or if he rewrote the story in Latin. The point is, we have the story, we know
what it's about, it's preserved in Latin. But the Greek Homeric text, it's a prequel
to the Iliad. The Iliad wasn't just two books, Iliad and Odyssey. It was, I think, eight. I think
they said it's called an octetuch. And I think it's, it's called the Achillid, which is the story
of Achilles that you just mentioned. And that story is crazy. Achilles grew up trans. I'm not,
I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, look, people can understand, you're, come on, Jude, you're applying
modern technology stuff and read the text. He grew up as a girl amongst the Amazonians,
and the Amazonian tribe of Scythia. He wore all girls' clothing. He was disguised as a girl his
entire life, because Zeus was going to kill him if he found him. But he did, so about, like,
that's the story. I'm just telling, that's the story. By the way, okay, back to Medea. That's
what you asked me for. I think Homer is giving an esoteric retelling of the Trojan War story,
because this is the, he's, Yo is captured, Medea is captured, and Helen is captured. He's, he's,
it almost, it's almost like the hackety three-headed goddess, because by the way, who is Yo? Now,
we've already connected, you just connected Medea and Helen. That was great. But what, why is Yo
there? Well, Yo, you know who Yo is? Yo is the Christ. Yo is the character in Prometheus bound,
who gets stung by the gadfly, and the word Aeschylus uses is Christo, Christe, Christi,
Christed. So Medea, Helen, Yo is like a triple goddess Christ figure. Pre, this is the Christ.
We've been saying, you and I have been talking about this for years now. You've been, you much
longer. But there is a ancient Christ, and she was a goddess. And I, that's what I think is going on
with Herodotus. I think he's giving a, a retelling of the Iliad. It's a book one, chapter one of
Herodotus, read it for yourself, where he says, here's what happens before the Iliad, before the
events of Homer's Iliad, before Troy got captured. And he's, it's this random story about Yo, Medea,
and Helen all being captured at the same time. It's very strange. I think there's,
I think there's definitely something going on there.
Gorgeous, gorgeous. Yeah, no. And there's, there's a, sometimes the language blocks us off from what
they're actually kind of communicating, because everybody knows like that Helen was able to
project her image. So the Greeks will write about her actually being in Egypt. She never went to Troy.
Right. She actually went to Egypt and projected her image there. So what do they mean when they
say this, right? What is, what is going on in the Greek mind? And when you actually read that, well,
see Achilles had dreams. And in these dreams, he was visited by the Medwa, right? All of a sudden,
you're into a cultural practice. You're into a cult practice. And you're into this marriage,
this heroes gamos, right? And these terms are familiar to them. So when they're going through
these myths, when you're talking about Achilles, that's who you've got in the center of your image.
He's essentially the guy who goes through the initiation, right? And realize Medea is actually
older, right? She's projected into this generation. So it's, you know, but of course, she always looks
young, always looks young. It's an incredible cult kind of operation that you wouldn't think.
You know, people are like, what does this have to do? Remember, Isaiah is a profetis, right?
Guess what Medea is? She's not just a prophet. She's the arch prophet. She's the one who brings
the oracles, right? She's sitting and thrown on the island of Thera. Yeah, what it looks like
is happening is when you look at the prophets, by the way, I mentioned the Copenhagen Society.
Russell Gamerkin has written a book. It's peer reviewed. He's got two of them, right? First,
he came out with this, Plato's Tamaeus biblical creation accounts. And he lays it out that the
presecratics invented monism. And obviously, there's some Persian influence there too, obviously,
not denying that Zoroastrian, he talks about that too. And then it gets, that's why he says he dates
the Helen, he dates the Old Testament texts, the Hellenistic period, just like we're both doing.
And then people shot back at him and said, well, that's the case, you would expect the law codes,
the law codes in Deuteronomy are all ancient Babylonian law codes. Well, then he came out with
this book, also peer reviewed, Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible. He shows that
75% of the law codes, I think 75 or 80% of the law codes, the majority of the law codes in Deuteronomy
and Leviticus and Numbers line up with Athenian law codes. And only about 20% of them are from
Babylonian or whatever, Egyptian. So most of them are actually do, so he shot back and saying,
no, you're actually wrong. It's Greek, still Greek. So now nobody, you know what they do?
Instead of having an academic discussion and debating, write an article, write a fiery article,
talk shit back. Let's do this. This is what, nobody, they just ignore him. In fact, I went
and Dan McClelland, this is, I went to one Dan McClelland live one time, and he was answering
questions. It wasn't super chats. Anyone that asked a question, one by one, he was reading them
and answering them. He got to my question. What are your thoughts on Copenhagen and the
biblical minimalism? He didn't even read it. He skipped right over me. What's the next question?
They don't even want to engage with this shit, dude. Why?
Yeah, exactly. That's what the appropriation is for, right? It gives you legitimacy. If you
don't have legitimacy, your whole stack of cards falls down. So yeah, yeah, love it. Love it.
That's a perfect way, Neil, to kind of bring everything full circle.
What we've got is a group of languages, and we've got this survival,
this story that's playing out, this narrative. It's very biological. And that thing, the best
thing that you can do to follow that track is to watch how the Greek language so
took over and influenced the world. You got to remember of our Anglo-Saxon, you know, 30% to
a half of it somewhere. It's coming from the Greek. We're only able to get these concepts because of
that powerful, powerful language. But as you mentioned, because of the limitations on Germanic
languages and English, Anglo-Saxon English being one of those Germanic languages, we can only,
like, we can borrow words from Greek, but we can't express things. Like, you try to translate a
Greek text, you're dumbing it down. You're watering it down. It's completely bottlenecked.
It becomes like a less, becomes like a very rigid version. You're right. The Greek language is
special. It's very special. It's very, it's very advanced. It's very, and that's why that's why
that's, I think it's another reason to, to suggest that the alphabet could come from such a place
that's so advanced in writing. I suspect that power was coming through the Pulaskian side.
That's what, that's what I think. I think ancient Greek got its ump from that old Pulaskian ancestor
because they're always associating, like, specific religious rites with the Pulaskians.
So, you know, any of the terms that come through, like that, we talked tonight about the Laconian,
right, and the source of that word being, we didn't say it, but it was the howling,
right, that wolf's howling and the lukon root of that word. All of that is in the text, but it's
getting there from that old Pulaskian side. I'm starting to think that it was the Pulaskians who
really had their shit together and had a language that was, you know, it was off the charts,
expressively and mechanically off the charts. Not just in what it could express conceptually,
but in its flexibility and its native ability to build words and to use words together. They're
always using the same root paired next to each other. They're always making contrast in, like,
inherent comparisons and contrasting. It's amazing, amazing. You can even tell in the Greek
sentence, you can even tell whether or not an action is being performed for the benefit of the
subject or not, right? It's like, how did they figure this out? How did they, I hope it was
those Pulaskian, those were horse tribes too. That's why they ended up, like you said, in Thessaly,
anywhere on Lemnos as well. They also ended up on Lemnos and that stuff on Lemnos looks like it's,
you know, people are trying to figure out that one too. They're like, which language is this?
Yeah, Cypriot syllables. It's called Cypriot syllables or whatever. And you have Lydian alphabet.
It looks like, it looks like, it looks like some people say it looks Phoenician, but it looks very
Greek too. Probably some sort of ancestor of what we're talking about, some sort of,
some sort of Pulaskian thing that started off. And then you have, like, the Lydian,
Hittite languages. They're all Indo-European. They line up more with Greek than they do with
anything Semitic. And somewhat, they use Kanaeiform for a while. But then during the Persian period,
they start using the alphabet. So you start getting, you start getting these Indo-European
languages, very similar. They have, like, they worship Artemis. Artemis is in their land, like,
there's a so much Greek overlap with the Hittite languages, like the Lydian languages,
the Phrygians, the Cappadocians. The Ionians were just so brilliant. They were just the scientists
of the ancient world. They started civilization. Those are the, that's where everything,
all the credit is due to the Ionians. Totally. Hippocrates. You were mentioning famous
people in antiquity. Hippocrates, baby. He writes in a beautiful Ionian. It's gorgeous. And it's
kind of, you were, you were talking about the oath. You were reading the oath the other day,
looking at that oath. Isn't that delicious? The translation that, that the current translation
is so Christianized, it's so bad. They have, like, holy in there and there's no holy in there.
They're just, like, throwing words that don't exist or that aren't in the trans, the Greek.
Power of duty. It's our duty to protect that.
They, they, they took the, so the translation that you look at, look up the Hippocratic oath
and you read it on Wikipedia, you're going to read a Christianized version of it. It's not the
same. The Greek's a lot different. And by the way, the Christianized version says, I will never
give somebody an abortion. If you read, it's not in there. It says, it says, I will not give anybody
aphrodisiacs against their will. It says the exact opposite. Why is it, how did that happen?
It talks about the Thanacemon, the death inducer too. It's the context of the pharmacology that
you have to get in to your mind. Yeah, everybody makes a big deal about that. I wanted to ask you,
while I've got you prisoner, tell me the Herculaneum Library. So 800 scrolls,
probably with a lot that we're not, we're not, we don't even know who the authors are, right?
So tell me this, what is your understanding of, or do you think people are getting it,
how important this thing is, how important this library is? From what I've seen,
people talk about it like other, other YouTubers who are into this stuff are also on their,
on the edge of their seat. We can't wait to see what's going to happen. They translated a text
that it was like a philosophical doctrine about, about having good, being in good,
how to be in good, cheerful spirits or something along those lines. And you can just tell it's
just some Greek shit. Like that's all they write about. It's all about aesthetics and
some pre-secratic talking about, like the Epicureans are like, it's all about being cheerful.
The Stoics, that's all good chill. That's the Greek attitude, man. I love the Stoics.
I love the cynics. The cynics, I love the cynics. They don't give a shit. Cynics, throw out your
wealth. There's a picture of crates. I call Ammo and crates that no one knows of this.
One more time. I'm going to show you one more thing. I got it. So crates from, I think he's
from Athens. I don't know where he's from. Found it. Okay, crates of Athens. Check this out, right?
I call Ammo and crates all the time when I talk to him because he reminds me of this dude. Ready?
All right, you got it. So crates of Athens was one of the, he was a student of Diogenes,
the cynic, and there's that famous painting of him. Oh, where is it? They don't have it on here.
Um, crates painting of Athens. I got to show him this. This is you all day. Here it is.
All right, hold on. I got to share my other screen now. Ready for this? This is Ammo all day,
dumping out his wealth. He doesn't care. See, he's dumping out all the diamonds
because the cynics had this attitude of reject riches, live in nature, live in a, live in,
go to the inner city and live in a barrel. And you'll see, you'll be happy one day if you could
figure out how to live like that. That was a cynic attitude, man. And Stoicism actually comes out
of cynicism. Um, the first Stoic Xeno was a student of crates. So it goes, it goes Diogenes,
who's around for Socrates, Diogenes, then crates, and then Xeno, the first Stoic.
So Stoicism comes out of cynicism. You need to be a cynic before you could be a Stoic.
Isn't that crazy? I like that the cynics are called cynics because they were considered dogs.
Yeah, dog-like. That's what I have in my Twitter account. Coon is called as dog-like.
Live, be happy in life. Dogs are always happy, right? All they want is their food and be able
to go outside and piss. That's it. If you could live like a dog, life is good. That's the standard
attitude. That's Diogenes, baby. He just did what he wanted, you know what I mean? He was the only
dog that didn't leave town when the bad guys came because he didn't care. He was the anti,
he was the Satan of Plato because there's stories about him and Plato live together.
They hate each other and there's stories about Diogenes confronting Plato and saying,
dude, I heard you had to kiss the ass of because the tyrant Dionysus of Sicily,
the richest, he was the richest king, probably the world at that time, and Plato would go visit
this guy so he can get like favors and stuff. And Diogenes is like, you have to go kiss the
ass of this tyrant. That sucks. And Plato's like, well, you have to wash your vegetables in a river.
He's like, at least I don't have to kiss an ass to a tyrant. Like it was just like,
dude, Diogenes is awesome, man. I love it. I love reading about Diogenes.
I love that, man. I love that. That's beautiful. Okay, okay. I'm going to declare a closing to
tonight's most outstanding episode, but I want to first of all, thank Gnostic for coming and say,
I am truly, truly overawed by the work. And now I'm going to have to go back and think
about some of the Pulaski and stuff again, kind of bring that up to the fore. So I'm well done,
sir. I hereby give you your master's degree, and now we will proceed to the PhD.
That first part with the linguistics blew my mind. That was the first time I ever heard anything like,
you brought some some some arguments there. Yeah, and hopefully people will see and they'll,
you know, they'll copy and they'll be like, Oh, wait a minute, can you actually do this?
Can you read the Greek and find out that the Hebrew is totally different? Yes, you can.
Um, so, you know, where are the lazy classes this out there? Get off your back sides and
start working on the Bible, right? It needs it. You got to start doing it, man. Don't let them
take it from you. There's still ancient texts. Yeah, love it. I want to say I'm going to meet.
I'm going to give you the last word, Neil, but I want to say I'm going to meet with the discordians,
and we will find out the news from Omnia. Um, thank you for everybody for coming tonight.
I want to, I'm, I'm going to throw it to you so don't jump off right away, but
Hail Satan on my end, Neil. It's your last word tonight. What do you think, man?
Matt, I just got to say we have, okay, I got something deeper. I want to say about this.
So I heard that there's classics departments being shut down Bible or, you know,
ancient studies being shut down. And my first reaction that was like, that can't be good.
But then I thought about it. Maybe it might be good because now we live in a time period where
we have access to libraries online, Loeb International, for example, library, every Greek
text, every Latin text right there at your fingertips. You can go on wiz on and learn
language from an expert. You can learn Greek, you can learn Latin, you can learn Hebrew,
you can learn whatever you want. Coptic. You have no excuse on that now. And 50 years ago,
you had to go to a college and you had to find somebody who can teach you in your city. You were,
if you didn't find, if someone in your city didn't teach Greek, you're not learning Greek,
period. So now that's gone. Now you have, you can learn Greek, you have Loeb,
you have Topos text. So you can find any reference to anyone mentioned in any source
at your fingertips. You have chat GPT for help you translate. I've used to help me translate.
It's pretty damn good. You have Topos geography, where you can look up archaeological sites and
find out where people where, where ancient sites are and look with the dig say and all that stuff.
You have, we call it Alice, Perseus Tufts. We call it Alice from that song. Perseus Tufts,
which we call Alice, that's your, that's your, that's your, that's your dagger. So basically,
Loeb is your, is your helmet. Perseus Tufts is your dagger. The Greek from wiz on is your sword.
Your, your armor is the, is Loeb, the text. We have every tool at your fingertips to do this
stuff yourself. But that also means test your theories out there. If you think something,
if you find something, you think I found something that no one, I found some sort of discovery,
I have a new theory, put it out there and let people respond to it, test it out. By the way,
this is what I've been doing for the last three years. Three years ago, if you watched my videos
from three years ago, I was saying some crazy shit that I don't think today. Why, why did I change
my mind? Cause I was able to throw them, I didn't just hold onto my theories and keep them to myself.
I threw them out there on the internet and they got tested in the fire. And if I was wrong, I was
wrong. And then I changed that. I would adjust my theories and my, my work and keep going. And
that's what I think everyone should be doing. So we're in a time period now where you don't
really need to pay $40,000 to go to university. You could just do it yourself. So that's my,
that's my health safety point.
And kudos to you. And that's why you're a real scholar. That's why you're a real scholar. Cause
look, you're doing this for the motivation, for the love of the texts. You know what I mean?
Compare that to somebody at who, how Harvard, who's got the position and all the talks to go to
and who, how it's all who, how, right? He's not there anymore for the, I can tell you, I work
with these people that they're not there anymore for the beauty of it. So in, in being Ronan and
in educating yourself as a Ronan on the outside, Neil, um, people, look at the virtue of Gnostic
and form it. Look at it. Yeah. It's nice. Admire the virtue. I admire your virtue, Neil.
It's may it have long life. Indeed. Indeed. Thank you for coming, everybody, and everybody at
Discordia, please come and meet me right now. Um, and Neil, it's a true honor. Hail Satan.
I'll see him.
With the kiss of poison. She's coming to see you. Boom back.
