And that switch kicks in and it kicks these new powers in with it.
Let's go to the next text, who is Uranos. Look at this people, Uranos.
He's the son of Erebus and Gaia. Wait a minute, what's it say on the next part of the line?
But husband of Gaia. Where is that guy, Paul? Where is that guy, Paul?
Paul, you think you're so smart. You think you're so smart. People, Paul the apostle. Paul the apostle.
Paul, you thought you were quite a smart guy, right? Paul with your letter to the Colossians.
You thought you were because you buried in there, Paul. You buried in there some meat, didn't you?
Paul, please, please give us an explanation of this Jesus Christ, Paul. Please.
But give it to us, Paul, in a way that only the Phrygians would understand, Paul, because these are the Colossians.
Yeah, I want some Phrygian roots here, Paul. Are you ready for this? Go then, go to that one.
Here is what Uranos comes from, Ordus. When you take the number six, when you take the Hexad and you bring the Hexad back, what do you get?
What do you get? What do you get? You get that limit. You get that limit. You find that cosmic limit.
Give me the next. He is that thing which is the boundary. He's the boundary. Uranos is the boundary.
What set the boundary? Leave it up for a second, shall we? What set the boundary? Gaia did. Gaia did when she entered into union with Uranos.
Remember, this is the magic book, says the author of Genesis.
This is the magic book of the generation of Uranos and Gaia. That's why we're all here. That's what we're all here to see.
And what is this? Well, what about Gaia? Where does she come from? Gaia has no father. She has no mother.
She does not come from a nymph. She does not come from, no. Gaia comes from water.
And all of a sudden, those of you who are sitting on your islands, worshipping Aphrodite, perk up and say, yep, yep, I get it.
I understand the transformation. I understand the castration and why it's a necessary event. Why must you hobble?
I'm back. Oh, that was painful. Let's not do that again.
Why must you hobble the sun?
Imagine that. Imagine that. The great three ways of traffic in the cosmos.
Do you hear how I just used cosmos? I used it like they used it. Not like we use it.
So what you can see is the Hebrew wasn't able to capture cosmos. It used the word for army. It used the word for army.
Now let's catch them. Do you know why they use the word for army? If you scan that definition of cosmos, you'll find that it can be used to station troops.
So the people who translated from the Greek assumed, oh, well, this is the way that they're using it.
And then they translated it that way. They reached for the one thing in Hebrew that they could find to kind of bridge that gap.
And they did. But it's just the word for army and it has nothing to do with the book of the magic generation of Urano Senkaya.
Not only that, but that word. Not only that, but that word for to finish the telit root. That word to let oh, it's a compound.
It's soon to let oh. In other words, it is now a degree more advanced technically. It is that much more highly specific.
So the Hebrew reached for the very base and wasn't able to capture the prefix. Why they don't have the vocabulary.
