Oh, you're going to love it. This is why Jesus is walking around grabbing children's hands, bringing them back to life.
Where are the drugs, Jesus? Where are the drugs? Show us the next one. Here, where's, bring it.
Whipping boy, grab me the drugs. Grab me the drugs. Look at this, people. It's Greek. Be civilized about this.
And what is this? This is Genesis chapter two, verse one. Now, we're going to read the actual version tonight. You've never seen this.
Let me bring in the whipping boy of not so sophisticated linguistic savvy. And let's see what we can make of this Greek.
I want you to see the real tax for the first time. I want you to see it, right?
Okay, let's start. Let's go to the, I want to start with the Hebrew because you and I are swimming backwards in time.
Tonight, yes, the next one. Tonight, we're swimming backwards. Okay, now we're at the 10th century, 10th century AD.
All you guys, get off, get off the bus. Get off the bus. Step out for a minute. Don't worry, the bus will wait for us.
It's a little vacation. I used to take these when I was living on Kibbutz in Yisrael.
Kibbutz Yisrael in the northern kind of just the north side of the West Bank. Yeah, and I got off one night to the howitzers that the Israelis pulled up.
They pulled up these howitzers because the Lebanon had been shooting rockets at us. It was not nice. They killed somebody in the city.
It was where I got falafel every day for lunch. It was, it was most inconsiderate. It was tragic, right? For a family, it was tragic.
Yeah, but we would go on vacations. We would go on vacations and that's what we have to do here. This is a break.
We've had the communion. We've had that wine that's driving us out of our wits as initiates, and now let's go through the 10th century Masoretic text
because you guys are all lovers of the English translations. Go to the Masoretic text. Blow it up for me, Chewie. Blow it up for me.
Look, this is verse two, and I just want you to take a, you know, just a cursory look at the English.
So something was finished and then heavens and then earth. Yeah, right, right, right.
The Eretz, baby. The Eretz. Do you know what I mean? The Eretz. They got the Eretz. Love it. And what about that?
What is it? Ha-Shamim. Is that what that is? Yes, it's been a while since I've pulled out my Hebrew.
But okay, we got the heavens and we got, you know, this kind of army thing going on there. Huh. Okay. What did the King James do with this Hebrew?
King James, where is that? So, you know what I mean? King James, next one. King James, here it is. Here it is.
Oh, thank you, King James. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them, all the host of them.
Okay. Is that what the Greek says? No, it's not. It's not. Now watch this. This is what I'm bringing you. It's not. I'm bringing you a sacrifice.
This is a piece of the past that has shaped your present, but your future will no longer be affected by it because you will cut through this fragment, this appropriations event.
Cultures are doing this in antiquity. They're appropriating things, right, for their own uses.
And the Septuagint was appropriated to the use of a people who used it to establish a text because they had no established text.
By the time that the Maserids are worried about this, you've had 2,000 years of established text on the Greek side. Why? Why people? Watch what happens.
Watch what happens. I'm going to show you the Greek one more time and then I'm going to show you. I'm going to translate it for you. Are you ready?
Kaesun etelets desan houranos kaigei kaipaso kosmos auton. So your sky and your earth are uranos and gaia, or gay, right?
And what are they doing? What are they doing? They're soon teletowing. They're soon teletowing. What does that mean? We'll see.
And what about the whole cosmos? I didn't hear a cosmos in the King James translation. What's the cosmos? How did that get in there?
