It's the stuff that they don't want you to know the text is bringing you, but it's bringing you.
And here we go. Are you ready? Let's go back to the, let's go back to our text. We got to keep walking.
I don't want to keep people long. This is the night before, you know, so yeah, give me, let's go to Uranus.
Yeah. What else is in the picture here that we have to translate? Uranus, right? This is the sky.
The sky translated very simply as the sky. What is Uranus? Show me, show me.
Show me. Look at Uranus, right? The vault, the vault, right? Okay.
Look again, people, look at the, look at the thickness of the Greek and look at all of these sources, right?
In communion language, in common language, excuse me, it's the sky.
Okay, Pythagorean name of 10, 10, the deck at it.
Now I understand. Do you know what the deck at is? Well, how are you going to figure out what the hexat is?
If you don't know what the deck at is, the deck at comes after the known ad and the known ad is the number of unit is the arithmetic number of universal completion and perfection.
Oh my, are you kidding me? Is there this much meaning in these words?
Yes. Are you surprised at all that the Hebrew has just a, just a, just a little tiny.
And again, this is classical Hebrew, modern Hebrew is thriving and has taken its roots of vocab through the roof, right?
And they'll continue to do so because that's what living languages do. Unfortunately, Hebrew died.
Hebrew died and the only thing we had were the Greek sources.
You know what we should do? We should write a letter that says, hey, this thing was trans, was originally a Hebrew text that was translated.
Nobody believes that. You did, they didn't pull that over on the Greeks or the Romans. They knew that was BS, right?
Propaganda is important. Propaganda is important. Please, people, let me just take you to Megiddo.
I know I'm taking too long tonight, but let me take you to Megiddo and in this place where Armageddon is doomed to happen in this place as you dig down.
Underneath all of the garbage, toll stations that have sprung up in this Godforsaken place, right?
Because it's not a major trade round figures. That's where the end would be.
Where all you humans with your greed, as the watchers say, your greed, they talk about it like it's our terminal disease or something.
Anyway, Megiddo, when you dig down underneath all that stuff, you know what we found?
And yeah, I'll say we found because I was there digging. We found a Canaanite temple.
We found that temple. When you are standing in the eclipse, when you are in that moment, when via the moon's power, right?
Via the moon's power, you're able to access those three roads and you say, wait a minute, isn't this a solar event?
Of course it is. Yes. Do you know that the sun and the moon and the stars that they are all connected?
Yeah, you might say with gravitational forces or something along those lines, but there is a quantum link there.
Do you know how they're able to date events of the future from 3,000 years ago with the stars?
Right. So here's what we're doing in the midst of that eclipse.
In the midst of that time, that is when we have the date set for a switch.
