I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
This is our final episode in the season.
We'll have a Bible study on Wednesday and then we'll be done
with the 5th season. We'll move on to the 6th and the 7th and then we're wrapped.
I want to say thank you for coming tonight and I want to let you know
what we have on hand for tonight are these sources that people don't look at
and we just stumble upon and I just want to bring you a real gem of a source tonight
that it's brand new but I knew that you would like these guys.
This is a gang of drug dealing cultic pornax.
Yeah, they are the ones who were doing the pornea and tonight
tonight we're going to bring them forward for you and show you on Lady Babylon.
Music
I want to start tonight off with a couple of comments.
Just throw things out there that people are saying, hit it Chewie.
Let me read this one. How can we get Medea back to rule again?
I'm totally on board.
Hail Medea. Thank you so much Valerie Moore.
Thank you so much Valerie Moore.
I mean it couldn't be more agreement with you.
Yeah, how can we bring back Lady Babylon?
That's the question. Let's see if we can answer that somewhere today.
Chewie, give us another one.
Yeah, this is from Jacob who apparently is a Rx.
That's Rx prescriptions, right?
Humble or receives them anyway.
Humble to see my stupid comments made the cut.
Be right back. I need to call my mom now and tell her we made it.
Fantastic. Jacob who's probably in pharmacy schools somewhere.
I'm sure you and mom are proud.
I'm sure you are proud and I'm proud to have been able to foster our growth together.
I love it. Thank you for responding. I love that.
Love it. It tickles me. Tickles me.
I want to reach out and touch you.
I want you to know that I'm there as you're watching.
I am there with you.
And tonight we're going to bring, I'm going to bring you our first guest.
Let's just get right to him.
His name is Phil Octides.
And this, this Prince drug user made the pages of the ancient world.
He made the post.
People were writing about him.
You know, he's from, he's a Thessalian.
Yeah, Royal Lion.
He's got a, he's got a whole background in the drugs.
He was raised by the centaurs, right?
You know, that kind of group.
These are the guys using the poison.
These are the guys who were following Chiron, right?
These are the ones who have that blood, the blood of the centaur.
You know, there are centaurs in the Bible.
You didn't know that.
Maybe, maybe you'll appreciate it now.
If you go back and you look at the Greek, which is the oldest.
And you say, Hey, what are the centaurs doing there?
They're pedarasts, right?
Pedarasts.
Remember, we're in a very specific field.
This is educational.
Where's my educational whip?
This is educational.
We need to present this in the right education.
What I'm giving you is the actual right.
And I'm showing you Phil Octides.
Chewie.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Did you see that junkie in all his glory?
Did you see him there?
You know why he's got the problem?
It was because of Goldie.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She had her own island.
Yeah.
And he got hooked on the Viper.
Stank everywhere you took him.
You could smell it.
Yeah.
And we didn't want him around us.
You know, it was the guys in constant pain.
The guys in constant pain.
Did you see the description we looked at last time
about what happens to you when you cook your brains on this stuff?
Last time we left the guy, he was having convulsions.
He was having convulsions.
We were talking about death states and convulsions.
Yeah.
Right.
We also saw, by way of review,
that the theriac is meant to counter a drug
that is causing intense pain.
Intense pain.
This combo of venoms causes intense pain.
Yeah.
Intense pain.
