Oh God.
It looks like that's, whoo.
Nice job.
Michelangelo would be honored to have lunch with the dude that did that or do that, whoever
was.
So, okay, let's get out of Jesus in the back galley with the guy.
Um, I want, I want, this was a little publication, the miracle of spit and site, you know, online
little guy.
Yandy.
He's a pastor or something.
Give me the next one.
Um, I just want to read this to you.
Jesus spit, um, what's, uh, go to the next one.
He healed another blind man by spitting in a clay and rubbing it on the man's eyes.
He's talking about John.
But remember, we have John translated by somebody who knows the Orphic cult.
All right.
Who knows how the Bacchus work.
Who knows how the Baptist work.
So, he's really telling you how it is.
He also spit on the tongue of a man with a speech impediment, right?
And you know, I've never heard, actually, in all my time, I've never heard a Christian
explanation of the holy spitball, Lugie, the Lugie of eternal clumpiness.
I've never, I've never had it.
Don't get all excited.
In antiquity, the doctors are talking about body fluids as treatments, right?
You can treat a child's eye with urine right after that child is born.
If you get a virgin, which is a good, you know, I'm just giving you what the texts are
telling us.
If you have a virgin and she pees into that, you can wash out that child's eyes after
he or she is born, and you can limit the amount of disease that can be passed to that child's
eyes.
We know that things like chlamydia, right, can cause an infant to be blinded, right?
And so they know as well that these things could be passed in the process of birth.
Yeah, these diseases could be passed on.
So that's where we are drug-wise.
We're with it.
We never left the midwives.
We're always going to be with the midwives, because that medicine is what produced all
of the drugs that Jesus and his gang of hoodlum prostitute children are up to.
Sister-in-law, not wife, not mother-in-law, sister-in-law, yeah.
Let's go to the next one.
Boom.
Oh, yeah, we got to finish it.
He also spit in the tongue of a man with speech barrier.
Notice that in each three cases, Jesus spit on the part of the body which is disease.
This guy's brilliant, right?
Notice also it's the mouth and the eyes, right?
Again, showing he spit, wait, oh, God, chewy, he almost stayed with us.
Yeah, he just got evaporated by the empire.
Look, he spit on the disease, not on the person.
What are you talking about, dude?
If I see two grown men in the parking lot, spitting in each other's mouths, no, they're
not spitting on some kind of allegorical disease, dude, what is wrong with people?
Are you that willing to accept the fairy tale?
This is a guy with another guy and they're spitting in each other's faces.
Well, one of them, one of them, you know, I don't know.
One of them is because it's the stuff, it's the stuff that he's making.
Let's go look at the actual text and see what kind of drugs is Jesus up to.
You're going to be surprised what's in Jesus' mouth in a minute because we've got notice
to tell us.
Notice will tell us.
He'll tell us what he's doing.
If he's a fire-breathing dragon, he's going to tell us.
Guess what?
Pheon, baby.
I'm going to give you a drug that was in Jesus' mouth.
You haven't had this one yet.
What's in Jesus' mouth?
I want some.
Don't you?
If I heard about this guy, I'd be like, Jesus, wouldn't you?
You try it once, right?
Try it at least once.
Oh, come on.
You wouldn't let Jesus, Joey, would you let Jesus spit in your mouth like this guy?
How about eyes?
What about eyes?
No?
No.
You kids at Bible study, by kids, I mean figuratively.
You pastors who teach Bible studies, teach this one to your students.
Have them come up, say, hey, Billy, come here.
I'm going to show you what Jesus does.
Billy, run.
Run, Billy.
Call the cops.
This guy's a pervert.
Right?
Right?
Exactly.
Yes.
Right?
That's what's going on.
That's what's going on.
We want to find out what's in his mouth that he's spitting, that he's using as a drug,
that he even combines it with the dirt to turn it into a paste, which is something that
you can see the physicians doing.
They're making all sorts of applications like this, and they're epitithe-ing them.
They're epitithe-ing me, excuse me.
They're epitithe-ing me.
They're putting them on.
They're applying them.
That's Jesus is just being a great physician.
He is applying the drugs.
Is Jesus using drugs?
Yes.
Did Jesus have drugs in his body?
Yes.
Was the Eucharist drugged?
Yes.
Bring us up that text.
Show everybody.
Here, show them again.
No.
The text.
The text.
Boom.
Everybody, look at that.
Were there drugs in the Eucharist?
Yes.
Here it is.
Here it is.
It's vision-inducing.
Vision-inducing Eucharist.
Making an announcement.
How can we do this?
Do I blow a trumpet or something?
Here it is.
Papal.
Harvard, get off your butts.
Look at this.
Now, if I had been with Brian on Rogan, that's what I would have given him.
Was that evidence, right?
The article that we saw in the beginning is really a little bit disingenuous because
those people don't do the sources.
They don't know.
Right?
Look, did you see him holding up their hands?
Well, if it were the case that that happened, then we would change your opinion.
Right?
Well, why don't you get off your backside and take a look.
Take a look.
It gets my goat.
It gets my goat.
Cover, cover.
Hello.
Hello.
I love her so much.
What's your name?
We need a name for the goat.
