Wait, what? You just told me you didn't like the ban.
Oh, you know, you're an easy target for what? Inquisition, crusades and pogroms.
Isn't that funny? He pulled out the defenses right away.
Look, I know we've killed millions, untold millions of people.
Yes, yes. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Mabri, Pastor Mabri, please, please.
These are all horrendous things that should not be swept in the rug.
Who's rug? But if you want to bash the church, write that book.
If you want to speculate about Intheogens, write that book.
It's hilarious. Look, it's hilarious, right?
So what do we have so far? We have the Dark Ages response, right?
It's the Dark Ages. We're going back, people.
You feel a vortex? You didn't suck back into it. Give me the next quote.
I'm still going to give you insight as to what's going on. Blow it up.
He's gone mad, Chewie. He's gone mad.
The immortality key Mirror Rescue continues to present only speculative evidence
that Jesus would have been passing around psychedelic wine at the Last Supper.
At the Last Supper. Give me these controls. Let me read that one more time.
In the immortality of Mirror Rescue continues to present only speculative evidence
that Jesus could have been passing around psychedelic wine at the Last Supper.
Are we there? Oh, I'm sorry. We got hit by a tractor beam or something.
I don't know what that was. What are you doing?
Chewie just like yanked the wheel of my hand. Careful there.
Sometimes I got to fly too. Here it is. He lacks the, there's not the evidence.
That's what they're saying, people. Look what they're saying in the article.
The hooty hoot hoots from the institutes are saying, you lack the evidence.
I'm going to put it up here tonight. Boom, boom, boom.
Read it, people. And you're like, I can't because my institute doesn't pay for Greek anymore.
You know, the idiots at Princeton don't get, can't teach themselves ancient Greek anymore.
It got too hard. It got too hard for the ivory tower children.
Okay. Here's some hard Greek for it. And it's from antiquity people.
All I want you to know is this is talks about the antidote to that substance that he is putting in the bread.
That thing that puts you into that state of being possessed by the God.
Yes. And here it is. You see the word next to the look everybody.
Harvard quick. Look over here, Harvard, Harvard.
Is anybody home at Harvard? Come here. Who's the, leave it up there to you.
Who's the boy who guards the door at Harvard? Come, come here, Oliver.
Come here, Oliver. It's okay. It's okay. No, Oliver. No, don't sit down. Don't sit down.
Oliver, tell me something. Are the boys at Harvard awake?
Are they? Are they?
Okay. Here it is. Now you've had enough time, ladies and gents at Harvard to digest the source.
You can no longer say that it's speculation if they're saying it in antiquity.
It's not us. It's them. This is how the sources should be handled.
When you're going in for money, you're playing a game.
This is how it's handled. We respect the muse. That's what we do.
We support the museum. I just threw that source in your face.
Let's go back and quote. I love this. It's like, oh, it's, I don't know.
It's starting to remind me of something. Something we'd find it that well and remember that well.
He was in South Africa. I love it. Okay.
In a 2021 conversation with Mirror Rescue, Charles Stang.
This is Charlie Stang. Pointed out that while there may have been Creek Mystery Colts, there may have been.
Hey, Charlie, you don't sound too, you don't sound too positive about that with the mystery religions, Charlie.
You just kind of may have been. You got to commit, man.
When you're solving a murder, when you're solving a murder, don't say may have.
Suspect may have done something. That's not scientific. What's wrong with you?
Greek Mystery Colts. They did, Charlie. Don't worry about it.
Dionysian movements, communing with magic mushrooms.
This. Why did they pick that one?
Or Aragot spiked beverages, right? Aragot spiked beverages.
Little tip of the hat to Carl Ruck for figuring out what was in part of the dope in one of the ceremonies.
Mirror Rescue's book does not really link this to early Christian practices.
Quote, I'm not here trying to protect Christianity from the evidence of psychedelic use.
Said Stang, the director of Harvard Center for the Study of World Religions.
I expect we will find it.
Look how he's, it sounds like Stang sounds like he's trying to run for office, doesn't he?
On the one hand, I may stand on this side of the fence.
On the other, I'd like to stand over here. You can't do that in science, Stang.
But I don't think we have found it. And I think that's an important distinction to make.
Stang. Take that down.
Yeah. Right. Okay.
Bring it up again for Stang. Stang.
No, bring the, sorry, bring Greek up, Jewy, for Stang one more time.
Hey, who ha Stang?
Here it is. You don't need to speculate anymore.
You don't need to speculate.
If you had read the text in the original, you'd picked it up.
Your work, Stang.
Give us the next quote.
Oh, I love this. Let's look.
Now we're in the, you know, the article.
We're in the article swimming at night, right?
I thought you said we were going to Jesus.
Don't worry. He's coming. He's coming.
There's evidence and there's belief, says the author of the article.
In the end, it really comes down to belief.
Seriously, seriously, do you not see the Middle Ages?
Do you not see the stank of the Middle Ages?
Oh my God. Give me the next one.
Give me the next one. What else do these geniuses come up with?
Christianity has been influenced by every culture it has encountered,
especially Greek culture and the Greek mystery religions,
as I said, who thinks that Christianity,
priests thinks, I don't know who this guy priest is,
but he thinks Christianity existed in the vacuum.
He does. He does.
He says it influenced other cultures.
Christianity didn't influence Jack.
Christianity came into the world through those mysteries.
And if you don't know those mysteries, stank and priest,
you don't know nothing.
And you can't make statements like, oh, this doesn't fit,
and that doesn't fit.
This cannot be. How silly, I'm surprised.
They don't just say how silly.
And just write it off completely.
But here, we have drugs for you tonight, guys.
Christianity has been influenced.
I think we should have a very expansive conversation.
Yeah, that's going to do a lot.
Unless you learn some Greek, that's not going to help you, priest.
In conversation with Christianity about exactly what Brian's bringing up,
not be afraid of it.
Psychedelics are somehow part of our history.
Somehow.
What?
That would inform my own Christian experience.
Let me tell you what your Christian ancestors were doing.
Stanky priest.
Let me show you what they were doing.
Bring it up one more time.
Do it, the Greek.
Take a look at it, priest.
Take a look at it.
It's a psychedelic sacrament.
Yeah, makes them thirsty.
They try to give him the antidote to balance it.
Yeah, right on the cross.
It's not me saying this, it's this source.
And you can see, priest, at 155,
antidoton.
Do you see that antidoton?
It's antidote, priest.
And if you had read any, any of the science from antiquity,
you would have known it's associated with the Christos.
Because you can't have a Christos without drugs.
You cannot have a Christos without drugs.
We're about to go into Jesus' saliva.
Does anybody want to go into Jesus' saliva?
Ah, yeah, Jesus' saliva.
Hit the next one.
Boom.
We're coming to Iota.
We're coming to Iota tonight, guys.
This is number nine, but numerically number ten.
Right?
The Greeks said it's all done at nine.
It's all done at nine.
Ten is just a flip of the calendar.
Right?
Love it.
We are at the balance.
Are you ready?
