Take the Citadel.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a star coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to Lady Babylon's Satanic Initiation
in our final, final season.
This is fantastic.
I want to bring to you tonight something that's so scrumptious.
So you're going to love it.
Here's what I'm doing.
I'm doing something a little bit different tonight.
We're going to reach out to the now and we're going to pull in a little bit of the now
so that we can breathe and we can see that future on one side and that past on the other.
This is fantastic.
We are going to go to the ivory tower and we're going to bring it down tonight
on Lady Babylon.
We're going to follow Jesus tonight.
We're going to come right back to where we cozyed up to him last time.
Don't worry.
I've got a special drop.
We're going to go straight in.
We're going to be looking right over his shoulder.
We're also going to look it.
We're going to start out.
We're going to start out with the look at what's being said.
What's being said.
We're going to go a little bit different tonight.
A little bit of wait a minute before we do you guys know what we've got to do.
We've got to purify this place.
Chewie place stinks.
I need some of that sulfur.
I need some they own.
I need to bring in the purification because tonight tonight we are affecting what is going on around us.
You're going to love this.
Bring in that.
Bring in the sulfur.
We're going to we're going to purify people hold your nostrils.
Ready go roll it.
The only question is, is God going to allow our nation to enter a time of judgment for our collective sins, which his mercy and grace have held back for some time?
Or is he going to give us one more chance to restore the foundations and return to him?
We will not be able to do it without the Lord's help because they're so the flesh is and mistrust in the sin and everything is so great here that we this is going to have to bring people to their knees.
And I look, I believe God is about to do something in our institutions as slow as it's ever been in the history of our nation.
The the the culture is so dark and depraved that it almost seems you're redeemable at this point.
We know we're the church attendance in America dropped below 50% the first time in our history since it began to measure the data 60 years ago.
And the number of people who do not believe in absolute truth is now above the majority for the first time.
One in three teen girls contemplated suicide last year one in four high school students identifies as something other than straight.
We're losing the country.
Here comes the purgation. Here it comes. Are you ready? We're going to we're going to clean this place out.
We're going to bring it back to a place of perfection and cleansing.
Yes, that's what we're going to do.
Sulfur is necessary. Sulfur is necessary. What does sulfur do?
Sulfur purges those diamonds.
When you have a scene of murder, you have to clean it.
You can't just clean it on a physical level.
You've got to clean it so deep it goes to the fabric goes to the fabric of a cosmos.
You got to burn sulfur.
You've got to drive those forces out.
Now, let's bring in the articles. Look, you're going to love this people. Are you ready?
Bring in the art. I know this is special for me tonight.
So go ahead, bring it up people. Look at this. This is the Christian century.
Fantastic. Look at the date on this thing.
November 2023. That's fantastic. What month is it? Exactly.
Okay. Mushrooms at the table. People have long tried to trace the connection
between the early churches, eucharistic practice and psychedelic substances.
Scholars aren't convinced. Take it down. Scholars aren't convinced.
Scholars aren't convinced.
I'm going to do a solid public service tonight.
I'm going to give it and lay it out.
And you guys know you in the satanic congregation, I can feel you.
I can feel you. We're going to make it happen.
This bucket stuff is just beginning tonight. It's cracking here.
What about this article? What did it say?
Let's look at it. Let's look at a couple of little excerpts from it.
Blow it up here. Let me get my glasses to you in the tumultuous 16th century.
This is the opening. Woo says the stage.
A Dominican friar named Giordano Bruno argued that the universe was infinite
and had no celestial body at its center.
He also believed in the transmigration of the soul, also known as reincarnation.
His execution by the Roman Inquisition on February 17th, 1600,
which prefigured the more famous Harris trial of Galileo,
made him one of the early martyrs, modern science.
Take it down. Take it down.
Oh, you feel that? We're setting the stage.
They burned him alive.
Yeah. Poor Bruno. He's got a statue now.
Let's see. Why is that relevant to the drugs?
Hit the next one. Hit the next one.
People, we're going to be talking about some authorial stuff tonight.
This is fantastic. I'm going to give you, take it down.
I'm going to give you a scoop and an insight that you will not have otherwise been able to obtain about this publication.
Oh, fantastic. You're going to love it, see?
Because you're part of the congregation.
Because you're part of the congregation.
And that's everyone.
Whether you are a Baptist or whether you are an Evangelion, whether you're Catholic, whether you're an atheist.
Yeah. That's you.
That's all of us together.
Yeah. Love it. Love it. All for free. All for free.
It's in the contract. Let's go.
Watch this, people. Watch the quotes. You're going to love me. Love me.
Brian Mirrescu argues just this in his 2020 book, The Immortality Key to the Secret History of the Religion with No Name.
The lawyer and writer subscribes to the quote, The Pagan Continuity Theory.
A speculative idea and a secret tradition dating back to the electricity mysteries of ancient Greece has been kept alive by an underground network of witches and wise men through the use of mind expanding plants and drugs.
What passes for holy communion in church today, he suggests, is just palimptation of these secret age old rites.
Does that sound familiar?
It should.
Because when Brian came to me, sent by Dr. Carl Ruck, it was because he needed to know
what was going on with the drugs.
He needed to know what the doctors were saying and doing.
He needed to know about the pharmacological texts.
Right? And Ruck sent him to me because Ruck knows.
Right? I'm a freak for that stuff. It's got my fetish.
Let's look at some drugs. You guys love it too. It's the only reason you have a bunch of historical druggies.
Yeah. I love it, don't you? Let's get it up.
We have a mosh pit. Anywhere. We should start a mosh pit here. Right in the middle. Can you see it? Let's go. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, you guys are going to love this. Can we just enjoy this ride? This is the last season of St. Tannock initiation. Can we just enjoy it?
Look, Chewie, pull that up. Let's just, I'm going to, I'm just going to bask.
Oh, God, it feels so good, doesn't it?
Thomas. Thomas, what's this guy's name?
Quechua.
Tom is an authority on Christian mystical traditions at the Jesuit School of Theology.
Tom, that's so impressive. In Berkeley, I did my basic training at Berkeley with the Greek, intensive Greek.
California said there's no evidence. I love Berkeley. The psychoactive plants had anything to do and had nothing to do with Brunos.
Thanks. John Marbury, a progressive Christian mystic and retired United Church of Christ pastor.
He's got a lot about him. He calls mirror rescue theories about pagan drugs and Christianity a bunch of nonsense.
Look, isn't that funny? Look, where's this guy from?
I think it's, oh, I'm getting, it must be around 1690.
Yeah, I'm getting, is anybody smelling the stink of the 17th?
Did somebody open up a can of Flatus from the 17th century?
Oh, who did that? Come here, Mary. Find that person.
Oh, let's go. Okay, I love this. Bring up the next part of the order that you guys are going to love.
But wait, wait, take it down, take it down. I'm so excited.
Look, when Brian came to me, then, and he interviewed me, right? Just interviewed.
And I told him I laid everything out about the drugs and where you could find it, where it is and why?
So frustrating that nobody at Harvard is even paying attention.
That's why we get all the dumb things they say. Harvard says dumb things to you.
Yes, yes, they do.
So let's look at the stuff. Another quote from the article, blow that up, blow that up.
I had the misfortune of reading the immortality.
Oh my God, the guy's going to send to you, right?
Said Mabri, Pastor Mabri, who now teaches, listen to what he teaches.
Just listen to this and imagine I'm a teacher of spiritual direction, spiritual direction.
Okay, I see where he's coming. He's going to come from spiritual direction.
At the Interfaith Chaplaincy Institute, he's at an institute. Let him out.
I didn't appreciate the church bashing.
Oh, sir, I say the church is an easy target and for good reason.
