We're going to see it.
Oh, God.
Look, this is torture for me, but I'm going to put on my glasses.
Thank you.
Chewie.
Chewie is trying to give me an eye test.
It must be demonstrated, therefore, that there is a rational power in animals.
I thought that was nice just to put that up there, right?
This is from antiquity.
Who did that?
I forget who this was now.
I'll thank you in a minute.
In the first place, indeed, each of them knows whether it is imbecile or strong.
In consequence of this, it defends some parts of itself, but attacks with others.
Thus, the panther uses its tooth, the lion, its nails and teeth, the horse, its hooves,
the ox, his horns, yeah, nice.
The cock, its spurs, scorpion and sting, but, and I love this part, I love this part, but
the serpents in Egypt use their spittle for what reason they're called ptuades, the spitters.
In this way, they blind the eyes of those who approach, right?
Your eyes are that portal into your system, into your physiology, right?
If you see the burning purple in somebody's eyes, know that it's just, yes, it will cause
blindness, but it is part of the process.
There are ways of treating people with theriacs.
Yeah.
This is a complex world.
We're balancing out this potential total death and blindness or blindness with the potentiality
that you can ride that pharmaceutical line.
You can stay in that as a Christos.
Let's look at that Christos, right?
We've got more Christing going on.
The next one, the next one, wherever the next, oh, did I get around to that?
Yeah, did I?
Oh, yeah, that's it.
That's all I want to do.
The spitters, we talk about the spitters.
Keep going.
Eos.
What is Eos?
It's that venom.
Right?
Ptuas ptuados.
The spitter kind of asks where it's what we call an asp if we're in 19th century, right?
Middle 19th century.
Philuminus talks about this and on his poisonous creatures.
Have any of you read that?
No, nobody has.
We have, hey, except for us, let me add that, except for us, because we have, yeah, take
that, take that Harvard.
Look what you're doing.
You have access to things that Harvard doesn't because they're boneheads.
You say, how can you offend Harvard?
How dare you?
What a waste.
What a waste of energy.
Let's go.
Let's go to the next source.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just wanted you to see, look at the last word here, right, people?
I'm going to take you to some medical side and I want you to see the smurne and the end
of it there.
They're going to be using, all he's doing is talking about making an application that
is epitiffae.
It's the same thing you are applying for the sake of your wounds, right?
Pushing the thorn, they called it.
For the sake of those, you can put on those, a plaster that's made out of these, but it's
using the smurne.
When you're dosing with the venoms, you need something to counterbalance them and that's
what they're providing.
Make sure you've got your smurne.
Now, what do they give Jesus when he's hanging there?
On the cross, they give him smurneized wine.
That's what the text says, people.
They're trying to balance out the effects that the guy was going through, right?
If you want to die from that thirst, go ahead.
Or you can do what the priestesses do and bring yourself back to the other side.
Follow Eve, baby.
Follow Eve.
Adam is a closed loop.
Yeah.
Follow Eve.
Make some progress.
Let's go.
They'll never do it.
The watchers told me.
Next one.
Look at this.
I just want you to see, oh God, this is known as his explanation, right?
And look, he's calling Jesus the one ox again, right?
But look, he's spitting.
He's spitting.
And the next one, we'll see the verb.
Don't switch there, but in the next one, we'll see the verb.
But what is he spitting?
He's spitting theon.
He's spitting theon, people.
It's a drug.
It's a drug.
It's used in medicine.
It's used all over.
It's used for ritual purifications.
Look it up.
People talk about what its root could have been.
I've seen old scholars, no recent, but old scholarship on what it probably was, right?
Sulfur.
All right?
You're going to find sulfur.
Give me the next one.
On that dry ground, that's what you have to put, right?
What is he doing?
He's out there doing it.
This is Jesus.
He's describing Jesus, spitting into the guys, spitting on their faces, right?
And here, it's into the mouth.
It says it's into the mouth.
This is the mouth guy.
This is the mouth guy.
Please understand that.
Spit in my mouth, Jesus.
Holy Jesus.
Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ.
Spit in my mouth, please.
Why has nobody written to him on the blessed spittle of Jesus?
Has anybody?
I bet some weird cult groups probably get involved in the spittle of Jesus, right?
You know what I mean?
Spittle of Jesus.
Let's get it.
Let's get the spittle of Jesus.
You know, chemically, we can reproduce it.
Nobody cares.
But oh well, maybe in a few years.
Let's go back to, yeah, yeah, oh, let's just, okay.
So on the second line here, I just wanted you to see.
First line, actually, the last two words, afron, right?
That afron is the foam.
Jesus, no one says Jesus, it's not just clear spittle, like, you know, somebody walking
up and spitting on the ground, right?
No, it's worked up into a froth.
It's worked up into afron.
You know why they call her the frothy, afrodite?
You know why they call her that.
You know what I'm talking about, everybody, anybody who's worshipped, take it down.
Anybody who's worshipped Aphrodite, and by that, you know exactly what I mean.
You've been there.
You've been there, yeah.
You know the froth.
You know the foam.
It's that foam that Jesus has in his mouth.
Jesus has got it in his mouth.
