It's a whole class of drugs.
And when Jesus says that his people
should be entering into this right,
whereby they are able to be immune to serpents
and to drink death-bringers and not die.
Why, people?
Scientifically, why?
How can this possibly be?
Unless people like Paul are immune to these venoms,
have built up an immunity to these venoms.
And again, don't think, right?
This is all being administered in sex rights.
So this isn't, you know, your person taking a little venom
every once in a while and exposing themselves to it.
This is a right where you're gonna have the stuff
boosted up your backside, right?
You're gonna get a sudden big bolus of it, right?
This is fraternity, right?
Type ecstasy.
Yeah, so fantastic, fantastic.
Okay, I want to just end with,
if I can get one more time this list,
I just want people to notice that on this list,
we have the goat and we have Saturnus.
Do you know what Saturnus does?
He gives you the ability to enter into that sexual right.
He gives you that ability
so that when you are sitting,
imagine that woman sitting,
she was sitting there thinking, there are little boys
and there are little girls in their rooms
with pimply faces.
And where does she go?
You can tie their hands.
You can, you can what?
You can tie their hands.
Chewie, play that again.
Let the people see this, please.
Here.
So we take with us from season four, the beginning of the ending.
This is where we are.
I'm proposing to you that what you're looking at, the mania, is where we are.
Yeah, where we are.
Not in time, because we're at the same place the Romans were in the first and second centuries.
Yeah, we're at that place.
We should be able, if this initiation, if this satanic initiation is legitimate, we should
be able to bring you the future.
We should be able to show you her face so that you could create a picture or write an
epistle to your friend, exclaiming the virtues of this future.
We should be able to do that.
We should be able to tell every square inch of her.
We should be able to give you the vision.
If this is true satanic initiation, we should be able to see the future.
Thank you for coming this season.
Zayn Campbell is currently writing a song about Jesus and the naked boy.
And we are waiting, Zayn is gracious, allowing me to use his work.
And now I just can't tell you how happy I am that a great artist would consider working
on the subject and bringing us something.
So I'm very much looking forward to that.
We will return in a week with season five, and it's planned already for us to have three
more seasons, and we will come to a return that people can say, ah, okay, I see, it makes
sense why it was happening.
Thank you very much.
We'll get highlights real out.
I'm very appreciative of your time.
And again, I encourage you.
I encourage you.
Don't listen to anybody.
Don't listen to anybody.
Go to the evidence and decide for yourself.
Open your eyes.
Right.
Open your eyes.
Here's the tension.
Hail Satan.
Go ahead and drink and whiskey.
