awaiting those who have sinned.
Thus they behave like the guardians of bachic mysteries
who never tire of talking about the phantoms and terrors
that await those who reveal the secrets to outsiders.
They postulate, for example,
that their Messiah will return as a conqueror in the clouds.
Take that down for a second, Judy.
Take that down for a second.
I want you to realize that this is what those of you,
I'm bringing the future and the past into the present.
This is what you have heard.
This is what you have heard.
This is what is in the air.
They postulate that their Messiah will return
as a conqueror on the clouds
and that he will raise fire upon the earth
in his battle with the princes of the air.
And it's the whole world,
with the exception of believing Christians
will be consumed in fire.
Your neighbors that go to church believe this.
I don't care what they do.
If they're Orthodox, they believe this.
These Orthodox traditions,
these fundamentalist traditions
are what come from this source,
from this rich evidence.
And all we gotta do is look at the drugs,
pull out the drugs and see what they're doing.
You're gonna go and you're gonna get a course
on the mysteries or you're gonna watch YouTube
on the mysteries.
And as soon as you pay cash for it,
it is turned off.
As soon as you pay cash for it, it is turned off.
I am going to give you profane.
I'm going to profane for you
in order to bring the lightning.
This very mystery.
Yeah, because that's what we know happens, right?
Everybody, you know what's really cool
is at this point by the end of season four,
you and I can talk.
And for those of you that have ears to hear,
you'll understand it.
For those of you who just tuned in, you won't.
That's a beautiful thing.
And I thank you.
I thank you for giving me that opportunity.
I thank you for that.
Your neighbors, Celsus wanted me to tell you,
thanks, that's all we need.
I appreciate it.
Have a good rest of your time, buddy.
You know, this is the way it is.
Your neighbors, this is how they think.
This is how insurrections start.
This is how governments are overthrown every 150 years.
Wait, what?
Did somebody meet Tom?
Tom Jefferson came by, right?
And he said, look, you got to remind them
for this series finale.
You got to tell them every 150 years this happens.
Every 150 years.
Where have the religious hands been laid?
Where have the orthodox hands been laid?
I don't care which orthodox you are.
Where have your holy of holies laid their hands?
They have laid their hands on the insurrection.
Is this new?
No.
Did you forget?
It's the second century.
We have laws that we're making.
If you're gonna march in and pull stuff down,
we are a government of the people
and by the people and for the people.
You cannot do that, not on our watch.
Yeah, yeah, that, that is the spirit of Christianity.
To tear down, Christ is coming.
To kill you all.
