that lived in the Mishmash of Judea,
how did they interpret that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Where does that take us?
You see how we jumped into the forbidden,
especially when we trial on prostitutes, right?
As soon as we bring up that prostitutes,
I'm going to show you in a minute a prostitute on a crucifix.
You're going to love it.
You're going to absolutely love it.
This is hidden stuff, people.
Nobody gives you this text because these kind of texts,
they don't want you to have,
but it's not because it's a conspiracy.
It's just because they're lazy.
You have to read a lot of pharmacology.
You got to read a lot of medicine, bro.
These people don't read the medicine.
I went and studied with the dude who did the medicine
and the history.
Yeah, Dr. John Scarborough.
It was my privilege to have been able to work with him.
This is the kind of stuff.
You know, these text guys are out there,
and they rub up against the ceiling,
and you really have to find a very intelligent way
of penetrating further and further and further.
That academic progress is that constant, steady motion
that moving forward and forward and forward
until that rhythm gets to a point,
and you get that song.
You get that song all from the evidence.
We are classical philologists.
Who is Amun?
He is a trained classical philologist.
And classics, for those of you who think,
what?
Classicists.
Before there were PhDs from the university system.
Before there were medieval wise men.
Before there were Roman educated.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Way before.
All of that, you have those who tended the museum.
Those were the first classical philologists.
Your universities spring from them.
The discipline of classical philology
from the language of the ancient Greeks came power.
Yeah. Power.
Power to figure things out.
Yeah. Gorgeous. Love it.
We have to honor the muse.
This is why we're here, is to honor the muse,
and that's what the life of Amun reflects.
Yeah.
The madness. Let's get that fury.
This was a production.
This is a woman on an altar who earlier has taken a phallus,
has taken a prop that cost a professor his position
at a university.
Yes. They'll say it was the phallus.
They'll say it was the phallus that did it.
But on that night of that performance,
a professor at a university named Amun
got to sit in an audience
and got to watch a stage full of Catholic girls
point a phallus, what it's called in Rome, a foskinum.
They got to point this thing.
They wanted authenticity.
Contractually, I was bound to do it.
I didn't care. Did they give you a big advance?
Nope.
It wasn't anything about cashola.
It was about integrity.
And they pointed these phalluses, these foskinum.
They pointed them at priests
who abused children and said,
your greed stains your soul with a stench of ruin.
These are the moments that you live for,
for the catharsis, for the purification.
This is what we as mystery initiates.
Remember, I am profaning, sacred.
We as mystery initiates, learn this.
Yes, love it.
Love it. I would take your questions.
I would take your questions into my hand,
but I have to read them from your mind.
I want to bring you a couple of goodies
and I'm just going to give us one last clip
where I want to figure out what is in this guy's brain.
So far as to say, the name Eve, this is the Greeks.
The name Eve is related to the sacred name for, guess who?
