That's who I am.
Let's go look at the evidence, right?
Forget your arguments.
Let's do the evidence.
It's the last one.
I can't imagine what it would be like to have read the amount of documents
and texts that you have read.
It just falls out of you like it's fluid.
So go ahead.
I have a cheat.
I have a cheat.
You want to hear my cheat?
I'd love to.
Can I tell your audience?
I shouldn't do this because I'm exposing myself,
and you're never supposed to expose yourself as a magician,
but I have a cheat.
I have a muse, and this muse is a dead girl.
That I am able to talk to via a practice handed down from the late Bronze Age.
And she is able to resurrect in front of my very eyes the spirits of the dead.
And I call them up one by one.
I was talking just the other night with Lord Byron.
And she was teaching me the way of Cain through the song of Lord Byron.
Isn't that interesting?
It's always your sources.
Always go to the sources.
Just read the stuff.
Yeah, and just one degree above that,
in case you were wondering for the inquiring mind,
the degree to which the cheat is useful is indeterminable.
Yeah, and what do I mean?
I had to find for a professor once in Boston,
a purple anus, because if the burning purple that we're about to see,
if the burning purple is being used rectally, right?
We're all doctors.
Just, you know, discuss it like doctors.
If it's used rectally, there should be some stain of the skin.
There should be some stain.
Did you know that wine that Jesus serves stained their lips purple?
Oh, I can't wait to show you.
Okay.
Presumably, we need that reference says Professor X.
I'll go ahead and say it so that, you know, I'm not making it up.
Dr. Carl Rock.
And if it's there, then we need to find the text.
So I asked the muse, give me the text and randomly reached up to my big library
and pulled down the one reference to the purple anus that I've ever seen.
It's there.
It's there.
And this is what I have to bring you is a vision of a reality.
A vision of a reality that is what is behind your fairy tale.
Yeah, fantastic.
I'm almond.
Let's go to the first, let's get to our first quote.
Let's love it.
Oh, don't you love this?
Look, she has it so nicely laid out.
By the way, I wouldn't be almond without chewy.
So big, big, big round of applause for chewy and everything that she does and the constant
protection that she gives me.
And there is something about the great mother that even a mortal man can reflect.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's a beauty that you won't get unless you're a devotee of the great mother.
Fantastic.
I don't know how else to say it with that.
Thank you, chewy for everything.
Here he is.
And, you know, let's just get it to him.
We got there.
They're going to be sending in the tie fighters pretty soon.
Look at, look at this little bit of Greek here.
I just want you to see that the containers from which Jesus has been transforming the
wine, that those are the ones that they use in conjunction with the incense.
It's the thing that you and I call incense.
The doctors are calling drug compounds.
Yeah.
And he's using this.
So right away we know on a profile what could be in that, in that container.
Yeah, it's going to have, I'm sorry, but it's going to have some sex drugs in it.
Don't worry.
Those of you who love Jesus, right?
Don't worry.
The Pope cleared, I'm sorry, Protestants, but on the Catholic side, the Pope cleared
that those charges of Mary Magdalene that she was carrying the sex drugs.
Right.
Why would Mary be having sex drugs?
What do you think she put on that alabaster that she used on Jesus?
Did you know that Mary used an alabaster on Jesus?
No, this is going to write about it.
No, this is going to do it.
And he's going to do it using the oldest form of cult terminology known.
It's a cult terminology that comes all the way from the Mycenaeans, but is preserved
in known us.
