We have a text.
Oh God you're going to love this.
Before we get there.
Hit the first.
Hit the first of these clips and let's talk about what this fool is raving.
I said break the Christian lens.
The first thing that you all believe that is completely wrong is that women had no power in the ancient world.
That they were slaves.
They were chattel.
You've heard this.
You've heard this.
Classists repeat this over and over and over again.
And that's completely wrong.
The way that you can see this is the earliest medicine we say is Hippocratic.
The earliest medicine is actually gynecological.
You can look at the Hippocratic corpus and see that the Hippocratics were borrowing from a female tradition.
And we have one text of diseases of women that scholars have said this is written by one of the Hippocratics.
Hippocrates are one of the students.
And they smile and look at each other.
It's not in English.
They smile and look at each other.
And in the text itself it says don't trust those stupid men physicians.
You have to go to a woman because only we know the body.
Mars needs women.
Definitely.
And I am looking for that Amazonian at this point.
I am looking for that Amazonian woman.
I have found her in the text and I've started to pull her out and see her for what she is and her beauty.
Amazing beauty.
And in front of the scholars and the who-has and the big shots and the people with the foundations and whatnot.
Maybe some of them want to know but we're not going to sell this material, right?
We're not going to sell this material.
We're just going to profane the sacred.
I'm doing that with you and I know that you know it.
I can't hear you directly but in my mind I can hear what you're thinking.
And I know you've come for those profanations.
You've come.
It's inside of you.
You were drawn.
It's just what they told me.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
And I go, where's this guy going?
He goes right through education and he gets to the point that he's writing his dissertation and it causes a splash.
It causes a little bit of a splash and how does it do that?
Because the dissertation committee did not want me to publish anything about recreational drug use or the classical authors who were indulging in recreational drug use.
And you know what this did to me.
It caused me to vow that for the rest of my life I would find those things that people didn't want published.
I've got one for you tonight and I'm going to publish it here.
Instead of writing it up in a muck muck journal, I'm going to burn it.
I'm going to burn it so far through the publishers will never be able to carry it because what are we all interested here in?
What's the whole purpose for this life of Amon?
Yes.
Right.
It's to find out who that naked kid was with Jesus.
Right.
Come on.
It's really what we all want to know.
It's the answer and the fish would get off the ground, get back and solve for us the language you and I would have the oldest language of western civilization.
Don't even bring your paltry Egyptian.
The Egyptians, they're so old.
Yeah, I'm talking Pulaski and you're going to love this stuff.
And when you see Jesus in a light tonight, I'm going to give it to you.
Okay, I should stop.
I should stop.
Run that first second clip.
Let's keep going.
There's a drug that Mary Magdalene gives to Jesus.
I hate using the Bible because then all the Gnostics will start yelling.
But there's a drug that Mary Magdalene gives to Jesus, right?
And if you look, check it out in the Greek.
There's not one name for one plant.
You guys are all know that, right?
Because you live that, but modern classes don't.
And in these texts, you have all sorts of different names.
You have street names for drugs.
Opium.
You don't call it opium in the ancient world.
You call it the juice, you know?
She gives it to him before the garden, before he ends up in the garden.
That's where he's betrayed.
When he's in the garden, he's with that kid in the garden.
Is there an association?
Was there a reason that he had the linen cloth?
The kid had a linen cloth?
What do we know about linen?
What kind of ceremonies is that used in?
Why is it that Jesus's apostles are standing at a distance?
Why is it a public park?
Why is Jesus dealing with a prostitute in the first place?
And what is that prostitute?
That's what our understanding of the term is.
How did the Greeks and the Romans and the Hellenists
