And that's what ends up with your university system,
which right now is clogged, full of garbage, full of garbage.
You can take these people down in an instant,
and side by side with them.
Just go toe to toe, toe to toe.
And what is shameful is that what is out there is tainted by that lens, right?
It's tainted by a Judeo-Christian lens,
a propaganda built to create a world in your mind that is a fairy tale.
Imagine that, imagine that.
You are organisms in the machine that is propagating a fairy tale.
Yeah.
And it wasn't, yeah.
It wasn't Celsus who was the last guy, right, Neil?
It wasn't Celsus who was the last guy who said,
guess what, we're doomed.
We are doomed, and we have been fighting that doom for how many centuries now?
How many centuries, really?
Yeah, fantastic.
It's quite the prison.
Love it.
But that's what we're here for.
I'm going to bring you the goodies now.
One more clip, and then the goodies, I promise you,
I'm going to show you Jesus in a way that nobody has shown you Jesus before.
Let's go to a clip.
He said, I'm so-and-so.
He introduced himself.
I'm so-and-so.
I was involved with Bernard Law, with Cardinal Law,
and getting this case started.
He's the guy who got the case started against law.
And he said, what you've done with tears in his eyes, I'll never forget it.
He said, what you've done in describing what the priests in the ancient world were doing
and what their justification for it was, he said,
you have grasped onto something that I saw in my priest abuser.
He said, you don't understand.
He said, you have somehow taken out of that priest that did that to me,
and you've put it into what was in the hearts of the men who did it in the ancient world.
It's a real phenomenon.
This is the real world, and if we don't talk about it,
why this religious phenomenon of priests with boys?
Why is this permeating right now?
Is there something in society that's permeating?
It's the vampires drinking the baby blood, right?
Maybe we can throw in some anti-Semitic tropes,
and we can turn it into something that we had in the Middle Ages.
Maybe a plague?
That would be cool.
It's the witches.
Let's kill all the witches.
Okay, the plague wasn't so cool.
What you can see is the evolution of a person's thought,
and how everything around them affects them,
and creates your culture, creates your reality.
That's not my thing.
I'm just using now, you know what I mean?
But my loyalty is to the text.
My loyalty is to the text.
Let's get to this last clip.
We've got one more, and I want you to consider,
as you and I work with text, because I'm giving you things,
and I see that many of you in the comments are saying,
I don't do the Greek, so I'm taking it directly from Amun, right?
I do run a Greek program,
and I'd love for people to be able to acquire the language.
It does me no greater feeling than to have a student go off
and get into a grad program, and take their entrance exam,
and come out with those first two years off, right?
Because they're good.
They're at intermediate reading level.
Why am I so jazzed by that?
Because when you give people these texts, these secret texts,
not really secret, lazily secret texts,
when you give them to them and their mind is forced into the Greek,
it transforms them.
It works on them mentally.
It enlightens, it opens the eyes.
Remember, it's the song in the mystery that is more important
than any of the other components, including the drug component.
And if they thought in antiquity that the song was more important
than the drugs, that's a huge deal.
That's a huge deal.
It makes people uncomfortable, and you all know that I enjoy
making people uncomfortable.
It's nemesis.
That vapor, that vapor that you're able to feed off of,
it's ether.
People can't see it, but it's ether.
And to be able to give that, to show you the Jesus,
let's get the, I'm craving Jesus right now.
I really am.
Do we have, we have one more clip, do the clip, and then we get Jesus
in a way that you guys have never seen him before.
And it's only to illustrate.
