beard out. And as soon as I realized that I just pulled his beard out, the, the, really how
an understanding clicked with me of how they were doing it in antiquity. So it's called the
sortace. It's called the sortace. It's nothing, I'm not, you know, it's nothing hidden. It's an old,
old necromanic practice. If you look into the history of sortition, you're going to find
that it's necromancers who are doing it, right? And why would you want to be necromancers? Because
they're the ones who talk to the dead, right? You want to talk to, you want to talk to Odysseus.
All right, you got to go through a necromancer. Everybody knows that Odysseus knew that.
Let's go. Here's another one. Was there purple in the linen cloth? Oh, who did this? That's great,
Gina. Gina, that's exactly the question. That's exactly the question that I'm asking.
Yeah. Yeah. Was there purple?
Gina, we can't, we can't jump. We got to be good investigators. We need that cloth. You know,
we need that linen with purple in it. We need that. We need it with purple in it. God, we've
got to find, we've got to find somewhere that kids rag. And where did we know that that rag
are bandage? On the doctor's side, they're calling these things bandages. And we know that they're
impregnating them with drugs. See, this is the stuff they didn't want me to learn that I was
learning. And you know, right out of the brothels, right out of the European brothels,
yeah, is where this is coming from. Oh, God, love it. It's all sex drugs, you know, to prevent
to prevent pregnancy, and to reduce venereal disease. You ever seen an ancient case of
herpes? Oh, God, I read a description of herpes from antiquity, right? We have antivirals now
and whatnot, but they didn't. And herpes was fatal. Did you know herpes is fatal? Oh my God,
you got to read about the spread of herpes. Is any, yeah. Are you ever going to let
you and go free? No. No, Jung is mine. That's why we kicked down the doors and, you know,
took control of the text. And we'd looked at the priests of Jung. And we said, you gentlemen,
you are inadequate. They can't explain the red book. No, who said that? Yeah, Rob, Rob. No, Rob,
not letting him go. He belongs to us now. See, they can't read them. People don't realize that.
I'm going to let you guys know this. Please don't tell anybody. Please don't tell anybody.
There's a seal, a magic seal on what's called now the red book. There's a magic seal on it.
Yeah, you can find it. Look in the magician. You know, look in the magician. And that seal
becomes a cipher for the rest of the book. Yeah, you can't, they can't explain the red book because
they didn't dive deep into the actual Greek language, that engine that's fueling all of this
magic, right, that is, that is imprisoning Carl. Yeah, no, he's still here. He gets to stay with me
for as long as I want. And to be honest, it's kind of perverted, I know, but I kind of like
to torture him. I do. I like it. He's like, you let me go. And I'm like, no, right? He stay chained.
Yeah, if you want to tell somebody who is, I mean, he's the guy who has young chain too is
four. Yeah, do you know what we do? Don't, Joey, right? Joey's laughing. You know what we do with
Carl Jung? Oh, God, let's show you know, let's not that was that is just for the sake of pure
prurient pleasure. Yeah. Yeah, no, we can't do that. We can't do that. We have time for one more.
Did you find one more? Thank you. I'm on. I love you, brother. I love you. I love how you stand up
and don't take no B. I like that. I like that. I don't take no B. No, who takes B? Ask Kip. We don't
take B. This is an art. I've watched men and women struggle in the arena of classical philology
like champions. I'm not taking your taking your
yeah. Oops, punk, punk. Yeah. Okay. People that think they know what they're telling you. Right.
No, I get it. I get it, brother. I hear you. I hear you. That's Juan. Thank you, Juan. You just
created a fan. You right? Me and Juan. A little bit of Ceterion. Yeah. A little bit of Ceterion.
Some drums. Temple of Aphrodite. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Let's go, Juan.
Let's catch Jesus in a public park with a naked boy. Let's catch him. Let's catch him and bring
him out. Show him to everybody. Cardinal law got brought out. Got brought out in the light and
shown to everybody. Why? Because it's prison. This is prison. This is his punishment. You mean your
life is your punishment? Whoa. I thought it came afterwards. No. This is it. Oh, my God. Lethal.
They come in and it's lethal from the beginning. Those watchers, I tell you. Poison your brain.
Let's go to that one. Yeah. This is Daquan with a kung fu chops. Fantastic. What do I think of
Nietzsche? What do I think of Nietzsche? I think he was a brilliant, tortured, inspired,
humble, mud-soaked mortal. And I think his pain is kind of the pain of his life. He's kind of the
chord that runs through his song. He wrote the birth of tragedy. I'll say one thing. The birth
of tragedy is a work of genius. And every classicist who hasn't read that should be spanked,
should be spanked like that on the buttocks for not having read Nietzsche, birth of tragedy.
Now, the antichrist, gorgeous, gorgeousness and gorgeosity. Love it. Love it. Thus spake,
Zarathustra. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Enjoy. Enjoy. A little bit of Stephen King
goes pairs well with Friedrich Nietzsche. A little bit of Stephen King. It's like they
harmonize with each other. It gets really sexy. If you can bring them together to see that invisible
viper. It's lovely. No, I love these. Any other questions? I wanted people to be other.
No. Let's, no. One more chewy says, wait, I'll let you call it. Time fighters are coming.
We got to get out of here quick. People are, people have given me way too much of your time.
I truly appreciate it. Ryan, thank you so much. For those of you who have tried to buy the chemical
muse and you can't because it's like $6,000. Right? Don't. Don't. Right? You can find it. People
make deals with swashbucklers all the time. Right? Don't. Please don't. You feed your family. Feed
your family. That's what's important. Do that one, please. What gem did Priapas go to? Yeah.
What gem did Priapas go to? That's a great question. Would you want to wrestle Priapas?
I think you want to leave him in his garden, don't you? I saw a thief come in once. There was this.
This is a garden. You know, just typical house garden. Nothing big, but there's a
thief that came in and the owner came out. The thief was in the process of stealing. He wasn't
Augustine. No, I wasn't Augustine. He was like Augustine, but he wasn't Augustine. He wasn't as
fortunate as Augustine because the person whose garden this was reached up to Priapas, took out
his phallus, which was in the shape of a club, and he beat the guy's brains out.
Yeah. Yeah. You have to guard the fruit and Priapas is the guard of the fruit. Can we bring
Priapas back to the picture? Priapas is the guardian of the fruit. Right? When you have your child
that's going to be a guard of the fruit. No, we're back. What was that? They're jamming us.
It's that I told you they would catch us. We have to run. I think I just split my pants again.
Did anybody, the microphone picked that up? Wow. That's yeah, that's the Priapac
guardian of the garden, right? When you have your child who's about to enter into
womanhood, you have a celebration of Priapas with her so that she is able to obtain the luck,
obtain the luck of what is life. Yeah, love it. We're looking. I'm almond and I'm looking for
that Amazonian woman. I'm looking for her. I want you to be able to see her. She who dances,
dances in the holy orchard of Aries of Mars, the God of War. Mars, the Avenger.
Mars, the Avenger. It's all the same physics. Love it. Next season starts this Friday,
Chewie. Yeah, next season starts this Friday. Sorry, Chewie's in charge. Does everything.
It's fantastic. I recommend that you take advantage of your child's quick thankery.
Nice. Thank you. Friday will start and Friday what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up
with the juiciest sections of the transformation of John, the transformation of John. I'm going
to bring you that text. Nobody has it, but I've got it for you and only the really juicy dirty
sections. I don't want you to see though, like the reality. God, you're going to, you don't believe
me now, but you're going to love it. Thank you, everybody. It makes my night. The only thing I
feel bad about is I wasted, I wasted some of your time. I should have cut it down. I'm sorry.
Have a good night and pale Satan.
