Dionysus.
Yeah.
Right? It's very weird.
It's like when you start realizing,
the word for medicine in Greek, iatros,
the word for doctor, that's the word for physician, iao,
comes from the verb iao,
is also a word that means the cry.
This is so weird when I read this.
The cry that a woman delivering a child gives.
It's not weird. That's its own thing.
That's what means medicine.
That's where medicine comes from, right?
And the aero drugs to cause the uterus to contract and all that.
It's beautiful stuff.
Yeah, the aero drugs causes the uterus to contract.
Try giving a group of classicists who look like
they have been cut out of,
no offense to the guys across the pond.
You know me, I'm just talking more straight up,
but they have this kind of affiliation for that.
Gentile face cracked society,
where if you talk about uterine contractions,
even something like that bothers them.
Now, how am I going to mention,
you have to put yourself in my shoes,
how am I going to let people know
that not only are there uteruses involved,
my God, there are uteruses involved,
but there are modes of ecstasy
for which these mystery religions are, you know,
kind of all the dressing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
To bring you to the point of orgasm.
Yes, to bring you to the point of orgasm.
You have to talk about the word orgy,
the religion that you're looking at,
everything is based upon a sexual act.
Oh my God, are you sure that the followers of Bacchus
always lead to Aphrodite?
Every time, every time.
Why do you think Penteas is so, ooh, ooh,
let's get dressed up and go see, right?
That's where he should be, naughty boy, right?
You know who you are.
Love it.
This is the kind of stuff.
Now, how do I bring this kind of world of reality?
How do I bring it to the people who are teaching
and propagating, you know,
what is essentially a fairy tale?
A fairy tale.
The person who reviewed the chemical muse
with the Brenmar Classical Review.
Philippe French-Tichler, I think is his name.
He was, he now has recanted and said,
oh my God, you know, this guy was, you know,
obviously right.
Yeah, he's not saying it publicly, right?
But that's, you know, that's what's going on.
And he's writing a book that he's going to sell
based upon the foundation that the chemical muse laid.
Isn't that nice?
That's how it works, kiddos.
That's how it works.
My last, you might like this, to get to know me,
my last offering to St. Martin's Press.
People have asked me, why haven't you,
why haven't you been publishing a book?
You could have another book, a follow-up.
I said, I tried.
I gave him, I gave him an offer,
but they told me, they said,
Dr. Hillman, we cannot, we cannot give that to our people.
Yeah, no, we can't.
It'd be too offensive.
It'd be too offensive.
Too many people offended.
Okay, that's how you know you're at that juncture.
As soon as you notice people start getting offended,
you know, in the gymnasium, you have your in.
I want you to remember this, the Satanist.
When you see that moment of weakness, that's your in.
You have to take that opportunity.
If you don't, you're not going to win the wrestling match.
And why are we all here naked wrestling, right?
The gymnasium and antiquity, right?
We're all naked wrestling.
We're watching, we're watching the form.
We're watching the moves, right?
We're working through it as we work through our ethics, right?
Isn't that great?
And how are we doing all that?
We're doing that in Greek.
