Yes, I'm talking about putting you into a state
Giving you some drugs drugs that make you think about aphrodite
That's what I'm thinking about doing because this is amazonian traditions. We're propagating remember when the amazonians take their husbands
You know what they do
They're not called husbands. They're called maters
And they go out and they chase them down
They chase them down. You this can happen when you've got people with poisons
Yeah, and the poison arrow, that's the way to remember
Remember those archeresses, you know, they're good
Those medusae they use those drugs
Effectively you get that cup from her. You're gonna enter death bra. Remember Jesus in the garden
He's like in the cemetery. Is that naked boy?
boom 28 minutes. I did it
That kid that naked kid that he's with right? He's all like stumbling in the beginning. He's like confused
And he's like, oh, I don't want to take this cup, right?
Right because he knows what it's gonna do
He knows what it's gonna do
He was
tripping
When he died
He was tripping
autopsy reports
Jesus gonna be full
Just wait
They're gonna be full. I know it's not our department, right? We'll let the science boys work with that one
All right, we're just here to work on our subpoena. All right come bring that information forward
So we've got sirens. We've got sirens. Get us back to sirens. Here they are
Here are our witnesses. Are you ready sirens bring them up bring them up
Go go back down. Give me a little more alice right there
Right there. Yep. One below one below. I want you to see the verb that this comes from say that
It's one of the you know, they talk about the etymology of siren. What's it what it means?
But it has to do with that sparkling star. Are you surprised to find out that the stars are there?
It's in the text of isaiya. He's using it
Hello
The constellations are there. Hello
Right. It's just burning hot and scorching. Go to the next one
Yeah
Celia to sparkle or twinkle. Isn't it nice to burn in a visual way?
Yes. Yes. Nice. They can cause you
To wander. Do you remember the girl in the mithraic right that we were initiating?
Do you remember her?
She became a fellow wanderer
She became a fellow wanderer. Yes, what we're seeing in isaiya
Is that right?
And it is from the vantage of those who would bring it to an end
Who would bring it to an end?
Who else do we have there in this right? Let's bring up the greek from the 21 23
21 to 22
Yeah, here we go. Here we go
