The stars of uranos and then Orion and the cosmos
And wait a minute those of you who've been with us from the beginning all of a sudden he's speaking your language
How is this possible
How is this profetist? Do you realize the word prophet is a greek word?
Do you realize the word synagogue is a greek word?
Do you see why the mazerites very intelligently said if we're going to own this material
We've got to create a heaver original
King james picked that up and ran with it. He was like it's all good with me
And then everybody after him it's even a wick cliff, you know, everybody gives those wick cliff translators
They give them such kudos kudos for you guys your wick cliff translators. Look what you've done
Your translation sucks
It sucks
Yes, fantastic. Yeah, why?
Because it's a science and you have to you know, we're all scientists sitting here and you have to exercise
discretion
Now scientific discretion with these sources you have to pull up the language and let the language
Give you the
Amino acids that are your basis for life. Yeah, it's gorgeous
Oh, let's let the isa open your mouth again. Take off that take off that dead prophets ball gag
No, don't see that
Don't see that. I'm just kidding. I wouldn't do that once you've got somebody in that position
You gotta wait for all the drugs to wear off anyway, right?
Okay, um Babylon right he keeps going on about Babylon until we get to verse 21
21
Do we have those up here bring us verse 21 up there for 21 and 22
21 and 22. Yeah, this is fantastic Kai
On a power son die ecce theory
There's gonna be theory out there. Remember the theory act that we talked about
There's going to be theory
Who are establishing themselves there?
Yeah, and what are they doing? They're causing the a who
Those places of dwelling are filled with the a who
The a who the echo
Okay, remember we're in the mystery. We're performing the mystery
We've got people who are using the echo
And there on a power son die ecce serenes there are set up the serenes. Give us a sign
Here she is finally, right? You didn't know that there were sirens in the bible, right? You're like, no
Nobody showed me that one. Here it is
Sirens bring us the siren. Um, it's the definition of Alice. I smell Alice. Alice. There you go. No, that's almost there
Um siren. Give me a siren. Oh, here she is
Serene sereno see the serenes those are used
gorgeous gorgeous sirens
And look, oh, it's this involves trickery
Don't be surprised if the sirens are able to charm you
Look at their names. What are the names of those sirens? They're always the charming voice the charming song
And when I say charming, I don't mean Prince charming
Right, I'm not talking about Henry Cavill
Right, I'm talking about
Confusing you
