So, you've been told something by the scholars, and you can go Wikipedia all you want
And you'll find that you've been told the same thing
And you're reading the Bible, you're reading Isaiah, and you think you're reading Isaiah, but the sad fact is you're not
You are reading a Hebrew fabrication brought to you through the eyes of a British king
Yes, that's what you're doing
You're reading a text that doesn't exist, it had to be made up
Tonight, we go to the Septuagint, the earliest form of this text
The one that we have, that everybody was reading and quoting, right?
It's all over Jesus' mouth, did you think we came here for any other reason?
Than to further our case against Jesus, right? In trans-dimensional court, right?
No, right? That's what we do, that's why we're here
For archons and everything, we're going to get some archons tonight, love it
Okay, so here we are, that's our way in
To the Jesus, through this Isaiah, right?
He's one of the guys on the inside and he knows
But, what happened is in the 10th century, these Maserids
And everybody says, everybody says, air make! air make! Hebrew, Hebrew!
I defy you to find for me any genre just find a genre of Aramaic
Find a genre of literature in Hebrew
Outside of what has been appropriated that you and I call the Old Testament now thanks to the kings of the Christians
Yes kings and popes
Love it. Love it. We're going back to the earliest form of the text
There is no Aramaic. There is no Hebrew. This is a Greek
Document and tonight we're going in that temple and we're seizing that document and
The way we're gonna do it is we're gonna question Isaiah right here, right sit down
sit down
Right under dress. We don't have to this is this is satanic, bro
We don't have to pull any punches. We'll get the truth out. We'll get the truth out
We want that historical account. We want that we get it through the language bring up that first
Give me that first text
Thanks, Anthony
Yeah, but wild bees shall rest there and the houses shall be filled with howling and
Monsters shall rest there and devils shall dance there and satyrs
Shall dwell there
Yeah, wait what I've never read that you've never read that
No, you've never read that or let me show you what you've been reading, right?
This is the real thing people. There's no appropriation here tonight. This is a rescue
We're on a rescue mission
Yeah, we're gonna take back these texts go up go up to it bring them back to their historical
Give me some of these English versions. What what kind of this? This is the jubilee 2000
the jubilee
As you ready, but desert creatures would lie down there and their houses will be full of owls
Ostriches will also live there. We in a zoo. Are these the same verses Isaiah?
Are these the same? Yeah, it's indicating. It's the same. It's hard to talk with a ball gag in your mouth, isn't it?
Here we go and their houses will be full of owls ostriches also will live there and shaggy goats
What was it they'll frolic there these shaggy goats that are frolicking hyenas will howl in their fortified town and
Jackals take that down jubilee jubilee. That's not kid. I can't be right jubilee
That's that's not what the text says at all jubilee. We're looking for sirens. We're looking for sirens and satyrs
That's what we're looking for is anybody else. We've been doing the bonk thing, right for those of you with ears to hear
