They're like, dude, if we don't establish the holy power of the Hebrew
The nothing belongs to us
All right, you can't have your orthodoxy if your Hebrew isn't your holy language. Oh God
Yeah, well
600 years before any of this proto Hebrew ever appeared
Greek was long established through the Mycetians. Yeah, linear a you guys with the Minoan. You're behind you're behind
Get it done. Get it done. Get it translated. We did our part do yours
Fantastic, let's keep going. I want to take you to the beginning of Isaiah 13. I want to take you to the beginning
Yeah, there we go. I'm just gonna flash the text up there just for a minute so you can look at it and say oh yum
This is yummy. This is a Septuagint for those of you who say you can read the Bible or you have read the Bible
You haven't and here's the proof that you haven't because this is it
This is it and what is the first word look up in that?
core corner
Corner
Look over here Horasus Horasus
Horasus look at that first word. Oh love it. Let's feel it together
Horasus
vision
vision
The vision of his sire
The one he saw
The one that was brought against the Babylonians
Against the great city Babylon. This is his vision
This is his vision blow it up there. Chewie. Thank you
Mmm, bring that sign bring it bring the sign
Raise the voice you Balkans. Are you hearing it? Raise the voice?
Do not fear
Summon me with your hand
You can hear the rock and roll music right in the background. Awesome. Yeah
Archons open the doors
Right portals, baby. These guys are opening portals right at the beginning Isaiah you junkie you sick
Sex drug taking junkie
Yeah, here we go. We got it. No, no, it's it's okay. It's gonna be in evidence, right?
We're taking it back. We're taking it back
I'm gonna put things right right. These are my sanctified. I'm gonna lead them. What's gonna happen?
Are you ready? Here it is. Here it is. Here's Jehovah and all this might come through the iraculate ritual
Right coming through. What's he saying boom boom boom gigante's air hunt that player all site on full moon move
Hi, don't taste. I'm ma guy who beads on taste
Yeah, giants are coming
Giants are coming
Giants are coming. Yeah
Ones that at the same time
We're gonna take joy. They're gonna be glad and take joy while they kill you
While they kill you
Yet, can you feel the evangelical fervor?
Bring up the evangelical fervor
Right, all of you evangelicals now. I'm addressing you a lot of the Catholics that are charismatic, too
A lot of the Catholics that are more like their Baptist brothers
Yeah, you know who I'm talking about
