content to try to get it yanked are the ones who say, oh no, he's wrong. Academically, he's wrong.
This word means that it's the same group. Does that make sense? It makes sense, doesn't it?
It's so inherently dishonest. Modern Christianity. I'm not talking about what Jesus did.
I'm not talking about what John the Baptist did. I'm not talking about any of the apostles.
I'm talking about modern Christianity. Modern Christianity is a lie, and it is a lie that
forces the person to become a liar. It's amazing. You can't hold these people to a standard.
You can't say your lies don't have any effect with us. They just do. Okay. Now,
I shouldn't. That was so boxy. I'm not here for so box. Let's go back. Boom. And yep,
this may be the longest Bible study ever. Yeah. This is just, oh, I want to show you the grabby
word. This is what Jesus is doing to the parts of the children that he's then saying, oh, this is
so nice. I love this one. Yeah. This is what he's doing. Okay. To cling to a thing, to grab.
Watch this. Watch the definition. Keep going. Of hop to a mind. Look at number three, to touch
your effect, to make an impression. See, it's not just contacting. It's to make an impression,
to grasp, to grasp. Look at number five, to have intercourse. Take it down. You mean this word
can mean to have just straight up to have intercourse with. Yeah. Why? Because it's grabbing in a way
that is fulfilling desire. Yeah. Yeah. Hop to a mind. Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. This is what
his next one. Well, and watch what happens. Here's what, watch what happens to the word.
To kindle. When you hop to my something, you kindle or you set on fire or something.
Right? You enter this place, this conflagration. You know what Jesus is doing? He's doing the same
thing that it says in the end of the Gospel of Mark. When we're going to be touching the people
and filling them with enthusiasm, I can touch you in certain places that will fill you with
enthusiasm. Yeah. Let me rephrase. Let me just say that again. You and I can come into physical
contact. I can use my hands and I can bring you to a place. Praise. I can inspire you.
I can bring that to you. Right? Well, Jesus is bringing the kids and every time he brings it to
a kid, we know it's not out of nor out of a normal parameter for what the mystery religions are
doing. They're calling their members pedarasts. John the Baptist is a huge one. He's walking
around with a penis shaped cop. Where do you put that?
Glass. It's essentially a glass phallus, a glass dildo. John the Baptist carried around a glass
dildo. Yes, that's a fact. And that's a scientific term dildo, by the way. Yes,
scientific. We have ancient dildos that have been found.
Really old ones. I think it's the oldest. Isn't it the oldest human artifact we've got
is phallus dildo from Stone Age? Yeah, I think so. Somebody sent me a picture out and they're
like, look at this. They found it. It's like 36,000 years old. I'm like, that's an old, old, old dildo.
Yes. You can have a bag of those and start a museum. Okay, I'm riding. I'm trying to ride that
line. I'm trying to ride it right carefully. This is school children. Don't be surprised if we have
to say scientific terms. Let's go to the, yeah, they're going to try to get me on that one. You
watch everybody. If this is taken down, you'll know what. Okay, you'll know who did it. Opticus,
right? Able to come into contact. Look at the just number three of medicines, right? Opticus.
It's that which causes, you know, the action of the, of the, of the plant that they're using, right?
They put it on there and it works as a medicine. You can say it works. Let's go to the next one.
Hmm. Here's a whole bunch. Oh, here's a whole bunch of Unix. I just thought I'd show you
how much the Greeks love this word, Unix, right? You can unicize someone. You can have something
