That's a mystery right like the origin of judeism and christianity and islam
And you walk in because remember the muslims they say worship Bacchus in an aphrodite
Right not the muslims the the people living in arabia who were the ancestors of the muslims
Right that that they were worshiping Bacchus right they're doing the same thing
They're doing the exact same thing in a satanian right which linguistically is satan
When the row and the diagrama drop as they do
I love it
Thank you. Emmett Bennett for an education in mycenaean greek
It allows us to look at the drugs that jesus and his
Clan are using his group are using okay. Give me the next one
I'm not going to rush people because this is going to this is going to blow your mind a little bit at least it does mine
It does mine. So we're pouring out and we're causing that fire
Right and what's going to happen? Let's pull up a chorus as we're entering. You know, we all came
We all saw what was going to happen. We're all on those
The three that I showed you at least that they gave you
Right and now we're entering this phase where what happens
We're going to bring out a chorus and we're going to say what kind of chorus is this is the chorus now
This is from the frogs
This is from the frogs
And this chorus of frogs is very famously
Going to lead us to the rites
And you know
Dionysus
he sees
he sees
one of the
chorus members and
For a moment her garment comes a little bit loose and something
Pops out that he sees and he says what a pleasant
budding grape
This is a part of the chorus that is leading us to the rites
Right, this is a part of the chorus and what is the chorus pointing to gives that chorus again
Chewie look at the second line the second word in so dead on
Give me the next one
There's who are they tell who were the who were the girls singing about they're singing about the savior
Wait a minute. They're singing about jesus christ
No
They're singing about a woman who was the original
savior
In the mystery
You see jesus is just operating within a very very specific mystery
He's bringing salvation. He's been hanging out with the baptist with the penis shaped cups that we try and probably pay him
You know, he's following a very specific way
Some children are made show were made eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
right
When you enter the dark kingdom
via the beast
You don't come back the same
Yeah, it hurts says jesus. I'm so thirsty
I'm in agony
It hurts. Are you there? Are you there yet? Don't worry?
Don't worry. They designed this thing so that you'll come out the other end
Give us and give us that uh reference again. I just want to make sure I hit all of it
Um, yeah, uh, look, what is the chorus going to tell us they're going to tell us about day mater
right now this is
You know demeter right she is part of the this is why we all came for the
Resurrection of her daughter
Wait a minute this thing is about resurrections. Yeah, and that word in there
Anasa the word for demeter that is an old old old mycenae and now now we're at
um somewhere 2000 years before
Christianity and
1700 years before Judaism
Who are we following within this right? We're following the wanasa
There's a diagram of there. What is she doing? She's sum parastate. Now those of you who say what's so special about greek?
This is a perfect example
right sum parastate is a word that
Aristophanes is making up
Yeah, it's a word that he's making up the power of ancient greek
What really makes it different from modern greek? What really makes it different from english and french and italian?
right, what really makes it different
Is the ability to form new concepts?
Isn't that great? What if you were given a set of tools that with your mind you could create?
Things anew you could pull out of the air of reality in verbal form
Nobody else is doing the same thing as you
God
God, that's the secret. Give me the next one. Uh, we love you. You're so sexy mama greek
I love this. I love this. Um, and he's telling you right here. It is here. It is. Okay. Give us the next one
boom
Brekekeke coax coax brekekeke coax
Um
Dionysus, uh, what's saying that by the way the frogs now wait a minute. I'm bringing you frogs and I'm not going to bring you
the, uh
um
I'm not going to bring you those frogs without pulling them right out of the mouth of
Christianity
Right out of the mouth of the apocalypse because you say hey look
Um, I understand you're talking about drugs and these texts you're talking about altered states
I understand that mental states altered mental states and physical
Yeah, but this whole thing inspiration by the means of demons. This is not part of christianity. Oh contraire
Let's see. Let's see what happens. Give me the next one. Bacchus. Give me some something inspiring
Go
Boom and I saw from the mouth of the dragon and from the mouth of the beast
And from the mouth of the false prophet. I saw three
a cathartic spirits
Those dirty mystery spirits
You know what i'm talking about
You saw it
You saw it popped right out
You
Welcome frogs
Frogs, you mean that's the bible passage and it's talking about those demonic spirits. Yes, it is
Why because jesus is a
Bakant
It is not that the text is written to reflect bachic literature
It is that jesus is acting within the bachic rites
That spirit
of the frog
Brecca cacac coax coax
Brecca cacac coax
