Have you seen the ancient Greco-Roman portrayals of them? They're running up and down hills with snakes. They got snakes around their waist.
They got, and I'm not talking just old, any snake. I'm talking poisonous, poisonous, venomous, vipers. What are they doing? They got a basket full of them.
Why do you have to, ladies, if you're going on a picnic for the weekend, I understand the different supplies that you're going to take.
I don't get the basket full of snakes unless you're using that venom. I don't get it. Does this all make sense?
Of course, the systemistica that sacred ark has within it, that source of the venom that you need to get high so that you can do things like these people are doing.
What else do these people do? They're going to come up with these new languages. They're going to be handling the snakes.
This is a nice conditional here. If somebody, you know, drinking the Thanasimon, you're drinking that death dealing brew. You're getting into that death.
What do these cultists do? They bring the death. Second death, bro. Can you smell the sulfur? It's from that pit. It's where that second death is.
Oh, yeah. Get in the throne. I'm going to show you something. Get in the throne.
Okay, let's go back to that one one more time. I just want to finish it off. So if they drink, you know, when they go into these rites and they're entering into the death state, nothing's going to hurt them.
Right. It's not going to hurt them. And he even uses an expression here that's an affirmative. It's an effective affirmative where it's emphasizing no way.
No way will anything injure them, right? And what do these freaks do? What do these death cult freaks do?
They remember. Okay, wait, hang on. Don't remember yet. Remember in a minute, what do they do? They put their hands, they put their hands on these uninspired, they get feely, touchy feely putting their hands on the uninspired.
And when they do, they enter into a state that is beautiful. They enter into a state that is beautiful.
Now, whose words were those that I just quoted? That's Jesus from the gospel of Mark. That's Jesus from the gospel of Mark.
Kiddies, right? We're here learning about Jesus.
Amen. Do you mean that Jesus was involved in a drug using mystery cult? Yes, kiddies. Yes, right. Remember, by the time kids remember by the time Jesus was here, talk, talk, talking, saying Christ, Christ, Christing.
And remember, when he said he was Christ, he said, don't tell anyone, don't tell anyone certain things that your teenage apostles can't talk about.
By the time he did his thing, it had already been 1000 years before the first human being was Christ, the founder of the mystery, the media.
Yeah, scootha. I told you about scootha before when no voice was coming. Yes, scootha, that queen.
That queen, what does it mean? It's a state of intoxication. Do you hear that? Right out of the great mouth from antiquity. Scootha being in that state.
Queen state. That's the queen state. That's what we call our queen of caucus. We call her scootha. Scootha. Love it. Love it.
Sorry, let's go. I went to somewhere. Did you see that show? I was temporarily out there for a minute. Let's go. I want to bring you to some prophecy.
I'm going to take you to the Horos. Give me the next one, or for those of you who have eyes to see the Orvos. Yes, and there's a six in there, right in the middle, right in the middle, standing on that bridge.
What is this I'm showing you? This is a boundary stone. This is the place that you find your limit.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. That was Jesus. That was Jesus. People talking about drinking the death formula involved in the resurrection rites. That was Jesus calling himself Christ and saying, don't tell people.
Those were his words. You thought it was Bacchus, didn't you? It was. That's the point. Yeah. It's one right, people. Fantastic. Illuminati.
You want some Illuminati? My people know. I bring it. I bring them the illumination. Let's go. You're going to love this. Look at this dirty stuff. The prophecy of Virgoia.
You say, that's not dirty. Amen. That's not dirty. No, it's not. Virgoia. Virgoia was a prophetess, a civil, a civil to the Etruscans. And she set up all of the religion of the people who ultimately handed down through Nigeria a prophetess.
The religious law. Yeah. What works? What works and what doesn't? And Virgoia comes up and she says, this is a prophecy from Vatican Hill, baby. You know, it's right there with the worship of those divinities, those early seven hill divinities.
Are we bringing it back? You know what we're going to do tonight? We're going to bring the beast back. Love it. This is Virgoia's prophecy. Are you ready for this? Yeah. Okay. So this is the voya. This is Virgoia's prophecy. And by the way, the Etruscan called her Virgoia.
It just went back and forth like that. Anyway, she says, no, no, this, you know, the air and the water were separated. Does this sound like Genesis? Genesis is a third century rip off of this. It's a third century rip off of this.
Wait, what? I thought it happened that Moses was 12 months. No. No. That's the funny thing. It all starts in the third century.
Libraries, people. It's all about libraries. Go back to your library and check out your library. What happens here? Blow this up to you in my eyes. You're getting so bad. Yeah.
So when Jupiter did this, you know, he took for himself the land of Etruria, where the Etruscans are. Isn't that nice? That's what Virgoia says. And he set up and ordered there to be established these, you know, these markers, these signs, these borders, limits.
Why did he do this? Because he knew, I'm just translating it to you, because he knew the greediness of people. He knew their desire to take somebody's land. Yeah. Yeah.
And what happened then? Well, you know, we find ourselves as Virgoia in the eighth cyclum. We're with the eighth man. Does anybody remember who the eighth man is? This is where my esoteric lovers are going to be digging tonight, right?
The odd-doer. Where's that eighth thing? Where's that eighth person? The one who was, but is not now and will come back. When that one comes back. Oh, God. He brings Lady Babylon. He brings Lady Babylon.
We're in the eighth cyclum, says Virgoia. Bring us back up, Virgoia. Where'd she go? My beautiful prophetess. Blow that up, Julie. Thank you very much. And so what happens? What do we need here? People are going to move them, she says. People are going to move them and they're going to take possession of stuff, right?
And why? Because that's the way it is. And what's going to happen? Virgoia says some things are going to happen. Your weather stuff is going to start to get bad and you're going to start to get funny diseases.
Okay. Thanks. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. And here's another one. The people, they're going to start acting a little bit crazy. They're going to start acting funny. And there's going to be serious fighting between them.
It's as if civil society is going to break down itself. This is what happens when you don't respect that limit all of us under the power of nemesis, right? Underneath that power of justice, all of us.
