Jesus
takes over
For a short period of time and I had I have if you check the I forget about it now to you, but if you check the
The gospel sources you'll find that it's children
It says a couple of times it even has a verse we may have skipped it
But it puts the children in the age in the age of kids who are still being nursed
That's the youngest from the nursed
Up to the napeos the
The imbeciles when did they think that a child was an imbecile and antiquity when they weren't quiet at the
level of mental competence
That's okay. It's you don't worry about it. They weren't at the level of mental competence
yet
so these are preteens right these are preteens
and
These are the people who are surrounding jesus saying hosanna in the highest
And you'll notice that in the text. It's very strange. It's like
Wait what the kids are there shouting
Yeah, says the kids are there shouting. Yeah, maybe that's what let's try it. No
Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Very nice. Let me uh, oh, excuse me. I mean very nice chewy
Get out of here
I'm gonna blow you away
Like what's his name that guy right that was an evil spirit. I was it was kicking out of the house
Okay, come on people. I can play around too math you 21 15
Look at this chewy. Nice job
and seeing the the arch priests right seeing
these things and the
Scribes seeing these thaw masia the wondrous things
Which happened and what to spite us and the children
The children pidos can't be anything but a child
the children screaming
in the temple
Saying
Hosanna in the highest
Now, you know why the crowds came out and said what?
wtf man
Who is this dude and all the kids are yelling he's a prophet and you know who his discreet 12 were
You know who his discreet apostles were
They were the boys from galloway
They were the boys from galloway
Jesus was taking over territory. He was breaking bad
And then it ended up costing him it was an expensive maneuver and when he is arrested finally
when justice
hammers down
On top of him when he's arrested. He's arrested in a public park with a naked kid
If somebody out there, please come join omnia and direct
direct
A documentary film
That shows jesus
Being arrested in a public park with a naked boy yelling i'm not a trafficker
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, you see what jesus was doing. He was taking over the operation
Right and he knew it. He knew he was going to get stuck with it because the romans they didn't deal
with those people well
They were armed and dangerous
right
Right put away put away the fairy tale
Peter's walking around with something. He's ready to stab you with
Yeah
Yeah, and he's also naked on a boat
With a bunch of children at night and when he sees jesus in the morning has to put his clothes on
Yeah
It's that can we just flash up to to finish off can we just flash up that last the very first?
Yep
Please come back to this with me people and realize
No, this is saying
That thing that they put up for jesus to drink from that was the antidote
To that vision inducing sacred communion
Yeah, it was the antidote they may have brought him out of it
They may have brought him out of it
Yeah
as is this
He ended up not getting his legs broken. Anyway, I think that's a pretty good part of the deal
If they had just been able to get to him
Right, how many people had he revived in this process?
right
so
Would have been easy
Would have been easy and you know, what do you think mary was doing?
All right, mary magdalene. I'm talking
All right. Oh god
Behold your mother at least he looked at the little boy that sat on his lap
Remember and came up to his breast john
The one that he loved
Right, at least he gave that little kid
To his virgin mother who strangely enough was only 12 years older than jesus
So when you see jesus on the cross and mary, you might thank their brother and sister
You might
Thank you for coming tonight. It's been my honor
We progress on to friday's
Introduction to omicron and i'm especially looking forward to this
There's gonna be a lot. There's there's gonna be a lot of carnage
Um, but we enjoy that kind of thing and I enjoy you and your company. Thank you very much for coming tonight
Thank you for all of your time. Hail satan
Leary now
On the day that
It came in again. You just turned it down
All the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
You
