Oh, what is, what is it? What kind of spirit has he got? He's got this kind of spirit people. I want you to look at a cathartus for a minute. What kind of spirit does he have?
An uncleanster, a fowl. What's at the end of that sentence? Look where the Victorians are doing people. This is a great education for you.
A woman. And then they give you something in Latin. Quay menstrua non hobbit. A woman who does not have her menstrual. Her menstruation.
Why is she impure? Because she has not had her catharsis. She hasn't had her cleansing. You mean they looked at the menstruation as a form of cleansing? Yes, they did. Yes, they did. Oh, I'm an orb.
I'm an orb, a floating orb of noise. Here. Thanks. Oh, hang on. We're going through some kind of time warp. What is this? Oh, fantastic. Oh, technical, technical difficulties. All right, I'm back.
My baldness is back. Look what's happening. We're talking about women's menstruation, right? And what is this thing that is unclean? It's the thing that is not being purged.
It's the thing that's not being purged. I want you to look at number two, that which is naturally unclean. And then at the end of that line, a catharté. Yeah, you.
What are they trying to do? Beast, right? You beast, you unclean. And look on the next line, maniades. What is something that is maniades? What is it? Take a look. Oh, here's the menstrual before we go. Let's go to the craziness first.
This is the madness. This is the madness. Yeah, that's what we have to consider. The madness, right? The going crazy. Look at the very bottom, the causing mania.
You mean you can have substances, you can take it down to you. You can have substances that cause mania. Yes, it's all part of the pharmacology, the polypharmacy of antiquity.
Right? And I'm going to show you those right now. So let's keep going and look at this guy coming from the tombs. Look at him and what's happening to him. Next, next source, please. Thank you.
Oh, this is great. No. Okay, let's leave this one out, people. I wanted you to see who else this who else has this spirit, this unpurged spirit, this spirit that would overcome a woman that would cause her hand to be filled with corruption.
What is that a cathartic water of life? Because that's what we're looking for. Now, we've got an example of a woman for those of you with ears to hear. Check out Revelation 7174, right? There's this woman dressed in this purple and this scarlet.
And what is she doing? She's all goldified, baby. She's got her bling on with her gold. There's precious stones and her margaritas, pearls. Yeah. And what else is she having? She has an inner possession, a golden cup.
And in her hand, this thing is full of the Delugmaton, all of that abomination, that abominable stuff. And what else does she possess? She has in her hand the Acatharsia.
She has that, which is a cathartic coming from her poor Naya. Because you see the medicine is ladies and gents, you know, it comes from her, right? So our dude who is naked, did I forget to tell you who's naked? Jesus is always coming across naked people, naked people.
I think it comes up, talks about him being naked. But he's in the tombs and in the mountains. What can I see what he does in a second? Let me not give it away. Okay, let's go to the next text. Fantastic. Boom. Let's bring up Mark 5, too.
Yeah, so here he is with his Acatharic spirit. Hit me again next one. Yeah, yeah. Oh boy, this is good. So look what he does. He makes his living. He has a place and dwelling place in the tombs, right? Yeah. And what is he? What is he? What is he special? What is the guy specially known for?
Nobody can trap him. Nobody can catch him and bind him up. He breaks the chains off, bro. He breaks the chains off. This guy is so high. When he has this Acatharic spirit that you can't restrain him. You can't restrain him. He's unrestrainable.
Let's see what else that he does. Let's see what else that he does next one, Chewie. Give me the next one. Oh, God, look at this. You know what they were trying to do? They tried to put these chains on him and these shackles specifically around his legs. They tried to hog time, like all the police departments do. You know what I mean?
But it doesn't matter because he comes back and he breaks everything. Nobody can bind him. Go, give me the next one. Nobody can bind him. Oh, and so what's the guy known for? You know, we're meeting him just now. He just came up to Jesus. Talk to him. Here he is in all of his glory. Is he naked? Yeah. And he's all cut up.
I'm going to show it to you. He's all cut up. Why would you be all cut up? It's kind of a mystery. It's a way. It's a portal. It's a portal through the flesh. Isn't that nice? Through the flesh. You make cuts on yourself. Go back to the text. Go back to the text. Boom. And all day long and all night long. What is he doing? He's in the tombs or he's in the mountains?
Even what is he? It's pretty sick. What is naked man with cuts all over his body? Do! In the mountains. He shouts. He cries out. He screams. And he cuts himself, cut or coped him. What does he cut himself with? Just rocks. Just rocks. Whatever he can find. Yeah. Whatever he can find. Do you get a feeling now that you're meeting this guy that is talking to Jesus?
Jesus, and we're gonna see from his reaction to Jesus exactly who Jesus is
Yeah, so remember we got there when
We have our ship with our children
now we're talking to
the naked man who just came out of the mountains or
Cemetery as screaming
Right fantastic. That's that's our world. Let's go the next one, please
Good mark and seeing Jesus. What is he saying? He's leaving from far. He had them
He actually runs up and he pros kinesis is them. He bends down
He bends down to Jesus. He gets down on the knees. He lowers himself
To Jesus. This is what naked man does. Why would naked man do this?
Because we know what those cuts are for and we know that Jesus is who he is
You're the Christos. He knows it. Haven't you ever wondered?
All these people walk up to Jesus and they're saying you're the Christos
Yeah, I'm never wondered why they were able to do that. Yeah. Yeah, he is
performing those
cathartic measures to purify to purify
Yes, he is purifying. Let's look at some more. Let's look at some more of his images
With his children who are depicted as grown people
Not that this shouldn't bother us because there's nothing wrong with a group of grown men
Washing each other's feet
There's nothing wrong with that
The fact is though those grown men are only grown men because that's the way that we want
To construct the false narrative
All right, we have to it would look weird if Jesus was in a room with a bunch of kids
And he got naked and tied his underwear on and then went around washing feet and using his underwear
towel to wipe off the
Sweat the feet of a 12 year old boy named John who he loved
Yes, John was his favorite everybody knew that
Everybody knew that about Jesus
Why do you think he was yelling? I'm not a lace this
Right, okay, let's keep going. It's it gets it gets gruesome people. It's the Bible
It's the Bible, but it belongs to us. So let's just see what does he say?
Um, he says in a voice he screams, right? He says hey, um, um
T M. M. I saw it. Yes, you know who you are
Well, you know who you are. You're the son of God. You look at that second line who ceased to the son of the highest
Okay, wait a minute naked God runs up gives Jesus a
Specific title and then says make some swear and oath. He says no make it so that you don't torture me
Because you're the son of the highest. You're the son of the highest
That's a specific phrase. Are you ready? Let's go back. Let's go back and see what the Hoopsie stays is
Yep
Here we go. Oh, this is the one to torture. That's okay. Keep going keep going keep going. Yes
Fantastic chewy. Thank you. Helpful. Um, I appreciate tonight's work
We're putting it in under duress on my dad. It's fantastic. No, it's the cosmos congealing them
This is a great joy
And so thank you. There's things in the atmosphere some things that you may not understand for now
Let's just you know forget those and let's look now. Whoo. Did you see that?
That was the quickest magic trick ever. Look at this. Um, now kiss a deck. Oh my god
