Jesus. No, he's like no. Let me just come lay my hands on her
Did nobody nobody was shocked by that
Jesus is going in to lay his hands on a little girl and nobody cares
That's we're gonna see what that laying on of hands means go give me the next one. I threw it in of course I did
Right, okay. Look what it means to enter the eschaton
letting your mind go
It's really when you slit something and something else pops out boom like relieving pressure you got to boil pop it
eschaton
Right
You let things go
Give me the next one up here
Oh god, it's I told you I told you it was gonna get in there. What is that ion?
Okay, here people for those of you who are walking around saying, you know what? I believed in jesus christ
I was born again and the deal between me and him was my faith in the fact that he is going to give me
eternal life
I've got some bad news
It doesn't say eternal life
It doesn't it says ionic and I want you to look here. There's a definition in greek here of ionic
It's on the second line. It's in parentheses and it starts in greek
What is that? That's the definition. What is the definition?
The completion. Are you ready? Here's what ionic is
Um for all the drug using mystery prophets who say ionic life ionic life
This is what they mean. They do not mean linear eternal life. They mean ionic life
That's what they say and here's the definition. Are you ready? What is ionic?
It is the completion that encompasses the life of every individual
It is the completion that bounds or encompasses the life of every individual
Okay
That is the ion and what he is going to do and why people say holy christ almighty. I'm born again
Is because the right allows you to see that ion
The completion
The completion
Of your life
Ah
Interesting interesting kind of makes me did every look this may have been worth all the burning and all of the
Cutting and all of the you know what I mean. I don't know. I'm starting to kind of like being born again
and what happens
There came this dude to jesus
Who was one of the leaders of the?
Assembly now it's the synagogue right that's the group, but if I say synagogue everybody thinks medieval
Right the leader of their assembly and his name was ia eros
And what did ia eros do when he saw jesus?
He fell down on his feet give me the next one fell down on his feet. Oh god
Tell me what he's gonna do. He's gonna tell him how much you want me to give a church tomorrow, right?
So i'm like no no no
He runs up to me. He's like dude
I've got a thugatrion. Look at that second line the first word thugatrion. It's got two
Accents why because mu doesn't want an accent so they run it together thugatrion mu
Isn't that nice greek is so ancient greek so musical. Yeah, um, where is your little girl?
She is in eskatos
She's in that state. What do you want me to do?
I want you to come and I want you to put your hands on her
And I want you to bring her the medical salvation
Okay
Okay
What is the handy business?
What is the handy business jesus?
Are they using drugs on their hands by the way? Yeah, I've seen a whole group
I've seen a whole group of root cutters
These are priestesses who strip naked under a full moon and okay. They have stripped naked for work. Don't get
Dirty minded
They have to right as you're envisioning these naked priestesses. Don't be dirty about it
Right and put your mind in the olympics. You know what I mean? Those were naked too
Right, you don't think everybody's sitting in the audience was a pervert or something. Do you?
Right. Oh man
Man, um, let's see. We should let's commission
Write me a note chewy to the
To the olympic committee take off
Take off the clothes
Amen, I say to you
Whoever receives the kingdom of god as a little child
That one's gonna enter in but the rest of you are totally borked
You're not gonna get there. You know why because you're not receiving it as these little children
Why is jesus working the kids up because he's right in the middle of a hairy situation at this point?
um
People are bringing him children to touch
Um, go ahead bring in some of the kids
People are bringing him children to touch
And his apostles
Uh get jealous
And they say what are you doing?
And they what do they want to do? They want to they want to reward him
With what somebody who's doing what he's doing deserves. That's what the greek verb says
That's what it uses
Oh my god, it's they want to give him what he deserves and it really makes him mad
He's got his gang of his closest kids
Right his children prostitutes and now he's involving others and they don't want those kids
In the middle of their piece of pie
And jesus gets mad and he says no no no this is how everybody gets in
Everybody gets handsied
Show me jesus what all the handsiness is about please
Show me what all the handsiness is you didn't think that jesus christ existed. It was handsy with kids. Did you?
Oh god, check out mark 10 13. I'm sorry for those of you who didn't realize this and what happened
They brought these children to him in order that he would hop to my them
In order that he was hopped on him. Yeah, and it really angered his disciples his apostles his students
He really says his students, right? Who is jesus? He's a guy that hangs around with students
Right, I mean, it's okay. Come on. You know, he got them from boats
Where their parents were and he kind of lured them off and said look I'll I'll make you fishers of men, baby
Right and the next thing, you know, the galley boys end up
Circulating with jesus and get in trouble. Well at this point
He's wanting to hop to my children
Okay, and this is what he's doing. Are you ready? Bring me up to greek
Bring me up to greek. It's so telling people the first time I saw this
Sorry, they made me want to puke. Are you ready? Here we go jesus. What are you doing with the kids?
Um, this definition is so long. It's two pages, but look, um to fasten onto something
Wait, he's fastening on the children. That can't be. Give me know with your hand to fasten on to grop
Wait a minute jesus. What are you doing? What are you doing here? Look at number?
Oh, I don't know. Let's look at number three
Number three to touch or to affect somebody to grasp with the senses. That's a nice metaphor
To be handsy with reality and to become perspective. I like that. Oh, no. Chewie's pointing out number five
