Spermatos. See the Spermatos at the top? This is Galen's work on seed. And there's two books out.
There's an alpha and a beta. And alpha is about masculinity. Beta is about femininity.
And what is really, really creepy, you can take it down. What's really kind of fun creepy as you
read this, he'll talk about things like the testicles. Yeah, well, and he'll say this is how
you treat the testicles, right? Whatever case that you're trying to do, whatever it's with,
whether it's castration or not. This is how you do it. And he says, you know, the testicles of the
woman. And then he describes in detail where the ovaries are, in absolute perfect detail.
As if he were in his surgeries, observing these things. Yeah. And this is the connection with
those mania inducers within the right within the right you have got if you want to reach the
kingdom of heaven, you have to be in that Unix state. You have to be what is it that they're
doing for these Unix Galen will tell you straight up. This is how it changes the person. This is
how it changes the person. This is how they're able to interact with drugs. Right? These cults
are using drugs on people that they've castrated, because the castrated boys become the oracles.
When you don't have those androgens, you get that typically female response from the compound drugs.
This is why Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
who had a bandage. The text tells us epikum on his private parts.
Yeah, we've been watching a cult for the last 2000 years. We've been watching a cult.
A sex drug orgy cult with a leader named Jesus who got pinched in a public park with a naked boy.
If you want to follow the sources, all I've done is give you sources. That last one that I put up
there is kind of funny. He says, let me just translate it. He says, you know, what's the use
or power of semen? That's how he starts his work. His great 150 page work.
What's the usefulness and power? What's funny is you and I, our culture, we don't do these things.
Have you considered the power of semen? When I say semen, he's talking about female semen as well.
The power of that which you give off that contains your elemental essence.
Yeah, that which brings the magic. There's something in us consuming that essence
is what kicks us into the mystery. Do you know why the word porneia is both fornication and idolatry?
Because you cannot perform the Christian mystery unless you are having sexual intercourse.
Unless you are producing the seed, you're not there. No mystery for you. Now you know why.
Now you know why. They started to practice it and eventually it got cleaned up. They took out the
drugs. They took out the sex. Yeah, and all you have left today with you is your empty
shadow of a religion. You are not Christians. I tell you directly today to all of you sitting
there who write me emails. May Jesus bless you and may Jesus come and forgive you. May Jesus do this.
You don't know your own Jesus. He was a pedarast arrested in a park with a naked boy
with a ton of drugs on board. He was the Christ. Thank you for coming tonight to Lady Babylon.
We'll see you Friday. Hail Satan.
Oh
