and what I would say is Sebasius.
Now, you mentioned, you got the wine press,
the lanon of Orge.
Now, if you're a classicist, you know exactly what that is.
The wine press festival of Greece is called...
It's called the...
The lanane.
Lananeo, yeah, yeah, Lananeo.
Sorry, I had a break.
It's the same word.
They have a festival called that,
and this what they do there, Orge.
They perform the Orge.
That language lines up, it's very Bacchic,
but it's also very Sebasian,
because he's called the Pontocratore.
He's called Hoopsistos.
These are all titles that Sebasius gets.
And by the way, before you say,
but that's all Greek, and this is all Jewish.
John, the author of Revelation, is telling you
he's writing to this, to seven churches in Asia.
Asia Minor, Anatolia, Phrygia, Cappadocia, Greek.
Guess who's worshipped there?
Guess who's the highest God in all of the land of Phrygia,
besides the great mother.
It's Sebasius, who's called Hoopsistos,
and Pontocratore.
So it all lines up through the eyes of a classicist.
None of this makes any sense
if you're looking at like Ugaritic texts or Hebrew stuff.
This doesn't make any sense at all.
This is completely different than that.
Now, can I just emphasize,
can I just emphasize what a strong point that you just made.
You gave two different perspectives,
and the one of the people chasing the Ugaritic
and Gilgamesh's hairy friend around there,
are like, right?
Yeah, they're not going to be able to use the evidence
that Neil is just pummeling.
This is pummeling, Neil.
I love it, keep going.
Yeah, we're in Asia Minor,
seven churches of Asia Minor, all Greek cities.
This is our area that is widely known,
heavy Sebasius worship.
Sebasius is a dual nature God.
If you read about him through Diodorus,
Sebasius is both Zeus and Dionysus rolled into one.
He's the father and son.
You have a father, son, Godhead,
way before Christianity.
And then it exists in Sebasius.
So, John, the author of Revelation,
also wrote the Gospel of John.
According to most people who agree
that it's the same author, I think it is.
So, especially when you start reading John,
and it's just Greek concept after Greek concept
after Greek concept.
Who's Jesus' beloved?
What kind of concept?
That's a very Greek thing to have their own beloved,
or to be someone else's beloved.
And you pass on the tradition.
This is sort of thing going on in ancient Greece.
Well, I got a source that I want to show you.
Do you want to pull up my source right there?
John 15.1, here's what it says.
Ego, eimi, e ampalos, e elecine.
I am ampalos the true.
I am the true vine.
Caio pater mu, or gerigost.
And my father is the vine dresser.
What the hell does that mean?
Well, if you're not a classist, you probably like that.
Just, what?
Jesus is just saying I'm a vine.
It's poetic, who cares?
No, no, no, no, no.
This is a specific Bacchic title.
Ready for this?
Here we go.
Ampalos.
Ampalos was the personification of the grapevine
and lover of Dionysus.
There they are right there.
Bacchus and Ampalos.
This is the same gospel where Jesus and his beloved
are together at the table, loving each other,
like Ampalos and Bacchus.
Everything lines up.
When he calls himself the Ampalos,
he's saying, I am the lover of Dionysus.
And my father is the vine dresser.
And you pass that tradition on.
And then John becomes his Ampalos.
And then John picks another Ampalos.
And it's beloved to beloved to beloved.
This is the Greek, this is the ancient Greek world
as we know it.
And anyone, any classist will say amen to that.
That's a fact.
But if you don't know Greek, you wouldn't be like,
this makes no sense.
You just, oh, it's just poetic.
Okay, who knows?
Nice, nice, nice source right there.
I love that.
So I just want people to understand this.
There's a language being portrayed in these texts
that someone who doesn't understand the context
of the ancient Greek world would make this.
They're just gonna go right past their head.
And that's why you get these Christian scholars today
when people are like, well, isn't this the season
for Halaria Festival where Addis is resurrected?
And how about the Serapia for Osiris
and the great Dionysia and Athens
where they celebrate the dismemberment of Zagreus
and resurrection of Dionysus
or the Adonia Festival over in Syria
where the women would get on roofs and mourn
and richly mourn and sing hymns that were written by Sappho,
richly mourning the death of Adonis
and then rejoicing as resurrection three days
roughly within a couple of three-day period
similar to the Gospels
whereas in the Gospels, two women show up to his tomb
the same way as Osiris where Isis and Nephthys show up
to his tomb and take his body parts
and put them together and he resurrects.
All of this stuff lines up.
If you're a classicist reads this stuff and goes,
oh, this is all just checks out.
This is just another telling of this sacred myth
that's been told for centuries since the Bronze Age.
Okay, okay, now I wanna ask you,
why do you think it is that smug biblical scholars
seem to miss the boat so much?
How, is it just, I'm gonna say, look,
it's because they're under-trained, right?
And it's by design because they are run by mostly the church.
The Christian academic world is a Christian-based,
most of their students are Christian,
most of the professors are Christian.
Brutes Metzger, the guy that taught Bart Ehrman
was a fundamentalist basically
and he's teaching, he's writing books on biblical Greek
and just focus on the New Testament Greek,
don't look anywhere else, just go like this.
That's how they're trained.
They're trained to have a knee-jerk reaction
to the term dying and rising God.
If you say that, oh, no, no, no, that's a bad term.
Oh, I was told that James Frazier is no good.
I was told that Thomas Paine is no good.
I was told that the German philologists are all no good.
The English folklorists are all no good.
All of those fucking scholars from the 19th and 20th century
were running circles around what's going on today,
in my opinion.
And they've been doing this ever since the beginning
because Afrikanas was giving Origen a hard time.
I think it was Origen, giving him a hard time about,
well, do we even know what the word for tree is in Hebrew
or do they not have that much in?
Origen was like, yeah, they don't have a lot.
So these texts you have could be Greek originals, right?
It's not coming from the Hebrew,
but what do we do about it, right?
I mean, they're even excusing this stuff back then
to maintain their own appropriated picture
because of Jesus and everything associated with him.
It's just the corruption of a Greek mystery.
Wow, suddenly, you know, I don't know.
What is she, they need Christianity to stay pure.
So they need it to be in its own bubble by itself.
That's why it's scholarship is separated from the rest.
You don't separate Roman religion from Greek religion.
Classes have studied both together.
They're looking at the interconnectedness
between the Romans and the Greeks.
Same with the Egyptians, you know what I mean?
And yeah, you have Egyptology, you don't get me wrong.
You have different subfields,
but they're all looking at the same basis of evidence
and drawing from each other.
New Testament scholarship is the only little special
needs like area where they're just by themselves,
just chilling as if that's like something
that makes sense, doesn't.
I have one more source that I want to read.
I think this is pretty interesting to end up on.
So if you want to pull my screen up real quick.
Now this is from Livy.
Now he talks about Numa.
King Numa, one of the only kings that ever ruled Rome.
They stopped the kingdom and went into a republic
for 200 plus years before they were an empire.
This was what happened to Rome.
But he sets up the religious institution.
This is an interesting story.
Ovid seems to be on par with what he says here.
So he talks about how,
I'm just gonna skip ahead a little bit.
He says, first of all, he divided the year into 12 months.
Wait, what did you say here?
Yeah, okay, he makes a pointing for each deity,
his own special priest.
First of all, he divided the year into 12 months,
corresponding to the moon's revolutions.
But as the moon does not complete 30 days in each month,
and so there are fewer days in the lunar year
than it imagined in the course of the sun.
He interplayed it into cleric months,
and so he arranged them that every 20th year,
the days should coincide with the same position of the sun.
Ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba.
Here's what he says next.
This is the part that I wanted to get to.
Next, he turned his attention to the appointment of priest.
He himself, however,
conducted a great many religious services,
especially those which belong to the flamen,
which is priest of Jupiter.
But he thought that in a war-like state,
there would be more kings of the type of Romulus
than of Numa, who would take the field in person
to guard therefore against the sacrificial rites,
which the king performed.
Being interrupted, he appointed a flamen
as perpetual priest to Jupiter,
and he ordered that he should wear a distinctive dress
and sit in the royal crewell chair.
He appointed two additional flamens,
one for Mars and one for Quarainus,
and also chose virgins as priestesses to Vesta.
This order of priestesses came into existence
originally in Alba,
and was connected with the race of the founder.
He assigned them a public stipend,
and that they might give their whole time to the temple
and made their persons sacred and inviolable
by a vow of chastity and the other religious sanctions.
Similarly, he chose 12 salliai for Mars,
leaping priests of salliai.
This is ancient stuff.
This goes back to Samuel Thrackey, if you know about that.
For Mars, gradivus, and assigned to them
the distinctive dress of embroidered tunic
and over it, bras and cures.
They were instructed to march
in solemn procession through the city,
carrying the 12 shields called the Ankelea,
and singing hymns accompanied by a solemn dance in triple time.
The next office to be filled
was that of the Pontifist Maximus, the high priest.
Numa appointed the son of Marcus, one of the senators,
Numa Marcius, and all the regulations bearing on religion
written out and sealed were placed in his charge.
Here was laid down with what victims and what days
and at what temples the various sacrifices
were to be offered, from what sources,
the expenses connected, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So you get this institution of the Vestal Virgins,
and a reason why I brought that up
is because these are the people who basically went
into the Sibylene oracles.
