But just to shorten it up, they call him Zis.
Zis or dis, father dis, pater dis, dis, pater, the underworld God, right?
Zagreus Dionysus.
And I encourage you, I know I'm looking through Wikipedia right now,
but I'm just trying to really quickly go over this real quick.
And I encourage you all to look into this yourself.
See how they cite Microbius?
As I already mentioned, it's Microbius.
The son and Liber, or once the same, in Thrac.
Apollo and Dionysus, watch this.
Where is it?
Zis, okay, so Zis basically is the mixture of, there it is, Dionysus.
The Dionysian Zis, the cathonic and fire aspects of Zis.
Underworld, cathonic, dark, Dionysus.
But then we have the Apollonian Zis.
By the way, the reason I'm bringing this up,
people think Nietzsche is making this shit up.
Like Nietzsche just philosophically drew up some random shit about Dionysus and Apollo.
He's not Nietzsche.
The problem is that the classicists and Bible scholars of the time period
were not caught up to Nietzsche.
Nietzsche was way ahead of them.
He's better than them at their own jobs.
So we have evidence of an Apollonian Zis, the heavenly sun god,
and then there's the Dionysian Zis.
But it's two faces of the same god, as Carl Ruck points out.
All right, last thing I want to go to, two things I want to go to.
Indo-European vocabulary, right?
So if I look up this, so you mentioned the word sec, right?
Sec, and if you look up, where is it?
Libel, libation.
So the oldest words in Indo-European, which is, by the way, this is what Pulaskian is.
The root word for soma and haoma, which is where we get these psychedelic drugs from,
kaikion, comes from a Pulaskian word that means libate or poor or invoked.
It also has, it also is connected to the word hyig, sacrifice.
Hagios, holy.
Yahios, religious worship.
So what am I getting at?
Basically, psychedelics itself is the origin of religion.
How mind-blowing is that?
The words in Pulaskian that have to do with drugs, soma, kaikion, haoma, the magical drink,
the Scythians had their own version of it called like the homa or hyma or something,
and something along those hyma or something.
But it's all psychedelics and it's all related to the word for holy.
The word for holy is the same word for psychedelic drug in Pulaskian.
That alone should blow your mind.
And the last thing I got to show you guys, and then I'm going to go back to Amon's question,
is the following.
The Anachariotic song, because it all comes back to Bacchus and Venus, right?
At the end of the day, it's all comes back to these two gods, the Demeter Isis goddess with the
horns and the star.
And this other god, Dionysus or Ya'o or whatever, Apollo, whatever's going on,
that the god who's called the pion or he's called the Dithyram.
It's music, two different titles for the same son of god figure.
As Clement points out, this god who's both father and son rolled into one,
he's got an alter ego called Ya'os, Ya'o.
Well, the Anachariotic song is actually where we get our American anthem from.
Listen to this.
So this song that everyone knows is not what you think.
If you actually look up the lyrics to this song, as you can see on the screen,
I'm going to try to zoom in if I could, it says,
with Bacchus and Venus, the Myrtle of Venus with Bacchus's Vine.
That is the lyrics of the song that you all know as the American anthem.
Thomas Jefferson set up a Luciferian nation to go back to Athens and Rome.
And that's where we're at today.
That's what I got.
Oh my god.
I am so active right now.
I want to punch something and yell America.
You know what I mean?
That's gorgeous.
I love the fact that, look what you did.
You resurrected that chap.
You resurrected Jefferson.
Oh my god.
By the way, they changed the lyrics after the Civil War.
So almost a hundred years later, they changed the lyrics to that song.
That song was not the national anthem.
That song was called the Anachariotic song.
It's a song about Bacchus and Venus rolling to one as one.
They're honoring Bacchus and Venus.
Yeah.
That's the song, Topping Jefferson and Thomas Payne all bump in their heads.
Greek lyric poetry, baby.
Right?
All in that mother Greek.
And Tom Jefferson in his personal letters, he wrote little ditties, little songs in Greek.
And it's like, oh my god, this guy was, he was genius, brah.
He was not only functional as a classical philologist, but he was able to create within the medium.
And that's, that's remarkable.
I have total kudos.
Total kudos for Tom.
Nice job, Tom.
Now you said some big stuff there and I want to point out.
So please, you made a point, Neil, out of saying religion came out of drugs.
And you used language to prove it.
Not, you didn't say like, you know, this is my theory that those people were all droggies.
Man, come on.
Right?
No, you didn't do that.
You said, look at the language.
You know, look at the, did you like the Poppy Queen?
One of the things about the Poppy is to the canisters.
They have canisters, little pots shaped like the opium poppy that they make the slits in
that drools out this white elixir of heaven.
Yeah.
And so you take that, you know what I mean?
Could take it over the lotus seeders.
They'll tell you.
And any who, so they had all of these little pots that you would have opium within.
And you could buy those in the marketplace, right?
There's a huge trade.
They find down ships with this stuff on it, right?
It's like, oh, okay.
Cypress is big, right?
It's big into the opium.
And you're like, the first thing people are is they jump right away to the extreme.
Remember, they're using these chemicals within balance, right?
So she's not just on opium.
I'm sorry, but your lady is not just on opium.
That queen that we all bow to, you know what I mean?
That we take from that sacrifice, right?
We take that moment of understanding of being killed and reborn.
Potion.
It's a special potion.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We take of it.
We partake of it.
Isn't it?
Oh, God.
I mean, it's important.
All the stuff that you're bringing out, that's important.
Religion came from drugs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I want to emphasize this.
Because in the elbows of any amisters,
it wasn't just some music festival that hippies went to.
So you can, for Ascalus was initiated.
Plato was initiated.
Augustus was initiated.
Cleopatra.
Julia Domna.
The mother of Julia Caesar.
Hadrian.
Antinous.
Marcus Aurelius.
Julian the Apostate.
You name it.
And by the way, even, it doesn't have to be the elbows of any mysteries.
Even older than that are the Samotharation Mysteries.
You were talking about Samotharace earlier.
The Samotharation Mysteries held initiations every year,
and they would do these ritual marriages.
And guess who met there?
Philip of Macedon met Olympius.
At this time, Alexander wasn't born yet.
But obviously, well, let me just tell you this.
Olympus, Olympius was the princess of Epirus,
which is the western coast of Greece.
Philip was the prince of Macedonia,
the northern rough areas of northern, almost in Thrace.
And they were just princes and princesses.
They weren't in control of anything yet.
And they met at the initiation ceremony
of the Samotharation Mysteries.
Why am I even bringing that up?
Because look what came from that bondage.
They produced a child that went on
to conquer the world and spread Hellenism everywhere.
And it's like that came out of people being initiated into the mysteries.
Isn't that great?
She had intercourse.
Please don't forget.
She had intercourse with Ammon.
Yep. By the way, Philip stopped and even
know if it was his own son.
And when Alexander went to Siwa,
when he appeared to the Oracle of Ammon,
he was told, you're home.
This is your return home.
You are my son.
He was told he was the son of God.
He was the son of Ammon.
I'm just saying what the sources say.
You could believe what you want.
That's what the sources say.
Yeah. He also mistreated the Oracle there.
Let it be noted in history that Alexander mistreated the Oracle
and forced her to prophesy on a day that was not holy.
And she said, fine.
And prophesied that he was going to die shortly.
And he did.
And everybody was like, hey, see what happens
when you mess with the oracles?
As soon as his fate was up and his job was done, he was gone.
Yeah. Those witches are protected, brah.
It's the throne of Satan.
Love it.
Okay. I want to ask what you think.
I want your opinion, Neil, on the find announced today
that we found the purple.
Isn't that nice? Glorious.
What do you think about that?
I knew it.
I knew it was a matter of time before we found it.
I'm not surprised.
I'm happy about it.
But I'm not surprised because it's all over the sources.
I just showed you four of them.
You know, they cut up these roots.
They mix it with venoms and blood and all types of mixed.
They add all types of shit to it.
Yeah.
At the base, it's roots.
It's venoms.
It's poppy.
It's some sort of milk.
They're adding all types of mushrooms in there.
It's a potion, but it always comes out purple.
That's that texture from the roots.
It comes out like a blood red purple.
Even the Christians were doing this, as I've shown before,
and I will show again, I'm showing this to Danny when I talk to him.
The sources that say that they were doing Eucharist
with adding purple to the wine and making psychedelics.
People have psychedelic experiences where they were to meet.
Jesus would come down and talk to them.
That's the Holy Spirit right there, the purple.
Did they walk around with the stain of the purple?
Purple stains the lips.
Is there?
Yeah.
Just like Heracles dogs, right?
Just doing the same thing.
It's gorgeous.
Now, you mentioned Medea and you had your different,
four different sources.
In those sources, she is taking out,
by the way, they mentioned Pulaskians.
All those sources talk about Pulaskians.
Because we know that those are our, you know,
ancients.
If we're ancient Greeks, those are our ancients.
Yeah.
And in those, in that drug use that is associated with Medea herself,
she is taking the drug from her colpus or her senus in Latin.
She's taking it from her vagina.
And Dr. Ruck wrote about this in a recent publication
about these, you know, the vaginal source.
And there's other examples of it with Penny Royal,
and it's associated with Apollo, etc.
It's all the oracular mystery.
And so we've got to give Medea credit for having been that,
you know, ground zero of the drug production.
I think it's great that they found the purple.
And of course, right?
Isn't that, of course, hurry up and get that thing analyzed
and figure out exactly what's going on.
They're finding so much, so much.
What did you think?
I love the fact that you brought in that the thing,
the mosaic was that from Herculaneum?
Oh, God.
Yeah, it was either plaster mosaic.
I'm not sure, but it was fresco, fresco.
It's a fresco.
That thing was gorgeous.
That's absolutely gorgeous.
Did you notice that she's got the moon horns of Isis?
And everybody asks, why does Moses have horns?
Why does Moses have horns?
Because people along the way have picked up the Orphic Vox
and have been able to transmit those images to push them forward.
So, yeah, oh, I love it.
I love it.
It was a lot of, yeah, it was a lot of goodness.
Okay, okay.
What else do you have to say about?
I mean, congratulations on you going to interview with Danny Jones.
I hope you don't mind me telling people that.
