And put, and frame you as you should be framed. What is the gallery, what is the congregation of Satan saying?
Right, bear with me. Wasn't ready. I had a list, but when you said Professor Rock's coming on, I burnt it.
Said a few ways and set the thing up. But I've got a digital version.
So first question, do you want the first question?
Yeah.
Please hit me with what you've got.
Could you ask a question? I've been digging into Macrobius and came across a ritual for Satan Alien where devotees would make wax figures of people saying cantations to Satan over them and then ritually destroy them in an offer to the goddess.
Guys.
Is this a reference to earlier human sacrifice? Are the gladiatorial games a ritual sacrifice to Satan?
And what is the connection between guys and Satan and why are they combined into the God's guys paper?
Fantastic. Fantastic group of questions. There's a lot in there.
So first of all, let me just say Macrobius, the fact that you're reading Macrobius, whoever is reading the Saturnalia out there, fantastic.
That's one of our major sources for ancient Roman religion.
And it's beautifully, beautifully detailed.
On the statues and human sacrifice. Oh, I want to say people are quick to jump into human sacrifice.
And we have to be in our area because we are necromancers, right?
And I have watched.
So will I say that specific reference is a reference to human sacrifice?
I don't know because that's me making a jump.
I don't think that evidence allows us to come to that conclusion.
Right. I think we have to be. Is that a piece that might build up to the bigger picture?
Certainly. Certainly. Right.
And that's what your thesis. Keep working on your thesis. Right.
So good. Good. Fantastic.
What about the human sacrifice, though?
I want to say and I want to add this.
We see this on the necromancer side and it's not necessarily what you would think.
There's this.
There's this electric science that exists in this liminal world.
Between life and death where you can take a freshly killed human being and you can reanimate that human being for a short period of time.
And I have watched witches do this with chemicals and with song and with ritual and with something that is gruesome where they pry open the head.
And this is why you see witches on battlefields. Everybody knows this, right?
Look at Luke and if you want to see these witches, they follow around the Roman army and then they mess with the bodies.
Right. They collect whatever goodies they need. Right.
Because remember human parts are full of chemically active, chemically active substances. Right.
Good biochemistry there.
So are they performing necromancy on these bodies?
I've seen a witches open a mouth and grab the tongue with their mouth and then with some kind of intonation they make.
They're able to vibrate the body, the voice, excuse me, of the person there.
They're able to put the air in the lungs and then move the air out while they're doing this to get the dead person to speak.
It's really, I mean, come on, man, you got to be serious.
If you're going in that deep, if you're in the cemetery with Saint Cyfrian and you've got purple venom drizzling out of your anus, you know that you're deep, deep, deep into the cult.
I mean, these are the kind of cults that Dr Bach doesn't want to talk about, right?
But they're there and he can hide his head.
By the way, of those 27 of those 27 invites to research contribution, I only got one positive.
And interestingly enough, it was from a woman who is theologian and she encouraged me to continue the research in the direction that I was working and that it was, you know, it was intriguing.
So the rest were very negative and we're saying, it's funny how many people will write you back and say, as they have on this site and say you are what you're talking about.
