Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon and Your Satanic Initiation. It is my privilege to have you here with me tonight, and we have an excellent show.
We have a guest tonight in the form of Dr Carl Ruck, who will be addressing a couple of questions.
We will also have a visit from a ghost of the past and introduce you, this is the first in our series, on meeting Peter, Peter Jesus.
Let's get started.
Tonight I want to start out with kind of a look on the inside. I want to just briefly describe for you a situation.
Imagine a couple of scholars, a couple of professors, a couple of professionals trying to find out what's going on with these ancient texts and what they're saying and what they're talking about.
We're trying to figure this out. It's difficult. Remember, we're always a Satanist. You're always on the edge. You're right at where that ceiling is.
You're right at that borderland, right? Right at that threshold. So we want to know about all these deep dark crevices that will allow us to throw off this glass ceiling.
Imagine Daryl Bach. Yes, Dr Daryl Bach. Who's Dr Daryl Bach? This is Dr Daryl Bach, and it's nice to meet you. Throw him up there. He's a premier expert in New Testament, particularly the Greek.
He is a master at the Greek, and he is the head wizard at Dallas Theological Seminary for the ancient Greek program. Yeah, for the New Testament Greek program.
I sent him an email. I was working on a follow-up to the Chemical Muse, and I sent him an email, and this is the email that I sent him.
Dr Bach, I'll read this to you now. Dr Bach, I am Dr D. C. Oman Hillman, author of the Chemical Muse, St Martin's Press 2008.
My area of expertise is ancient medicine, pharmacology, and the use of pharmaceuticals in mystery cult from the late Bronze Age to Imperial Rome.
I work with both the Greek and Latin, and I'm a bit fond of the linear B.
I'm writing to you to ask for your textual insight.
I'm working on a book about the use of drugs in mystery ritual and found numerous sources that reference the use of sexual stimulants by Jesus and his apostles.
The PGM and knownness in his paraphrase of John discussed the specific drugs.
Galen and Scribonius Largus confirmed their sacramental use and some interesting data on the use of antidotes to treat any negative side effects.
It turns out these drugs were popular. Viper venom-based compounds used by the pagans in their own mystery rites.
What is really curious is that one specific compound, which sources a tribute to the Christians, is used in sexual rites involving the ritual rape of young boys.
The priest of this cult was called, quote, the pedophile and followed the Ellicinian type mystery celebrated in both Greece and Italy based on resurrection.
Jesus was, of course, arrested in the company of a naked minor who possessed at the time a medicated rap.
You may know already, but on the medical side of the Greek, the linen rap referenced by Mark is a drug impregnated bandage used in religious ritual and medicine.
It was a popular avenue of applying drugs.
The sources, including even the Roman juvenile, connected the use of drug-induced ritual with the baptists and their use of the vitreo priapeo.
If you have time, I'd like to ask if you have noticed Jesus ever using religious expressions consistent with Medic Orphic Bacchic cult.
Otto Kern, editor of the Orphic Fragments, called the Orphic language the Vox Orphica.
It was an ancient means of conveying cult-sensitive material.
For example, the having ears to hear is a pagan expression using the Orphic mystery to delineate those who have been initiated or baptized and can therefore understand the true content of the speaker.
Are you aware of any work on Jesus using Orphic or Medic expressions?
Thank you for your time.
That is one academic with titles, approaching another academic with titles, saying, what is going on?
I sent this message to 27 of the leading premier scholars, most of which were ended up being classical.
It was a thesis with training in the language because I know that's the evidence we're working with.
If you don't do the languages, you're making stuff up.
That's just the way it is.
I sent it out and Dr Bach very nicely sent me a response like many people did.
It was short and to the point.
Can we bring up Dr Bach's response?
Amen. All very strange and hardly historical.
You're wasting my time and yours, Darrell Bach.
Now, interestingly enough, you'll notice at the bottom.
Keep it up there, Chewie.
At the bottom.
Look at his titles.
My response was senior research professor.
