How would you like to know that, right?
Wow, your entire world of being
is based upon an invention.
And it's an invention that tells you
it's okay to kill, to take a baby and smash its head
against the ground or blow it up.
It's okay.
It's okay.
Where do we stand?
Where does Satan stand?
You're not gonna see him dressed in blood.
You're not gonna see Satan with a sword mouth
like a friggin' alien.
You're not gonna see that.
No, no, Saturnian, the Saturnian age was golden age, right?
Plainly and openly recognized as a golden age.
This is civilization, people.
This is what the library at Herculaneum will bring us.
It'll open our eyes.
It'll open our eyes and we will wake up
from the nightmare that is Judeo-Christian heritage.
We'll wake up from that.
We'll be free out of manateen freedom
all from the Logos.
Isn't that beautiful?
I love it.
Okay, I'll stop, I'll stop
because I'm glorying over the future.
I wanna give you a couple more
than I want Neil to be able to come in.
Thanks for hanging in there, Neil.
I just wanted you to see Hades, right?
For those of you who think you've read the Bible and haven't,
look at the first line.
You're gonna see the name for the God of the underworld
in there and another name for another God, Thanatos.
These are both gods that are used within the Orphic mystery
that your Christianity is entirely based on, Dan,
entirely based on.
Fantastic.
Keep going, keep going.
I wanna rush through these.
I think we're done.
Yeah, well, here's one and here's another.
Give me another one.
Look at this.
Make love to this Greek people.
Look at this.
This is several ways, Hades, right?
They have that form, Hades, right?
Where it becomes like a diphthong.
Yeah, oh God, love it.
Look, they capitalize it, right?
Because even your text editors know who this person is.
So for those of you who believe in Jesus,
you believe also in Hades, Hades, right?
Hades, fantastic, fantastic.
Let's go.
Let's go to the next one.
And they still have the guts, Chewy.
They still have the guts to stand there and say,
Easter has nothing to do with it.
Yeah, okay.
Christianity.
What do you think, man?
Come on, man, it's not.
Okay, I wanna leave us with words of Cassandra, right?
She says, oh my God, what is this terrible thing I see?
What is this net of Hades?
What is this net of Hades?
What is this hunter's equipment?
Of the one who shares your bed?
What is this?
Ooh, I'm starting to get, it's a little bit sexy, right?
Right, what is this huntress of death?
You know, let those who are unsatisfying,
you know that pack?
Let the pack, this is what he's saying.
Let the pack that is unsatisfied, think of those dogs.
Think of those dogs that never stop thirsting for blood.
Right, right?
Let them hallelujah their way in here
underneath the curse.
Oh, let them hallelujah themselves.
Yeah, look at that first word on the last line.
That's where your concept of hallelujah comes from.
It's a shout.
It's a shout of a deathbringer.
Yeah, we're with Diana tonight.
And tonight we're hunting.
We're with Lucifer.
And we're here to expose the one that kills children.
Do you know who shows up when you try to kill a child?
Diana the Kurotrofos does.
The child nurse, she's the one who shows up
and she rescues that child.
And that child enters her service.
Isn't that gorgeous?
That's what that idiot Agamemnon ended up doing.
Yeah, gonna sacrifice his daughter.
No, you're not.
No, you're not.
These are the gods that are in your text
for those of you who think you've read the Bible, but haven't.
And let's go down to here.
I just wanted people to see really quick.
This is an Eremorff.
We're talking about a second line.
This is Hera Pombasilia,
that whole Lord of Lord, King of Kings.
Hallelujah, hallelujah.
That is all based upon this figure.
Nice to meet everybody.
Meet the Sulectron Dios.
Yeah, what is that?
Yeah, the one who maintains that union of God.
Meet her, who is she?
She's the all queen.
The all queen, the Pombasilia.
She is queen of queens.
What is Jesus doing?
He is being abackened,
but he is appropriating to himself her title,
the first Christ, her title.
Were you there at the Gamos?
Did you see it?
Did you see God and his Gamos?
Fantastic.
You've been to the ceremony of the fleece,
and you know now who the Christ is.
Keep going, last one.
And I just want you to see,
because everybody loves that messenger Hermes, right?
And that's why Jesus is dragging him in in the end, right?
Why?
Why?
Because look at the bottom line.
Look at the very last word.
This panto crator,
this almighty is the prophet of the Logos.
You see the word log there?
He is the prophet of the Logos.
Okay, we're set.
You can look right through Jesus,
and you can look right inside of them
and see what his core is tonight.
I love it.
Thank you for coming.
Now, we're gonna bring on,
we're gonna bring on Gnostic informant.
I'm gonna let him do his thing.
You get a double scoop tonight.
You get a double cone.
I'm gonna go outside and finish eating my cone.
Here's Neil,
and he is gonna give us that Gnostic power.
I mean, and he's in a fight and moved tonight.
So Neil, I'm turning it over to you.
What do you have for Satanic congregation?
Well, this is Hilaria Festival Week.
And Hilaria, if we look at what Ovid says,
Hilaria leads right into the next festival,
which is also dedicated to the great mother.
It's called the Megalicia.
And you have two major great mother festivals back to back.
One of them leading up until the month of April.
One of them starting the month of April.
By the way, April, what is April?
It comes from Aphrodite, Venus.
She is the mother.
She is the spring goddess, the dawn goddess.
There's a reason why Iostre in the Germanic religion,
or whatever, Pantheon, is the same month, Friday.
Freya's day, they call it,
in those Anglo-Saxons,
when they're copying the Romans, obviously.
Everything's based off Roman stuff, Roman stuff.
They're just personalizing it.
Well, that's Venus' day in the Latin weeks coming up.
So just keep that in mind.
Venus, Dawnstar, Luciferia, you know, the spring goddess.
There's a reason why this all lines up like that.
So don't let anyone tell you that.
We don't know anything about Iostre.
All we know is bead wrote one thing.
We don't know anything about it.
No, that's not true.
There's over 150 inscriptions of the dawn goddess
in that region predating bead.
I'll show that tomorrow when I go live on my channel.
But I wanna talk about what Amon was saying.
He made a good point and I agree with him.
New Testament scholarship is in the wrong hands.
New Testament scholarship needs to go,
well, first of all,
they need to just eradicate the entire field
and give it over to the classicists.
Their Greek text, the Greeks,
people who understand Greek literature
will understand the New Testament better.
What they have now is they have these people
go to seminarians, go to seminary,
learn Hebrew, a little bit of Hebrew,
and then take that as if that's gonna
make you understand the New Testament.
Now, some of the sources that I brought Amon touchdown
right before he, I even got here,
but let me, if you let me go to my screen.
First thing I wanted to talk about was,
their classicists wrote some shit in the late first century,
or early second century,
about Jerusalem and where the Jews come from.
And here's what he says.
This is pretty interesting.
He says, some say the Jews
refuted us from the island of Crete,
who settled on the nearest coast of Africa
about the time when Saturn was driven from his throne
by the power of Jupiter.
Evidence of this is sought in the name.
There is a famous mountain in Crete called Aida,
the neighboring tribe, the Aidea,
came to be called Judea
by a barbarous lengthening of the national name.
Others assert that in the reign of ISIS
by the overflowing population of Egypt,
led by Hiro Shlemus,
holy minded and Judas,
discharge itself in the neighboring countries.
So that is a Greek name, by the way.
And I just wanted to pull this up
to like add to what you were saying.
By the way, when people thought for centuries and centuries,
people thought that this was bullocks.
But then archeology came along
and found out that the whole Philistine country
was all Greek.
So the whole Cretan-Palestinian chalcolithic theory
turned out to be spot on.
Any thoughts on that, Amon, before I go to the next one?
Hey, amazing kudos to sources.
Look what Neil is doing, by the way, everyone,
because all the Danes out there in the world,
they can't do this, right?
They can't, they don't want to use these sources
because the sources show them for what they are.
So it's better to stay in a vacuum.
So kudos, Neil.
Thank you, Tacitus, love you, Tacitus.
Oh, kisses the Tacitus, go.
No, this was the source that I wanted to bring
that you were touching on.
Now, if you read Revelation through the lens
of someone who knows just Hebrew and not Greek,
this was gonna make no sense at all.
It says,
k'edokan et talasah tus necrus,
and the sea gave up the dead.
And then it says over here,
kai othenatos, kai ohades,
tus edokan tus necrus,
and Hades gave up,
and Thanatos gave up their dead.
Now, all three of those are Greek gods
that have hymns dedicated to them in the Orphic hymns.
So if this was given to a classicist,
they would be like, oh, I know exactly what's going on here.
Thades, Thanatos, Thalasah, they're giving up their dead,
or some sort of battle going on
between Thades, Thanatos, and Thalasah,
