Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere, strong winds blowing,
God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air,
oh if I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
and wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in,
fences created by such evil men,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in,
maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation on Lady Babylon.
Tonight what we have more and more and more for you is that tomb.
Remember that tomb we went to?
That place with the dank.
We're going back there tonight.
We're going back there tonight.
We're going to see.
I can hear the beat.
We're going to see the boys.
Can you hear them?
Can you see them?
Let's see the boys.
We're going to see Jesus and all the boys tonight,
but tonight we're going to go to a place that's a little bit familiar to us.
We've had it introduced,
but now we're going to look at it through the lens of the post Jesus Christ
transdimensional indictment.
Yeah, we're going to look at it through the eyes of the investigators tonight
on Lady Babylon.
If you have anything against Jesus.
Or against prostitution.
You probably shouldn't watch tonight because that's where we have to go.
We're going to the boys of Jesus and I want us to see them as a troop tonight.
Right.
As a gang, they got called out.
They got called out by the Pideski.
Those prostitutes.
They recognize them.
Remember, we're talking about child prostitutes in the between the ages of 10 and 13 history,
the Bible, Jesus Christ and prostitutes, prostitutes.
Let's look at those boys tonight in order to do it.
We got to blow this place.
We got to cleanse it.
Oh, those vapors are awful.
Bring on that sulfur baby and let's see the madness in Malina.
Yeah.
We have a Greek text that will tell you Malina way is Medea.
It's one of her cult names and if you're in and you're initiated, you know why.
Isn't that fantastic tonight?
Let's dive in.
Look, the time ship has stopped.
Let's step out.
Here we are.
We're at a place that has to do with brothels and tombs and Jesus Christ.
This is fantastic.
Let's go there with our first source.
Chewie hit it.
Here we go.
I'm going to dedicate this word tonight.
This is our one Greek word I want everybody to remember.
Remember how I told you that ancient Greek has a far more expansive vocabulary than your
English.
Yes.
Yes.
Far more expansive.
So what is the concept I want to feature for you tonight to allow your brain to grow into it?
Look, what is this?
Fusichladeon.
What is Fusichladeon?
It's a spell to open.
Fusichladeon.
Now, we know that the Victorians, despite the prudery, were way deep into it.
They were way deep into it.
Look what they put.
How do we know this?
Because they know all the naughtiness.
Yes.
Where's the naughtiness here?
It asked.
Thank you, Latin.
Pudendum muliebra.
Wait a minute.
What?
That's the female secret parts.
The female secrets.
Isn't that nice?
That's a nice way to express the female secrets.
Yes.
Okay.
That's our key.
That's our key to nature.
What?
You mean this word is a spell?
Who is putting a spell on someone?
I just want people to look at the anthropology.
Bring that up again.
