We've got some Syrian, see the Libanu. We've got the Frankincense there, right? And the Bacchus. The Bacchus, right? It's like saying the Christ. What is he doing? He's holding up that torch. He's holding up that flocks. That flocks. It's distributed through his narthex.
Wait. I hear Prometheus in there. You mean Prometheus was part of a visionary cult? What did you think? By the way, the ooze from his liver will get you so high. Yeah. Yeah. Did you know that? Why do you think that bird was eating it? That stuff fell on the ground and out of it came that plant that makes all of our pain go away.
Helen was picking that stuff. Yeah. Okay, people. Do you see your real history? Do you see your actual history? It's just bringing you these documents back. Let's keep going, man. It gets worse. It gets worse. Let's keep going. I'm going to take my time tonight. Yeah, just let's finish off. What else are we doing running around? Right? We're creating these vocalizations.
These vocalizations that exhibit this furied frenzy. And what are we saying? Go, Balkans! Go! These are the women. These are the women screaming this, right? Isn't that gorgeous? Isn't that gorgeous? Let's just go. Oh, sorry. Do you want to show something? Show what you're going to show. It's okay. You're involved, too, here.
Show what you want to show. I was talking about Balkans and we're in our rave. And here's a nice picture of a Balkan, right? A Minad. Isn't that nice? Oh, that's a nice Minad. So imagine her all red go with her serpents and with her staff. It has a head like a pine cone that sharpens so that you can smash somebody's noggin' with it.
Ride her weapons of war. And if they kill you, it's okay. It's okay if they kill you. I don't know. Maybe it's good to get eaten by a bunch of Minads. I don't know. I could think of worse. Okay. Let's go. Look, I want to take you. Take it off. I want to take you somewhere where you're not going to be able to go.
No Bible scholar here is going to know this stuff. They don't read these texts. They don't have any interest in them. So good. More for us. Let's go. Bring it up. Who is this? Who is this? Oh, this is Diascordes. He's like the master of pharmacology, antiquity, right? And what does he say? Oh, my God, this stuff, it grows in Arabia and the place where they actually produce it, right? The place is known because they actually produce it there. It grows it.
And oh, the fine stuff of this is it's nonparticulate, right? Refined white powder, right? When you add that to the fire, boom! Right? The whole thing burns up. Anyway, he's just describing it. And he goes on to describe it there to the bottom. I just wanted you to see that these are drugs that the people are working with openly. We don't have any problem.
Tuss, our word tuss, comes from the Greek thuos, right? That's that burning, right? When you say that there's frankincense that was given by the Magi to Jesus, when you say that, you don't know what you're talking about if you've never seen how frankincense was used in the ancient world.
And Jesus doesn't use just the garbage stuff. Those angels, they got access to the gold, to the gold. Love it. That's the good stuff, right? Now you know why that fleece was golden. Oh, no, you're kidding. No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Let's go to the next one. Look at this word, people thuos. Here's your Greek. This is a burnt sacrifice, right?
Notice under number two, it equals thumiamata, right? And you see Hippocrates and Galen there as sources. Those are my, those are my peeps, right? Nobody's, nobody reads, nobody reads either of those authors who does classical fall of you.
I can only think of a handful in Europe and, and in America. Yeah, I can only think of a handful who actively use those sources. Nobody does. Nobody does. People. I just found today Galen's on semen. I'll get, I'll get it to you in a minute.
Brilliant. It's in two books. It's in two, but male semen and female semen. And it has all the secrets over 100 pages, all the secrets, the secrets to eliciting the seed of the woman.
I'll say that one more time. All the secrets to eliciting the seed of a woman.
Okay. Do you know why classicists are so ridiculous and awkward? It's because they don't read the stuff. They need to read the stuff. It would have taught them. The ones that read Ovid, usually they're okay.
Okay, let's go to the, this is the next one. No, this is the next one. Sorry. Yeah, thumiamata. What is that incense? I just want you to see, but I want you to notice at the bottom, fumigations.
And he gives us philuminous, another source that nobody reads. I guarantee you, your pastor didn't know that is philuminous. Are you kidding me?
Look, I'm fumigations people. I told you they are fumigating. Whoops. They are fumigating. Don't let me fly to you. They're fumigating themselves.
And when I say fumigating, I mean hot boxing, right? Doesn't matter if you're in a small container, like a little storage jar. I've seen him do that and you stretch a fabric over the top and you sit there and burn your, burn your thumiamata right there.
And whoo, right? You enter those zones. You've never been fumigated, right? It's medicine, haven't you? Oh God, you need to take a bath, say the Scythians. You need to take a bath at least twice a day.
Wait, seriously? They took that many baths? What a waste of water. No, no, no. They didn't use water. They used cannabis. They fumigated cannabis in order to bathe.
You see what it does? It bathes you physically of impurities and it bathes you within your soul. Isn't that nice? It's kind of a natural thing. Nice.
But we also, you know, we can also sit there with the devil. So let's go back to the devil. Why doesn't nobody like it? Here we go. Here's a little bit more. I just wanted to show you the Christing people. This is that same author, Diascordes.
It's the same author. And if you look here, I just want you to see Katahri Almenos, the third line down kind of right in the middle. Everybody in Greek will see that. Guess what? He's using the frankincense within this Christing.
What do you do when you Christ something? It's a, it's a pharmacological term. That's all people, right? It's all, it's all it is. Right? We saw that last couple episodes. I showed you the terminology. I showed you. Brilliant.
Okay. Here it is again. What are we doing here? Oh, it helps with penomenos. If you drink it, it can kill you. You know what I mean? But look at the second, let's see, third line from the bottom, starting on the right side.
Okay. So I cut off the side there, but what it says is this stuff can induce mania. And especially when you drink too much of it, you know, in the process of initiating health in the process of bringing health, you can cause death by using too much of this stuff.
Well, first mania, you know what I mean? First mania. And, you know, too much like some people, he says they put it in their wine. When you put too much in your wine, it can kill you. It can kill you. So he's warning. You have to be careful. He's a physician slash pharmacologist slash pharmacist, right? He's a slash historian of medicine slash preserver of a pharmacopeia.
So, you know, he's like a, it's like an ancient Renaissance guy. Yeah. Can that happen? Can you have somebody come back in the past? No, you can't do that. Give me the next one, please.
Look, mania a day. So I just want you to see it's like madness. But I also want you to see at the bottom, they use it with I'm causing madness and they specifically give us this section of diascortes. But I also want you to notice it's a ball with pan and known us. So known us is the one who has all of the cult terminology under his belt.
If you really want to know ancient cult, you know known us. And people don't people don't like to don't really understand how helpful known us can be. Known us explains John's gospel in terms of bucket cult.
Do you know Jesus was the one ox? No, you didn't.
Look, you're Christian sitting here today. Did you know Jesus was the one ox? Wait, that's an old Mycenaean term, right? Deal with it. Yeah. So is the Christ. You think they made up Christ? You think Jesus was walking around? He was like, Oh, I'm the hmm, let's see.
Let's see the how the who would you the Masipu of the brick knock. Now, Christ, Christ. Yes, I'll be the Christ. Do you really think that that's what happened? He stepped out. There was a halo around his head and golden light and he was like, Oh, Christ.
There he is. Right. That's what you thought. I know it is because here's the visual evidence of your stupid thoughts that are inaccurate.
No, dude, he used a title that had been there for 1000 years. Yeah, you mean Jesus wasn't the first Christ? Wait, did you know his apostles are all teenage boys?
Let's get to it. We got more. We got more tonight. I'm having fun. Thank you, people. It's the final season. I'm just going to relax and have fun. I just want to see this kind of Christos thing.
For those of you who think the last five minutes was, you know, I can hear your comments. Those of you who are like this, I can hear your comments. I'm going to talk into the congregation. I'm talking to the visitors.
Those who are among us, right? Who've come here just to disrupts, right? I know that you think the last five minutes of what I said about the Christ and the drugs that it's not related.
Bam! Right in your face. Can you feel that? Oh, yeah. I can put it right there. I'm going to put it right in your mouth. Are you ready here to say it with me, people?
Cata Christos. Cata Christos. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, you seminary. Don't leave. Don't leave the room. Don't leave the room. Don't you ever do that unless I throw you out of my class, which I have.
For use is ointments and they give you the Trojiscoi. I told you about those Trojiscoi, didn't I? Right? That's what we have in the apocalypse. What is a trochis?
