It's a little pill that you dissolve in water and it's got all sorts of good, good, good things in it, kiddies. It's got all sorts of good, good things. And you can either drink it or you can take it and squirt it up somewhere that your body will absorb it.
And yeah. And what happens with these drugs? You're going to have vision. You're going to have vision. It's going to take your brain and turn it on its end. But don't worry. It's also going to help you to grow.
And if you do this the right way, it'll cure cancer. Yeah. Yeah. 60% of us could use that. Yeah. If you do it the right way.
It's a promise from the ancient world. A prophecy. Yeah. Love it. Bring it back. Bring it back. Boom. Let's go to this text. This is from, oh, we got pornea right at the time. This is from the apocalypse. And I'm just going to translate it quick.
I'm just going to translate it quick and on the forehead of this gorgeous, not okay. This is my translation so you guys can all, you know, buy a seat.
Look, what's on her gorgeous, gorgeous face right in the middle of her forehead. It says mystery. Who are we talking about? We're talking Babylon the great man. This is the mother.
This is the mother of those priestesses who give us that life. She's the one who has these, oh, I can't even say it, these corruptions, these abominations of the earth.
What are these abominations? Do you feel, do you feel me with the Christian sect taking over and I saw the woman? I saw her. What was she doing? She was drunk. I see you ladies. I see you.
You're drunk from the blood of the Holy and the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. Drink the blood. I'm offering you bucket women. I'm offering you to drink the blood of the witnesses of Jesus.
So, you know, seeing all this stuff, I was sitting there and shocked out of my britches and this angel says to me, he says, don't be so scared. He says, I'm going to tell you the mystery of this woman and the beast, the beast who bears her up, the one that has seven heads and ten horns.
This beast, which you see, he was, but he is not now and he will be. Some day he's going to come back from the abyss. He's going to come back from the pit to bring destruction.
And what's going to happen? The people on the earth are going to be amazed. They're going to be amazed, right? Right? Oh my God. I saw the beast who was and is not, but will be.
Oh, is this the beast? It is. Do you know what the beast brings us? Do you know what the Therion brings us? Right? And I'm talking like a priest from antiquity. Do you know what the Theriac brings us?
Do you know what these pastels bring us? Do you know what these drugs bring us? Do you know what the incense does for us?
You're going to be able to drink that death dealer. You're going to be able to come through this. You're going to be able to be born again. You too will know the voice of God.
Yeah. Yeah. Let's bring it next text. Okay. I'm going to give a little more esoteric punch to this and we're coming up to a big climax, people. The ending tonight should be big.
Right? It should be. Don't promise and then not bring it. It's okay. I'm there. I'm there. Look, I'm not going anywhere. I'm here. You just relax. You just relax. You feel it, right?
You can know your own pleasure. Just know your own pleasure with these texts. And the beast who was and is not now, he's the eighth. He is the eighth and he comes from the seven, you know, and he will lead us to destruction.
Okay. Okay. Now you know. Do you know what brings her back? Do you know what brings Lady Babylon back? Don't push buttons on a ship. I've been pushing random things. Do you know what brings her back? The beast.
The beast bears her. And do you know what she has? Do you know what Lady Mystery has? She has the water of life. 60% of us are going to need that water of life if we bring her back.
The only way we're going to do it is through the beast, through the beast. Fortunately, we've broken the seals. Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. We got all this. I'd like to offer to any, to any person out there with a capacity to reinstate, to bring back the Oracle.
Yes. We have the mechanism. And we have from that product, the water of life, the water of life, a new medicine, a new genetic medicine built into nature, built into our genes. And all we need is that water.
We can produce it to anybody who's capable of doing that. Get in touch with me. I'll lay it all out for you. And I cannot buy my satanic contract. I cannot charge you a dime. Yeah. Otherwise, the knowledge of the way evaporates. Yeah.
Yeah. Isn't that something? It's pure. It's pure. Welcome back to the museum. You know, you want to come to it? Come to it. Let's bring it back completely. Go. Let's go to the next one. Oh, look at this one. Yeah.
Yeah. So what? Okay. Now I want to jump. I want to jump now to the castration. I want to jump to the disciples, the mathetai, the students of Jesus, these teenage boys that he's with continuously. And they're naked at some points when he's on the boat with them. When they're on the boat with each other, they're naked. When they're in the upper room, he's naked with them. And he's using his underwear to dry their feet.
Which nobody ever seems to find weird. But okay. Okay. I've seen a lot of cult stuff. You know, it's the germ phobia, right? In me. That makes me think. Why would you dry a 12 year old boy's feet that you've just washed and handled? Why would you dry that with the thing that's wrapped around your private parts? It seems odd, doesn't it?
I mean, if somebody did that daycare, I'd say, what are you doing? Right? But Jesus, Jesus gets away with it. And he's going to scandalize himself. Are you ready? We're gonna look at Jesus touching children. I want you to see it for the first time. Because yes, it is what it sounds like. Okay, bring us the text. This is Mark. And he says, yeah, and they brought to him children and in order that he might hop to them. In order
that he might hop to them. What is that? Oh my God. Oh, I didn't. It's later. Darn it. I didn't have money. I'm sorry. In order that he might touch, grab aggressively, conquer with the hands, induce sexual urges with to awaken and are in liven with the hands to grasp, to grasp. He's getting
handsy. This is what they want to do. And we'll see what this, what this means. Coat wise in a second. It says it. And this, what it, what it was disciples, what are the apostles say? They were, they, they gave him a hard time about it. Yeah, they called him short on it. And when he saw them doing this, he got pissed. This says Jesus got pissed. Yes, verse 14.
Isn't it? That means agon then needs to be pissed. And he said to them, you guys, let those little kids come. Write to me. Don't stop them. This is the kingdom of God. And I'm really a man. He's given up. He's given a forcefulcause That's what Christ does. Right. He's always Pronounce magic words.
these magic words. Amain is one of them. I say amain to you, right? And all of a sudden,
all the demons perk up, right? It's only when he's doing serious stuff that he does this,
right? Stuff that's out of a PGM. They use it too, right? So he says amain whoever receives
the kingdom of God as a child? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wait, wait, what? As a child? Whoever doesn't do
this is what? Whoever doesn't receive the kingdom of heaven as a child? Why is not coming into it?
He's not going to enter into it. You got to receive it, hospideon, hospideon as a child.
You say what if I'm 90 as a child? Do you know how children receive the kingdom of God? You're
about to see it. You're about to see it and it involves putting your hands on them.
And you say, I went to Bible school. I went to Bible school. I went to Sunday school and I listened
to my pastor. I listened to him and he said, this is a buddy would do like this and yaw.
And I saw my priest. I was walking around the Vatican and saw my priest there. He was doing
right. Doing a little bit of that. You know what I mean? No, that is not the laying on of hands.
