Love it
Yes
Let's go back to the text
Yeah, next one, please
Joey here's look at this people. It's in Luke. Kai is Elton a stone
Erks at the egg ball in those balloon dust. What is he doing?
He goes into the temple and he started to throw out
everybody who's selling
Saying to them it's written
My house is the house of prayer
But you
You've made it a spell I own laystone take it down. Oh
What?
What Jesus goes in the temple and starts hurling accusations. This is gangsta chi
Think about what it takes to walk into this place
You must be a freak of nature. How did Jesus? How is he convincing these people?
He's got a crowd of children with him. He's what?
He's got a crowd of children. Don't hang up now. Don't hang up now
I'm gonna show you the kids didn't you know that Jesus walked around with a troupe of children their child prostitutes
I'm gonna show you the text and he brings them into the temple. They're causing ruckus
Ruckus, they are taking over the territory
Taking over the territory
Jesus comes in what's he say?
He says you've made this place you've turned this place
Into
grotto of
lacedace
a grotto of lacedace a
grotto of
People involved in drugs and sex trafficking
Yeah
Wait a minute. Are you sure we yeah, let's keep reading. I'm just gonna show it to you
Gets a little graphic. You're gonna love it. You guys love this stuff dirty dirty people
Luke
1945 and entering into the temple he started throughout these people and he's saying to them it's written
Yes, gonna make this place a spit lion
Gonna make it that grotto next one chewy next one. We've got to roll on we've got to roll on and he was teaching
Right throughout the day in the temple now take it down for a second. We're gonna look at it. But how did Jesus get here?
He got here with a crowd
He got here with a crowd of kitties
Who are these kitties?
What are they doing? Some of them are as young as three and four. Oh
My god, Jesus has a troop of
Children. Yes, I'll show you the Bible. Nobody reads the Bible anymore. How come it's such a shame
You wanted this so much
You wanted your golden book of truth
Here it is
enjoy it
Eat your meal. You deserve it
Let's go
Let's go. So he's teaching all day in the temple and what happens the dudes who are in charge and the people who are
writing stuff down
They're looking for a way to kill him
Right, but here's the problem. Here's the problem
the crowd is
The oh loss they call it which is like a
Disturbance, you think of a crowd as a group of people at a concert
No, thank more of disturbance
and the people who are running the operation in the temple of Jerusalem
Get upset and what is their immediate reaction?
Well, logically they start plotting to kill him
Does that make sense to you if Jesus is the do-gooder that you think he is if he just walks in with the halo
And he's standing. Oh, let's kill that guy
No, he's taken over the territory. He's kicking over the tables
Right and what else is he prohibiting he's prohibiting something you say I didn't see this I'm in in my Bible children
children
lambkins
It's there in your Bible you need to know
You need to know what all we adults know
No
Now are you ready? Let's get ready for it because it's kind of makes you nauseous
Let's go to the next next one, please
but oh
Sounds like somebody. Oh, that's not a
Just knock just a minute, please hang on
You
Case I'll bring the stick of lightning
It's fun in the West that's the way it is
Let's go you roll with it. Did you see that somebody in the back of the falcon?
Anyhow, let's go, please
What's gonna happen here so his students are going around right and I just want you to notice here it says the kids
The kids are doing what he orders
The kids are doing what he orders
Okay
Jesus gives orders. Yes, the
The verb for ordering here is just from Taso
writer Tato
depending on your
dialectical interests
And all that means is station your troops in lines
So soon Tato, so, you know, I'm gonna give you a command to do something and I have authority
I'm a general or I'm a
You know somebody and magistrate somebody with official power
And those that's what the kids follow. They follow him. You have to realize that his followers
follow him as
If he were a commander
If he were a commander, okay
Remember we're talking about lace days
the lace days is
The one who you have to meet force with force these gangs
Don't mess with them don't mess with them. Yeah force
Oh, okay, let's go the next one
This is Matthew 21 10 and going into Jerusalem. He shook the place out, baby
He shook the place out. That's what it says. Everybody's all
What's the big deal? He comes to town. He's got a bunch of the boys from Galilee hanging around him and people
Hosanna Hosanna and you think in your mind. No, this is the poems of
the Sunday and
We're going to have it. Oh and Jesus with it. Oh, no, they weren't it wasn't my grandmother standing there
He had a crowd of kids they're making a stir in the temple he's kicking tables over
