When we had Dr Rock on a few minutes ago, he was shunned for talking about mushrooms, shunned, which now doesn't seem that odd then.
It was a big deal.
He was shunned about talking about what are you going to do if you talk about drugs.
The first thing people are going to do and Brentmore classical review did this, they said this man obviously has a drug agenda and is probably a drug user himself.
I was like, are you kidding me?
Are you kidding me?
So for those of you who are worried, we are looking for that place as Satanists.
We're looking for that place where Bach can no longer use his reason because of using his reason means pulling everything down around him.
He's unwilling to do it, right?
That's not faith.
Faith allows you that space, even though it's an unreality.
Rob, any other questions?
Yeah, it's related to the last question, it's still Lord Snappy.
Can you do some perform something on screen for us, some live magic on the stream at some point?
I know you promised small part and we'd like it pushed.
We'd like to witness something and get some things done now.
Thank you for making that.
By the way, brilliant presentation.
Mute yourself.
You would like that, wouldn't you?
Because Rob, you're an evil and wicked generation that desires a sign you want me to.
It's not enough to show you the way.
It's not enough to perform in decent acts on ghosts.
It's not enough.
You want me to show you.
That's perfectly the way of Satan.
Nicely done, nicely done.
If this is all about reason, then I should be able to prove the magic.
Yes, I should be able to prove the magic.
I should be able to perform the sortes right in front of you.
I should be able to summon a legion of QAnon who are in a position where they shouldn't be able to comprehend the universe, but they do.
And they see that there is a storm coming and that there is a pedophilia behind.
Wait a minute, here's the trick.
Here's the trick.
You want some magic?
The trick is they're the ones promoting the pedophilia.
They're the ones whose master was the arch pedophile.
And when I say pedophile, I mean the name pedophile, the title that was given to the savior.
Wont that be funny?
QAnon will have to figure out they themselves.
And that's when you realize you're in prison, Rob.
When you ask for the magic, you reveal that you are in a prison.
Gorgeous.
Other questions?
That was Lord Snaffi asking.
We've got Old Boy and we're going to go to the language.
It's from previous episodes.
