Secret messages.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Wednesday Night Bible Study Season 7
Final season.
So tonight, you know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do to you tonight.
I am going to take you.
I'm going to take you back to the heart of temple practices.
We're going to get in there, right in there.
We're going right in the temple.
We're going to see what they're doing and you're going to be surprised.
You're going to be surprised what's going on in Judea.
You're going to be surprised.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Okay, we're going to professionally go somewhere.
We're going to expedite this.
We're going to, by the time I'm done talking, we're going to be there.
We're going to be in that place again where we're looking at the past and the future
and our present bubble, bringing everything together.
But we're going to do so with standards, people.
Standards.
I've been watching some new things coming out from popular people quoting Greek Bible scholars, people Bible scholars.
Laughable.
Laughably, if it weren't so morally bankrupt.
Yeah, they do not honor the gods.
They don't.
DK, she's not there or she would insist that the museum be honored.
That's what we're doing tonight.
And I smell the sulfur.
Remember from the party we had last time?
We're going back.
We're going back.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see Jesus angry, setting up his place, taking his territory, putting his foot down.
I'm the man in this market.
You get your rotten stuff out of here.
Where are the doves?
Okay, let's see them do it, people.
I want to see them poor.
We're just going right to the tags, right?
For anybody who's upset.
Oh, but before, let's purify.
Right?
We've got to purify this place.
I'm sorry.
I almost forgot.
Chewy looks at me, grunted.
There's a dude that needs welcoming.
Dumas again.
Where's Dumas?
Alex, purify this place.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
We're going to see the after party.
O!
Thank you, thank you Alex.
I appreciate it.
The air is a lot clearer.
Let's get into the text now. I'm taking this get ready get off the bus today
Put on your dirty boots and your dirty pants
Bring the rough ones that you can rub against the rocks because today
We've got to go deep into the one
rock-bottom joint
Where you can get service?
To get to the third and fourth heavens
That's where we're going
We're going to the cafe temple at Jerusalem. That's where we're going
Thank you. Oh god. It looks are you it's so nice to be with Jesus
It's kind of like a kind of like a curse to be stuck with him, right?
But here we are here. We are we're gonna go with him and remember wherever two or three of us are gathering his name, right?
poof
He's there with us. It's his punishment
Fantastic, didn't you know the devil has control here? Don't give me your you guys don't know it, right?
Come on, Satanic congregation flash this thing up here. This is our first thing
I just want I'm gonna translate this and this is for everybody out there a lot of people talking about knowing Greek
Not a lot of people translating it
So he stretched up on that hits up he stretched up
Stressed up to his mouth on high. What he stretched up. He stretched up that compound
That compound oxos called oxos. It's that stuff a doom
It's the oxos of doom
Wow, that's quite a thing. He's put it. It's an antidote
For the king I'm translating
What what's it an antidote for notice it's an antidote for that sacramental bread
That gives you the vision
It's
Thespastic people it gives you the vision
Remember we have an antidote
It's a dope antidote situation if you're not using the antidote you have a problem
All right before omnia can bring us all of this we have to get it
Exactly right to
Resurrect Lady Babylon
