You mean this word is used for straight up intercourse
I'm not talking just
Molestation i'm not saying jesus is just molesting those kids
I'm saying he is penetrating them with his hands
And why is he penetrating them with his hands?
Because he is applying the very same drugs that are on that naked child's
Private parts when he is in the garden of guess simony
Jesus is a professional
place days
And he is making
more
Trafficking
Children making more children trafficable
Within what remember the only times jesus is mad is when somebody tries to stop him doing this to children
And when he's up face to face with the pimps in the temple
Right and he's like no way man. This is my territory. He's kicking over money tables and stuff like that
You thought he was an angel didn't you you didn't realize he's just a pimp
Finding and establishing his territory
You're right. He comes from egypt, baby when he came back to this podunk jerusalem
Do you know what do you know what he did?
He went in the temple and he's so impressed the people with his educated speak
Oh
You got to remember judia's backwoods, man. It's backwoods
Right you get mobs of people that are rock someone to death. All right. Romans are shaking their head, man
That's not what are you doing?
Justice, baby. Do you modest you hate justice? Don't you you atheist? Oh my god
Let's get the next one get the next one. I've got a couple left people. Jesus is saying I don't want you to do this to me
Don't scandalize me, baby
Now if Jesus
You know if he's a normal guy
You know and he ends up in a situation where three teenage boys are guarding him while he's in a public park
with a naked boy
Is he gonna be worried about getting scandalized
You know if Jesus hadn't been arrested with a naked kid. I would say
This doesn't make sense
Right. Think about it for a minute people. Thank you the son of god. The son of god really have to worry about getting scandalized
I don't understand why that's there
Except in the context of his touching of the children and his anger. Show me what Jesus gets. Does he get angry?
Yeah, he gets angry
Right, I don't dare. Oh, Jesus
In a ganak desin gay open out boys. This is what he says
That says he gets really pissed and what does he say?
He says let let me have access to those little kids
Don't stop it coming because this is the kingdom
This is the kingdom of god
This is the kingdom of yahoo
Oh
Child sacrifices, baby. I don't care if you believe it or not. Give me the next one. Jesus is doing it
Just to let you know how pissed he is. Look, he's he's feeling violent irritation, bro
Those jerks those teenage jerks that kid john was sitting on my lap the other night now. He's telling me
I can't have these little children
I'll let me tell you something unless unless you let me do this to these little children
There's gonna be nobody in the kingdom of heaven
You hear the
You hear the real jesus the reason the christians hate what I do so much
Is because my jesus is real
You know, my jesus is real
You know, a lot of people have been telling me they're getting in trouble for watching lady babel on
You know, whether it's because they're at some place at work
And somebody sees it and you know says
What is that or whether it's family people are writing to me about can't watch me around their family
By the way, um heads up to who what's the name who's watching?
Somebody's watching me it
Like with their whole family and to that group they're sitting out there
You know, we love you guys. We love you. I love it. I love it. You guys are great
Love that. I hope you're having good food good food and good drink love it
Give me the last one and let's just see what happens here
Let's cap all of this revelation with revelation
And I saw from the mouth of the dragon
And from the mouth of the beast and from the mouth of the false prophet
What is coming out?
A cathartic spirits
Spirits like
frogs
What are the frogs telling us?
Frogs are speaking to you through the muse and they're telling you there is a way
There is a way to salvation
You must
Enter death and be resurrected
And you will have ionic life
Let me just say today
There is nobody within the sound of my voice
Who follows or believes they follow a mystery. There is nobody who actually does
None of you you have all fallen short
Thank you for coming tonight
Hail Satan
I am being the man who laughs
I'm in the cut I'm in the crease
Black tip arrows darken the sky
The iris which can fly
Medea's got the heavy weight. How much you want to buy?
Scorpion venom
Molecule stations dragon venom vaping. You know, they might be taping. They want the elemental peas
For the darkest of dreams
Lady Medea
She's coming to see you
A train venom
Lady Babylon
Word won the bid
It's how it is
With the poisonous kiss
She never missed
Put you in the sacred drift
Catch you in the twist
You
