We're talking about the ancient mystery drug cult of Christianity.
So let's see what it is. Let's go on with the text. Oh, this is gorgeous. I love this stuff.
Thank you guys for I treasure every minute. I treasure every minute of this. Yeah, yeah. Okay,
yeah. Let him come right. And he says, don't prevent them right. And you got to receive it.
Hoss Pideon, right? You're not going to enter in with the very last line. This is 16.
And he enfolds the child. He enfolds them with his arms. And he puts his hands on them
while he is praising what he is putting his hands on.
Wait a minute. He is eulogizing. Did you ever notice what Jesus does when he touches children?
You don't see him doing this with Roman centurions. I guarantee you that.
When he puts his hands on them, he praises them. He eulogizes what he is touching.
Full body contact in folding that child, praising them. Do you know why? He's going to need those
children later when he gets arrested in the public parking for him with one of them naked,
with a bandage on their private parts. Okay, just wait. Just wait for those who want to be unics.
Stay after class. Oh, here, this one's for me. I need one of those. You're bad. Don't talk like
that. That's bad. Wow. No, seriously, hang out after class and I'll show you why I'm trying
to be Jesus. Let me see. Give me the text again. The next text. Just go on to the next. Uh-huh.
Yeah, this is just folding him in his arms. And this is the eulogizing. Go to the next one.
And oh, what? Yeah. Oh, yeah, this is Matthew. This is back in Matthew now.
Yeah. And so the people are bringing them the children in order that he might put his hands on
and what else is he doing? The only reason I bring this up, because it's almost word for word,
exactly what the Mark passage is. But the reason I bring it up is he adds a different detail. He
says he is post-alchema. He's entering a state of prayer. He's entering these prayers. Wait a
minute. You mean in our cult, when we pray, turn it, take it down. When we pray, this freak of an
angel takes this instance. Boom! And I'm fumigating you people. Yeah. Why? For our prayers, baby.
That's the only way you talk to God. You think you talk to God? Children. Children, you think you
talk to God sitting in your bed? Do you get out of your bed at night? Do you get out of your bed
at night, kids, and sit on the side of your bed and fold your hands and pray to sweet Jesus?
You are not Christians. That is not how it was done by Jesus and his peeps. That is not how it
was done. That prayer is carried on the back of a psychotropic substance.
Do you mean when Jesus gets thrown into the wilderness? Do you mean that's where he's going
to talk to the devil? Yeah. Yeah. All right. It's your prayers, my friend. What's Jesus doing with
kids as he touches them and praises their parts? He is sending up that incense of prayer to God.
And if you don't understand that, it's probably better off for you in the long run.
For those of us who want to see what's going on, because we're warriors,
let's keep looking. Jesus, I know we're getting here to a terrible, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ.
This is getting to a terrible, yeah, let's go to it. Let's go to the next one. Yeah.
And the Pharisees, you know what I mean? Here's what's setting up his touching of the children.
Now watch the grooming of the apostles here. The Pharisees, they approach him and they're
going to test him, you know, and they talk to him about divorce. Long story short, they talk to him
about divorce. And is it okay? Moses said you can make a right in divorce. And Jesus says,
you guys are jerks, right? Don't you know that you're one flesh with your spouse? You're one
flesh, brah, right? And you can't separate that. God has put that together. Moses knew you guys
