You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came And you were like a storm
Coming out of mountains, never to be tamed All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name
All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
How's that? Tell them who fixed it. Okay, people, for once it was me, I fixed it.
It was just cables. Fantastic. What are we going to do tonight? We've got to clean up the place. We've got to clean it out.
And in order to do that, we're going to have to find some kind of sulfur to burn to get this place all de-ghosted.
Tonight, I want to bring you scootha. And when I say scootha, I'm introducing you to a cold word from antiquity.
It's the name of Queen, Queen of Caucus. It's also the name of the state in which you enter when you're doing the Scythian.
Love it. So tonight, we're going to do it through Alex. Thanks to Chewie for bringing along Alex.
Thank you.
Oh, fantastic. Okay, so I'll re-explain what I was saying.
But no noise was coming out of my face at the beginning.
So what we're looking at tonight is I have to take you to one of those dark places. We're going to go back and we're going to look at what Jesus is doing with his young apostles who are teenage boys,
and 18-ish, 19-ish in that range. We're going to look at what they're doing specifically with them and how he is bringing about that grooming process.
And I want to go. I want to start out with you at a place right away. You know, let's get off the ship because right away we're in a place where there's a cult movement going on around us.
I'm going to take you back. You're going to love this. This is why you dirty, dirty people always come back because you love these sources. You love it.
It's like drinking that pure water from that fountain way up in the, from the hippocrine. Let's get it. Oh, let's get it.
Bring that first source up for me. Who am I bringing to you? I'm bringing to you a priest. I'm bringing to you some necander.
And he says, look, people, look, I don't want you to drink this drink. And why is that? The stuff is lethal. The stuff is lethal, right?
He says it works like those, you know, the crazy people, crazy people when they're babbling, they're obviously out of their minds because they've been drinking it.
And what happens to them? They're struck. These Bacchus. Oh, wait, what? We're talking about a cult that is Bacchic. These Bacchus are struck.
They're struck and they, they, they do what? They shout. They're going around. It's crazy. They shout in unison.
These crazy, fearful shouts and these songs. And what do they, what do they do it under the influence of?
Look at that last word in the third line, oyster, right? They do it on the influence of that oyster that cannot be managed, that fury, that mania.
If you look at Labrazzo there, same thing. You're instituting a state of mania in someone. And that is what the mysteries are doing.
These are the Bacchic women. I want you to, I want to point it out to you. This is an ancient priest, Hellenistic priest named Nicander.
And he is talking about the Bacchic choruses, what they do. Okay. They enter into states of mania via drugs.
Now this may have been, this may have been something that the philologists, classical philologists stood around and had to catch themselves because they don't believe in drugs.
They don't believe that we should talk about the founders of democracy using drugs. We shouldn't. We shouldn't unless they did, in which case we have to talk about it.
That's what I'm bringing you. Let's get the next source. There we are with these Bacchians. Here's another source of Bacchians.
And in, what's that? In his name, in whose name? In my name, excuse me. In my name they will cast out demons.
This is Bacchus talking, right? In my name they'll cast out demons and they'll speak in new, unheard to fore unknown languages.
And what else are they going to be doing? They're going to be raising up handling serpents. Seriously, these guys, you know, these Bacchians are nuts, man.
