Has it seen the feast of cups thrice or four times?
It was born about the time of the last Dionysia.
But which is like a year old, two years old.
What does that mean?
And it says, no, may Apollo bear my witness.
Well, then we are going to burn you.
Burn me, but then I shall rip open this instantly.
No, I jure you don't.
Don't do anything like that.
Rather me, rather me that rather me than that.
What a tender mother you are.
But nevertheless, I shall rip it open.
He tears open the wine skin.
And then she starts crying.
Oh, my beloved daughter, mania, hand me the sacred cup that I may at least catch the
blood of my child holds it below.
That's the only favor I grant you.
He pours the wine into the cup.
Oh, out upon you, you pitiless.
What is even going on here?
It's a bunch of women getting intoxicated for the thesmaphoria, right?
So that's kind of the comedy relief of it is that, you know, they're describing the
wine skin as that beloved child, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But go ahead.
I thought it was interesting because it's always depicting this beloved of Jesus holding
the cup.
He's always got the cup in his hand.
And there's the Eucharist.
And so like, I'm going to show us another source right now from Augustine regarding the Eucharist
in Carthage.
This is a primary source from it's a Latin source, but I had the translation of it.
It's called on heresies by Augustine.
And he's talking about this, this case that happened down in Carthage.
This is this one I got to read says for this reason, based upon the so called seduction
of the Archons myth, or rather because some demand of their sacrilegious superstitions,
their elect are forced to consume a sort of Eucharist sprinkled with human seed in order
that the divine substance may be freed, even from that, just it is from other foods which
they receive.
However, they deny that because they do this in assert as true that some others do it using
the name of the Manicheans.
Okay.
But they are exposed at the church of Carthage.
As you know, we were already a deacon there at the time under the prosecution of Ursus,
Tribune, who was then prefix in the palace.
Some were brought to trial at this time, a girl by the name of Margarita, betrayed this
monstrous ugliness and claimed that she was not yet 12 years old, and that she had been
violated on account of this wicked right.
So we have in one case, in one situation here, we have these, these bishops in Carthage drinking
semen and molesting young women, young 12-year-old girls.
This is in one passage.
Like, whoa, like this is getting deep right here.
And then it goes on to say that she had undergone some treatment because of their very same
right.
First, she maintained that she was intact and insisted on being examined as a midwife,
by a midwife.
But when she was examined, when her true condition was discovered, she likewise gave information
on that whole extremely ugly crime.
So she was raped.
And look at this, at which flower is sprinkled between a couple, in sexual intercourse, to
receive a commingle with their seed.
This she had not heard when Margarita gave her testimony.
Like, whoa, this is some crazy, and look at, look at this.
When you go down here, then he starts talking about some of the stuff that they were into.
He says, nevertheless, they were inserted into other groups, Manicheans, books of Manny.
That's not what I'm looking for.
Oh, here it is.
And then these books are described monstrous things.
This is from the mouth of Augustine, relating to the transformation of males into females
and females into males, to attract and loosen through consip, consip, sense, the prince of
darkness of both sexes, so that the divine substance, which held captive in them, may
be set free and escape.
Whoo!
What kind of bolt is going on over there in Carthage?
Damn!
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, people, it's the mysteries right in front of your face being brought to you, those
mysteries.
And sure enough, right at the helm of it is pedophilia.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Epiphanias is saying they're drinking semen for a reason, you know what I mean?
And by the way...
Yeah.
Now, what do you think, Neil?
What do you think?
You see the pedophilia, right?
And, you know, you look at Jesus and his situation, how much of Christianity is the perpetuation
of pedophilia, you know?
Well, that's what I wanted to say, because to bring it back to Jesus now, the depiction
of Jesus and his beloved boy hanging out on his shoulder, I think you can argue that
this was the beginning of a tradition of the master and beloved, master and beloved.
And by the way, when you look at these early church fathers, you'll see, Marcian was the
beloved of Paul, and then Polycarp was the beloved of Marcian, and then there's a chain
going down.
Like, you grow up as a young boy being someone's beloved, you get groomed by them.
And then once you get older and you learn, now you are in charge, you get a beloved.
And that cycle goes on, and that's the church.
That's the tradition.
It's kind of like a grooming tradition in that sense, and I think it starts with Jesus
and his beloved.
I think that's the whole point of John is telling you that this is what you're supposed
to do.
You're supposed to go and get a little child, put them under your wing, and raise them to
be the next Christian, basically, the next bishop, the next Episcopos.
That's dark.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, Heracles and his Highless, right?
Yeah, and then we'll go back to the ancient Greek stuff.
Like, this was all happening left and right.
It doesn't surprise me at all to see the structure of the organized approach to grooming and
raping children.
That doesn't surprise me at all.
What surprises me is that the church has for so long been able to misrepresent the classical
sources to give you this phony picture that never existed.
The image that you have of Jesus, think of, you know, come on, you all thought Jesus.
I'm talking to the audience.
You all thought Jesus was walking around with bearded men.
Right?
You thought he was.
You didn't know that he was with children, right?
You might have thought differently in your church if Theta had presented him that way
to you.
You might have thought differently.
Would you think differently, Neil?
You were a Christian.
Did you?
Did you ever consider, I mean, when you were a Christian, Neil, were you thinking these
are grown men?
Yes.
I did.
And you just assume that because it's just kind of what it's assumed.
But once you realize, once you actually get into the evidence and realize that these are
kids following a 30-year-old man, what?
That's not, that's, we all, as a society right now in 2023, we all agree that's not cool.
That's actually illegal, I think, to do that, like, and like, but that's their perfect God
figure that they're going to worship and, whoa, like, that changes some things for me
right there.
I also have more evidence.
I have two more I want to show.
More evidence that this stuff is continuing, even as the, into the third and fourth century.
