That is what you
Will be hearing when you listen to the prophecy
Is anybody else is under the influence
As these people
My god, man
The visionary stuff is crazy. We're still going to bring in the children. Let's just bring him in
Jesus come here. Jesus. I'm sorry. I gotta show them the kids tonight
You hold it jesus holds his tongue well
He must be used to that
It's a roman thing. Let's go. You know why they dislike those
Lace days so much, right? Right, you know why they disliked the lace die
Crucifying a man because about a hundred years
No, not that long, but within a century before
Jesus is walking around as a lace days or at least he's denying that he's a lace days and mark
About a hundred years before that within that century
Julius Caesar
He got abducted and he was so mad at those friggin people. He went back and he
Insisted that they all be crucified
Because that is the only fitting punishment. Um that cross people
Is not
for a common thief
or a common criminal
That cross is for people who crowds
Come together and say this dude
Crucify
Yeah
It was that ultimate
It was that ultimate punishment every time you see see we as a society under the influence of christianity
Have tried to make that cross a place where the innocent are placed
Right, this is a place of torture
Right the romans the evil romans invented it
Right
It's very fairy tale-ish, but the fact is that's what Caesar did he see had him crucified because he wanted him to suffer
And it was heinous enough what the what pirates do
To to get him crucified
Traffickers, baby human traffickers. Does anybody have any sympathy? Is there a book anywhere?
That's like my beloved human trafficking husband
No, there's a good reason for that
Now let's watch jesus get all touchy-feely. Let's go. Let's go. Oh god. What is he uncovering?
What is he uncovering?
Dionysus speak. Tell me how you feel
Under the influence he says ego de fluk dinas gejo. What do you have?
You got those marks
You got those engagements
You got those wounds of the viper
And what else do you?
Dionysus what what's happening?
Something are you ready people? I'm translating this directly. I'm the voice of Dionysus
I got the marks of the viper and something is drooling out of my buttocks
Proctos
Proctos I used to laugh with my greek buddy
Um, whenever this came across this word. I don't know why you get you know proctology and stuff like that
Right, it's kind of funny. I don't know. Um, anyway, he's got some sweat coming out of it
You remember the stuff that was on jesus's face?
That's how this is described
But it's coming out of barcus's rectum
And what does he say? He starts to say this and he gets in a room. He said oh, and i'm popping up
My little guy's gonna sit up and he's gonna say something
Why?
Because barcus is under the influence
He has the marks for the administration of the drugs
He's got
The potion that's oozing out of his rectum
and
He's got that
satirical
response that satiriasis
Hmm
Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Thank you. Thank you Dionysus. That's great. I loved it
I loved it. It was nice. Give me the next one. Um, I just want you to see that these little blisters that are made
Made by these burns, right?
Notice that they can be caused by those bites
Right, these are you know, the hypocrites talk about little postules
and basically little injured areas that you're going to get some kind of infection or
Um, something more symptomatic of what we think is you know, could be something like smallpox or something like that
They'll use that word in those different contexts. You have to be careful
Um, sometimes you can assume the greek's gonna say something and you'll find out. Oh, no, that's not how they're using it in the century
And you're like, oh, okay. Got a reform go back, right?
But you got to read a lot to get to that point. Give me the one after the postule
Bum
Bum botracoi frog speak to us. What do the frogs say?
Listen, we're sitting here after our three drinks or four or five
I don't remember there was a fifth guy that came in so we've got to have had a lot by now
And what are the frogs saying? What are the frogs saying? They're saying, listen, you're such a
You're just going around doing everything
Investigating everything doing everything
Sit down and shut up. You know who I am
I'm the one who the muses
establish
I'm the one who the muses establish
I'm the one that pan
with the horn
with the antidote
Who sports around
dances around plays around amorously
Right with his reed
I know I do you know also apollo
It says apollo is here too. And what does he do?
Yeah, he's
He's so happy. Maybe that was the one. I think that was the one that was he invented. Yeah, I think I just switched him
But I think this is the one that he's he invented
Um, uh, and what does that mean? It means to make exceptionally happy
Right. He's he's joyous. And why is that because the reed right the one that sits on the lyre?
He shares apollo has a share of that read
Right that read. What is he talking about? Oh, it's part of the instrument
the lyre
It's got to read some kind of baseball
Yeah, and it's it's a read that they use
Yeah, he's involved
