He was sleeping.
He wasn't naked because he fishes naked.
He was sleeping.
And when he woke up, when he woke up, um, he took his pants off real quick and put
him back on.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Maybe his underwear.
He took his underwear off and he put it back up.
He took his linen, his loincloth off and he was like, whoo.
Right.
And then he put it back on when Jesus got there.
Why is this kid dressing?
Why is it teenage?
You're dressing and all the church people right now, I can feel.
I can, I can feel the constriction of their rectums.
Right.
I can feel it.
Um, they're going to say, Oh, Peter had a wife at that young age.
No, I didn't.
There's no record of his wife anywhere.
There is only the statement that Jesus treated one of his in-laws.
It could have been his sister-in-law and which makes sense.
Cause there was no, she never shows up anywhere else.
And she doesn't mind that Peter is spending the night on the boat with a bunch of kids
and ended up naked.
Yeah.
Remember when Jesus shores up on the shore, he is totally rocking a resurrected vampire
body.
It's gorgeous.
Oh, I can't wait to show you his track marks.
We're going to look at those next week.
You mean Jesus had track marks?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You, what did you think they were?
Yeah.
It's okay.
They're kids too.
Let's go to the last, the very last one and just see.
Yeah.
Oops.
Yeah.
Here's a little bit.
Look.
Yeah.
Oh God.
He's now.
Okay.
Here's the, here's the confession.
Are you ready?
Um, you know, Jesus did a lot of other things in front of his boy companions.
Yeah.
Um, but, um, he, and he revealed a lot of many varied signs.
And, and he was a, he was a witness to the truth.
This guy, John, right?
The one who's writing this thing.
And he wrote this prophetic book.
And what did he do?
He dictated everything.
And he did so.
The things that he didn't talk about.
He did so in willing silence, in prudent silence.
He didn't reveal everything.
Okay.
Okay.
Now you can see it.
Let's bring in, um, let's bring in Neil.
Neil, you've been sitting there for way too long.
I know you're good.
Floor.
Thank you for the time.
And I'm going to give, Neil, I want you to just give me firsthand.
I want you to tell me any reactions.
And then I want you to give a little presentation on some dirty monks.
Yeah.
So first of all, uh, over a hundred people, 108 people watching right now.
So that's, that's big numbers right there.
But I wanted to say for everyone that's watching,
if you think what he just got into was dark and deep and dirty,
it's just getting started.
It's about to get even crazier right now.
So first thing I want to show, I have like seven screens that I want to go through.
Some of them will be really quick, a couple of them I'm going to read,
but I just want to go through these for a particular reason.
I got the one on the bottom right now.
Cause you mentioned the disciple that you mentioned the young boy in the,
who's on Jesus's shoulder.
And this is from the gospel of John where it talks about this.
Disciple whom Jesus loved or in some cases the beloved of Jesus,
depending on what you're looking, what passage you're looking at.
And he's always depicted and it's described in the text as a young boy
hanging on Jesus, half asleep.
Like, like a cup, like, like, like his little, well that's what the beloved is by the way.
This is what I'm about to get into.
So the Greek, I'm going to go to my next screen now.
The Greek that they use is a term called agap, agapatos, right?
Beloved.
Now you, as a, you just shook your head like, yep, yep, here we go.
Cause you know that this term is used all over the ancient Greek world
for young boys who are being groomed by older males.
The beloved.
It's all over the place.
The beloved of Archelaus, the beloved of so-and-so.
And they use it in this, in the same context in the, in the, in the New Testament.
The beloved of Jesus.
So let's go to, I don't want to, I don't care what Bible has to say about this work.
It's all, it's all just what, you know, their spin.
Let's go to Alice.
Let's see what Alice says about this word.
We got agapatos, right?
Okay.
One says that wherewith one must be content, hence of only children, right?
It's always used in the context of beloved children.
And it's like, of things desirable, persons, beloved.
And one of the sources that's in here is Aristophanes Thesmophoria.
And I didn't even, I just found this at the last second.
It's the craziest text.
I just want to show it real quick.
And I want to get into some of this semen Eucharist stuff that I got.
But yeah.
So the next one I got is from Aristophanes.
And it's, it's using the same context as beloved child.
And what's going on here is this priest is, I don't know if you could help me out here
to help me describe what's happening here.
I think this priest is about to sacrifice this child and the mother is calling it.
So that's my beloved child.
And like, let's just read it where it says, he says, but you, my child, take off this
cretin robe and blame no one but your mother for your death.
What does this mean?
The little girl is nothing but a skin filled with wine and a shod with Persian slippers.
And it says, and then so if you keep going, it says, are you the, are you the mother of
this brat?
She's like, I carried it for 10 months.
You carried it.
I swear by Artemis.
How much does it hold?
The three Kotolai?
Tell me.
Oh, what have you done?
You shall have stripped this poor child quite naked.
And it is so small, so small.
Yes, quite small to be sure.
How old is it?
