This is what I love about classical philology.
You can pull out the dirtiest text on the planet.
You can slap it down in front of the most straight arrow,
ox 40 and scholar and you can crack their soul.
Yeah, they'll run.
What is this word?
What is this word that means to open the garden of delight?
I want a spell to re-enter Edm.
Don't you?
I wanna go back.
What do you say?
I told the watchers we could do this.
What do you say if we storm the garden?
We know where it is.
We know where it is.
It's on the river Phosas.
It's described the location.
All of the terminology in this Bible
that you thought was Hebrew is Greek
and it is harkening back to a Bronze Age mystery cult.
Yes, yes, Moses, sit down.
I'm gonna read your book next time, right on your bottom.
Yes.
Oh, it feels good.
It feels good.
Moses' bottom is wrinkly.
Isn't that odd?
I wouldn't have thought that.
I don't know why, but now you know
why you don't fight the devil for his body.
Yeah, even Michael knew that.
If you don't know what the context is,
you don't know what the hell's going on.
And that is what classical philology brings you.
It brings you the context.
These are the texts, people.
I'm not some professor sitting here.
I'm a former professor, right?
Kind of, you know, running.
But that's the way it is.
My research is good and strong.
And we have Jesus dead to rights, people.
We have Jesus, I'm telling you.
I'm telling you, as soon as the scholars,
where are you guys?
Wake up, I know you don't wanna mess with the Bible.
I know, I know, but we have to.
It's a matter of liberty now.
You have to, you have to come in.
Your expertise is needed.
Step up, classical philologists.
Yes, step up.
Let's look at the sources.
Bring us back.
Oh, quick, I need an inject.
Yeah, right into the main line in this stuff.
Oh, look at this.
Oh, God, he fled Gomnos.
His bandage came off of his secret parts.
And he ran away.
Well, that's what, you know, you would expect, right?
That child prostitute knew exactly what to do.
Why do you think Jesus is always telling him?
This is between us and not others.
Didn't you wonder what all the grooming was for?
Give me another one.
Let's, here, people need to, time is collapsing here.
Let's get it.
Falos, I just wanted to wave falos in front of your face.
Look at Victorian, Mr. Quebec.
The membrum virile in Latin, the virile member.
Thank you very much.
Or a figure thereof, doesn't have to be the actual one.
It can be a figure.
And it is born in procession in the cult of Dionysus.
Now, that's their own opinion that follows
as an emblem of the generative power and nature.
Wait, you mean they're marching that eight foot falas
down my street for generative power?
No, I don't think it's got anything to do with that.
I'm a farmer and I got enough generative power going.
I don't need that, but I kind of want to go to this party.
Wherever that group's going, right?
A falas, I had the pleasure.
Can I just stand back and say something personal?
I don't like to do this.
I don't like to do this, but I'm gonna say something personal
in the edition of Medea
that was produced at St. Mary's University.
And translated, it was a translation by yours truly.
And it involved a procession.
My contract said it has to be accurate,
historically accurate.
I said, historically accurate, man,
