You can basically understand ancient Greek a little if you've had modern Greek you can understand it a little bit
Yes, that's why
Leave it up there. That's why I went to graduate school with a couple of modern Greeks
Every Greek will tell you oh, yes. Oh
Yes modern Greek it's part of our ancient Greek. It's part of our heritage some modern Greeks will tell you oh
I can teach you ancient Greek
And they can't
The ones that wanted to learn ancient Greek when I was going to university
Came from Greece to Wisconsin. Can you believe that? I'm going I'm a I'm a Greek
And I'm gonna go learn ancient Greek in Wisconsin sounds funny. Doesn't it? Oh my god. That's how it works
Ancient Greek and modern Greek are not the same thing, but tell me Angie keep talking please please
I'm literally
Having a panic attack. Oh god that makes me feel bad. Don't
Dr. Oman is so intelligent that it's very hard to absorb
Especially because I'm Greek Orthodox Angie
I want to take those Greek Orthodox robes and I want to strip you of them and
I want the world to see
What's in your jeans? Oh
God I want to bring that out Angie
Good for you. Thank you for bringing that comment
I think it's important for people to see that everyone's well because when I started talking about Hebrew with its tiny duck
98,000 word vocabulary. Oh god
People never trust me
People never trust me. So it's nice. Thank you
Let's open up open up this battlefield. Where are we going tonight to a hit the hit the images that caused the
Implanting please
Fantastic as we're going along. It's very important. You pay attention
There's gonna be things that I'm shooting into your brain. Here is the apocalypse 1610. Are you ready?
What happened get off the ship everybody? We just got back in time now
We're at a party. We're at a party and what's happening, baby? The rights the rights. Are you ready?
This is from apocalypse 1610. I'm so happy
Kai Ho Pemptos. Who's that guy? Oh, he's one of those angels
What's he doing? He's pouring out a bowl
And what's where's he pouring it out? He's pouring it out on the throne of the beast
Wait a minute you say
Oh
What I've seen this pictured and I've seen these half-monster Camaro
crazy things
Take all of that knowledge and flush it into the toilet
We're just gonna go see what the text says. We're gonna be as literal as we possibly can
There's no way to make a mistake. Are you ready everybody here? We are the guy came in the room he poured
Right, he poured out this fee ally this special bowl. We'd make drugs in those bowls
Wait, what?
Did I not explain to you that you would be getting even more drugs tonight. Oh
This dude
Who takes it what happens to him? He goes dark. That's what he says his kingdom
becomes dark and
What happens he chooses tongue in pain, baby
Have you ever seen him administer this stuff right dude comes in it starts working and these
These freaks, that's all you can call them at that point because all they're doing is a writhing in pain
Dude, why do you think you have to wait a minute? We got to tie this guy down for a minute, right?
Remember the stuff that they're giving you I told you last time we were here when you walk in the door
Realize you're gonna get hit with drugs
Okay, don't tell me I didn't warn you you gotta know this stuff. Oh
Love it. Go back to that go back to that quote. Yeah, and what's gonna happen?
They're gonna chew their tongues because that's the pain that they're in that's the pain that they're in people
Look at this fee ally just so you can trust me fee ally
What is it a bowl or a pan sauce pan for boiling liquids cool?
But give me the next one. How else is it used? You know me? I'm always talking medicine. It's used for
Anguents. Oh, those are sexy
Oh
Those anguents what which anguents do we have here listed in the Greek? The oh this mooron
the what
That really sweet smelling sex drug
Yeah, do you remember the one that the prostitutes had what was her name?
Mary
Mary yes, they called her the Magdal
Oh
It's one of their Scythian titles. Do you know what it means?
It means she who practices the magic
I don't want to meet that person
There's a reason that Jesus Christ hung around with prostitutes
And I thank you it'll become obvious as we go into the prophecy and fulfill that beastly prophecy
Are you ready? I'm giving you an extra one congregation tonight because you deserve it. I'm gonna let you unfold
what
Christians for
Centuries have tried and vain to unfold and why did they fail?
Why did they fail?
ignorance
Ignorance
Yeah, isn't that amazing?
Don't tell me you read Greek
Don't tell me you do if you don't know those sources
You've got no history and you're you're you're ripe for the duping
Let's go to the sources then big guy put your sources where your mouth is
Here we go. What kind of world are you gonna inherit when you drink this stuff that that angel poured out?
You're gonna enter this world the world of the eclipse, right?
Just stand back for a minute and think about what is going on here
You have entered a right where they are administering drugs
They're causing you to enter places that they call the eclipse. I
Have a feeling when we come back from this we may be a little bit different
Your your religions are coming from drugs. It's fantastic. It's fantastic. Oh my god, let's trade it to go up
Let's find it
Chewy take it easy man. We almost hit that thing
Okay, you bring back the source. Okay, we're up. Here we go. Here's the big one people
He do you mean this is his weapon tonight? Yes now
I'm going to translate this as lucidly as I possibly can for you
And then we're gonna look at a couple of words, but I want you to know this is the great piece of the revelation
13
Okay, oh
God, tell me what happened big number 13 by the way
Before we
Get to the climax of this. I know it's early, but before we get to the climax
I want to say we had over
1300 people live in Greek I
Am fairly certain that that breaks an all-time record
Yeah, I don't know if there's 1300
Great graduate students in this country. I don't know in the States. I don't know maybe there are maybe there's more than that
but
