So this is from St. Anthony, the next one I want to show.
And it said that a hermit had a little boy living with him.
Like, boom, we're out the bat.
We already have a hermit with a boy living with him, seeing him doing something that
was not fitting.
Don't do that.
But the child did not obey him, seeing that he was disobedient, the hermit.
So basically, I'm just, I'm basically just showing you, like, okay, even in this case
of these desert fathers, it's an older man living with a boy, doesn't say it's a son,
just says it's a hermit living with a boy.
Now the next one is where shit gets crazy.
I wanted to show that first for a reason.
The next one, this is the one that I really want to touch on, get your thoughts on, because
this is the one I saved for last, because it says a lot about the church early on, as
this one, can you see this one or no, I'll read it if you can't read it.
It says, a brother tempted by a demon went to a hermit and said, these two monks over
there who lived together sinfully, but the hermit knew that a demon was deceiving him.
So he called the brothers to him in the evening, and he put out a mat for them and covered
them with a single blanket.
These are sons of God and holy persons, basically saying, how dare you blame these, blame them
for doing, you know, whatever you're blaming them of.
These are sons of God and holy persons, shut this slandering up, so they blame it on Satan,
right?
And then it says, a brother said to a hermit, what am I to do for these foul thoughts are
killing me?
When a mother wants to wean her baby, she smears something bitter on her breast, but when
the infant comes as usual to suckle, he tastes the bitterness and is repelled.
So you ought to put bitterness into your thought.
The brother said to him, what is bit what bitterness is this?
The hermit said to him, the thought of death and torment, which is prepared in the next
world for sinners.
This is where it gets crazy.
A brother asked a hermit about thoughts of this kind.
This is homosexual thoughts.
And he says, the hermit said, I have never been tempted by that.
The brother was, the brother was scandalized by him and went to the second hermit and said,
look here, the hermit said this to me and I'm shocked because it is unnatural.
He said to him, the meaning of the words of that man of God isn't on the surface.
Go and apologize to him and you will show, and we'll show you the power in his words.
So the brother went to the hermit and apologized to him.
He said, forgive me, Abba father, I was a fool and I did not, did not say goodbye to
you when I left.
He explained to me how it is that you are not troubled by lust.
He said, how do you do it?
These thoughts are killing me, he's saying.
And he says, he said, therefore the reason is this, since ever I became a monk, I have
never taken my fill of bread or water or sleep.
And he's basically saying, I can't see the bottom part because of my screen, but it says
like, when I put myself into a state of fasting and discomfort, the pricks of lust are gone.
So the reason why I think this is interesting is they are fighting.
They are fighting natural thoughts of homosexuality, like they're calling it demons.
They're going, oh my God, these thoughts are killing me.
Oh, make sure you fast and don't sleep good.
Just live like it, just make sure you torture yourself.
That way you won't have lust.
Like what is going on with these people?
Like what is, there's nothing alluring about this lifestyle at all to me.
It sounds horrible.
It sounds like hell, sounds like you're making yourself live in hell.
You know, isn't that, am I, am I crazy for thinking that?
No, no, I'm sorry.
Oh, did you just get muted?
I can't hear you right now.
Maybe it's just me.
There we go.
There we go.
Oh, no, I can't hear you again.
Is it, is it on my end?
Maybe it's on my end.
Let's see what the chat says.
Can you guys see him, hear him?
Check, check.
Yep, you got me.
Now you're back.
Now you're back.
Go ahead.
Okay, fantastic.
It's probably on my end.
Thanks, Joey.
Fantastic.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
It's just so funny to listen to the maniac.
You're muted again.
It came off.
Jehovah does not want you to talk right now.
I'll talk.
Okay.
So, on one hand, the pedophilia thing, that's just disgusting.
The fact that you had these hermits living out in the desert, desert in the wilderness
with just one boy, that's crazy.
That's weird.
Now, on the other hand, two hermits living together and having those thoughts, completely
natural, and they're fighting it to the death like it's a demon that's trying to capture
them.
And there's just so many moving parts here because, obviously, on the one hand, pedophilia
is just crazy, horrible, and disgusting.
But it's happening.
We have tons of evidence that it's happening.
And on the other hand, maybe if you just went with who you are and not tried to fight it,
maybe you wouldn't be that doing pedophilia.
Just throwing ideas out there.
But I just think it was interesting at the end.
He's saying, these thoughts are killing me.
What do I do?
How do I stop these thoughts?
And I'm just like that.
And instead of saying, oh, I'll pray to God or Jesus will cure you, and he's basically
telling him to treat yourself like shit and don't eat any food and don't sleep.
And then once you're feeling really bad, you won't have a loss.
That's crazy.
That's insane.
OK.
OK.
Can you hear me, Niels?
Yeah.
OK.
So when you, let me ask you this now, since you have that in mind, when you look at Jesus'
advice to his young children, pupils, when he says, look, Tommy, if you look at a woman
and think dirty thoughts about her, you might as well have raped her right there, right?
You can't notice that there's an orientation in the teaching that is a very sexual orientation.
Yeah.
So I think this grooming thing is part of some, you know, this is part of the cultural
traditions, don't you think?
Not only that, the abolition of the law because of that.
So when, like when Jesus throws that out there and says, you're, you're, you're screwed.
You'll never follow the laws of Moses.
You are done.
In fact, even if you think about it, you've already committed it.
So therefore, the sins are actually, it's in the hearts.
It's what your, it's what your intentions are.
It's not about the flesh.
It's about the heart.
Let's not get circumcised in the flesh.
Let's get circumcised in the heart, but that philosophy packed inside of it, almost as
an abolition of the law and the physical sense, meaning you can go and do those things as
long as you're not consumed by it and it doesn't control you.
So Paul talks about this.
Paul says, you know, you might go to a pagan's house for dinner and they might sacrifice
some meat, sacrifice it to idols and don't ask, don't tell, cares.
They're basically setting themselves up for a tradition in which these things are allowed
in a weird sense because they had this new mentality of it's all about the spiritual.
It's not about the physical.
It's not about the flesh.
Who cares what you put inside your body?
