I'm reading from the book of Genesis
Why am I reading for the book of Genesis because this is all contemporary stuff, right?
Genesis is a written until the third century BC. It's vocabulary and content are all
Mixed up in the milieu that is our new testament
Yes, and here here look Melchizedek you're Melchizedek wasn't he's that
King of Salim and what does he do? He brings bread and wine
He brings bread and what where am I what period? No, you're not where you think you are
You're not back in 1100. You're not back in 1300 with a dude named Moses. You are not going back to Abraham
What are we doing? We're going to the god. The god is on the second line
That
Is who the naked dude?
From the tomb identifies
Jesus as the son
of
Right and now you say oh
Oh, that's all why they're always talking about you take it down. Why they're always talking about
Those gods of the high places
Exactly
Jesus is being identified
By a man who makes intentional cuts all over his skin and possesses what seems to be
incredible strength
Coupled with a lot of nudity and a lot of people afraid of him and he's got a he's now bowing that dude
Is now bowing
Telling Jesus. He's the son of the highest
The son of the highest just saw him get off the boat comes over
Right, what does the son of the highest do? What do you think he does?
What do you think he does you do what Heracles does with hilus?
Yeah, do you know Heracles got mistaken for a lace days?
It's what happens when you sail in the port and you have your children with you
You mean Jesus was on a boat
As a pirate
Oh, hang on
Hang on. I just got something. Oh my god
Oh sit still sit still son of the highest
Oh
But seriously when Heracles got mistaken for one he corrected it right he corrected it because you know
It's your reputation is everything right and you don't want to be pinched as one of these people
Who is involved in the trafficking of children for the sake of sexual gratification?
Now, you know why Jesus is screaming. I am not a child trafficker
He does not he just like Heracles he gets in a situation where he doesn't really want to be there. It's too dangerous
It's too dangerous. Okay, let's go to the next text. I love this stuff. Nope the next one. Yeah, I think that was
Uh-huh. No, no, that's the highest. Let's go next one, please
Gorgeous. Yeah, and so what did he what did he say to him?
He said
This is Jesus now son of the highest
right and by these sons of god by the way
um
They're associated with the mystery
performances
So you always have a son of god who is that central?
producer
of the
Right and Heracles for example, there's temples to Heracles all over
Right and they're performing these mysteries and the only woman who's
Allowed to be in them when Heracles is with his children is Medea
Right because she is the one who's able to derive ultimately the awkward. We tie
So, okay, cool. Cool. I see why she's there. This is fantastic
but
This is the right that we're looking at if we're talking about the hoopsi stays the son of
God is an absolute
Fragment of history
Right Dionysus is the son of god in the enthusiastic right
Heracles was the son of god
In the enthusiastic, right
You notice that he was going to hell
right Heracles
right
Orpheus Dionysus
They're all doing it
When the dude who is naked and under the influence of that sex craved maniacal spirit
That's where he is
