do you know what you're asking me?
They didn't.
So I gave it to them.
We had a big prop that was like a six foot,
I don't know, maybe six foot, five,
maybe five to six feet.
Dildo, phallus.
That's what a phallus is from antiquity.
Ancient dildo, right?
Image, image of a male member, a male member,
ready for combat.
Yes, ready to find that garden.
Yes.
These are the rights that they are being a part of.
So you have to set yourself,
to you it may be comical.
And for those of you for whom this is prurient,
shame on you.
This is history.
Clean your act up.
Clean your act up.
Now, let's go back to the text.
Let's see what these people are doing.
I still wanna see what they're doing though.
Don't get me wrong, right?
We can tantalize ourselves with the history.
Let's bring up the next one.
They, yeah, no, not that one.
Skip that one.
Go to the next one, go to the next one.
Yeah, here we go.
I just want flash, just another text before you.
Who are these people?
Who are the people that were following with that giant,
that giant phallus?
And by the way, when I was taking the phallus,
I had the pleasure, take it down.
I forgot to end my story.
I had the divine pleasure
of being able to bring this procession
to St. Mary's University
with students carrying a giant phallus.
The impact that this had on the audience was devastating.
And the whole place as realistically as we could do
smelled of an incense that my team wasn't my team,
the university's team of prop designers and set designers,
what they were able to come up with
from a magic formula that I had delivered to them.
And the whole place when you walked into the theater
and it was sold out every night,
every night in front of me,
there was a couple of students there
having a conversation with each other.
And one of them said to the other,
we're coming back again tomorrow, right?
And I saw him again tomorrow.
It was that enthralling, that enthralling.
So it was very successful, loved it.
But it gave us the ability to point that at the people
who are involved in the child abuse
and bring them to purification, to purification.
It was a true pagan rite.
It was a true, the theater is Dionysiac is Dionysus gets.
Okay, I've gotten off track.
Bring us back, bring us back.
A text, Chewie, we're gonna get caught out here
by the imperial, you know what I mean?
Okay.
Uto agar hoy profite alfente astres planeta.
You know how these people are in this procession?
Leave it up, I'm just gonna translate the text.
They are these wandering stars.
These prophets who have turned aside from the way,
the way of his commandments and they have come to an abyss,
an abyss that is endless with the flesh
and the insomatic crime, the insomatic crime.
What's that last line say?
These people, these people,
these people, they grow in nature into gnosis.
Look at that last word, second and last word
on that line five, gnosis, that's where we're headed.
Thank you for dealing with the carpocratians.
There's some things that you cannot talk about.
Those are the things for which we invoke silence.
We invoke takita, silence, holy, reverent silence.
These people, you wanna see where they're going
and what they're doing?
I'm gonna, let's bring it up.
Next one.
Look at this, look at this.
They're entering that gnosis, which is, you know,
like they say, the deep things of,
look at that last word, people,
look at that last word, satana, satana,
