It's all about what comes out of your body, duh, and they're setting themselves up so
they can do that can allow themselves to do these type of things.
I think that, yeah, I totally, yeah, that's a beautiful painted picture of the history.
Now, with Jesus being in the middle of all this, do you how do we bring it stop?
How do we bring it to the point that people see these images?
So for two, you know, for 1400 years, we've had images, maybe 1600.
We've had images of the apostles.
What if someone were to construct an accurate image of Jesus with his children,
talking about the stuff that he's talking about being on that boat, naked kids running around,
getting arrested in a cemetery again, naked kids with other, you know, even if Peter's only 19,
you know, it still doesn't excuse, you know, oh, well, he's 19.
Well, OK, but he's passing it on to the next generation, to James and John.
They're the sons of that lightning, that drug that we're using.
They're the youngest ones, too, so they might be like 12.
Yeah, so can you, what would happen, Neil, if you drew this picture for people?
Like if you used your AI and brought up pictures of accurate, historically accurate,
or at least accurate to the texts of pictures of Jesus with the boys, what would happen?
You get your 30-year-old Jesus, 31-year-old John the Baptist, and then a bunch of teenagers.
And now, all of a sudden, and they're all getting bathed, they're all bathing in the Jordan
and putting oil on each other and anointing each other, like, wait, what's going on?
Now, all of a sudden, the picture doesn't look like it did before.
These aren't a bunch of bearded old men that are trying to save, you know, get saved.
And no, this is a two-grown 30-year-olds that are bathing people and bathing teenagers.
It's a little different now, right?
It's very, you know, it reminds me of all that hullabaloo with the boy scouts
and before that, all the hullabaloo with the priests and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's how we get, you can see the judges in Rome, they would just be shaking their heads
like, no, no, this is, you know, the same thing.
You clear this stuff out because the Romans arrest people.
People are shocked that Origen cuts his, oh, and testicles off, right?
He doesn't want to be taken up in the legal sweep of the Christians who are taking children
and raping them.
They're taking orphans off the street and raping them in the undercrops
of the places where they're hanging out.
Oh, my God.
And what do you do about that?
Well, the Romans just arrested them, right?
That's just Origen cuts his testicles off, you know.
It makes you wonder if the system was designed to continue that because every day
and almost every day in the news, in some city, somewhere, there's another Catholic priest
doing the same thing again and again and again.
And it's been, you can pull up any here.
1983, pick a random one.
1972, 1941, you're going to find a whole list of priests that got in trouble that year.
Should have a calendar.
That's insane.
That's insane.
We should have a calendar, a sacred calendar of, and every week we'll have a leader.
We'll dig up whatever priest it was and whatever century that did whatever raping they did then.
And we'll just make a whole calendar.
You could paper the whole, you could have every day a different
you know, we won't call them saints.
We'll call them nonce and we'll say that they're, you know, raping the children.
Oh, my God, Neil, is it set up for this?
The mystery is itself an engineered child rape fest.
Oh, my God.
And Jesus is doing it from the very beginning.
Neil, tell me this.
What are the, what are the people who are following the following the vampires that are
drinking kiddies blood, you know, on wearing faces and stuff like that?
What, what do those people think when they, when they reach the point that it turns out
Jesus, well, he was right in the middle of this.
He was, his last name could have been Epstein.
You know what I mean?
What, what are people going to do?
What is this?
How does this affect Jesus?
And how do we take this message to the poor evangelicals who don't realize that their
Lord and savior was a pedophile?
Well, that's why I wanted to start off by showing that word, the agapitas.
This word is being used by John, the gospel of John for Jesus's favorite
disciple, who's a young boy.
And, and like, you think this has nothing, there's no impact on the traditions that
follow from this text?
Like, you really think it has nothing to do with it.
And this is all separate.
I don't know about that.
I think you're, I think that's a stretch for you to say that.
Cause I'm, what, what else did we do?
Like, what else is happening here?
You mentioned about, you go even deeper with yours, where you can talk about how
down the night before he's handed over, you got the boy with the
send-down running by.
And I remember the first time you showed me that, I said, how do I never
notice this?
What a random thing to put in there.
Like, even if Mark is not really history, all right?
Cause you know what people will say, it's just mythology.
They're, it's a legend.
Even if it's not, the fact that this story gets attributed to Jesus says a lot
about what's going on with the tradition itself.
So Jesus being the beginning of this whole thing, these things being attributed
to him, and then now look what's happening as a, as a, as a cause and
effect down the road.
And it's, you got to wonder, is it because of what's, how it started off?
I think, yeah.
I want to, I want to, I'm going to make that the last word and I'm going to say
to people, I want people to notice that all Neil did was bring up the sources.
Right?
That's all I did.
He just gave you the sources, the shocking value of it all was just from
what they were reporting, what those sources are reporting.
Yeah.
This is our key.
This is our key.
And if you want, if you want to get some more background context on how common
this type of thinking was, there's, there's these pre-paralites text,
erotic epigrams, and that you could flip through them.
And it's just, there's tons and tons and tons of grooming and pedophilia going
down in the Greek world.
So Christianity is a part of that world.
It's coming out of that world.
It's the, it's the middle man between that world and the, and the new world, the,
you know, the middle ages, like, you know, the world that we're in now, basically.
So yeah, there's clearly some of that stuff going on.
Gorgeous.
Neil, thanks for coming tonight.
I really appreciate your time and I want to tell everybody, you know,
I appreciate the fact that people have been, people have been getting touched with me
and, you know, there are projects going on that people want to take this material
and they want to use it and show people things.
That's the whole idea of the museum.
You have two people here tonight just talking sources and these sources
belong to all of us.
So Neil, thank you for coming tonight.
Everybody, thank you for coming tonight and donating.
Yeah, 115 people watching.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
No, I, and I appreciate it.
I appreciate it.
Every one of them.
That's big.
Every one of them.
And please send your complaints.
Please don't let me down.
Don't let me down.
Send your complaints.
Defend Jesus's pedophilia, please.
Hey, Neil, thanks for coming and Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
All in maybe we could walk together again, just maybe we could walk together again.
