We have the tradition that Perseus, who uses a pruning hook, which is not a warrior's weapon, cuts off the head of the war with Medusa.
And he does this at the site of Mycenae, in that he picked for the site of Mycenae, picked a mushroom.
So the gorgon head and the mushroom and the founding of the city are clearly defined as occurring with the picking of a mushroom.
The city is supposedly called after that.
I mean, I guess I'm wondering a bit.
I'm almost embarrassed to say it, where does mushroom come from?
You can trace it back and it isn't, no matter what, exilomorphism of a bellowing bowline.
It's a moosh.
Now that man is free to say that today.
When he first was looking at this years ago and he noticed that, discovered that the Ellicinian mysteries were involving drugs, he wasn't well received.
His research was kind of, yeah, congrats, you know, it's great.
You can't ignore his genius, right?
Because it's a language.
It's why he can play the piano so well, right?
It's a skill.
And he does that with the Greek.
And so he's not afraid of talking about bringing these concepts forward.
So now, fast forward to the present, and we have now the psychedelic renaissance in which the physicians have finally caught up.
And now, all of a sudden, there's a regrowth of interest.
And he doesn't sound like such a lunatic, right?
If we had stayed where Bach was trying to put us, we would stay with that very comfortable framework of reality that is an unreality.
So the job of the Satanist is to bring you that which opens your eyes to reality.
Where do we get the connection with the pedophilia in antiquity? Please, Dr. Ruff.
The sexual collection of seeming can only be accomplished by masturbation.
And so it may be a similar procedure that was used to collect the menses, which would mean that the collection process was some kind of work out.
Yeah, nice.
Which is, of course, why Michelin includes the French history, includes the Satanic ritual of collecting in a tripod, the ejaculation of Satan's bride.
Yes, yes, makes great sense.
Could you tell us if we wanted to go deep into it?
Because Dr. Ruff, we are looking here for the boy that was with Jesus in the public park at 4 am who was naked.
We're looking for that boy. We want to know what is that boy doing with Jesus there?
You wrote a lot about ejaculate and milk, sacred milks and what not. Could you just say something about the ancient messiness, ancient messiness, ancient, you know.
Yeah, give it a, what's that stuff on the top of the mushroom? You lick it off and it's real. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I don't know, but I want to talk about these things.
All right, so everybody has a limit. Everybody has a limit, but not me.
And so I want to find out, I want to look at what's going on. I want to find, I want to introduce you to Peter of Jesus.
I want to introduce you to a Jesus that you do not know, but a real Jesus.
And the way that we're going to start there in this series of Sabah is we are going to bring you Jesus's associates.
Who are these people that are around him, the important ones, right?
We're looking at a crime scene and we're trying to figure out when the posse showed up and arrested him.
And there was the fight and the three guys that were supposed to keep watch, but were in this drug stupor, kept falling asleep.
Those three guys, they didn't do their job and those cops came in and caught Jesus with the naked boy.
We want to know why he was there, why the boy was there, and what is it in Jesus's background?
We want to go through all of his friends. We want to know who is associates, who is accomplices, who made this possible?
What kind of drugs are being used?
And in order to do that, we'll start with Mary because look, we have Mary Magdalene has the drug connection.
