It's those cuts in the flesh that have that immediate
Have that immediate rush. Oh god. Let's see it. Did you think jesus was involved in so many drugs?
It's crazy. Isn't it? It's kind of interesting though. Let's go the next one. Let's go the next one. Oh, here it is
Look, here's another drug right at the top, you know, um, what really can medea do?
That pharmacone that she gives it can make you new
Take it down. It can make you what it can make you new
That thing will bear you again. It will take your immortal. It will take your mortality and it will burn it off
It'll burn it off. So we have to cut your skin
We have to cut your skin. Sorry. It's gonna look horrific and anybody watching you go through this
Right to burn off your mortality will want to rescue you
Don't worry about it. That's why jesus knows and he steps up to the dude
Who's just the bockin who's just come out of the tomb right out of the graveyard? Here he comes
Yeah, he knows what to do jesus knows how to command
that power
He's recognized as the son of the highest
It's exactly what the son of the highest does
Fits perfectly within the mystery cult
Fantastic. Let's go to the next one
And uh, just a couple more just a couple more. Oh, this is what medea did. I just wanted to tell you
Remember medea. She she made a peplos again for
For her husband's future wife
He made she made her a gown and it says here that she she really worked into the fabric. She
Rubbed into it drugs
Right drugs and what did she do? She sent it to her and what happens when she put it on
She burst into flames. Look at that very last line cut the flesh thin
I remember flago to burn and you get flocks from that and that radiant glowing
Burning that light that is the power of the universe
That thing that's coming from the fire. That's what she turned into
She turned into a giant flash and her daddy got with her says the text. He was trying to help. Oh daddy help me
And she burned it both of them to death
Right. Um, is anybody noticing a theme?
Right. Is anybody noticing a theme?
There's the fire thing going on
Um, which they're using it contemporarily. They're developing
these combustible, you know
Medicines for lack of a better word and yeah, you can use one of them to protect yourself from another
Let's go to the next very next one
Oh, fantastic. Um, here's Heracles. I just want you to see people because nobody believes me until they see the great
And they're like, where do you get these ideas?
On an interview today
Guy was like, where else can I find this and I said the bible go to the bible and read the bible?
It's there. It's all there. I'm not making things up. All I'm doing is quoting sources
Do you have ideas? No, I don't have any ideas
It's not selling books. You guys know that I can't I can't keep repeating that
We don't sell books here. You know what books are all about
Books are all about the size of your rectum in the underworld
Because if you are selling books right now, the muses hate that
Because you're pretending to be one of theirs, but you're not one of theirs. You're a huckster
You're a huckster. And you know how they punished that in the underworld was sodomy. I'm just being straight up
Straight up
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah sell your books
Come on and give me your ideas. Here's a show. Come on and give me your ideas. They smell like feces
Give them to me
We'll make a solution out of it. It'll make everything slide into place
your history
You're disgusting
Sell your books
Yeah, welcome to the slaughter
Let's go to the next one. That was a little bit
Yeah, okay
Heracles is coming to cost and what happens. Just look at the just look at the end of the first line
Kainomi santes and they thought out on they thought he
The key the people from cost thought he was
Leistricon right
again
Stolon
Stolon he he has a leistic
Mission under way
Right with leistic equipment. He just sailed into port. He's gonna steal your kids. Grab your daughters
