Yeah, when the dude is there
That's all that he's got
And so he ends up begging jesus to stay there right and jesus is like no bro
I gotta go. I gotta do my thing elsewhere with these
children
Right and you know, that's that's the way it goes right off. He goes. He gives a little wave
Flash bang and there you go right now somehow we turn that into a narrative that makes sense
In in order to feed our delusional
Understanding that jesus pops on the same poop and he said i'm the son of god
And christ and everybody's like oh
No
No, that's not how it happened. You know it and I know it
Yes
Yes, let every evangelical know it
Our strength our strength
Is bringing the bible to them
That's our strength
Showing them rubbing their face in it
Taking that naked kid scene with jesus that's so perverted
And showing them look look what your guy's doing
Look what you guys doing. I had an interview today on a podcast
Um, I'll let you know further information about that
But um, that's what you can do with people
Show them the text open up their eyes just open up their eyes to what's there
Okay, let's go. You guys know that we're doing that hallelujah, right?
hallelujah, chewie
hallelujah, let's go on to mark five nine and
He asked him he said
What's your name?
And he said to him my name is legion. Oh, I forgot. I just get okay. So right. He's got a plurality
He's got a plurality that jesus has to command
Right. What what does jesus do to the dude? He casts out
Those spirits
He casts out those spirits. You mean he brings him to a place of of total sanity. Yes
He takes a visibly disturbed mentally disturbed individual
And he knows exactly how to bring him back
Oh, are we talking about the treatment now? I'm going to take you somewhere. This is kind of a side
a side
Field trip. I want you to go. I'm going to take you to some texts that have some of the darkest
magic about them the darkest
Psychological medicine
All right, how do you heal? You know what happens? It turns out you're a depressed person
Don't try to make them feel better. Don't feed those serotonin loops
That's not what they need. They don't need the chemicals that make you feel better
They don't need that
They need the ones that show you terror
The ones that induce psychosis
That bring you to a place where you question everything and everyone
and
Where you can see your sanity
Lay it out right in front of you. This is an ancient form of healing. You mean I got a turn
I got to turn my friend into a
freak
Of nature in order to get him back into a place of health. Yes
It's what you have to do
Jesus knows what is being used at the time. He knows about the water of life
And he knows about the treatment
Let's go to the next let's go to the next source. There he is. That's gorgeous. Look at him. I'm not quite sure
I don't even know from this. Can we just stop to say look at this
Look at this. I I don't even know
what
Fragment of first of all, it's not a towel. He's wearing around his waist. It's not
It looks like you get that from the next door the hotel next door is bed sheet or something
Who brought all the sheets to these people who covered them up the niv covered them up
What is that the niv the new international version it covered them up
It turned the scene down into a garment like that
For the sake of the fairy tale, but look none of this makes sense. What are they doing?
Do people look at this if you looked into a room?
Let's be scientists if you looked into a room and you saw this sitting in front of you
This is what the people are doing. What's the first thing you would think?
Something wrong with these people
