Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere.
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
And wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
Then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome to Wednesday night, Lady Babylon Bible Study.
This is going to be a night that I am going to change your perspective.
I'm going to take you to a reality that you didn't know existed.
You can never come back.
It's my privilege and honor to do this, but you can never come back tonight on Lady Babylon.
We're going to skip over the comments tonight because it requires so much energy on my part to do this.
We're going to open up a rift and we're going to show you a place that you didn't know exists, but it's here and now.
I want you to see, I want you to see who these people are.
We're going to look into Peter's lover tonight and we're going to see something that we haven't seen.
I want to purify this space.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
I want to call upon the dragon and I want you to absorb the imagery.
And now we bring the new reality.
And we're going to clip it in.
We had enough time for the ship to get there.
Let's step out.
Today we're going to go see the boys.
We're going to go see Jesus and his boys.
You thought the naked kid that was with Jesus in the public park when he was arrested at 4 a.m. screaming, I'm not a pirate.
You thought that kid was the only one, didn't you?
Or maybe you remember the other kid that was with Martha in the tomb?
Remember him?
Tonight we're going to look at a ship full of lost boys.
And I'm going to immediately buckle in because we're immediately going to have our orientation flipped.
Many of you are sitting there thinking that the apostles were old men.
No, no.
It turns out they were all teenagers.
Yeah.
The apostles were teenagers.
I'm going to reach in and pull this right out of an organization that is gateway, crossroads or something of Israel, promoting the evangelical agendas.
And we're going to hear it from their mouths.
Tell us about the age of Jesus' followers.
You personally want to look like Jesus.
A good place to start is to have a bunch of 13 to 18 year olds around you, following you and asking you questions all the time.
The disciples were not 30 year old bearded men.
They were 12 to 19 years old.
When Jesus wanted to change the world, he chose teenagers to do it.
Okay.
I want to play that again because I want you to hear it right out of their own lips.
I want you to hear it.
The apostles are teenagers.
Roughly from 10 to 12 ish up to 19 ish.
Yeah.
So when we talk about the youngest and the oldest, we're not talking about dudes with beards.
When you look at that painting, that famous painting, what was that Renaissance artist?
Shame on you.
Was it Da Vinci?
Shame on you.
Yes, you deserve it because you painted a bunch of bearded.
Was it Raphael?
I don't remember.
You painted a bunch of bearded.
Look at these bearded men.
Who are these men?
Who are these men?
They look like some of them look like neighbors that have had before, right?
But the problem is those were not the people that were there at that table.
They were children.
They were lost boys.
I want you to hear it from his mouth one more time.
Praise Jesus.
Hit that thing, Cliff.
You personally want to look like Jesus.
A good place to start is to have a bunch of 13 to 18 year olds around you following you
and asking you questions all the time.
The disciples were not 30 year old bearded men.
They were 12 to 19 years old.
When Jesus wanted to change the world, he chose teenagers to do it.
Yes, he chose teenagers.
Yes, he chose teenagers to build his church on and he called them kiddies.
Come here, kiddies.
We're going to look at a wonderful scene tonight when Jesus goes out to the ship where Peter is naked with a whole ship full of boys.
My goodness.
My goodness.
What are these naked teens and youngers doing here with Jesus?
Well, he's standing there on the shore saying, you got any fish sauce?
I got a meal and they're like, look, it's vampire resurrected pirate Jesus.
Oh my God.
It's a ship full of children.
Did anybody notice that?
It's a ship full of children and Peter is naked.
Now, if you think these are my ideas, you're wrong.
And I don't want to see in any comments these.
I want to see people upset with known us, not with me.
I want to see people upset with the gospel of John, not with me.
We're going to go jump straight in tonight to the text and I want you.
Oh, it's just okay.
Okay.
Let's see what happens to the lost boys.
Let's see what happens.
Pull up the first text for me, Chewie.
I want you to before you forget.
I want you to realize this is from excellent Eskily and chorus.
I just want you to hear this.
You know, those girls who are called the virgins of caucus, you know what they are?
They're the best fighters around.
Right.
They like to those city and the ones that live around the lake.
Today call a job.
Take it down.
Yeah, virgins want you to remember that.
Go to number two.
Let's see number two.
Yeah, we're going to be hurrying tonight, Chewie.
It's great.
And I want you to keep this one thing in mind too before we're going to Wonderland.
Don't worry.
Don't worry.
We're going to find Peter Pan and we're going to find the lost boys.
But I want you to realize the scientific gateway that we've got to walk through.
Look at this text right here.
This is from the Orphic Argonautica.
What does this say?
It says Jason overcame.
Hipsypally with a love drug was love drugs.
It's actually in plural.
Lots of them love drugs.
Oh my God.
Field choice.
Right.
What is a field throne?
It's a love drug.
You mean Jason was pulling a Bill Cosby.
If Bill Cosby had kept his victims awake.
But put them into a malleable state where they were aroused and psychotic.
Then he would be doing this.
He wasn't just knocking people out.
This is part of a ritual.
It's part of being a Christ.
Sorry if you don't like it.
