He's only on video.
I'm sorry for that, but I'm going to be doing this more frequently.
I'm going to be bringing testimonies in.
You don't have to.
If you want to have a testimony, you don't have to shave your head like Rob and I do, right?
But if you're going to enter into mourning, which is why Mary Magdalene has the alabaster in the first place, if you're going to enter into that mourning for Adonis, then you need to shave or present yourself publicly for intercourse.
Either of those will do.
I've had people ask me what about, I don't want to shave my head.
Well, there's an option, right?
In mourning for Adonis, you can go and you can enter into that sphere, right?
You can go to the Temple of Aphrodite, right?
You can offer yourself and don't worry.
They will give you the drugs that will make sure, oh, it's the Temple of Prostitution, right?
That alabaster that Mary is carrying and nobody sees the reality because you've been trained on fairy tales.
I'm going to end with that anger.
I'm going to end with that anger because I don't want to keep you guys.
You've given me already too much of your time.
Rob, thank you tonight.
Thank you tonight.
Thank you.
Thanks to the gallery.
Thanks for the questions.
We have 10 questions to go through.
So keep the questions coming and I'll do my best to get them in.
I will.
I'll try my very best.
I loved the presentation.
I really did.
I wasn't watching the chat so much.
I was really into the presentation.
I loved it.
It was fantastic.
I've got to say.
Okay, Rob, if you want to present because there are so many questions at Bible study, if you want to throw some of those questions out at Bible study when we meet on Wednesdays, please do that or give them to me.
Send me the questions and I'll keep addressing these questions because your questions help me to understand how I am doing with the material, whether or not you're getting it.
We're all detectives.
We're all figuring out what this naked kid is doing there.
Right.
That's all that matters.
So your questions are important.
Hail Satan and have a good.
Have a good sabbat.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru.
