Does this look like a normal scene? First of all, why is he touching his feet?
Why is he wearing his sheet? Did he just get lost from a tauga party?
What's going on and one of those perverts doing looking in the window?
Get out of there you weirdos
What is this even a scene of am I supposed to be drawn to this?
I mean christians criticized the classical art for being so full
Of that luscious loveliness of life that the artist gets. What is this luscious loveliness?
This is weird. I just came across a building with some dudes. I'm pretty sure
I'm pretty sure they were involved in some culty stuff
It's weird
Now imagine if they just put the apostles in the right age group
Yeah, imagine if jesus is doing that with a 10 year old john
10 year old john poor john
poor john
Oh god, it's sad
Save the children people. What happened? How come nobody wants to save these children?
Save the apostles. That's what I say
Get him and in just out of the hands of this lace taste and send him back to school
Maybe that's why people wanted jesus crucified. Maybe they wanted this kind of activity cleaned up
I don't know. I don't know. There's resistance to it. All right
We're trying to civilize this province this backwater
this
Place here
You know you have libraries
How are you supposed to know anything here?
Pave the roads people
The dirt's not for walking on
Build yourself an infrastructure. Get this thing done. Come on civilization calls
It's a struggle it's a struggle and antiquity between classical civilization
And the rough and tumble backwards of the frontier that's what it is and judy is part of that frontier
Um, yeah, yeah, let's go to the next source. This is lovely. Um, I I'm gonna wrap up here in justice
Yeah, I'm gonna wrap up pretty quick, but I wanted you to know, um
Yeah, so the people of the town, I just wanted you to see here
They come and they see that his demoniac look at the fur. Look at the second first word on the second line
demoniato men on right the one who's been
Filled with that diamond and you say to yourself. I'm thanking demon
From my silly narrative that's been fed into my head from the christian perversion
Of the text and yes, that's exactly that demon is power and we recognize that those powers are controlled by drugs
Yes, those powers are controlled by drugs. I can give you a drug that would take away all of your demons
I can I'm gonna show you some people who do in just a second. Wouldn't that be nice?
By the way, I'm gonna take you to a place where we can launch. This is three and a half years. It's all it takes
It's a prototype. We've got to develop it the next frontier. It's not mars
The next frontier is beyond the black hole. That's where it is. That's where it is
Getting to hell and back the last frontier
We're gonna have it up and running you can put yourself into the death machine
You can go through it. You can come out of it. You can be born again
Hey, and then you can tell us you can tell us
This is the mystery
in practice
All right, it's being fed in antiquity
by these
factories
human factories of divine fluids
Yeah
Yeah
Amazing, let's go to this. Let's go to the next source and what happens. Oh
Yeah, um, they asked them to leave
No, yeah
No, eventually the people come in right and they're like, would you please leave town?
Jesus is like, huh? And they're like, no you drug freak get out
And you thank to yourself if jesus showed up bring forgive me some pictures of jesus there if jesus showed up
Where's the what let's see him wouldn't this what could you kick this guy out of your town?
Come on. Give us a good one. Chewie. Come on. They're all waiting for it
Oh
Yeah, okay. Would you kick the where is he? I didn't see him. He's with a bunch of old people. Who are these old people?
Who are these old people he's with? Where are the kids?
Right, look at him sitting there. Okay. Look at him under the tree
You couldn't kick this guy out of town. You couldn't kick him out if you wanted to
Look, he's doing nothing bad. He's doing nothing. No BS. He came into your town
He took that dude that's all cut up and he was able to manipulate him into his little buddy
Turn him in and the guy asking me stay. Let me stay with you. He's like, no, no
