But what's happening?
It's going down for sure.
Yeah, good.
And you're prepping for that.
You're prepping for that.
Can you just tell Satanic Congregation,
you started looking at the drugs in Celsus.
Is it just a few drugs that they had or did they have a lot?
A lot.
A lot of them are named after gods.
And you have to wonder, Ammoniacum and Serapium,
all these different drug names with different gods in them.
And you have to wonder, what was in these?
And he's talking about, Celsus is talking about,
these are our combinations of different substances being combined
that interact with each other.
They're doing science back then.
And we talk about, we talk about Parmenides and Empedocles
and the Italian Greeks and Magna Graecia,
down in southern Italy and Syracuse.
Our communities is down there,
and they're producing these ritual incubations.
They have these, they're like many, many hospitals,
actually, if you really think about it.
And they're dedicated to Apollo, Apollo Ulus, to be exact.
Apollo the Healer, Apollo the Medical Healer,
that's what it means.
Apollo the Medic, it's a medical center
where they would take the sickly
and they would give them whatever the drugs are.
Celsus lists as a bunch of them.
So does Galen, you could find lists as thousands of these names.
Thousands of these names, thousands.
And they would put them under incubation.
They'd put them under an anesthetic.
And they would report, they would come back,
and they would be healed.
And they would come back and say, I was in Hades,
and I met Pluto, and I met Persephone.
And they told me this, and the doctor would write down,
thank you for your input.
But we'll put that in our resources.
And that's how they conducted research back then.
Crazy shit, man.
I love it.
I love it.
Yeah, it was a project to send people beyond
and then retrieve them back.
And what kind of information?
It's like sending out a probe.
But by the time that you have these really professional
priestly guilds that are using very specific drugs,
and they have very specific symbols,
and it always has something to do with the venom,
kind of like the primary toxin that they're centered around using.
It's those.
And by the way, Medea talks about mixing the toxins, too.
These are multi-toxic components, right?
Seven.
There's seven in her formula for the venoms.
So, you know, this is a really complex pharmacology.
It makes you wonder what happens when you put together
seven different venoms and use them.
I'm really glad that you showed people these sources and said,
you know, sometimes he says something that, you know,
you don't think he's basing it on reality.
But I am.
I'm just bringing you the text.
Diogenes, the cynic says that Medea invented baptisms.
She invented a type of ritual baptisms
that would heal people's bodies.
This is what he says.
And the people in Corinth and Athens,
they call themselves baptize, baptists.
So, you already had a ritual.
You already had a sotaria.
You already had salvation.
You had baptisms.
You had anointing, Christing.
You had all Eucharist, you know, eating the bread,
which was representative of Demeter, the grain goddess,
and drinking the wine, representative Dionysus, the blood.
And don't forget.
The mysteries were all there.
All Christianity does is come along and say,
well, we're going to corporatize this,
and we're going to take away all the naughty stuff and just
take the EEG for everybody.
That's what they did.
They took the mystery and they took all the magic out of it,
dumbed it down, and they universalized it.
That's what Christianity does.
It's the mysteries were already all laid out.
It was already there.
Think about this.
Your average Christian is looking for an afterlife,
but has never actually seen it.
So, they are still incredibly afraid of dying, incredibly.
I don't care what kind of face you put on.
Once you have been there and been brought back,
you don't have any.
There's no question about it.
Like you said, you lose your fear of death.
They said that about these people.
That's why Jesus is saying,
I'll give you these thanosemoi, these death inducers,
and it won't harm you.
It won't harm you, right?
He's trying to put people into those initiations
that he's doing.
And he's doing it with his apostles, those kids.
And he's getting that right through their galene.
Right?
And you say, oh, wait a minute, that's gross.
Yeah, it is.
And that's why they wanted to crucify him.
But it's in perfect alignment with all of the pharmacology.
It's perfect alignment with all of the plants
and the venom that they're using.
So, people are going to discover this.
They're going to discover it.
And Jesus is going to be declared the biggest historical criminal
of all time.
Unless people change, they're like, it's okay.
That Jesus Christ was arrested with a naked boy.
Right?
It's okay.
Does it matter?
Would it matter to you?
If you're thinking about Dan,
if I'm sitting there having a conversation,
by the way, what you did tonight, Neil,
you ought to take some of that to Danny and show him that.
You're going to blow somebody out of the water.
If you and Dan were to get in conversation,
hey, Dan, let me show you some sources that are around the sources.
Isn't it funny how bringing more sources to the discussion
is somehow bad?
Suppose they're ignoring all that stuff.
It's not good.
I can call it dogmatists just for bringing more sources to the table.
Right.
And it's just crazy how you can think of the way they teach people
as public-facing academics,
to only show you the sources that they want you to know
so that they can sort of formulate the narrative
and what they want you to think of.
And then it's like, for them,
they think it's dangerous for people like you and me
to bring more sources and say, look, wait a minute,
don't necessarily, and that might not be the case,
here's another source that says this,
and it goes against what you guys think,
and they go, no, no, no, you're just making you confusing everybody.
Stop, stop, stop.
It's dangerous.
It's like, why?
Yeah.
It's crazy.
That's the mentality they have.
Are we making progress in the war to bring out reality?
Yes.
It's not even, we all, I have some stuff planned in the next month or two
that's going to shake some things up.
Let's just say that.
I got some cards in my back pocket that I'm ready to,
some pocket aces, let's say,
in my back pocket ready to go.
Yeah.
Do you know what you are?
You've gotten your training and your lightsaber,
and now you're ready to use it.
Now you're ready to use it.
You see how those sources, you can shut somebody down entirely
with sources.
You don't have to have ideas.
Ideas are for BS that nobody wants to watch people bat around ideas.
Anyway, that's for those bottom feeding academics.
That's what his book's all about.
I'm going to take a cognitive approach.
A heuristic approach to the data,
and we're going to formulate a coherent hypothesis,
and then a cognitive style in the sense of the data.
Shut the fuck up.
Come on.
What I'm going to say, you're just a bunch of gibberish.
Dan, your guy was arrested in a public park with a naked kid, Dan,
screaming, I'm not a trafficker.
Yeah, something's wrong, Dan.
Something's wrong with your guy.
We need to find out.
We need to bring that forward.
People say, why can you not be inclusive?
Because, and I think Neil will back me up on this,
but Calimacus taught me, who's one of these museum guys.
He was associated with the museum.
Calimacus comes out, great poet, and he says,
that spring of Apollo, it must always remain untainted.
It must be completely pure.
And it's your job as a servant of the muse to guard that spring.
No funny business.
Nothing being put in there.
It's just that coming directly from that earth.
It's coming directly from that ground.
That's the evidence that we have in this language.
And it is that, it's its strength.
You know, somebody was asking me about Kabbalah, right?
And how Kabbalah distorts the ancient classical wisdom spring, right?
I had somebody just refute me recently.
I was watching it and I was like, look, what was his name?
I can't remember.
I think it was Gandalf.
Gandalf was refuting me.
He talked about this, you know,
Oh, I'm in talks about the sophistication of the Greek.
This can't be that this has got to be coming from a Hebrew word.
And he says, I'm going to refute him.
And then he goes into a palindrome.
Something about 443243578 adding up to the palindrome 3663.
And I was like, oh my God, where's the tin hat?
Where is, where is the science?
You just splattered.
You had like a machine gun, bro.
And you just splattered evidence out there.
There's no way somebody like a Dan or a Kip can survive in that type of environment.
So the academics run, they're going to start running from you.
And they're going to say, you are of the dark side.
You are the dark side.
That quote that you brought up tonight in Greek was about that dracon that is in the breast.
It is about that sign of the initiate who follows Saba Zeus and Saba Oth.
This is the Curio Saba Oth that we're talking about.
When you see that Sabbath, Lord of the Sabbath in your Bible,
you can't hear it because you're, it's coming through a filter.
But that's a Greek term in a Greek mystery.
Yep.
Yeah.
With iao, iao.
You know what I do when I iao?
You know what that literally is?
This is magic, right?
Because it's all over the magical papyri as well.
The pronouncement, the pronouncement of that concept,
the birth of that concept is healing.
iao, right?
It is literally, Greek is iao.
Oh my, that means I'm healing.
I am medicating.
I'm not in line with the toxin.
Yeah.
And it's also, it's also, when Peralta just talks about all the gods from the Phoenicians
and the Arabians and Sinai, when he's talking about that part of the world,
because he's doing a tour.
He's over, he talks about Egypt.
He talks about Phoenicia.
He talks about India.
He talks about Babylon, Syria, Phoenicians.
He never says Israel.
But then he goes down into the little Sinai region and he says,
there's only the gods though.
The major gods over there are Dionysus and Aphrodite.
So you got to put two and two together.
Who is this iao character that everyone's worshipping over there?
It's this Eastern Dionysian mystery cult.
And the evidence is so overwhelming.
But no, it's just not, for some reason, it gets ignored.
People would look at the Chaldean oracles and they just say,
ah, who knows what they meant by that?
Or who knows what Sebesius, who knows?
Let's just ignore it.
And just pretend it's not there.
I'm not doing that.
I'm surely bringing these sources to the forefront.
That's why we take those sources and ram them.
Ram them into the recta of all the people who have obscured
the beautiful light of classical wisdom.
Yeah, somebody was asking me, why can't you be inclusive?
Why can't you have to include these people?
You know why you cannot include Christianity in the classical stream?
Because it is a poison that will kill you.
That's why it's always that, it's that fresh stream.
You want to know what it's like doing?
It's like taking a perfectly five-course dinner
with a nice glass of beautiful, expensive wine.
