Grab your daughter. She's only nine. Doesn't matter grab her
Right. Oh my god
Leistice these leistice are terrible
Does it surprise you for those of you who were sitting here thinking heracles?
What is heracles doing
Being mistaken for leistice. Did you ever realize that heracles walks around with a nine-year-old boy?
Yeah, but don't worry. So does Zeus
Who is called Zeus of the highest?
The hoop sea stays you mean the hoop sea stays is the one who's known for having the boy. Yes. It's johova. You boneheads
It's johova
Hallelujah, yahoo
Did you hear that?
It's johova who's the highest
Yeah, he assumes that title they give him that title in the third century and why do you think they give him that title?
because
You can't have the history if you don't have the docks
And they didn't have the docks they needed them
So they created them
Yeah, linguistically
Oh, it's sad
Right, you shouldn't have to fake your own
heritage
You shouldn't and you should be proud of wherever
It comes from even if it comes from an invention
Yeah
If you buy that little axe, I give you I'll sell you a bridge in new york. I don't care which one you want
I'll say any of them
Yeah, not really because I'm on contract not to make any money
But I'll mentally sell you one
Yeah, gorgeous. Let's go to the next. Where's the next one? Oh
Here it is. Oh, look what happens. Look what happens here. Look at the end of the second line
um
What is
What is going on? Look, we need
this
constant supply
Of poisons in order to keep this right going and I'm heracles
And I am going to come along and I'm going to baptize my arrows
You say he's going to baptize your arrows. You mean the word for baptism is used for soaking arrows and poison
Yeah, they do it right here and he does it from the holy the venom
Right, he does it from the venom. He puts it on his arrows
If you are out there with the cult in the arremon, you're only there because of the arrows
You're only there because of the oistras
Yeah, jesus knows it. Why do you think he knows? Did you think he was a magic man and he walked up and he was like
I can see this man's
Got to have the power of jesus and he's like boom
And turn freeze him from his problem. I'm a heel
You knuckleheads can go watch the baptists pull this
Garbage through their revivals if you want if you want that religion go ahead
But that's not what the text is showing us. He recognizes jesus's capabilities
Based upon his connections with the cult
Everything that he's doing
You you never you let me ask you evangelical something. Let me ask you something. You never considered once
Just ask yourself. Why is jesus christ spending so much time in tombs in cemeteries?
He gets arrested in one. He gets arrested in one
Why is he always going into these places? Why does sudo clement? Tell us
Well, why does it tell us that he ends up in a tomb with a boy?
Who is begging him to be his lover?
Yeah
Yeah
It's all about those feet
It's all about those feet
Let me wash your feet
Let me wash your feet and you people have been sitting there propping this up and i'm not talking the satanic congregation though
I'm talking to you people who prop up that cross. You've been propping up a creep
One of history's biggest creeps
Foot washing creep
I'm gonna wash. I'll tell you this if I had a 10 year old boy
I sure as heck wouldn't let him hang around jesus. I don't care. He's gonna wash his feet. You know what?
I got something to wash
Yeah
