I keep trying to explain this to people.
I wanna say it really quick
because I'm free to say this.
Not all languages are created equal.
Yeah, some survive and flourish, some die.
Some, and it's a smaller percentage,
reach a level of literary fruition.
Yeah, very few reach that point.
Most of the languages of humanity have died
because that's what languages do, they die.
Yeah, and depending on the time,
they're spoken, you'll see the level of complexity
and technical expertise rise, rise, rise, rise, rise.
It's why Greek can express integrals and calculus.
Do you mean the Greek language?
The ancient Greek language, yes, yes.
No insult to the modern Greeks,
but you know as well as I do
that your language is a simplification.
Yeah, yeah, has to be brought down.
See all of our levels, right?
That's what classical philology is.
It's trying to grasp that great wisdom
that is locked in that powerful language.
Yeah, it's gorgeous, it's nature.
Nature, definitely.
And the poor Romans like,
why is there an English note, it's nice.
Yeah.
Last quote, I wanted to finish off the frogs
and let people go, they need to get to their thing.
I just want you to know that bottom line,
phosphorus, austere, that is Lucifer.
Within the position of the cult,
the devil, Satan, Hades,
and yes, Amon, that Dionysiac position
of the leader, the source, the dragon
who guards the Korah.
Cause you know, people are surprised,
but no, it turns out hell's all about the queen.
Yeah.
And that's why you don't argue for the body of Moses.
You got no power.
You can't beat physics.
The world is topsy-turvy.
The North Pole is the South Pole.
Jesus was running prostitution of boys
using drugs that will alter your state of consciousness
and awareness and perception.
Thank you to Clement.
Thank you to Clement for the ride, appreciate it.
Tomorrow, Friday, coming up,
I'm going to have just a 45 minute discourse
after the Satanic initiation, right?
And what we'll do is I'm going to run it
like I used to run it at the university
when I gave symposia, right?
Where we had professors of all different disciplines
together with students, seminarians,
and we throw out a topic and we discuss that topic.
That's what I would like to turn our time into,
and I'm going to do that this Friday,
20 minutes after we end Satanic initiation.
So let's see if that works.
And everybody's invited, I'll post a link.
The more brains, the better.
I love it, but we'll talk about topics
that I will throw out and I will not give
soliloquies or long explanations.
This is a time for discussion.
So we'll throw out some topics like the boys
and the prostitution or anything
that you guys want to talk about.
There's drugs, some people like to talk
about the drugs and antiquity.
That's a good area too.
So fantastic, thank you for coming tonight.
I just want to say, keep in mind that the actual history
is there and all we have to do is assemble those
sources.
We have to become familiar.
We have to love that medium that it's all in
and that medium is the Greek.
That medium is the Greek.
And you guys, oh, bless, it's a bless.
What a garden, what a garden, so much do.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Fair down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men that we could.
Fair down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Just maybe we could walk together again.
