The Theriac tattoo. Do you know what you can do you can put a tattoo
You can take a pigment right remember the burning purple is a pigment and I can put it into my skin and when I need it
I can cut myself. I
can cut myself
What have we done now
We have taken that poison and
and
The Theriac is keeping us from dying
We're in that
Visionary mode. We're transiting
Right, that's why they say the devil can fly
right check out who's got
This the sickle that's what we need to do who what are we putting into our eyes remember people
We've got that white chalk on our face to prevent the burning and then we use that stuff in our eyes that purple in our
Eyes well, it turns out at this particular right tonight
You and I have tattoos that we will cut
That we will cut those are the marks of
That beast Theriac that antidote that you and I are using
Marcus Aurelius could have been
Tattooed this way. Where do you want me to put it? You know, it's got to go somewhere
Yeah, all we got to do is burn a little spot a little spot
You know, and then we'll take that burn spot and we'll medicate it
And you will get so high and every time every time I pass you
I'm gonna slap that spot wherever it is
Wherever it is on your body. I'm gonna slap it with that plaster
Yeah, and I'm gonna keep doing that. I'm gonna lace this
Yeah, it's control the ride is
fabulous control
Yeah, well people think meditation does something
Hey, sorry if I just offended every Buddhist in the court, but
Yeah, yeah, no, we're a step beyond that, you know what I mean?
We're a step beyond let's keep going. Let's keep going to the tax
We're gonna pull Jesus and all we're gonna find out where he's been hiding right and
Yep, that's fine. Go
Look, this is that Helcos that wound right and notice please notice Galen is in there
Please good health to everyone
Look, it's a wound or a sore and ulcer, but look what they the festering bite of a serpent wait a minute
There's an association with this word and the wounding of a serpent. Yeah, wait, it gets it's gets worse keep going
boom
Mmm your haragma now you people are gonna say and they didn't have anything to do with drugs
You know what this is this is the Medusa you boneheads are you ready haragma
What does it mean any mark engraved and printed or branded and then what's the first thing you see in Greek?
Come here, Dan. Come here. Come here, Dan the
Bible Club called Dan and wants wants you to know
Snack up on him. Are you ready for the stand doesn't read these tags so he doesn't know what does the Greek say leave Dan alone?
Yes
Watch this
Haragma a heat nice. That's what the first Greek says right there, right? I'll say one more time
Haragma a heat nice and what is that? That is the mark of the Viper
God it's bite or it's sting give me another one give me another one
What am I doing with my cult buddies in antiquity with the Christ? What am I doing? Well at this point?
I'm hearing the Thusias stadion
Talking to me. You're watch. This is the book of the apocalypse people
I am sitting here, and I am listening to the Thusias
Therion, and it's telling me
It's telling me. Oh God. Oh my day
True and just are your judgments
Panto Krator
Yeah, that's what they translate as almighty
Right, I think it's a garbage translation
Right because it's just like a literal rendition. It's a title the Panto Krator is the
Hermes is given this title
Yeah, okay, so I think it's a little bit off. I think it's a little bit off
But where are we getting people we're getting those true judgments, and we're getting those real
Justices through what it's talking to us the Thusias stadion is done. Did anybody knows what is this thing?
It's a piece of furniture
Wait, what?
Yeah, it's the thing Moses set up
You know it's a it's a hippies
Cloud fest you got to put ropes on people when they're in in this place because it's so fumigated
They may pass out right
Right. We're with the right people and this device talks. Wait a minute the Thusias stadion is what?
Moses Musaeus the fictional character from the third century based on Musaeus called Moses. It's what he sets up
Yeah, you would say oh, it's the tabernacle
It's talking ladies of frustration it's talking to us
Oh
God these people are way right. We're getting out there wait. We're gonna throw in the kids. Oh, no
Right, should you bring kids this kind of right? Oh, no give me the next one. She always can't choose flagging me
Like oh, yeah, I'm gonna blast a few people with this thing tonight. Okay. Are you ready?
What are you doing in the Thusias stadion? You're sacrificing and when you see that definition
Sacrificing and you and I think oh, yeah
Moses in the movie in Charlton Heston, right? Oh, yeah, shut up. No, that's BS
Look in the Greek in the third line down. It says Thusias stadion toy. Say oh, okay, buck. Yeah, wait, right
What is the verb to Thusias? Oh, what is it it doing?
Yeah, it is an action that is coupled with acting
Bacchic
Bacchic
Huh Jesus
Jesus Christ Jesus Christ in a public park
Revelation 1618 another one we got more angels and more drugs, baby
And what are they doing a fourth one comes out and he's fialing he's pouring out his drugs again
Where's he pouring him epitone helium? Wait, wait
What into the sun
Right, and you'll see it pictures again
Sun with friggin, you know radiance like a kid in kindergarten draws or something
You know at least I did, you know the sun and angel porna you idiots
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
Hmm
Grab some of that
Grab some of that seed of the Sun
Yeah, grab some of that and bring that in
What are we gonna do with Jesus's blood and it was given it was given to that
Drug to burn the men in fire to burn the people using it
You know what we do after we come in with this bowl we drink this stuff
And it causes us to go to a place that is very very painful
I've already been going a little bit nuts anyway and chew in my tongue
Isn't that a great symptom?
Can you see imagine you walk into a right?
