that's adjectively Unic like, right? Talk about straight up castration, straight up castration,
right? Love it. The Unix, very common antiquity. And Jesus is encouraging the kids. He says,
right? Imagine saying to a 10 year old, that's what we need. We need to bring Jesus back.
That's what we need. You need to go to Sunday school and you need somebody to come in
and be Jesus. That's what you need. And Jesus will offer for you kids. He'll offer castration.
If you can take it, this is part of your thing. Do it. That was the advice. That was the advice.
It's very friendly. It's a very friendly kind of advice from Jesus, right? Why is that? Because
marriage sucks is what he says. The kids pick it up and they're like, if this is what marriage is,
forget it, right? Forget it. It's better not to be married. And he doesn't refute it. He says,
well, you know, there's a third option. You can remove your testicles for the kingdom of heaven.
Did you know you can cut off your testicles? I just want people to see this. You can cut off
your testicles for the kingdom of heaven, even if you're just a kid. So the Christians today
that are saying transgender people should not be able to do these things, they were the ones doing
it originally. Yeah. Think about that for a minute. Think of where their mind was. That was not
a problem, right? For a boy to castrate himself and to take on those more feminine characteristics.
That was normal. That was the kingdom of heaven, right? People say, does this religion always go
back to the Frigian mother? Yes, it does. It does. Come on, Addis.
Now you know what's going on in Jesus's mind. Let's just look at a couple of extra sources.
Yep, keep going. Look at this one, people. This is one nobody's going to give you. And I'll finish
up in 10 minutes. Give me 10 more minutes. An hour and a half is way too long. I appreciate your
time tonight. But let's just let's just ride this submarine all the way to the bottom. Who is this?
This is Orabaceus. You're never going to get this guy as a source. This is from the Corpus
Metachorum Gricorum. Thank you to the German philologists who figured this thing out, edited it
and whatnot. They've got us here the text. I'm going to go ahead and read it for you. Blow that up
for me, Chewie. Yeah, look at what's happening. I just want you to focus on the end of the first
line. You see the El Nujizantes? Wait, the unicizing? Yeah, it's the unicizing. Look at
the next word on the next line. Tofarmacon. Tofarmacon. He says, he's in the middle of talking
about disease and the treatment of disease with specific drugs. In this case, he was talking
about Hellebor for anybody who gives anything, who cares. He's talking about Hellebor and he's
quoting from a couple of very well-known physicians, ancient physicians. And he says,
when you're dealing with this, some people add this other thing to the wound or to the dressing.
And then, just like those people who make unics, they apply a drug which is there for the sake of,
for the sake of what? For the sake of that infertile
cauterization. It's not a burning. It's a staunching. Let me show you the word.
Next one. Yep, yep. A rindling, mangling, or look at number two. An irritation, right? That burning
of purgatives or plasters. These are the drugs that they're applying to the testicles.
To the testicles. And they're doing it in the process of castration.
Here are the drugs, people. Here are the drugs that they're using that Jesus would be making reference
to when he talks about making unics. There it is in living color. I'm not making things up about
cutting off people's testicles. It's there. And not only that, but there's drugs that we use just
for these purposes, right? Just for these purposes. I'm going to bring you the last. I want you to,
just to kind of set you up for the climax. Look, this is Galen's work on seed, right? Seaman.
