That was fantastic. I gave that to the devil and he was like, are you sure and 13? I was like, yeah
It was over 1300. He's like, what'd you do? I said, I just fed him a great
And he's like no you got something else. I was like, well, you know, I got some dope hidden in it
You know what I mean? I put some dope in it. He's like you
Yeah, isn't that great? I'm bringing you that dope. Are you ready?
Nobody is going to give you what I am about to give you
All right, do we have the moon on?
Yeah, tell them to put the moon on on
Are you ready give it boom and what's happening and I saw
Coming out of the water
rising once again
Was the beast
And he had
Ten horns
Wait, he had ten horns. Are you drawing a picture of this? Somebody's in the background like
Ride we get all of that. No, stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Please turn on the box
Can somebody turn on the box get that look get that little guy to turn on the box. Come here
Come here, Jeffrey. Where's my Anglo-Saxon boy?
Here's what we got to do Jeff
No, I think his name was Fred. Does it matter. Do you name your eunuchs?
Of course you don't
Let's go lefty and righty. That's usually what they're called
I see what happens here. What is the beast that is coming out? He's got those ten horns
Now let's turn on your receivers for the box
Right. What are those horns that we just saw last time?
Those horns are the antidotes
Hmm. Yeah, directly. Okay. That makes sense of why
that
Therion or Theriac
that compound
Antichristic
Antidote to the Thanasee more those death-inducing drugs
Yeah, that beast
That Theriac is carrying your survival. So as we're sitting here going through this in the
angels
Those angels they're pouring out those
drugs for us
Right, this is where you're gonna go in the right
Okay, so hold on. Don't wait. It gets weird. It gets weird keep
Let's go find the the next quote there. Boom. Yeah, here we go
And what happens that beast also has those seven heads? What are those heads?
They're the prominent
singular
ingredients that are used in
The death inducer
This is a concoction or a poma that will lay you out
It will kill you
But don't worry remember what Jesus said I'll show you
You'll pick up those
Death inducing potions and you won't die. They won't hurt you
Why?
Because they're using within the mystery. They're using the drugs that induce death
Combined with the beast that will bring you back
the beast bears up the cup of
Lady Babylon
Okay, are you ready? We're getting deeper and deeper into that prophecy and
What I'm fulfilling for you tonight is I am unsealing these works. Oh
God, can you believe the devil gave me that I was like, are you sure and he was like dude
You know you earned it
Right. How did I earn it? One of the things I didn't do is I didn't monetize. Oh
And I didn't monetize Lady Babylon
Yeah
Yeah, people are saying I had a comment. I thought this was great. This is illustrative of
Christianity
This is why Julian said Christianity will overthrow classical civilization and he was right
This is one of the reasons is one of the reasons they burn those libraries down
Yeah, because they don't
know
What the texts say?
Isn't that funny? It's like you hang yourself
So we're here Satanic congregation to bring those texts to them and to show them give it to me again
I want some
Drugs and witchery Jesus show me all your drugs your drugs Jesus
What do we have here? Oh God those seven principal drugs? You know what they they have
they have
names
they have names and
What kind of names do they have they have names of
blasphemy
Names of blasphemy
Remember we talked about the power is always in the name
Are you ready? Okay, wait, it's gonna get good. It's gonna get good
Okay, and this antidote this theriac
Yeah, it had the form of
Leopard
It had the feet of a bear
And the mouth of a lion
Did you say lions tigers and bears? Oh my no
I said leopards
you know
and lions and
Bears oh
God
Jesus Christ God
What are you doing? I just sat down and we just got jacked in with whatever it was that angelic dude
Gave us and by the way remember it's always those sons of God who were doing all of this drug stuff
Oh, you wouldn't have the mystery without it. Oh
Here he is we got jacked in and you know what now we're seeing some weird images. Did you say leopard with bears fate?
Jaws like a lion. Yeah. Yeah, I did and why did you do that because this is pocket and who is that leopard?
That's the leopard that bears up Dionysus
That's a leopard that bears up Dionysus and who is that bear?
That's the bear that guards our bears and Libya
Who are there's who are those bears? Oh, I'm sorry
Once a year we go watch a group of
nine to twelve year old girls get naked in an arena and
The last one conscious
Gets the priesthood
Yeah
Those bears they call them bears. Do you want to know why?
