Is, could you ask, could you, in order to answer that, could you ask what if he's here already?
And what if that, you know, like the guys at MIT are saying now, it's two universes,
you have two universes, it's two dimensions, they're placed over each other.
One is invisible to the other, but they take up the same space.
And you can measure the background radiation, right from these giant scopes and Antarctica, right?
Of where these two dimensions are interacting.
So, is Dionysus already here?
Now, if you mean is he coming back in a resurrection form?
He's coming back in a resurrection form.
You might be, now you're leaning over on the Gnostic set.
I'm not sure from where the question, which angle of question is going.
Do I want to see Dionysus back in his resurrected body?
When he comes, he'll be wearing a brazier, right?
He'll be wearing that holy golden, beautifully embroidered glane capturing nipple surrounding garment.
Yeah, and he's got it on in John.
It's there Dionysus is there in John, right?
There's a reason people listen, there's a reason that Plutarch says that the Jews are performing Bachic rights.
There's a reason for that.
If this mystery has made its way from the Bronze Age all the way down through this thing called Judaism, right?
Through the Bachic worship by the Greeks who spread all the way over to the Pillars of Heracles.
If we are able to follow this right all the way down, we can come up with the details of why Jesus is calling himself a savior.
And why he's talking about his blood.
And what is that stuff on his face that they say in the garden that is like great clotted blood?
What is that stuff doing there?
We don't just want you to tell us he's got a condition.
He's got halatosis.
We want to know why.
One of the things that I tried to bring you tonight didn't quite have enough time is the use of the antidotes.
The use of the antidotes.
We're really going to have to get into this as Satanists because this whole Christ Antichrist thing is a section of physics.
It's a reality that you have to be able to grasp in order to manipulate.
And how are they doing this very practically?
They're doing this with drugs.
Dotes and antidotes.
And for those of you, by the way, I just wanted to say for those of you who are looking at interested in things esoteric, gnostic,
and you're doing your shopping on YouTube, anytime you find somebody who says they're doing Greek,
they won't tell you they're Greek scholar.
They may say they're Greek scholar.
Anytime they throw in something about Greek, make sure that they've taken those steps that guys like Dr. Carl Ruck have taken.
Notice I didn't say Bach, right?
They've taken those reasoned step, that reasoned step.
They're able to say, OK, I'm going to look at this reference that talks about how you can make a young girl priestess more pliable and more ready to receive intercourse while protecting her from venereal disease
and preventing any sort of pregnancy because we're going to drink that stuff that she produces, right?
People don't want to go there.
Bach doesn't want to go there, right?
But this is the world we have to get to in order to get to Jesus's boy.
So Rob, I'm sorry tonight that Dr. Carl Ruck was not in the flesh.
