Yeah.
Marijuana proponents suggested the recipe for the anointing oil pass from God to Moses,
include cannabis.
So far it's not in there.
Or cannabis in Hebrew.
They point to versions calling for fragrant cane, which they say was mistakenly changed
to the plant Calamus in the King James version of the Bible.
It was mistakenly from the Hebrew that King James was referring to this thing got turned
around 180 degrees because the fairy tale that we are all not believing anymore is that
the Hebrew produced the Greek as a translation.
No, no, no, we know the Greek is the original.
So, um, notice, did you catch there a mistake by King James?
King James, that's 15.
How many, how many centuries later are you going to want to talk about?
From antiquity, let's go back to antiquity and look at what the source says.
There is no cannabis in the anointing oil that is used in Exodus.
It's not there.
And you're going to say, no, it's a misinterpretation.
It's a misinterpretation of the Hebrew.
Okay.
Wait a minute.
Stop yourselves right now.
Right now.
Just stop and ask yourself, could the Greeks have been misinterpreting the Hebrew?
I forgot.
There are so many Hebrew medical authors.
I forgot they write about, no, no, wait, what?
Wait, what?
No, we don't have any Hebrew medical authors.
Oh, well, that's a difficulty if we're talking about drugs.
How about pharmacological work?
No, we have no Hebrew pharmacological works either to consult.
You mean this is the appearance of that word and you don't have a context outside of it?
Let me get this straight.
This at the time that this text that I'm reading to you has been start mesmerizing them with
pictures of symbols, religious symbols, satanic things.
Go ahead.
The Greeks in the third century, second century, first century are building the museum all
across the world, their world at least.
People are doing research and writing entire volumes on plants and on animals, zoology.
You've got philosophers out the backside.
Medicine.
Perophilus.
Incredible physicians.
Aracistratus.
Doing dissections.
Pulling apart the human body to explain the physiology.
You have Alexandrian priests who are talking about drugs and their antidotes.
And which drugs to give for which reasons?
And you have no Hebrew?
You have no Hebrew?
You have no Hebrew sources?
No, you don't.
The medicine and the drugs, just like the language Greek, is what the people are using.
And when this Greek says a very, very specific plant for which the Greeks were highly, highly
trained and diarrheaed at the mouth on these different drugs, you mean it's their mistake
in their magical translation where they stepped in with 72 of these guys all from the tribes
of Israel, different chambers and pow!
Beam.
Beam of information into the brain.
Write out the Greek.
Magic.
Absolute magic.
If you people are willing to buy that, seriously, what's the long and the short?
It's not there, people.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry if you wanted Moses dancing in cannabis oil.
I'm really sorry.
I'm really sorry.
It's not their thing.
It's not their thing.
Whose thing is it?
Why don't we go back to the sources and why don't we look at whose thing it is?
Let's do some dredging up.
And this is, you guys love this.
That's where we're going to do it.
Before we get there, before we dredge up this next source, which is ghostly and godly and wonderful,
before we get there, I want you to watch a little mesmerizing clip that will set the images.
Now, we are not going to tell you what those images are doing and what they are setting.
A long way to go.
A long way to go in a short period of time.
And I've got Gnostic Informant waiting to get on board and to ask questions.
Just maybe talk a little bit about Medea.
So I'm going to push, but I'm going to push steadily.
I want you to throw up, Chewie.
What Chewie is throwing up here is the next installment of what comes in that Exodus chapter.
This is what comes right after it.
Yeah, the chrismahagion.
That holy anointing that is not the anointing of the oil that is used in the consecration of the king.
It's not the oil that's used in the gymnasium either.
It's the oil that gives you an erection.
Yeah, it's the oil that gives you an erection.
Love it.
That's the Christos.
And you say, how dare you?
No, that's not.
No, you don't.
You've never read the text.
Shut up.
Give me the next.
This is from Euripides.
Let me just to school you.
I love it.
Do you like to be schooled?
