Burned her hand really bad pulled it out and said no
No
Mary was a virgin
Mary was a virgin
But she was being fed in the temple in the temple, you know, well, you know who the doves are
You know who the doves are
now I
Can give you access to those doves and they will give you the water of life
If you're nice
Fetch me a bucket of water
Gangsta G is back. Let's go. Let's go. Okay. I'm sorry. This is so much fun though
Yeah, okay, and so he saw the horses. Oh god, this is just the horses and the people sitting on them
I just want you to notice that they've got breastplates that are kind of this flame thing and the highest sin, you know and
Sulfuric
Wait, yeah, the armor people. It's different times and what do they do their heads?
They got horses got heads like lion, right? What comes out of their mouth?
Look at that last line second last line poor at the end poor kai capnos kai feon
Fire, you know what comes out of your mouth
You know what comes out of your mouth when you become one of us
Fire like those bronze bulls. Did you think those dragons were dragons? No, they're people
and what comes out of your mouth fire and smoke and
sulfur
Fire and smoke and sulfur
Now, why would you be doing this because we're in a cult baby the fifth angel? He goes into his
He's going off baby. It's a new act with the parties new and I saw a star
fall from
uranos to gain to the ground and
What was given to the star was given to him the place?
key
Key of that
Dungeon of the abyss
Yeah, okay people I
Give you
the key Peter I
Give you the key and why are we doing this because we at Omnia are going to make death
disappear
The greatest magic trick ever
And how are we going to do that?
Contrary to what you might intuitively think
You got to run straight into it
We got to send you into death to deprive you of your fear of it
Yeah, isn't that cool?
Isn't that cool?
Oh god, I love it. Let's go back to the text. Okay a little bit creepy on the creepometer. It was a little bit up there
but look people
And in these days
People will seek after death
And they will not find them
They will find death
They'll really desire
to die
And death will flee from them
Do you want to know when that abomination of desolation enters the temple?
Do you want to know what will happen death will flee?
Yeah
I am the way
I am the life
All right, what does that son of god do are you talking Hercules? Yes. Are you talking jesus? Yes
They
Push off death
They wrestle death
Yeah, wow
Wow, you mean all of that for a paternal god who doesn't recognize the great mother
Right, we all know that she's above everybody else. That's the difference between the orphics and the christianity
The orphics recognized the great mother christianity didn't
Right
And you think well, it's just the way things happened and
You know god there's just a man god because that's the universe we live in that was created 6 000 years ago
And there's this man god and there's no woman god. There's no mother. I mean logically there's a god the father
Right, there's got to be a god the father, but there is no god the mother
absolutely not
Well, the orphic said absolutely and it turns out that she
Is the origin of everything
Even your man god
You mean a father god has a mother?
Yeah, it's basic logic people
What's wrong with you orphism is just physics
Basic logic. Yeah use it. Let's do it. They love this stuff. Let's go. We're almost done. I've helped people way too long
Um, yeah, so a bunch of people died from these three plagues. You know fire. We've seen that one
Let's keep going down. Let's keep going down. Um sting people plagues are sting
Remember that thorn that paul got in the flesh
Right, we're doing that in the temple
Right, we're doing that in the temple
Good and um, they look these people are not going to change their ways man. They're not going to stop
The killing they're not going to stop the drug use. They're not going to stop the pornea
Rive
Okay, all right. If that's the way it's got to go down and what are they what is here?
Here's a drug dealer. What does he have? He has in his hand that little book
Right and he's sitting there open that scroll is rolled out and what does he do?
He takes his foot and he puts it on the right his right foot
right on the
On the sea
And then he takes his own him on foot now. We we say right and left
Um
They said right and the good name
Yeah, the good names
Yeah, because they didn't want to say left
Right in a sinister sort of way
So the good named he put on the land
On the land and you ask yourself what is going on here?
Didn't you know there's ways that you function when you're an angel who is distributing drugs for people to have visions?
Didn't you know that there's a way
to function
Yeah
Yeah, there is
Yeah, and it turns out these magic rites are just they're all over
The book of the apocalypse is nothing but a giant magical operation
Yeah
One foot in the sea one on the land. Who else does that the beast?
