We're right up at that point.
Now it's time for my deposition.
I drive 12 hours, 12 hours to a deposition.
Yeah, yeah.
And this was some of the questioning.
Some of the questioning.
We'll be talking more in the future about sacraments
and about accusations.
I just want you to know this is a Catholic university
with a very strong Catholic brother's seminary
and diocesal magnificence of the beauty and pageantry.
Yeah, it was the deal after I was,
they investigated me for demon possession
without me being there.
This is what I want to bring you.
Cut it.
Let's see the clip.
And if it comes out well, great.
Both believe it was unjust.
So we talked about how the response, the response
from professors, other professors,
and the fear and the climate at St. Mary's.
A lot of professors have approached,
or several professors, I should say,
have approached blank and acknowledged
that we're sorry.
We're afraid to stand up for Hillman
because the administration is so heavy-handed
and will fire them.
But that has nothing to do with your case, right?
No, I think that's everything in my case.
No, it's not.
What's your case about?
My case is about St. Mary's attempting
to convince a student that I had ripped her,
and she knew, told them that I had not.
And this case is about their attempt
to paint me so that they could get rid of me.
Which student is that?
Blank.
Is your case about anything else?
I would say my case is about freedom of speech
and freedom of religion, and about the tendency
to try to stifle things from ancient literature that
make us uncomfortable because of our current religious
perspective.
Can you explain that to me?
Explain what to you?
What would you say?
So because of our Judeo-Christian heritage,
culture in the modern West, some of the things
that the Greeks and Romans believed and followed
in the ways that they set up their society,
we find them hard to understand.
So we try to stifle their teaching
in order to make ourselves more comfortable.
And I believe it's my duty to these ancient texts
to amuse.
To amuse, sure.
OK.
I believe it's my duty to reveal these texts,
or to teach these texts to students.
Does that explain it?
