Or hit it
goes without saying that if the angel of the morning star,
if Lucifer himself can be drugged down, presumably,
you know who is in that seat.
Yeah, I'm not talking about the great mother,
but I'm not talking about the great mother.
And we have to remember those of you sitting there,
right, a very large percentage of you.
By the way, shout out to my peeps in Israel
that I haven't spoken to in a long time,
but I wish I were there partying.
I really do.
I really do.
That poor him where I ended up in the dress.
Yeah, you know how England gets represented, bro.
You know how it is.
But no, I go too far a field.
We're finding out the infiltrators in Jude, right?
We're finding out the infiltrators.
So Chuck Baudelaire is going to help us to do that,
because Chuck Baudelaire knows, being a dragon, the way of Cain,
the way of Cain.
And tonight, that's where we need to go.
That's where the dissatisfied, right?
That's where the dissatisfied housewife
of the Southern Baptist preacher.
That's why she has to have some kind of mystery that enables
her to find that orgasmos.
Yeah, that right, that place.
Yeah, that's what we're looking at.
You cannot avoid it.
This is pagan.
You're going to hear about some drugs now,
and you're going to hear about some intercourse.
And you're going to hear about some ancient ritual that
may make you feel queasy, may make you feel queasy.
Tonight, I want to try something new.
We have a clip for you.
What I have done is I've set up a deposition
for anyone interested.
This is an official deposition, court deposition,
in a case where it appears that I was the plaintiff.
Appears I was the plaintiff.
Yes, certain things have been redacted
to protect the identity of the innocent involved.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
And tonight, I want to bring you a section of that.
So I'm going to set the setting here.
It is professor suing university for false termination
after the American Association of University Professors
sent a delegation to investigate,
and they came to the conclusion that I was falsely terminated.
Yeah.
And St. Mary's went on the top 10 schools
for lacking any concern for free speech of USA Day.
I want to play you this clip.
I have now come to the office building.
We have been fighting this war for three years
to get them to turn over email to us that's concerning me,
that they're refusing to do.
Under court order, they're refusing to do it.
And we're pushing, pushing, pushing to get the court
to kick in and give us this access.
