needs to be erased from history.
And they thought they erased his books, but they didn't, they survived.
And then we get the Renaissance right after that.
You start getting, you start getting in the Renaissance.
You start getting paintings of Venus and Bacchus and Apollo again.
They're bringing the image back into the consciousness of the human
beat of civilization.
That's what they're bringing with it, freedom.
They're bringing with it that, that unrest, that unrestrainable freedom.
Yeah.
Love it.
That adamantine freedom.
Um, love it.
Um, and the fact that you would bring those souls here, you know, just shows
people, look, this is a war, right?
This is a war that we have had through time.
And we are being hit by a wave that will take us back to the dark ages.
Um, if people can watch how people are reacting, you can, you can read the
psyche of what's going on.
Hit the next, let's see, let's see.
Uh, Lady Babylon, is literally one of the greatest things ever.
Oh, fantastic.
Where did it teach?
Okay.
That's, we'll look into teaching and whatnot in just a second, but let's see
where, where else this thing went in the mind of the people.
Give us the next couple.
Boom.
Yeah.
Can't watch this demon.
Now I think this is serious.
I think it's serious.
I'm not sure.
Give me the next one.
Um, we got to put some purple on our, right.
But a C's, right?
Right.
Exactly.
Okay.
At least somebody's following.
Okay.
Give me the next one.
Steve's academic brother.
I'm not, I have no resemblance to Steve.
I'd know, um, would I let a snake bite my backside?
Probably, um, thank you for interviewing Dr.
Ahman, his work is very important to all of us and helps us understand the word
of our profits and the foundations of our modern religions.
That's nice.
That's nice.
Plus it is delight to hear of a world where, uh, the goddess.
Oh, this is really why I put this up here.
It was widely worshiped and women were celebrated as healers, scholars, besides
lovers, right?
Um, gorgeous.
That's the kind of stuff.
When I see that kind of stuff, Neil, and I realize people are, they're seeing
things that, you know, inspire them.
That's the only reason we're here.
And, um, those women, uh, I really wanted to emphasize this more and more in
satanic initiation, but, um, I wanted to build that base of modern women who saw
the ancient woman that we're talking about and, um, would say, holy, holy
mackerel, that's a, that's a woman.
You know what I mean?
That's a, she will kick you in the, you know, Oh God, let's not get too into
that before I get out of hand.
Give me another one.
Look, okay.
Now what about these guys?
And I'm going to, I want to know at now what I thought was funny.
And then I'll let you, um, chime in is the fact that it's not just blasphemy.
Bob long, we can have a debate about who's long and whatnot, but this is
absolute blasphemy.
Now Bob, tell me something.
What's the difference between blasphemy really and absolute blasphemy?
I mean, blasphemies kind of an absolute thing.
You know, it's kind of like, Oh, so it really, it makes me think Bob that
you're just, I mean, just delighting.
You're just exulting in how blasphemous this thing is.
I appreciate it, Bob.
What do you think, Neil?
You know, Bob is, it looks like he's a church going, you know, clean cut guy.
And I think he defiled him.
I think he, he heard some things and his ears weren't, he didn't have
the ears to hear.
So yeah, yeah, sorry about that.
Look, in all seriousness, this is a real reaction, right?
People, um, there are groups of people that will say, Oh my God, I thought
you were nuts, but then I looked up what you were saying.
And it's actually there, right?
That you're not making this stuff up.
And yeah, there's that group.
And then there's the group that these people would rather burn you alive than
even consider, um, what you were saying, right?
These are the ones who were throwing the blasphemy.
And remember just a few hundred years ago, an accusation like this from Bob
could get the two of us put into a prison and tortured.
Yeah.
Thank you, Bob.
By the way, the video that I'm working on right now that I have my
script pretty much fully written already and I'm recording it now is about the
dark ages.
And so there's Carl Sagan was famous.
Carl Sagan, the great scientist of last generation.
He was famous for, he came out of a brand new CBS show called the Cosmos.
And he said that we had all these great thinkers like Hypatia and Archimedes
and Eratosthenes, and they figured out the earth's circumference and all this shit.
And then all of a sudden, after Hypatia is murdered, we go into dark, darkness
for, he said a thousand years.
He got criticized for that by academia saying, that's not, that's not actually
correct.
The dark ages really weren't as dark as we originally thought.
It was actually a pretty good time.
The Christians were actually pretty cool.
It's like, not F that I'm making a video right now.
And I'm agreeing with Carl Sagan.
And I think the number one way we can test this is the sources.
What can you compare Ovid and Virgil and Homer and Aristotle and Hypatia and,
and, and, uh, Plato or, or Thales or Heraclitus, Parminides, all these
different scientists from the ancient world.
What can you compare them to between 500, you know, I'll even let you have a
whole thousand years between 500 and 1500.
All right.
So you can have Dante, Dante was pretty good, Boethius was pretty good.
Okay.
What else do you got?
That's it.
You cannot compare.
There's no classical sources.
You got to wait till the 17th century before you start seeing Shakespeare and
Francis Bacon and forget about any, listen, there's a reason why the,
and this, this author Petrarch, who I'm reading up on, uh, uh, Renaissance
writer, his name is Petrarch, he coined the term dark ages.
And the reason was he literally says, he doesn't say science and math or,
or warfare or logistics or technology.
He says it's about the sources.
It's about the classical sources.
And he's pointing exactly to what me and Ammo were saying.
That's where the term dark ages comes from.
It's all about the sources.
It's all about culture.
It's all about religion.
This stuff matters.
That's what me and Ammo are trying to do.
We're trying, we're not trying to get rid of religion.
We're trying to, we're trying to save it.
Trying to make it a more of a, what it used to be like, where it's, uh, it's
the muse that inspires, not a bishop in some church that tells you what to think.
You can think for yourself.
That's freedom.
It's an expression of the self.
Exactly.
Know thyself.
Right.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Gorgeous.
I'm going, let's go together.
We put on the right robes.
We'll celebrate Bacchus together.
I love that.
I was just reading today about the Palatine shirt.
Uh, excuse me, the Palatine library and, um, how, how it became what it was.
And when it was transferred from another place, another temple to the
temple of Apollo and et cetera, et cetera.
And it was, you know, it's strange because you're reading the history of
this library and realize the Romans for the hot dwellers that the Romans were.
Um, and you know, they switched to Greek.
What do you think Marcus Aurelius did?
Everybody's like, Oh, he wrote his meditations in Greek.
Yeah.
Because he did the same thing that you were talking about.
He put his brain on ancient Greek and it geared it up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Polybius, same with Diodorus, same with Utark.
Is there all Roman era writers?
They're all writing in Greek because that's the language you want to,
you want to write a classic that wants to, that's going to be saved forever,
write it in Greek.
Now, Ovid and Virgil are exceptions.
There are great Latin writers, especially in the Augustan age, but let's get
real, the Greek is where it's at.
Notice all the scientific.
I will say this.
Notice you got the scientific method coming out of Aristotle's well.
And then following him, you've got Theophrastus with his botany, right?
He's like the, he's like the father of botany.
They call him, right?
I mean, and all of these different scientific disciplines, including the
mathematics, including all the pharmacology.
Oh my God.
And you go into the museum.
This period bleeds into the museum in Alexandria.
And those guys, those doctors there, Herophilus Aerosistratus, all of the
grammarians, they have the most scientific technical group you can possibly
assemble at the time.
You don't find that in any other languages.
You don't find it.
You don't find calculus.
Why?
Because they're doing it with the, at the level that their language
capacitates them to do.
You don't find that in Latin.
I'm sorry.
For everybody who loves the ancient Romans, you know, and you like your, you
like to talk about, you know, so many people dying in combat and stuff like that.
That's great.
But the languages they use, it wasn't really capacitated for the sciences.
Right.
But the Greek was, and the Greek had so overgrown the Mediterranean that Latin
never could then really develop.
When you read the Latin medical authors and compare them with the Greek, it's
night and day.
It's night and day.
The Latin medical works, Neil, are very, very practical.
If you see this, do this.
And the Greek works are all about, this is why the body works this way.
And this is what you're going to have to do under these circumstances.
And you have to reason through this and that.
And it's not really geared.
Latin was not geared towards botany.
There were still con plants, just, you know, papa wear, you know.
You know, it's funny because we're talking about dark ages and what, or what
not, what the term means, if it's a legit terminology.
And over, I'm sorry, Galen and Aristotle were the two main science
books of Western civilization from the second century.
You know, saw obviously Aristotle's centuries before Galen, but Aristotle's
work gets passed down and updated by people like Theophrasis, as you mentioned.
And, but it's still, the Aristotelian canon, they're calling it.
It's still, Aristotle's name is all over it and they're updating it.
