What would be the implications on the modern world today if we were to be enlightened by
this information?
Yeah.
It means our religious background is rooted in a guy that we venerate.
And that guy was somebody who used children's...
He was involved with drugs.
It's a mystery that was nothing like going to church today.
At least I don't think it is.
Maybe somebody's other, but I don't think it's like that anymore.
And the fact is we have built a society based on a lie, on a complete lie.
And it's such a hypocritical lie because the very guy that you venerate, I mean, dude,
he's arrested in a public park with a kid.
Danny, if you and I got arrested in a public park with 12 kids, what do you think we would
be?
Yeah.
What do you think?
I mean, for people who think this is crazy and out there, I actually brought two sources.
I mean, I have more comments that we can go through, but since we're on this topic, somebody
reminded me, somebody in my comment section, I shared this video right now to my people,
shout out the Trent Little.
He reminded me of something.
I know you know about this.
I know you've talked about this.
In the PGM in book four, there is an actual passage about the naked kid thing.
Can I pull that up?
I have...
So I'm going to share a screen and I just want to real quick just go...
It's in the Greek magic play.
I have it ready to go.
It's ready to roll right now.
And as soon as you pull it up, let me know.
Okay.
Can you see that?
All right.
I'll read it out to you.
Okay.
I can zoom in a little bit.
Go for it.
I'm not even going to put on my glasses.
Read it to me.
Here's what it says.
This is the English translation of the Greek.
PGM 488 through 93 says, another to Helios, wrap a naked boy in linen from head to toe,
then clap your hands after making him ringing noise, place the boy opposite the sun and
stand behind him and say the formula.
I am Barbarayoth, Barbarayoth, am I, peskut, yahoo, adonai, eloha, saboeth.
By the way, that's what Jesus said on the cross, sabakatoni, elohai.
That's those are magical incantations.
And then it says, come into this little one today for I am Barbarayoth.
So shout out to Trent Little for bringing this to my attention.
I know we've talked about this verse before, but it was perfect because it reminds us,
this is not out.
What Amon is bringing to the table is out there in the first century, Greco-Roman world
of magic.
What are your thoughts on that?
And I have one more source that I want to go to.
The only thought I've got that's right in the middle of my forehead is that that great
priestess night in the PGM is called the pedarast, right?
So a lot of the magic that you see is going to have and this pedarasty.
And when you see that the gods, you know, saboeth, right, yahoo and all of our, you
know, regular gods that become yahoo, those people are there, right?
So this is not news to the world.
I mean, it's not like new, right?
They knew about it back then.
It was happening and, you know, it's just the way things were.
That's the one guy right there.
And it's good on him.
And it's actually, it's awesome to see other people that are looking into this stuff and
finding sources that line up that you could cross reference to.
So shout out to Trent Little on that one.
One more source that I want to pull up and then I will go back to the comments.
But this is, I think this is also relative.
You talk about Orpheus at the end of his life, Orpheus is the high priest of Dionysus.
He's the son of Apollo.
He is, he is the theologian.
He gives the apocalypse.
These are all terms that come from Orpheus.
And this is what it says in Ovid's Metamorphosis at the end of his life before the main ads
are sent to tear him apart.
It says in book 10, I think this is, stunned by the double loss of his wife, Orpheus was
like that of a coward who saw Kerberus, the three headed dog, chained by the central
neck and whose fear vanished from his, with his nature as stone transformed his body or
like Olinus and you, Lethea, too proud of your beauty.
He wished to be charged with your crime and seen guilty himself.
Once wedded hearts, you are now rocks set a moist mount Ida Orpheus wished and prayed
in vain to cross the sticks again.
But the fairy man fended him off still for seven days.
He sat there by the shore, neglecting himself and not taking nourishment.
This kind of reminds me of how the state of Jesus was in at the, in the garden, sorrow,
troubled thought and, and tears were his food.
He took himself to lofty mount, rhodope and Hamas swept by the winds complaining that
the gods of Erebus were cruel.
This is where it gets crazy.
Three times the sun had ended that year in watery Pisces and Orpheus had abstained from
the love of women, either because things ended badly for him or because he had sworn to do
so.
Yet many felt a desire to be joined with the poet and many grieved at rejection.
Indeed, he was the first of the Thracian people to transfer his love to young boys and to
enjoy their brief springtime and early flowering this side of the manhood.
Now we've checked the Latin before, I don't, we don't have time for that right now.
But there's a, there's an argument he made that it says he plucks their manhood during
the early flowering, that this is not the correct translation.
But I'll let people look into that and do their homework on that.
But yeah, Orpheus is performing, by the way, the Thracians are known as the laystays.
They're all by the blacks.
Do you remember that account?
Do you remember that account we read a while ago?
It was about a Thracian pirate who abducted a young boy and then cut off his, his testicles
while he was sleeping.
And he talks about what a great transformation this is that he's brought about and the kid
and the kid is a new being and everything.
That's a Thracian.
Yeah, that's the same culture.
And we're just pulling up contemporary sources.
Ovid has written, you know, in the same, you know, roughly a few decades before the gospel
started, you know, maybe 50, 60 years, but you know, we're contemporary, the PGM contemporary
with, these are temporary texts to the gospels.
So we're showing you what was going on in other texts during this period, very, very
similar stuff.
Look, we're doing with seminary and instructors don't have the wherewithal to do.
We're giving you the sources, baby.
And all of this stuff, all you Bible scholars, you got to know about this.
Canitis.
You got to know about this stuff going on, right?
Okay, boys, galley or waiting.
Let's go to the next comment.
Let's see a couple comments.
Do you want to see mine?
Yeah, let's see yours.
All right.
This is from Jane Dominic 666.
This man is Bethamette.
He is the Antichrist that commons before the Christ.
Watch out, Danny.
That man is trying to butter me up.
That's the kindest thing you could ever say.
That's what I thought you would say.
I thought you were thinking of compliment.
Yeah, no, no, but don't worry, Danny.
Um, if you're watching, Danny, a lot of people are praying for you, Danny.
A lot of people.
I've brought you a lot of people to pray for you.
Like this person here.
Go ahead.
Let's see this one.
Jesus is God 3333.
This guy is literally demon demonic possessed.
My Catholic priest can come and exercise him.
Danny, this can spread to you if you are not careful.
This is serious.
By the way, I'll define these comments.
All I had to do is keep refreshing and look at the newest comments and I'd find
something like this.
That's how easy it, there was so many of these that we had to cut out a lot of them.
There were so many comments like this.
Look at this.
I found this from refreshing.
It was six minutes old when I found it.
All right.
And then here's a couple of them that I found from yesterday.
This guy seems to have spent his whole life to discover 5,000 years of cool conspiracy
theories and bringing them to light.
Badass scholar of the ancient shit, 59 likes.
By the way, the big comments with the most likes are all positive.
So here's a whole chunk of positive stuff.
Five minutes in and this part, one of the weirdest MFers I've ever heard with a
smiley face, 80 likes.
I am psychologically disturbed after watching this.
The next person says, this guy is amazing.
Knowledge is power.
Don't shoot the messenger.
Not even done with this video.
And I'm like, WTF am I watching right now?
And then the last one on this page is this guy will definitely seem strange to most
people, but I'm finding this absolutely fascinating.
And so man, that, that makes me feel so warm and fuzzy.
I love that.
It, especially the ones that are, it confuses, you know, it's like, what happened?
You know, yeah, you can see if you're to categorize the different voices of responses
that we get, you get one group that's, it's almost like a thunderstruck group.
And there's a group that's scared.
Right.
They're the ones shouting, this guy's a demon.
This guy's got a demon.
They don't say he is a demon.
This guy's got a demon.
Right.
Okay.
So, um, look, do we have, can we just, here, pop us both up big.
I want to ask Neil straight up, straight up, man.
Straight up, um, demon possessed guy wants to know, are we back in 1331 yet?
Is it, do you think we're there?
How close do you think?
What spark is it going to take for one of these people to set off the explosion?
Right to take that, burn that body.
You know what I mean?
Thirteen, the 1300s, the fifth, the 14th century is when you finally start to see
the trickling in of sources that are going back to the Greek.
For example, you get Flavio, uh, beyond the Flavio, you get, um, Broomie, and then
Machiavelli's in the next century right after that.
And these people, and then Plethon comes from Constantinople.
Plethon rewired his entire brain.
I'm reading about this guy, Plethon.
Everyone needs to do their homework on him.
He saved civilization, dude.
He brought the Renaissance.
He, him and his wife, not, I shouldn't just say him credit to his wife, too.
They retrained their brains to stop learning Byzantine Greek and Latin, and
they started talking and writing in classical Attic Greek.
And they went back to the sources.
He rejects Christianity.
He loved Homer.
He loved Hellenism.
He loved the Chaldean oracles.
He loved all the ancient Greek stuff.
And he brought, and this is what he did.
He knew that when he died, the church was going to burn all his books because
that's what happened to people like him.
He knew he saw it happen before him.
So he had the smarts to decide, I'm going to take all of my work and I'm going
to give it to someone who I can trust.
That's going to preserve it.
And he goes into Venice and he brings, this is where, so I said the Venice is
where the, oh, I'm sorry, Florence.
Everyone says Florence is where the Renaissance sprouted up, right?
He brings, he goes to Florence and he gives all of his work to Medici and says,
don't tell anyone that I gave you this, save it and get someone to translate it
after I died or pass it down and, you know, copy it into a new, but, you know,
that's how they did it back then before the printed press.
He does that.
And guess what happens after he dies?
Gregory Palamis does in fact order the books to be burned and says, this guy
