No, no, Neil, you have to,
you have to take the light of reason, you know what I mean?
And let me just say something real quick.
I was going to give you one little, one little,
I wasn't going to say this.
I was going to wait on this
because I don't know how I want to argue this point.
But this guy wrote an article about what is religion.
And he tries to define religio, the etymology of the word.
He picks three random sources
where the word religio is used.
He picks plotus, Caesar, and Cicero.
Now, if you go to Perseus Tufts, we call it Alice,
you'll see he left out about 80 other ones.
So why did he choose those three?
Well, it happened to align with what his argument was.
He cherry picks the data.
That's wrong.
You don't do that.
You don't go into, you don't go into research saying,
here's what I want to be true.
Now, let me find all the data to fix that.
That's what Dan was doing in this article.
So, and then he ignores the entire etymology of the word
eosebia, which is the Greek word for religion.
He doesn't even talk about that.
And how are you going to ignore the whole Greek side
of where we get our religion from?
How are you going to just go right to the Latin
and then pick three words?
He's in trouble for this.
The way he defines monotheism is problematic,
in my opinion.
He is selectively deciding that monotheism is just one thing,
depending on how Judeo-Christianity looks at it.
He's ignoring the monism, the pre-Socratics.
He's ignoring Plato.
He's ignoring middle Platonism.
He doesn't know what he's doing.
It seems to me this guy doesn't not know what he's doing.
He shouldn't call himself a scholar of religion.
He should just call himself a scholar of the Hebrew Bible.
That's all he knows.
Anyways, that's all for now.
What's strange?
What's strange?
I find strange about that is to use three sources,
like Plotus and Cicero and Caesar,
and to assert something about religio, the religion.
And when you use that word,
you're talking about old Roman, old Roman rites.
And what is floating in Jesus' Hellenistic environment
is actually, as you said, the Eusebia.
And that's why they're running around talking about Saba
and Saba, because Saba means to worship.
It means to recognize those divinities.
He's even in the wrong stream, right?
He's in the wrong stream from the beginning.
Now you see why I have such an issue with this.
I had to rewrite my script because I had to...
I go, hold on a second.
This is bad.
This is really...
For someone to call it...
This is an award-winning scholar who just wanted an award
for public...
He wanted an award for public-facing academic.
And you're calling yourself a scholar of religion,
and you don't even know what religion means.
That's like a physicist who doesn't understand
who's never read Einstein,
and then just going off on just some random book
they read on Twitter or something, some shit.
That's not a physicist.
You're not a physicist, dude.
Stop calling yourself that.
The other level of depth that you can tell
about the person is...
You can tell that when somebody just looked
at a definition of a word, and without having read...
Like, I doubt that Dan actually reads Plotus.
I doubt that very seriously.
I'm a Hellenist, but I also had to master Latin as well.
And I can tell you for a fact that Plotus is not easy.
Plotus is drawing upon some older, archaic Latin.
That's only from...
It's not that far back, because those had dwellers.
They weren't that advanced.
But the fact is, you know Dan doesn't read...
Dan doesn't sit around reading Plotus,
and that's what it takes, Neil.
That's what it takes.
This is a good transition because people are asking me,
what about the teaching and what about bringing us in?
I want to learn great...
This requires a commitment.
When you were reading texts every day,
you were developing a kind of a second sense or feeling.
You can kind of feel the Greek stretched around you.
You feel where that cozy space is.
And you only get that by charging through these texts all the time.
If Dan's reading a shit ton of Plotus,
then what we ought to do is bring that forward.
If he's playing a Grammarian's game, right?
Not even a good Grammarian's game.
I like a Byzantine Grammarian,
but like a modern evangelical or large church,
whether it's Mormon or Jehovah's Witnesses or whatever,
any of them, right?
Any of those monists.
It feels like he plays that game.
And that's disingenuous, man.
If he's not out there reading Plotus, right?
If he doesn't know Cicero,
and why it is that Cicero is so enamored
of the divination of the Etruscans,
you know, don't tell me, right?
Oh God, I'm sorry.
Yeah, you're getting my goat.
Where's Penelope?
Did you bring Penelope tonight?
Let's flash Penelope.
In the holy name of everything sacred,
please consider this cross and what it covers.
The multitude of sin and that sin Penelope is gorgeous.
It's gorgeous sin, I have to admit.
But thank you for coming tonight.
Neil, I'm going to give you the last comment,
and then I'm going to hell Satan us out.
Oh, so if you enjoyed that interview
that you did with Danny,
first of all, definitely share it to somebody
because it means this to go viral.
If you're going to let it play on your computer
while you're going in the other room,
give it some more watch time.
Get that thing out there.
Write another comment in there.
Hit the like button.
Get that thing up there.
And by the way, I'm following it up
with my own talk that I already had with Danny,
which is being edited right now.
And check this out, it's almost like a part two
because Danny was so shook up from talking to you.
He had to ask me questions
on what I thought about all this stuff.
So immediately the whole first hour of our discussion
was about your discussion.
So it really is like a perfect part two.
So you got to stay tuned and watch that part as well.
You'll see we go right back to the sources again.
We talk about Jesus and the boy and the garden.
It's all going to be there, even me.
So you'll enjoy it.
I also talk about some early dirty Christian sources,
like the Borba Rites and Mary being taken.
This is part of the Borba Rite Gospel
that Mary gets taken up onto a mountain with Jesus.
And he says, in order to make it to the Kingdom of Heaven,
you have to drink my load.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to say the word.
This is in the Borba Rite Gospel.
And so we went through those sources,
the purple, how the Marcus Magus got charged
with putting purple psychedelics in the Eucharist in Rome.
And then we find out that his sect of Christianity,
the Marcosians, was the biggest spreading Christian group.
There was all the way in France.
So the early Christians were dirty as hell.
And we know this.
The sources reflect it.
I brought that to the table, and you'll see that's coming up.
Whenever Dan's ready on that,
he might have it up next week, two weeks.
Who knows?
Whatever.
But he is so good.
He should be given.
You should be like, hey, Danny, don't take your time.
Take your time.
Yeah, hell yeah.
Take your time.
Whenever it's ready, it's ready.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Loved it.
Loved it.
It was an honor.
And I want to give him a last salute tonight.
I want to give him the last salute and say thank you, Danny.
I appreciate the fact that you would give a place for people
to be able to discuss what everybody is immediately
going to condemn and everybody's immediately going to say,
no, this is not the way it is.
And it's, oh, you're going to hell.
And oh, God, thank you, Danny.
I appreciate it for all of Danny's Christian audience who may
have been offended at the idea of Jesus Christ arrested
with a naked boy who had his private parts covered
by a medicated bandage that Jesus was
using to get an antidote to a sacramental drug
while he's yelling, I'm not a child trafficker.
To those of you who that doesn't sit well with,
good.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turb Shell, magic even stronger
than the drugs to sell are the songs, the magic fleece,
darkness through dreams, an animal skin with the song
of the queen written there with magic ink guarded
by a dragon in the grave of Mars on the east side
of the Black Sea, dragon venom from the god with horns.
I am being Ionic.
Watch the image, Jude's letters in Greek,
cornucopia, Ouroboros, Cleo, Medea, and Bacchus.
The dragon venom will knock her back.
Phase interferometry, traces floating, crazy eyes,
drinking purple mead and whiskey with Lady Medea straight
out of Babylon.
Venus with a penis, gold horns of Alexander,
hit you with the mandobrot set on the DMT,
weigh up the elemental piece, slang what words will it mean,
dragon venom of darkest dreams.
