Lovely.
Hit the mark every time. Psychotropic logos. You know who's in the right.
Urses with a giggling smile. Produce the flowers with a pow. I give you my blood.
Do you have the blood of the dying god? Sell fire with the stars in your eyes.
Rub it in the man who's laughing. I am being drink. Hallelujah.
From Aphrodite's lips.
People produce cult. Gorgeous. Make your face melt.
Terror cards dealt.
Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead.
Simon says. Hail Satan.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Bacchic Orgy.
We're going to be looking at the maculate reception tonight.
This is a special episode.
What we have going on for you is a little tag team between myself and between Gnostic and Format.
We're going to get it on.
But before we do, what are we going to talk about?
We're going to talk about the most excellent and glorious release of the interview on Danny Jones.
Yes, yes. Cue the applause, Chewie. It's fantastic.
And it's going swimmingly.
And it occurred to me as that current was hitting.
I thought, you know, all those great, great people on Lady Babylon, all the Satanic congregation.
We need a party and we're going to have one tonight because we have momentum.
And we are in a place that we can bring that museum back.
I love this. I absolutely love this.
Now, how are we going to get there tonight?
I'm going to take you into the mines.
There's so many souls.
There's so many souls to suck.
Oh, God, it feels so good.
It's almost not right.
Oh, God.
Mommy, show me.
Oh, God, that's part of it.
It's a terrible, terrible thing.
Dennis Hopper, I think, was the source of that.
Fantastic. Here's what we're going to do.
We're going to bring on Gnostic and Format here and we're going to look through some comments and some clips.
And I just want to celebrate.
I want to say this. This is my introduction.
It's so nice to look back upon the fields that you have toiled and labored over.
It's so nice to be a craftsman and to know that you have finally produced that gorgeous, gorgeous product.
This dope, this dope.
If it doesn't rub the wrong way, it's not the right stuff.
That's what we're going to be looking at tonight.
We're going to do it through the eyeballs, the minds of those people who are watching.
This is such a nice opportunity.
Danny Jones has given me the opportunity to take what I've been bringing to everybody here
and take it to the world.
And he did such a fantastic job in the interview and caught me off guard.
Caught me off guard. How often does that happen?
Oh, God, I loved it. I loved it.
Let's begin by bringing Neil in and tell us, go ahead, Chewie, beam him up.
That's the wrong one.
Okay, Gnostic Informer, welcome.
I'm going to show us a clip here to start.
And I just want you to give me your impressions.
Let me know what you think.
Is there anything you want to say, Neil, before we begin here tonight?
That three and a half hour discussion that you and Danny had was incredible.
And we're looking at the metrics.
Me and Danny are looking at the numbers, crunching the numbers.
This is going viral.
It's got the watchtimes through the roof.
The comments, thousands of comments through the roof.
Likes through the roof.
Watchtime already said that.
It's got the click rate through at like 10%.
This video is taking off, which is exactly what we hope for.
And we knew that the reaction would be mixed.
We didn't have any doubts about that.
That we don't care about.
That's what we want to see.
We love to see both the haters and the lovers.
That's the best part about it.
You were under the muse the whole time.
You were just glowing, dude.
You were just glowing.
Do we have that picture?
Chewie, can you pull up that picture?
Is the cover for Danny's?
Yeah, there we go.
Look at you.
There we go.
There we go.
What is that?
You said the one part that my hair stood up when you looked over and you said,
Donna, she's that warrior, that warrior virgin that we put up on the hill.
Yeah.
Danny just looked at you and goes, whoa.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was so, oh, it was so nice to be able to do.
It was so nice.
One of the greatest podcasts I've ever seen in a long time.
Well, hopefully, you know, I want, that's part of what I wanted to make tonight too
is I want the satanic congregation that has been there so long with me.
Now, can you hear the people leaving the building?
We do that.
Why do we do that?
We do it on purpose so those people will go away.
So can you imagine the satanic congregation has been through this the whole way?
And I just want to share in this victory in the labors of many people and a community
effort and a real, you know, what I think is a spark to a renaissance.
This is gorgeous.
I can't.
I'm so privileged to be able to work with every one of you.
And I just want to say from the altar of our temple, thank you.
Thank you.
Oh, God.
Let's look at some comments.
Put me in my place with some.
Oh, wait, leave that up.
Oh, I love that.
Give me some comments here.
Let's roll out a couple.
I've got them ready.
Now I'm going to give a lot where I want to fly through some of these and then I want
to roll some couple of tapes, but let's start out with a couple of comments.
Evil.
Evil.
I love it.
I thought that was nice and concise.
One word.
Give us the next one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Many of these fools only listen to the first 10 minutes as it shows.
He's just weeding out.
Right.
Close minded.
Thank you.
Some people.
Yeah.
Some people get it, you know what I mean?
And they're like, oh, I get it.
Why do you always say Hail Satan?
Okay.
It makes you uncomfortable.
Get out.
Right.
That's the gadfly, bro.
Okay.
Let's go to the next one.
I want your comment on this one.
You read this one.
Can you read this one?
It's kind of small.
I love this guest so much.
He comes off a little cracked in the head, but how would you not be after reading an actual
ancient text, but everything we are taught about the past is completely inaccurate.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was nice.
Well, sir.
I felt a little, you know, when I read a comment like that, I feel vindicated.
Like, Oh, it caught somebody caught it.
And they're like, Oh, thank you.
Thank me.
Go to the next one.
It's gorgeous.
This guy took a trip and never came back that.
Okay.
I want to ask your opinion.
Neil, a lot of these comments are about drug use and it was there anything in that interview
that made you think somehow that I was some kind of drug user?
You even said you're a purist at some point now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, and if I had to see them and for them is they're hearing you saying so much stuff
that they're shocked to hear that they're thinking he must be doing the stuff that he's claiming
that these Greeks are doing.
But people that actually know the ancient ancient Greek sources know that medical was everything.
There was there was a, there was a gray area between medical and cult.
It was all sort of, you know, brought into the same fold where medicine is everywhere,
drugs are everywhere.
It's just a part of life.
They don't even think about the way we think about it.
Look, the Scythians were not drug users.
They just bathed daily in mists of cannabis.
Right.
That's the Scythian way, brah.
And this kind of stuff, I thought, you know, I was able to, oh, God, I love it.
Let's keep going.
I watched Danny Jones.
What was that?
I didn't see it.
That's okay.
Keep going.
I watched Danny Jones.
Then came here from.
Oh, God.
Thank you very much, Oscar.
That's cool.
That's cool.
Isn't it nice?
Nice job, Chewie.
Okay.
Let's do a couple more of these comments and then run a clip.
How about this one?
Do we take this series?
I'm like five minutes in and this is like, I don't know, complete comedy.
Comedy, drama, horror.
I can't stop watching.
You know, I like this comment because you can just take comedy, change horror to tragedy.
And you've got the two forms of classical drama, right?
You say drama, colon.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
I love that.
Bringing in all of the possessive elements and one more.
Happy Steve.
I was doing well.
Come on.
Seriously.
Okay.
That's a compliment, by the way.
That's a huge compliment.
Thank you very much.
Mr.
I'm going to judge who you are.
I love it.
Bring more.
Give me the first clip.
Let's run the first clip and Neil, I want your opinion on this and just boom.
One sentence.
It sucks or whatever.
Go ahead.
So what does this all mean?
Everything you've learned, everything we've talked about today, all the drug use and all
this cult rituals in the ancient world.
