Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that horc called destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Today it is my distinct Underworld privilege to bring to you
Lamea, to bring to you Jesus the cross-dressing vampire
Who sucks the blood of boys
The Apocalypse
So here we go with the imagery. I won't waste your time.
We're going to turn tonight right to the beginning of the apocalypse.
We're going to look at a little bit of Greek. We're going to translate a little bit.
Just run along fluidly because I need to run you to the image here.
We are being faithful to the image of the Son of Man.
We must maintain the integrity of that image.
Let me show you that image.
Verse 13 in the middle of these lampstands is the image of someone like the Son of Man
dressed all the way to his feet
and zoned on up, kink-shirt on up, joined on up on his mastoid, on his breasts.
Around his breasts he is girding.
The King James will translate gird, gird up your breasts ladies.
We're using support material.
Remember, I'm transporting you to a place where the God S is the model, is the original.
So don't let it surprise you that Jesus is cross-dressing.
In this passage, he's wearing a bra.
And it says it's toys mustoys. We talked about that previously, so I won't beat the point into the ground.
But when you check the Victorians, you get in your ship and you fly back to the Victorians at Oxford,
and you say, hey, gentlemen, what are these mustoys here?
Well, the grammarians from antiquity say the Victorians.
They tell us that these are feminine breasts.
This would have to be mods, have to have the data in there in order for it to be men.
Are there examples that flip back and forth?
And here's the problem. This is the big one that they hold up because the Victorians could not imagine a world
where Jesus would be walking around with feminine breasts.
Yes, they couldn't imagine the world where Jesus had breasts.
Doesn't that say a lot?
Why can none of us imagine a world where Jesus has breasts
and is wearing a very nice, a very nice bra?
That the text is very specific, is holding up, is, it's perry.
It's around them. It's structure, it's support, it's underwire from antiquity.
And it's a golden bra. It's a golden bra.
That's important. Fashion is a big thing.
And we know that there are different colors and materials associated with these priesthoods
that are involved in the mysteries.
Sometimes they're labeled by their colors.
So the use of gold here is quite important.
And none of that, it says, perhaps he's got good taste.
