And what do you get, the privy parts
For those of you who do not speak archaic English
Yeah, it's not quite archaic, but it's getting there
Those are the genitalia
Do you mean the cave is that sacred space?
Yeah, isn't that interesting?
Oh, we should have looked at it that way the whole time
You wouldn't be in this position, would you?
And yes, you'd have some satisfaction
Fantastic, let's go to the next, let's go to the next
Little bit of Greek, I just want to, thank you
Ambakum, go, take a dirt nap
Fantastic, I want to grab you now and I want to pull you
Using known us, I want to pull you into the Gospel of John
And you'll see why this makes sense
But I want to pull you into the Gospel of John
I want to warn you, this is dirty stuff, dirty stuff
Let's just look at it, you know
This Maria, he says, now what is this, by the way?
One more time, because I know we've said it a few times
People getting it, this is the paraphrase
Of John's Gospel, by the incredible scholar
Known us, 5th century, who's doing
Who's working with the most cult
Bacchic mystery, over 48 books
I mean, this guy's genius, right?
This guy has all that's hidden
Has all that esoteric stuff that we need
And he paraphrases it, he says
That esoteric stuff that we need
And he paraphrases, he rewrites John
He rewrites John, and when he does so
He exposes Jesus for what's going on
It's going to get graphic, it's going to get really graphic
But what's happening here? Maria, yeah
Mary, what's going on?
This is the Mary, which Mary are we talking about?
We're talking about the one who carries the goddess for Jesus
The one who carries the goddess for Jesus
Take a look at this Greek people
Theedokos, right? That's theedokos
It's an alternative
Most of what you're about to see is alternatives
Greek students, because he's got a fit meter
And these are typical things that Known us does
This work has got his fingerprints all over it
It's definitely, you could not have tried to imitate it
More closely
But he says, what's happening?
This is the Maria that is that one who bears the goddess
That beautiful haired one
And that is a title that we use in the mystery
That we use in the mystery
Who is she who bears the goddess?
I bet you want to know this, don't you?
Who is she who bears the goddess?
It's a title, a cult title
And Mary is given the cult title
Just like we had the Christos Wanaks
Yeah, yeah
Now, here we are
What is she doing for Jesus?
You're about to see her bring the goddess
You're about to see her bring the goddess
And look at the next line, what does she do?
She oils up his feet
She oils up both of his feet
With the do
With the what?
With the do
With the do
I want you to keep that little word in mind for a second
And I just want you to realize that
We're getting into a technical language now
Fantastic, with the do of what?
I'm expecting drugs
Do I see drugs? Of course I do
With respect to the do
Of the myrrh
The murron
That we are using in the
Sacrifices that fumigate us
To the seventh heaven
Fantastic, fantastic
So, don't be mistaken
Don't be mistaken, is there more?
I think there was more there in that one
Sorry to cut you off early on that one
Yeah, look at this last one
Yeah, and what does she do?
She wipes from his feet
She wipes from his feet
Yeah, with her hair
And this apo maso, what is it?
We have the Greek word, apo maso
I think we did, it should be the next
Should be the next one on the slide
Yep, very good, I think
Yeah, there we go, take a look at this people
Yeah, it means to wipe off
