Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that horc called destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Welcome back to Lady Babylon Bible Study. This will be our last before my vacation.
So we'll be off for a week. All our classes will be stopped for a week.
And then we'll pick up with more vim and vigor than we had before.
By the way, I'm really pleased with my students. You guys are doing a fantastic job.
Just a fantastic job. We have a great show tonight for you.
We're going to start off with the disease and we're going to end with a cure.
Some excitement tonight. A few reels for you.
A little bit of play with some video and we will watch the bride burn.
Our first issue tonight is an update coming to us from Kentucky at the end of a revival.
Yes, at the end of a revival. Roll it.
And what God started here a week ago is showing no signs of stopping.
Wendy Griffith, CBN News, Asbury University in Wilmore, Kentucky.
Well, apparently it's infectious. Lee University is already seeing a similar move.
I know many universities sending delegations there in hopes that they can catch it.
A shout out to all the witches in their poxery.
Today I want to jump into right into a little bit of our present.
We're pulling from the past and we're pulling from the future into this moment.
And at this moment, I want you to be able to see what's around you.
And I want you to be able to appreciate where we are.
A little bit of the museum wrapped up in some video.
I'd like you to watch. I want to play this first video and then I'm going to read to you a vice, an article by Vice,
which I think is the last true journalistic holdout.
What these reporters do, what these, what they get is, you know,
it's the difference between what you buy in the store that's processed and what grows out of the ground.
It's the real stuff. It's the real stuff.
I want you to take a look tonight. I invite tonight we invite to a Bible study,
an authority on the Bible and just the right person to set the stage for you to see.
Maybe, maybe what it's all about.
An almost perfect jumble.
French routinely trips over the wise Turk foolish Christian trope.
Whether he refers to it or not, it is always running in the background.
Quote, the most prominent apologetics ministry in the United States was run by an abuser of women.
You have perhaps the largest Christian camp housing one of the worst super predators in American life for a decade plus and then covering it up.
You could go down the line and time and time again, I hear Christians say, we need more Christians in power.
And I'm thinking, do we though?
Close quote.
What he wants is more people in power who actually act like Christians.
So do I.
He wants Christian values to govern, but is not willing to call them that.
