Wow.
Yeah.
Either with violence or by waiting until after she took a prescription sleeping pill.
Sometimes I'd wake up with him on me having me or I'd wake up the next morning and be bleeding and see the signs.
Gene has since been diagnosed with PTSD from sexual assault.
You know, years into her marriage, gene went to several pastors at Trinity Reform, a Moscow Christ church plant and told them her husband had been raping her.
Oh, they did notify Christ church leaders because her then husband's father was an elder who could be disciplined.
And if his son continued to sin, the pastors at Trinity quote, all told me not to report it and that I was wrong.
These pastors told me a wife is not allowed to tell her husband.
No.
Yeah.
It gets worse from there.
They keep pressuring her not to not to do anything about it.
It's an accepted, you know, thing.
And the church Wilson comes out with comments about children being children who raped can be married to the person who raped them for a if they exhibit repentance and if they pay a fine, right?
There's a it's a based on a godly law.
Jehovah did the same stuff.
Right.
It's all the trafficking.
Right.
But human trafficking.
Amazing.
Well, what does this have to do with the Bible and with Bible study and with satanic initiation?
Right.
What does it have to do?
We're going to try to make that bridge.
We've got another.
We've got just about 15 minutes.
But we're going to make a bridge now as we're sitting in that history and we're looking at Jesus in the garden saying, why is he with that naked kid?
And everybody has walked out of the room who has who has any respect for what is going on.
Right.
Everybody's left because we've got him in a garden.
We got him at 4am.
We got him with a naked boy.
He's obviously on something.
He's confused and he's thrown around the word trafficker.
He said, I'm not a trafficker.
I'm not a trafficker.
So let's figure out where do we go between his followers and the what they produce this anti government movement doesn't matter that's America.
Right.
And this is where you Brits and you Canadians know you got that funny feeling and you know you're behind us.
Right.
We're the pioneers and looks like one of the pioneers with the with the the dark attempts to overthrow the light of justice and and democracy.
