So he wants our virtuous actions in the public square to be the kind of thing that can spring up anywhere like Athena from the head of Zeus.
No, no, not the head of Zeus to religious to denominational.
We want a secular Athena to emerge from an unspecified cupboard of vanilla virtue.
The cupboard is located in the back of the house.
We're not sure where exactly he wants to capture the vapors of civic virtue that are seeping out of the mystery box.
He wants generally Christian friendly virtue without having to name the name of Christ.
You can see the symbols coming forward.
Take the left handed path.
Let's follow where he goes with it.
But here's the catch that doesn't exist.
The virtues that David French loves and respects and fights for are virtues that are not like Melchizedek.
The virtues that are embedded in our customs, mores and laws and which are barely hanging on anymore are not quote without father or mother.
Our public virtues are not without genealogy.
They actually had a beginning of days.
They grew up in the black soil of a robust Christian consensus, as Francis Schaefer cogently argued.
And ever since the day we decided to transplant them all into this white powdery chalk, they have done quite poorly.
And the more they wilt, the more David French lectures those Christians who want to put them back in their original soil.
So, we see what we've got in front of us.
And you say, oh, this is ridiculous that we're having to go into this because these people don't have any influence.
No, it turns out they do.
And it turns out your government is being attacked right now.
Right now.
The insurrection is happening.
Historically, people, we don't have flights of fancy and small units over time.
There are movements that rise against the government, against the powers that be.
And those movements start through this web of what Doug Wilson is weaving.
Yes, he's an open advocate for overthrowing the powers that God does not deem to be of his standard.
Yes, yes.
So today, the theme in the background is, as the bride burns, is the idea of this voice of democracy, this voice of where it came from.
Right. How does it come out?
How does it bring itself to life?
After centuries of lying and rest under tyranny.
How does it bubble forth out of the out of the soil?
Vice News published an article about Doug and his.
Doug and his.
His escapades and it's titled inside the church that preaches wives need to be led with a firm hand.
With a firm hand.
I want to read a quote to you, depending upon whom you ask the town either host the Calvinist utopia or a patriarchal cult in which women must submit a face discipline at home and that church.
I'm not why that's an easy.
I'm not sure why that's an either or.
You know, you can have both of those as a matter of fact, I don't think you can have that as an either or.
Yeah, they just go together.
They go together.
