You don't know the Ionian name. You just don't know it. You don't know the being
Do you understand? No, I see that's the point. You doomed you do not to it's that cool and
That allows the Christ to select
To be very selective with initiations because there's only some of us who have ears to hear
Everybody else is gonna get slaughtered. Do you see the modest tendencies?
Do you see how destructive the modest tendencies are? Oh?
It's fantastic. Let's go. Um, yeah, let's go to the next one quickly here quickly. I want you to be reading this story as I'm
As I'm translating right. What's God gonna do? What else God, please tell me from the bush tell me
I'm gonna open your mouth. I'm gonna open your mouth. What are you gonna put my mouth God?
remember
the only place on
God
That museus, I'm sorry that Moses ever gets to see is
His buttocks
Yeah, you mean
Moses saw
Yahoo's anus
Yeah, he did
He had to be put it's so powerful to see the anus
of
Jehovah
It is so powerful. You got to be put into a rock
Right, they're gonna have to cement you in there because it's boom when you see that thing walkable. Oh, he's like look
I'm gonna put you in this rock right now. I don't know how much of that burning bush is taking its effect
I don't know what we did with that venom in that rob down and
All I remember was you told me to try to pick it up by something
To pick it up by something and that's something in the Greek is a membrum. We really
Wait, what yes, God said reach out Moses reach out your hand and grab
Grab the dragon's male member
Grab that the reason we have to have the membrum
We relay and Latin is because you would be shocked that Moses and God are sitting there talking about a
penis and
God is like
reach out and grab it
Egyptians are doing the same thing
Don't be shocked
Okay, the text openly says those
Fatima case those
It's often translated as sorcerers, but it's sorcerer doesn't you know sorcerer is Harry Potter
Right, it's fantasy land. These are people who have immense drug knowledge and not in a nice so way
They're aggressive
Right, and they get involved in governments
Right that kind of approach that kind of cult. That's why even the Romans at one point like oh
This cannot go on these Balkans. They have to be stopped
Right, you're like what the Romans persecuted boggins. I thought I thought they're
Yeah, no they did
Because there's a power
There's a power to the Bacchic
Mystery when you have those churches they take power
Yeah, that's how it is, bro. That's how it is. It's just a taste of monotheism
Right just it's released as soon as you stop the stranglehold, right? Just it's just that spanks, right?
You know, I'm gonna strangle right. That's what it's it's that moment
Yeah, thunder struck remember we're getting thunder struck
Yeah, fantastic. Um go to the next one. Let's get a little bit more of the story just some of the salacious stuff. Yep
Somewhere down there
Right, he's gonna put in his what is he gonna put in his mouth go down here go down here
He's gonna put no, no, no
Yeah, yeah, we he's gonna open his mouth and he's gonna he's gonna really apply it
You know what I mean? What's what's Jehovah putting in my mouth? He's putting that lame. That's how there you can see it
All right, so remember what do you do with the wand?
You capture and control somebody's thoughts and what do you put into their mouth?
You know, you put the sayings
You put the words they're gonna come right out right out. It's very it's basically just essential, you know
Sophisticated chemical programming. We're not doing anything different from what Cersei was doing
But Cersei figured out a way how to turn a dude into a total slave and make him like a sex fiend
Isn't that nice just for toy for whenever you you wanted to otherwise you're giving him drugs to pacify him
Right, isn't that cool? That's kind of yeah, all you got to do is you got to give him that one
combo that makes them
Enter death and then you bring him back as soon as you do that. They're so grateful
Right that you become a gatekeeper
right remember John Seatsy says
Cersei went back to find Odysseus when he went back to Ptolemy. He said went back to find Odysseus and
it says
Seatsy says she killed him and resurrected him. Yeah. Yeah, she was restarting
She was restarting something didn't happen
Right, and he was just always sitting there on the beach right crying
You know, you want to know what Odysseus did for years. He sat on a beach and cried
He cried man that guy had so many so many drugs pumped in him
He could you know, who's giving him to him Hermes is the first one. He gives it. Here's the best stuff
Here's the best stuff. Oh, it's fantastic that angel from that bush always brings that first rush
Yeah, that first drug
Again, these are drug combos. These aren't symbols. Okay, go ahead
So don't get all excited about which one is the magic drug because it doesn't exist. All right
What is what is this sign? Yeah, we're just let's keep going. Let's keep going. I skip one keep going go down here
What what do we have there? Yeah, hit that one. Perfect. Perfect. We're gonna expect to see tata top people
You just have to I just want you to buckle up because we're gonna see those
Those totally horrific things right those things that are way out of touch with reality
Yeah, the things that are you know, they can't happen that way
It just doesn't make sense for them to have but they do things we really can't explain and go ahead hit me with the next one
What else do you want me to do?
Jehovah you want me to what? Oh, I'm gonna kill your
Firstborn child brah. That's what I want you to do
You want me to go in there to Pharaoh and one of the things that I'm gonna say to him is this I'm gonna kill
Your first born. Yes. Okay. All right. I get it. I get it. I'm there. I feel it. I feel it
But give me the give me the whole picture. We're almost done people. Look at this. Look at this
Okay, I'm gonna go do what you say. This is what Moses does he tells him
I'm gonna go do what you say he walks away. You know, I mean, it's not under the influence
He's walking. He's just going to a place to stay with his wife
He's found a motel six right. This is not the fanciest place on the planet. This is not
You know beds may not be the cleanest
Right. Um, you can get away with some things here that maybe yeah, I don't know makes us feel uncomfortable a little bit
Don't worry about that. I got this job done
Um, I'm perfectly bachic. I'm exactly where I need to be as a bachan
So, um, I'm here with my wife and what happens. Oh
one of the one of the
Angeloi
Who serves the kurios shows up and guess what it says says he comes up gets in moses his face
And he gets ready to kill him
he's gonna kill him and what does he do when
Sephora sees that's moses his wife, right when she sees that he's about to get killed because gangsta ya
has sent this
