Friggin enforcer out to kill him
Right. Do you see what happens now? You know why we brought
Medea to adam now. Do you understand?
What that was for didn't you understand what those kidnappings were all about?
Oh god tried reading herodotus people
Oh, where's the seminarian? He doesn't know what herodotus is. It's a person
Oh seminarian seminarian buttocks
Deserves deserves to be to be punished for not
Knowing
Boys you're gonna step in and if you're not careful next thing, you know, you're gonna wake up in a
Drowsy in a garden. Can you imagine peter james and john who are so drowsy?
They've been so drugged. These are teenage boys, right?
And they've been so drugged that they can't stay awake and there's this creepy guy jesus with a kid
Who's a young kid and he's got his penis wrapped up and he's with this young kid
Can you imagine waking up this one of those boys at what point do you say? Hey, you know, this adventure's over
Right this I can't take this stuff anymore. Look the guy can't even stand. He's stumbling around
He's got all this purple goop on his face. Looks like clotting blood
What has he been doing to that kid for the last hour?
Yeah, did you know jesus had that kid in there for an hour
Now their hour could be an hour and a half two hours on our time
Oh god, what's he he's got enough time with that kid
And that you know, he was saying right and he was saying oh god
I don't want this take this take this cup away that poor kid cup that poor kid cup
I feel so bad for that kid. He could have had a normal life, baby. He could have come on jesus
Right, maybe he sensed that and maybe that's some of the brightness in jesus's life
Is it maybe in the end when you're saying I don't want to drink this cup?
Because he had to drink his communion right out of that kid's private parts
The purple is going to be absorbed in his mouth
Yeah, you know, he's going to get the galene the antidote through that kid's semen
And I can't tell you how disgusting it is for me to think
About what jesus was doing with that naked boy. I know it's disgusting
But that's where we have to go for reality if we want to get down
Let's hit the last couple of verses here. It gets my goat right now. It gets my goat that we don't
that um
We don't have a proper appreciation
For what we're looking at in the symbols tonight. I just want you to remember what that symbol means
I want you to remember and I want you to know what that symbol covers
I want you to know it Penelope
You're my darling
And I believe you're gorgeous. I believe you're gorgeous. Thank you for coming tonight Penelope. Okay. Let's go back
We got a couple of texts left. That's it hit us. Yeah, wherever we skip. I don't know right there
Here we go. There's a ram something was written on a ram. Oh
God, did I miss it again?
Right something's written on the ram remember
And not to conform it gave you these sources last week. He told you
Tacitus the roman historian very capable roman historian says that the jews are
Exiles right and common and antiquative exiles something they were the only people ever right it's happening all the time
It's movements migrations of people right disturbances civic disturbances and migrations
And he says that the jews
Were one of these migrations and they originally came from crete and that they threw off the worship of the
almond
the eighth
remember the eighth
That we're looking for in the apocalypse. He threw off
almond threw them off exiled them
They were not allowed to become monotheists
Right almond prevented it. Do you see?
Do you see?
It's written all of this is written on that
on that ram
It's written on the skin of that ram and the dragon is protecting it. Let's go. Let's go the next one
Oh god watch this. Here's what I don't want
Here's what I don't want. I don't want you to make those incisions in your skin
um for the sake of your
soul
And I don't want you to write those tattooed letters
On your body
Do you know why?
Do you know why the kurios?
the monest divinity
Of the jewish religion. Do you know why he doesn't?
Want you to have tattoos on your body. He doesn't want you to make those incisions
Do you know why?
Because that's the activity
Of an augdued
That's an activity of a polytheistic system
That's preserving liberty
That's what they do
When you have a monest takeover you take everybody and put them into a box and whoever doesn't fit into the box gets executed
That's the way it works. That is the way that we function
Especially when we are pushing genocide
Right, right, which is in the text, right? So, okay fantastic. That's that's um, that's what we don't want
almonds
It's going to give you the tattoos, right? We don't want that go
um and
Tell your brother what throw down that rub done and reach down do it right in front of ferro
Right, what's it going to become? It's going to become the
Dragon give me the last one. What happens when all of this mystery is performed
There is born a dragon
Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate your time. I appreciate your time
Um gnostic informant was way laid technologically. So we'll see him next time. Maybe um, but I want to tell you before we go
As you see the dragon emerge as you find the beast
Bearing up that cup and you know
What it was that was done in the mystery realize
you
Are becoming awake
This is all this is all reality and you are coming awake
Love it. Love it. I want to see I want to see that edge
We don't have much time left
And we need to cut to the chase. We need to find
That target and we need to eliminate it. This is the classical world reemerging
In a renaissance in a renaissance
Thank you
And for everybody who asked why I do it
Hail Satan
Madea with the kiss of poison she's coming to see you
Madea
