Putting you in the mindset, when you inhale that smoke baby, woo, sends us, let's go to that next one, by the way, the guys having convulsions
But if a woman over its vapors bend and catch the healing fumes as they ascend, long pint within, by circulation slow, at last dissolved, denoctious, humorous flow
She marks the flux and conscious of release, what does that say, what does that say, departs exalting, having escaped the failed disease
Isn't that fantastic, what do we do with these women and their issues of blood, well, some of the cult people are drinking it as we've seen, because the stuff, the stuff is full
Absolutely junk, full of the drugs, one more, let's go back to the next text in Greek, please, we'll get a chance, sorry about that too, I pulled this off that too quick, I get that
But hey, what does this remind us of, hey, just look at here, just look at here, I want you to see, you can take the juniper, you can take a fresh cutting, the juniper I'm translating, right
That's what Medea did, she took that fresh cutting of it and she baptized, she, look at that third line down, great students, baptusa ek, kouke onos, akere tafarmaka a oidas
Oh my God, where'd she put the drugs, rein e kat of talmon, she put them in his eyes, wait, this is Medea, yeah, putting drugs into someone's eyes, making him new, and those drugs are the akere tafarmaka
The akere ta, now you don't hear it, but that's a cult word, that's a cult word, if we bring that to you, you're going to see a purification, you're going to see a virgin, you're going to see a purification and a virgin
And when I say purification, I mean a fumigation, and we are going to create her flow, we are going to create her flow, she will have the akere ta, wait a minute, what, she will have on golden bed the water of life
Oh, interesting, interesting, yeah, you see how that works, the essence is reabsorbed, that's how they said it, the essence is reabsorbed, right, interesting, fantastic, did I just hear abortion?
Yes you did, was that kind of a holy church abortion? Yes it was, yes it was, okay, okay, I'm there, I'm there, let's keep going, I'm starting to get scared, I don't know if anybody else is, but I'm starting to intimidate you a little bit, let's go, hang in there, give us the next text, yep, give us that one
Look what, what do these people do, what do these people do? They walk on water, wait what, I got to get this one out of them, okay, here's the question, here's the question nameless one, what do these people do who are engaged in the rights,
They walk, no say it, no, because we all want to hear it, we all want to hear it, we all want to hear it, please, please, what do they do, they walk on water, boom, they control issues of blood,
They walk on water.
They cast out demons.
They cause people's ears to be opened, the deaf here.
You mean these people who are following the dude
with the golden rod with the serpent?
Yeah.
What kind of serpent is that, by the way?
What does our text tell us?
The very same text I'm reading to you.
What does it tell us?
It's an aches.
It's an aches?
What's an aches?
It's a viper.
It's a viper.
OK.
Do you have time for the antidotes for us to go through?
Let's just look at what these cultists are doing with each other.
Let's just bring up that last one again.
Let me make sure I didn't miss anything.
Yep.
No, he's walking on that plain land,
like water, like it's land.
Fantastic.
I forgot to say here, though, in this one, look.
Oh, my God, we almost forgot the drugs.
This is the first time I've done this in five seasons.
Chewie, it's the first time.
It's the first time.
Oh, people, you're going to kick me for this one.
Look on that second line.
You see that cookie on us?
Do you know where she's drawing that drug?
She's drawing it from the cookie on.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Did you say?
Elusis, how many people have talked to you about elusis
and what the Elusinian mysteries are?
Did you know that Medea was using the cocaine?
And then in this case, in this case,
she's using it to make another formula while she's singing.
And this one is applied.
It's got the purple in it.
It's applied.
It says right here in that text.
I don't need to see it.
It says right there in that text.
It's applied to the eyes.
People have been asking me.
Medea, show us.
