argued on people's.
Yeah, actual people, right?
Love it.
Let's go back to these drug users.
One more Greek text.
I know people are saying take your time,
but I don't want to take too much time.
OK, this is the dirty one here.
We got to this point 33 minutes before it got dirty.
Now, people want to know and take it down.
People want to know what's this Magus?
What is this person who knows the gifts of Hermes?
What is he doing?
What is he doing?
Oh, OK.
Now, I'm going to have to give this to you in a way that
is very, very clinical and does not stimulate us.
Yes, let me tell you what is going on.
As investigators, you're looking at a crime scene
with boys and girls and pirates.
You're looking at a scene where people are using drugs
to bridge the gap between the two worlds that
are fixed upon each other.
Now, you're dealing with a world of initiation where boys are
brought to adulthood through a drug-influenced interaction
with an adult female who is not only drugging
aforementioned a boy so that he may see Aphrodite,
but she is, as a willing vessel, accepting that diamond
to bring him to the place of vision.
That is an initiation.
That is an initiation.
OK.
Let's look at some drugs to see what kind of stuff they were
using.
Bring me back that same text.
I want to finish that off.
Yeah.
So, or we got it.
We have a new star of it.
The Aetheroi.
Who are Aetheroi?
I actually put this one up here, and so I kind of want
to show it to you, but it equals Parthenos.
It is the virgin on the masculine side.
It's as virgin as they get for masculine.
Now, when I say virgin, I do not mean a hymenly intact human
being.
You can have a discussion of what a virgin is
on a modern level, or you can ask about antiquity,
and different times it's going to change.
But if you follow the Greek, that virgin is the one who is
not yet calved, is how they put it.
And from that, I'm sorry, people, if you don't like being
compared to livestock, you know, that's too bad,
because that's what they're doing.
They're talking about the one of the species that has not
yet produced a child.
That's not yet produced a child.
That's the virgin.
That's the virgin.
And it turns out it's an age group.
It's an age group.
Yeah, it's an age group.
So, let's go see.
Back to the text.
