And having absorbed that piece of indecent history, look at us all sitting here in the salon.
I just wanted to open tonight. Just throw that out there and say, look at us in the salon.
We want the reality. We want to see what was actually there.
Right now, Neil, Gnostic Informants on his channel doing his thing and he's punching it out, slugging it out.
Yeah, slugging it out to establish some kind of some kind of decorum in the museum.
I give him kudos for that. I give him kudos. Let's see if we can find that place, that ritual place.
Come on, man. This is good, good, good drug ritual stuff from antiquity.
These texts are going to blow your mind. They're going to really sink their teeth into you.
We've got our tongue out. We've got our tongue out. We've got those fearsome fangs.
This is at the bottom of the pot. This is at the bottom of the brew.
When you drink, this is the image that sends you off.
This is the Medusa. This is the resurrected Lady Babylon.
I forgot to tell you guys, but Jesus has a felony interdimensional warrant out on him.
It looks like this sort of circus where we all meet in a tent.
It looks like it's there for a reason. It comes through. It bleeds through the metaphysics.
It's like quantum radiation if there is such a thing. Yeah. Wow, fantastic.
Let's go to a couple of texts. Tonight I want to start out with someone you're going to recognize.
Then I want to look at the ritual. The ship is stopped. Everybody off. Get out. Take your lunches with you.
The bus won't be coming back until this evening. By the way, congratulations to my student.
I will brag for you and I will be on a dig. She will be on a dig.
They'll be looking at some thracian stuff. It's a black sea. Oh God, congratulations.
I'm not going to say your name, but congratulations that you got there. What a great opportunity.
You'll have to be sending us back data. You'll have to let us know what's going on, man.
This is the frontier now, the archaeological frontier. We're right there at that late Bronze Age.
Throw us up some Greek here so we can look at texts together. I want to look at the single.
I want to look at the, nope, not that one. That one. There we go. Thanks, Joey. Yep, that one. There we go.
They're a little bit out of order. I apologize. Look at the name that's underlined there on the second line down.
That's Amon. We're talking about this God of Libya. We're talking about this one who's from the sand.
He's from that desert. That one is the horned prophet. The prophet with the horns.
The prophet with the horns. That's the one who Amon is. What does that mean? I'm pulling you into the riot.
We're going. Set your mind on drive and let's go into the riot.
