I never meant anything I said Just spittin' on everything I've been fittin'
Keepin' from eatin' away at me Never said anything I meant
I never said the letters that I should've said So it's askin' too much for you all to believe
But when I say, never meant nobody knows When I say, never was the cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Man, talk about a memory wipe. Welcome back to Lady Babylon's Satanic Initiation.
The report is in from Lucifer. We've got grand news. Apparently the whole Bronze Age drug hair thing is going like it.
It's supposed to be going. People are focusing a little bit of interest in it.
I am going to take us in deeper, then, into these Bronze Age drug-using ceremonies.
Yeah, you can like this. It's gonna be a good night.
And we're also gonna start tonight with a little bit of a little vitty for you to consider.
Just to set us up a mood, you know, to see the playing field, put all the gods out there and let's see what happens.
That's tonight.
I have been asking Derek to come. We did our survey and Derek knows that he would be welcome to come in lingerie and platinum wig for a fight night sometime.
I know that there will be a time that's coming. So I appreciate everybody responding to that. That was nice.
I want to start tonight with a clip and I want to look at this clip twice again.
Not only because that's part of the training, but it's also reinforcement for this, you know, form of hypnosis that we're doing here.
Because that's really where you have to go to get into these sources. You have to get into the mind of the people there.
You have to be in the spot so that when they start using this vocabulary and talking about their ritual, you're seeing it through their eyes.
You're seeing it through their eyes. I told you guys last time, the devil was very pleased with the report back on the Lemnian Earth.
This is fantastic. We're talking about the blood of Typhon, the blood of Typhon.
Oh God, this is the Ostromania inducing stuff.
And tonight I want to take us via known us to the ritual activity of those who use the Ostromania.
Yes, the very practice of the mystery itself, the very practice of the mystery itself.
First, I want to start with some who have practiced the mystery. Some who have practiced the mystery.
I want to look at these individuals and I've got a little, just a short vid to warm us up. Chewie hit it.
I'm very curious.
And sad. My dumb.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, he stuck out his tongue. Yeah, isn't that something? It's quite an image. It's quite an image.
