Benumbed ecstasy, you know what they call that?
They call that the chill, the chilling ecstasy
You can get heated or you can get chilled
You know what I'm talking about
You can get heated in the ecstasy
You can get chilled in the opium
That's how they expressed it in antiquity
You get chilled
One of the drugs used in antiquity that has entirely escaped the radar of modern scholars is snake venom
Venoms of various snake species were used as medicines, regulators of menstruation, and weaponized poisons
Don't you love this, ladies? Listen to this
If you have a cycle, did you know that you can regulate that cycle?
Did you know that you can flow when you want to flow?
Did you know you can turn your flow up and down?
Did you know that you can design your flow?
Yeah, turns out you can't
Listen to what these people are doing
That's medicine, this is all coming out of the midwives
Oh god, that's the medicine
Imagine, we just suffer the effects
Right? And for the sake of trying to control our reproductivity
We could put the kibosh on that
We haven't gotten as far though as to find the drugs that enable you to control your own menstruation
That's amazing
I love it, drawing down the moon
Because that manae is what the phase is that you go through in order to produce that communion
That communion is your unfertilized soul
Yeah, that you can abort
Yeah, if you can fertilize it and then abort it
Wow, now we're going somewhere
Now we're going somewhere, it's in the process, fetal
Loving the fetal stuff, fetal cells
They're doing this in antiquity? Yeah, they're doing antiquity
They copied them at middle ages
Right? They would take the bull out from underneath the virgin as she ejaculated
And they would give you that
Anal applicators
Yeah, good stuff
For antiquity, recognize the level of sophistication that you have to have
Remember Pliny, we had in Bible study
Pliny was the one saying, hey, they're just showing off
These magi are just showing off
They're just really good at these drugs
And you've got the one with 50-some remedies in it
It's good stuff, let's keep going
The Greeks and Romans recognized that snake venoms were potent biologically active substances
These venoms, when applied to the human body, caused physiological changes
That were readily observable by natural scientists and laymen alike
And were frequently quite dramatic
An elaborate mythology of snake lore appears in the earliest recorded Greek texts
Snakes are presented as gods, guardians, and demons
For example, the followers of Bacchus wrap snakes around their heads
The followers of Bacchus, remember the followers of Bacchus wrap snakes around their head
Right? These are vipers
Yeah, wow
Let me be Jesus, right? Let me be Jesus for a second
