She picked the death-dealing plants and milked the snakes of their venom and mixed them
The wild force of fire was in some, the power of numbing frost in others
So this is a good example of our polypharmacy, sorry this is a good example of our polypharmacy
We're almost there to the conclusion
I want you to see the, are we gonna get cut for this somehow? You think it's okay?
Let's show the mother, let's just take ourselves
Remember the movie that they programmed us with his children?
I'm talking to my 40 to 60 demographic
The movie that they programmed us with his kids
You didn't know that it was a giant drug trip, did you?
Hit it, give us the witch please
Step into the eye and soothe the smell
Poppies, poppies
Poppies will put them to sleep
Sleep, now they'll sleep
It's always some witch working at a distance like that
Putting you to sleep with a bunch of poppies
My god man, Virgil was growing them
Virgil has a book that talks about how to grow opium poppies
Why, why is that? Augustus was a, dude, Augustus was big into the opium
Marcus Aurelius, yeah, they were loving it
I don't see why not
It was all legal, can you imagine that?
A society where all the drugs are legal?
The only ones that they made illegal and they have laws against this
And Sisera prosecuted somebody for this
Is if you use a drug to cause death
Can't use a drug to cause death
Yeah, yeah
So, you know, it can be prosecuted as murder
The purpose of using these drugs was the attraction or liberation of underworld deities and demons
That is, these witches believe the gods of the underworld were readily available for consultation and interference in the activities of the fates
Just like our witch, right?
That we just saw
She's putting them to sleep from a distance
Perfect
Bringing them up from the underworld
Was a prerequisite for forecasting the future
And you say, oh, wait, what? Yes, right?
Looking to the crystal ball, baby, and see the future
That's that oracle sucking you in
You got the chilling or the burning, right?
Okay
Yes
The purpose of using these drugs was the attraction or liberation of underworld divinities
Summoning the bi-gendered queen goddess of the witches
Was a necessary step in commanding the forces of the underworld
The realm where all mortals eventually end up
This powerful goddess, Hakati, and her masculine manifestations were all guardians of the gateways to Erebus
Which is summoned, Hakati, with sacrifice in order to access her power to open portals
Remember, Kanadia, we were telling you about the witch who was preparing her infernal sacrifice
They would take little boys
Oh, god, they would take little boys
You can do a lot to extract certain substances, right?
If the witches have figured out, which they've known since the Bronze Age
That the human body is a factory for chemicals
