your big pause chewie okay okay chewie's indicating this is good all right um what i really wanted
you to see tonight was nemesis so i'm gonna play that first clip one more time and i want you to
realize who she is who nemesis is when everything else fails
retribution comes it's really about realizing that uh walking in humility uh surrendering
everything to my heavenly father who ultimately is the one who uh directs what i do hopefully each
and every day uh and and then lastly i think the the big part of that is is realizing that the
credit for any victories are not mine uh they belong to uh uh to the guy that i serve
uh
to avert something that you have said that goes beyond something that shows
your lack of respect for nemesis. I, a politician, am led by God. And what I do
is what God does. And I walk this road in humility. Do you hear nemesis? Do you
hear her get up from her perch? She hears that. Excuse me? Excuse me. This fools
life has become an eternal example of nemesis. Now, it's up to us. It's up to
us to see or not to see the coming DK, the Oma DK, the vision, eye of justice. Now
it's up to us to see where we are. And the watchers are watching. The watchers
are watching. This is a big one. Yeah, let's see what they do. Let's see what
they do with the Oma DK. It's a wonderful testing process. You know life's a
prison, right? I should have made that explicit from day one. Thank you for
coming this entire season. I appreciate it. I appreciate your comments and your
feedback and your email. I do. I'm hoping that the image of that underlying
nature, the image of that mystery has finally come through. I'm hoping you've
seen its dual natured capacity. I'm hoping you will contemplate the place in
history, not just us sitting around here coming up with esoteric teachings, me
translating things to you that haven't been translated in a thousand years. Not
that kind of thing. This is not for our entertainment, but for our application. We
have started to see a world open up and behind that world tonight. We saw the
power. The echidna is the living mystery. Jesus Christ was arrested in a public
park at 4 a.m. Scream and I am not a child trafficker because he was operating
the mystery. Thank you for coming. Have a great week. We'll see you not this
Friday, but next Hail Satan.
I am, can't bring no flowers to me on Sunday. It's gonna break her heart, not knowing.
