Zoroastrian
fruitcake
magician who tells us that the
The antidote in his words the antidote for
the dipsass viper is
Is
Called oxas
Just dance what they call it
Yeah, so it makes sense. So we're seeing in the Psalms about druggies getting wasted on venom
So that a dude who is the chris dos
can then later
Sit on a cross and fulfill his mission
as
The son of god
Right right out of the myth
Right out of the cult right out of the history
Right out of the history
Yeah
Right out of the history
Hit hit us with in the our last I think we've got one more here
Boom. Yeah hit us with that first one. Yeah, um, I wanted you guys to see this
I just want you to look at the last line. Look at the eoboloise
Yeah, keras hale pasapo pimpay
Send out what does heracles do with his bows? He dips him in the in the hole of the serpent
Right, he dips it. He's one of these guys who uses those poisons, right? And here it is within him
This is not a document for us to it's not a musical. It's not some kind of entertainment. It's a hymn
meant to
be song
During the performance of the mystery. Okay, give me the give me the next one there
And then finally we're down to diascordies who's a physician and diascordies is going to tell us
He's going to tell us what we can do with the oak and
And the acorns that come from and the oak galls that he's going to be talking about it
Yeah, he says they're
Euretic and they're they treat kefalagea, you know headaches
And they can be consumed or they can be breathed in
They can be breathed in now my two sigh
now my two sigh
and
We have some things that are helpful when someone is eating the yobola
Wait a minute when someone's eating what? Yeah, when someone's eating that
Yobulos
Right, what is that yobulos?
Wait, it means shooting arrows. Yeah shedding venom or venomous animals. Oh, I see look at number two of arrows poisoned
And we get the orific hymn to
Heracles
Notice what's poisoned the hyma
The hyma that's that poison essence. That's that poison blood drink my blood when lady babelon gives us the cup
Right when lady babelon gives us the cup
We are drinking that fatal
blood that will put us into death
So that she can resurrect us
That's the mystery
1200 years
Before jesus is ever using the word christ
It is not a greek. It is not a hebrou word. It is a native
pre-hebrou greek
concept
Think about that just for one minute what i'm laying down tonight
Christos is pre-hebrou
colt greek
pre-hebrou colt greek. It is the state
of an oracular
child of god
The oystromania
Is the state of the prophet that is the christos
That is the christos
Okay, okay, let's look there's one more. Do I have one more thing?
Yeah, I had one more little thing. I just want you to see this little polydorus just so you don't think i'm
I'm BSing you or the last word in that first line
Is the word that's used to baptize
Right, this is just to die or to cover
With a liquid or a gel or a cream to cover something. Okay, so tay holey tus oystus
Ebopsin, what did he do? He's covered his arrows. He baptizes arrows tay holey in the holey
Okay, that's what he does. That's part
Look at the anthropology again second line ace tang holey and on the bapte
He he api bapte. Excuse me. He's doing the same thing. He's dipping his aki
Whoops
His you know akitas akitas. There it is. He's dipping his projectiles
Right akitas
