You mean that substance that he's talking about is the in the wine and the wines or these wines of Sodom
Yes, yes
Uh-huh, you have missed a whole universe that was there that was there. I'm gonna take you even through the docks
Let's keep going Moses. Thank you, Moses. Have a seat. Don't
Grab that
Staff I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid of your staff
Fantastic, where do you think you got that stuff anyway?
Well, they say he was the student of Museus or Orpheus or they all they were all students of Medea
Now there is a world there is a paradise where she is Queen
Yeah, I can envision it bring us back number next next source bring it up. We're we're taking these old testament sources today
We're taking them. They belong to us, right? Oh, okay. Yeah, I want the next Greek bring me the next Greek source. We'll come back to those
Yeah, but yeah, okay, this is good enough
And they gave they put into the Brahma
Mu they put into my food who like
Right that whole like excuse me that whole a coley. Cole. Oh
gothic
Right, what is it? Colea gog?
According to physicians. It's that stuff that bring purges. You're holy
Right. Whoa. What are they doing here? They put it into his food and they did why they a potees on they watered
They liquefied they gave me liquid, right?
They gave me the liquid for my thirst. It was oxos
It was oxos. They gave you the oxos. What is this from?
Do we just dig somebody up? This is from the Psalms. This is from the Psalms from your Bible
Right, and it's using the cult terminology, which of course it should be because these are songs
These are songs and songs are magic
Now you're gonna not understand that you're not gonna understand
That the world is not made up of entertainers who sell their work and have it produced on a stage
Oh, isn't that intelligent? That's not the world. The stage is a religious place of purification
We don't have your stupid entertainments
That's what we're doing here. All right, you have to give the anthropology its day
Yeah, you have to give the anthropology its day with these texts. I'm telling you guys
I've worked with a lot of Greek and Roman texts work with a lot of them. There is always a context a
Very human context those words are not coming from fairyland
Good, I'm sorry. I'm a little bit angry
Too much bad cop tonight too much bad cop bring us in here
Let's go through some of these words that we skipped over here. Chewie. Yeah, hit that one
Look at that. Can you bring that down from them and blow it up?
Fantastic talks of course, right? We we've looked at this for once guys, but I want you to remind you
This has to do with the bow
Has to do with the bow and the equipment right can be the one skilled ride
Rise you can talks about the talk sort that toy those guys who were skilled in the bow and by guys
I mean male and female
Right. Mmm. Collectively
the bowman
Right talk so tie talk so tie the bowman of the Scythians were bow women
Isn't that nice love it keep keep keep that up. I need to I need to see that some more look at number two though
Toxic on farm icon now. We're swimming in our area where we're comfortable, right a poison for smearing arrows with
Equaling the Latin when a no
Humane Venus and drugs are connected. Yes. Now you're starting to get it now
You're starting to get it right hit me with another one. There's toxic. Look at this talk. Sorry. It's
Saris furnished with the bow number two this one also equals toxicos. It also equals the same thing
But look at the end of the line
toxicos salmos
toxicos salmos
wait the twang of the bow string
Psalms and songs and bow strings are all connected
They're all connected in antiquity. You're dealing with the very
Same entity you're dealing with the Titans. You say what?
The language it makes sense the translation. She doesn't
The Titans those who stretch
Heraclitus understood that the universe was held in the tension
Isn't that amazing that guy was smoking the universe is held in
tension
It is that tension that brings you the seed
That tension that brings you the seed start thinking like an ancient Greek start thinking like an ancient Greek no
Yeah, think like a pre-socratic
Yo
Fantastic, it is that tension that's stretching that brings the seed or the semen
It's that tension
Okay, okay, I'm beginning to see Titans
Titans are those strainers
They are those powers
That maintain that tension
Wow, okay starting to
Starting to see some things here starting to see them some things. Okay, the songs
You don't get songs without tension
Wait, what you can't produce a note
Without some form of that plucky tension like a bow
You hear the bow
