Yeah
Right akitas
That's a projectile
The project something with a point comes comes from the root for point
Yeah, he's dipping them and what in that holey again
Right, it's a very specific use of a very specific drug from antiquity
And it is a cult drug. So when we find out the serpent has so many heads
Kefala and we're talking about
Revelation or pocalypse. We're talking about that dragon with the heads
Realize
Realize what we're talking about. We're talking within cult about the communion
Fantastic fantastic. No problem. It's not a flying dragon
I'm sorry to disappoint you but jr. Tolkien is full of it
Right, he's just kind of
It's kind of mythic masturbation with just a hint of norse dudu
Right, no offense to the norse. Your stuff is great, right, but
Wow
We're talking history people. We're talking history
Lastly, there is a word
In greek
That is the greek representation
No is the greek representation of what
Um, you would call messiah and that word is messias
Right, there was a greek word for it
Yeah, what happens when you make a greek word
For a hebra word and then claim that another greek word is that same hebra word
You're only doing that because you have to fake it
You're doing that because you have to fake it
Because you can't explain it
Christ is not messias
They are not equivalents
Yeah, we have just been reading the text of a bunch of drug using cultists
Those who founded your society and your philosophy and everything about the tiny religions that spring off as a result
All right, judaism christianity islam
Are the offspring of this religion
Yeah
Yeah
So
We're going to start looking
at these texts
And we're going to find every place where our greek where our pagan religion
has been
washed
and white washed
and sanitized
So that you get a version of something that doesn't exist
I'm going to show you the real religion. I'm going to bring you to that
Onokin kaoron
that
Bunky phallus sin par who's going to teach you about the drugs
Yeah, fantastic. Thank you for your time. I want to bring neil on now
I'm sorry to short you neil 10 minutes and I want to have a little back and forth. Maybe an interview neil say hello
It's good to see you. Thanks for having me on. I
Can I if I if I can just um
Bring up a few things in what you said because I couldn't agree more and you that was amazing. Well said well said
the
When we look at genesis
First of all, there's no one citing this text before
The ptolemaic times before alexandria
You never there's no one in persia. No one in babelon. No one in greece. No one in egypt ever mentioning
Abraham or moses or the genesis story. You only start hearing people citing this text
after the fourth century bce
and it's it's it's like
What what's going on here? Well, if you look at the if you look at the the court of ptolemy soter and his son
It's dimitri's philarion who comes from athens. He's a successor of all the socratic thinkers
He's a successor of play-doh and Aristotle. He's bringing down all that knowledge to alexandria
You've got borosus the chaldean coming over here manatho
Who's citing hacketeus of abdera where you get your first moses story?
And then you have calamakis the hymn writer who is using backing chants like hallelujah and amen
For pagan gods, but not for Yahweh or anything. So all of a sudden you're looking at this court of alexandria
Oh
I see what's going on here. They're putting together like a
steroid a religion on steroids right now. That's what's happening. And so
From from the greek perspective, it's all native. It's all flu. It's like all flows
You get terms like desi dominia
Which means the religious feeling that bacchic revelry feeling which gets translated into the fear of god
It means you have to fear god and be afraid of him. That's not what it means
It means it does. Yeah, it means fearing god, but it means the religious frenzy
Fearing of god. It's the religious feeling. It's that bacchic mania
