Wow. It must be quite a place to be taken with by a priestess with the right pharmaceuticals. Wow. Okay, that's that's fantastic. You know, Hail Satan, right? Let's get our bucket chorus going.
Tear up into the mountains and steal some babies. Yeah, there's baby stealing. Sorry. It's the blood.
Okay, anyway, let's go to I want to show you one more verb that is related. And that is free.
Oh, yeah, there. Wait, nope. That's not. Here we go. Yep. Ah, there we are.
Look at this. Srigado to be full to bursting to be plump, especially of a woman's breasts.
So the idea of the life there, the nourishment, the generation beginning and all that kind of stuff, the milk. I love to ask Dr. Carl Ruck about ancient milks, what kind of milks are there, you know, he wrote an entire work on fluids that come out of the body.
Fantastic stuff. Love it. Sweats. Anyway, look at this for generally of young persons or a high fed horses. I'm not quite sure with the. Yeah, I mean, I love horses and it took care of horses, but I'm not quite sure what he's going for.
Etc. To be fresh, vigorous in full health or strength that bloom. The idea of the bloom is in this word. It's in this root system that's following the org roots. And it's the idea of the budding to completion, kind of a cycle of life.
Right. The efflorescence of the beauty is there in the budding of the rose. Right. Blossoming. Nice. I'm looking number four swell with desire or again to be at heat. So specifically the period of estrus.
And why is it that we are so interested in the estrus? Because that is everything within the cult. That is the morning star. Let's go back to our text. I've told I told you from last week I want to make sure that you understand the throne because I want you to be able to facilitate your initiation into the satanic
way, Saturnian way. And in order to do that, you really need to understand the direction that you're going. You're going to unravel to find out what that source is from the very bottom. And you're going to work with that source to build what is the real.
Right. It's, it's a complete reason is all that we can have to guide us. Bring us back to the text, please. Chewie.
Yes. So what happened?
Verse 17.
So he did that or get on her.
Right. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good.
Kayap Elfin, Puyesai, Palamon. Okay. So and then he goes on to make war with seed.
So, where are we?
How do we find the meaning behind what he's saying with this woman and this
dracon? What is the original, right? So we're not looking at the fiction. We don't want the fairy
tale side. We want the real side. So I showed you for just a minute, I showed you the reference
to the goddess who relieves the pains of birth. I showed you that. And I want us to realize that
the estrus, or the oistrus, is that chemical. It's the concrete real bond that we have with
this history, is that chemical. The worshipers of Diana, who was one of this great goddess
that we all are drawn to, who we'll call Dawn. And we'll say that Lucifer's job is to bring that
