Right.
Where are these people?
It's because you and I didn't get dunks in the river, man.
We'd have gotten dunks in the river.
We'd had some of these people.
They had something going in antiquity.
It's gorgeous.
I love it.
Okay.
What I'm working on for you, I'm going to stop there tonight.
But what I'm working on for you is bringing these images that we have from the mysteries,
bringing them to you via the most modern technology possible so that you can have an experience
via the images.
It's the new art.
This is the new art and everybody get on board.
So I'm going to show you that video before Satanic initiation.
I expect by next Saturday, it'll be finished next Friday.
Excuse me.
And I will show that first.
I'll make that available first.
And then it'll be 30 minutes long.
22, so I had 23.
Not very long at all.
Then I'll pop on and I'll have a live bit so that we can have some interaction.
I'd like your opinion.
All of you art critics out there.
I would like your opinion, you know, people to be able to give us some of their ideas,
observations, a giant virtual round table.
Yes.
Yes.
And in the meantime, we will get busy on bringing you the most clear, fresh, unread,
unstudied and neglected and uncared for and abused texts that will give you the picture
of antiquity.
I think it's emerging now.
I think it's emerging.
And this makes us just that much closer to answering the question of why we're all here.
The question is, why was Jesus arrested at 4 a.m. with a naked boy?
What is that all about?
I've got more pirates for you this season.
Lots of child trafficking for us to consider.
Lots more drug use.
Lots more drug use.
When I saw him, I got to tell you this, and you guys love this.
I know.
So I'm going to tell you when they were rubbing on the stuff that you put in there, when they
were doing that, I couldn't help but notice.
I couldn't help but notice that that person who was being initiated was in a medical environment.
Suddenly, things became medical.
Yeah.
Fluid's a little bit too close to a star there.
Watch out.
You're going to hit a supernova next time.
Where were we?
