Okay. So where are we so far with the satyrs? We're talking about days. We're talking about taking drugs that cause you to have satiriasis, right?
We're talking about an age group that's primarily, according to this doctor, pubertal boys.
Yeah. And that it's involved with initiations. Initiations. Okay. Okay. I think I'm beginning to see a picture that's emerging.
Let's see if the good doctor has any additional evidence. Yeah, you know, they have some problems.
He said, you know, look, when we put you through this causes you to get what we call disordered speech.
So you're not going to be able to communicate and it will bump up the madness.
But what is it? What did you say? You're dirty. Oh my goodness.
He says all that they can think of is coming to intercourse and they will just drop everything.
And all their clothing and they got this giant satiriasis going on and they'll just chase you down.
Just they just cannot be controlled. Why? You say, why would we ever need one of these?
Well, remember, as the physician will tell you, this is associated with Addis, Addis and the great mother.
This is Phrygian. Remember, this guy is Cappadocian bra, right?
He's familiar with the games from the Phrygians. He knows how it is. He knows ecstatic cult.
He's got no problem, right? This is new to you. You think, wow, my God, right? No, it's the same, you know, it's the same thing.
Okay, so, you know, if you have a great mother and you got Addis, right?
And you initiate Addis as only the great mother can.
You bring Addis to that place. You know what they call Dionysus first? They called him Dionysus of the semen.
Can we bring up that? Can we bring up Addis? Where's Addis? We missed you, Addis, for two weeks, right? I didn't.
I spent every day with you, Addis. I know that we have that thing going.
Hey, here's the title. Hue or Hueis is a, as you'll notice here, this is Hesechias.
You know, who invited this guy? No, that's okay. Hesechias is cool, right? Have a seat, buddy. Here he is.
Look, he's, what is he saying? He's saying, Hueis is who? It's Sabaeus, right?
And then the bottom one, Hue is Simile, right?
Coming from this moisture, right? This is Simile. This is Simile from the moisture.
Oh, oh, I'm starting to see it. You starting to see it?
Show us, show us this one. I think it, no, it's not that. It's this one. Check out this one, guys. Hueis, right?
An epithet of Dionysus. Yeah, right? Right? The god of fertilizing moisture. You didn't believe me.
You didn't believe me. Look at this next line. Oh, just feel this one as we slide, as we slide this one in.
Just feel it. Let it go in. Hueis, Ateis. Yeah. Downfall meaning.
Downfall meaning, say the nerd scholars who never get out.
Yes, don't worry. Don't worry about it, right?
Okay, so we've got Sabaeus here. We've got Sabaeus. Fantastic.
Now, I want to give you a little film to refill your mind with those images.
But in order to do that, I'm going to call up Chuck. Chuck, come on, Chuck.
I promise I'll beat Paul the apostle with a horse whip.
If you come up, Chuck. Chuck, thank you. It's so nice to see you.
Ladies and gentlemen, Charles Baudelaire.
Thank you, Chuck. I appreciate that.
Thank you, Chuck. I appreciate that. That's the perfect mood that brings us to her.
So we've got these saders and what are we going to do with them?
What do you do with the pubertal kid who is in a state of mania with an erection?
And that is what the great mother and her priestesses use as the raw material for bringing a person from the immature to the mature.
Yeah, from the child to the adult, an initiation, co-mingled with a death and resurrection.
And that resurrection is the satiric erection.
You know, we're told it is the very heart of the God.
It's the earthly token that shows you have a connection with the divinity, with the leader of the mystery.
It's fantastic. Fantastic.
Now let's go to her. Bring on. Bring forward the text with Medea, please.
I just want to give you a quick look at...
Yep, should be it.
Oh, here's one. I want to start with this.
Who is this guy? This is something pants.
I want to say messy pants.
