Well, that's a side effect, right?
Side effect.
That's why we carry wine around in jugs, right?
You get thirsty, I mean, you know?
Okay.
So what does Medea do?
She builds this image, this Adalon, this statue that has an interior that's empty, right?
And what does she put in it?
A bunch of drugs and then Christ herself to enter into Mania so that she can then take
the idol, take it down.
She can then take the idol throughout the city.
It says she walks with the people and fumigates them.
And what happens is says that they get in the attic, not in the attic, but in the attic,
they get that goddess within and Medea says, I am here to put on yellow.
I am here to announce to you the good news, the good news of the Christ.
What's your good news, Medea?
I'm starting to hallucinate.
My good news, my good news is that goddess that you see right there being pulled by dragons,
she has come to bring you salvation.
She does this and they're all like, I'm there.
I am totally there and they sacrifice and they celebrate.
And it says that Medea is able to so control the minds of the people there that she then
murders the king, but she has her daughter, the king's daughters do it.
She gives them instructions.
Oh my goodness.
How is she doing all this over and over and over again with her drugs, with her drugs.
She even has things that she's blowing up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Remember, she ruled Babylon.
She ruled Babylon.
She put that big tunnel under the Euphrates, right?
Is Medea the first Christ?
Yes.
The very first Christ.
She lives by the four rivers.
What do we shout when we celebrate her?
Ew.
Ew.
Eve.
We shout Eve and we keep Eve's eyes open.
We keep them open.
Yeah.
You see, it's an on story, but the reality of your reality is that the mysteries, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, the
mysteries on which they're based were started by a woman as a part of becoming the savior.
They call her the Sotera before there was ever a savior who had a male member.
There was a savior who bled communion, who bled communion.
Isn't that gorgeous?
That's just, that's just, it's, it's so Pulaskian.
It's so Pulaskian.
And people are going to tell you, they're going to be talking about how far back does this go?
And where does it go?
Jesus Christ is a part of a long tradition of rights and the corruption of those rights.
