puberty. He didn't know Jesus was involved with castrating boys, did you? Nor did you know that
John the Baptist was involved with certain rights. Yeah. Baptist rights, drugs. This is fantastic.
We're going to see the drugs and everything, but here we've got the boy, right? And what is he doing?
He's wrapped. Where's he wrapped? Do you see the phrase epigumnu?
That means on his privates, on his privates.
Now, when that aforementioned boy ran, remember this is before Jesus says,
I'm not a laystace. What'd you come out with all the big guns for? Right? It's before that.
Okay, let's go back up to the top. We'll get back there. We're going to take a round about
crews tonight. Thanks guys for doing it. Let's just throw that up there. This is from Alice.
Everybody take a look at Alice's definition of the laystace, right? Especially by C,
bucking here. Calling bucking here, right? Okay, later, perates, right? Okay, good, good, good.
Irregular troops, right? Kind of mercenaries like you would call them, right? Oh, wow. Now,
using them, tyrants and stuff. Fantastic. Fantastic. When you're a thration, you can get funneled in to
a type of living based upon what your, you know, what your ethnicity is, because by the definition
of your ethnicity, you're not going to do any farming, right? Yeah, but you make great laystace.
Yeah. Yeah, let's see him. Keep bringing him. Keep bringing him. Does anybody see
the next, next passage? Yeah. So here it is. I'm just going to throw it all over the Bible. I think
this is what Matthew, what Matthew's version, because it's in every gospel. The pirate is in
every gospel, right? He's hanging between two pirates, one on his left and one on his right.
This is Mark 1448. Bring it up. Yeah. And Jesus answered them and he said, yeah, why did you come
out against me? Like I'm a pirate with, with weapons that are military grade weapons,
right? My iron, that's a military sword that's meant to do nothing, either run you through or
chop your head off. One of the two, one of the two disembowelment. The Romans were into disembowelment.
That's how they get you, right? It's close. And then the Xulon, that's a, you know, something to
smash your brains out with, right? It's a, it's somewhere between a taser and a bullet. Yeah.
Yeah. Um, definitely lethal force. He's like, why'd you bring out this all out against me?
Because you can see the pirate. The Leicester Sin Antiquity was part of an association,
and I'm part of a corrupt criminal organization based upon different cultures
that had been doing, that had been making this living for centuries. This is Bronze Age stuff,
people. How long do you think humans have been cutting off other humans' testicles?
Right? We're about to meet, you know, the women that are involved in this, right? The echidna is the
echidna, right? These people are on drugs. These people are on drugs. Fantastic. So any who, any
who, Jesus is there with his boy, right, saying, I'm not a Leicester. Let's go to the next Greek.
Look at this people. When the kid fled, this is funny. Most people don't see this.
Um, when the kid fled, he left that linen wrap or bandage, right, that was covering his nakedness.
He, he catalyponed it. What does catalypon? I just want you to see. I just want you to see
the kind of comedy of this. Go ahead. I think that's it. It was, it should be right on it. Yeah. Yeah.
No, no, no, no. That's not, no. Do we miss it? It's the one. It's a real short definition.
Real short, real short. Chewie, they're getting us, Chewie. Let's get out there.
No, no, that's not it. It's just a short few words. We'll find it. It's okay. There you go.
Perfect. I knew she'd pull it out. Nice. To forsake, abandon or leave in the lurch.
When that kid that was assigned to Jesus, because that's what the Greek says, it says like a slave,
right? When you, when you give someone over as a slave, that's what it says about that naked boy.
He was that to Jesus, right? So anywho, he's got this bandage on his private parts.
All right. This is right before Jesus is yelling, I'm not a lace-dace, right? You have to please,
