that are used in Ritu for the treatment of humanity. It's gorgeous. And he, he's really
culty and uses Orphic Vox. So this is one of the words that he throws in there from the Orphic Vox.
I'm going to kick you into a passion. You have to be there. You have to be there. This is the
grotto. Did anybody see that the grotto also meant the, can we go back to our grotto? Yep.
Let's go back, blow it up. Did anybody see, did we miss this? Look, the Brits almost snuck it past us.
Look at number two. This is that Spelion, the grotto. Yes, look at number two, the privy parts.
The privy parts.
I'm going to take you to the privy parts of the pirates. Yeah. And if you happen to see
young boys, don't be surprised. Yeah. There's a reason. There's a reason
that group that he was with, Brabis. Yeah. They were involved in a murder,
which, you know, these criminal organizations always are.
What is funding all of this? Lastic activity, pirate activity. What is funding it is the drug
money. Are you surprised? That's why we pardon Mary Magdalene. For her, what, for what? I heard
one of you say it. For what? For owning and or possessing sex drugs.
What was the date? What was the date on that prehistoric dildo? 36,000? I think it was 36,000.
Yeah, something like that. These devices go way back, polished stone.
Everywhere you go with one of these pirates, there's going to be an association with an erection.
Think of it as universal grooming. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Anywho, look, the trade is going on
in antiquity and it will continue to go on. By Jesus, it has been going on for a long time.
Yeah. And the Romans will keep trying to bat it down, right? Because Romans don't abide pirates.
These are not insurrectionists. These are organized crime families, for lack of a
better word, families. It's the local power brokers who are getting all the money from the drug trade.
You know how expensive the purple is? Remember, Mary's got that in her vagina when her midwife
gives her the exam. That is in the Coptic. Yeah, in the Coptic. Love it.
Okay, okay. Last couple of sources. Yeah, yeah. I ended us here with a good, yeah, go ahead. Look,
this is just a couple of lines in the candor. Look at these two dirty lines right here. This is dirty
in the candor. And I got to tell you, I just want to paint this image for you. And I want to thank you
so much for spending all this time. And I want to say, this is dirtiness. I just brought it. Look,
I just brought it because I knew you would appreciate ancient dirtiness. This is straight
up history. You can't get history like this elsewhere. This is the history of the, of the dirty.
Yeah. And it comes from that priest, that pagan priest of Apollo. You mean he's an
irracular priest? Yeah. He's one of these who operates the mysteries. Now, when someone tells
you today, if they walk up to you today, and they say to you, Oh, I am an initiator of initiates.
Yeah. Say, you're not a mystagogue. Yeah. I've got a mystagogue for you. And that's what's coming
through. And I need to get you to a place that you can see a priestess, drugging a person,
putting them into a death state, bringing them to climax, reviving them, and then chasing them
around, beating them as pigs. Yeah. That's the cult. That's the mystery. That's where we go back to.
This game is not just convincing you in a church. You've sat in churches. You've sat in
synagogues. Right. You've sat in your mosque or NELT. You know, you've heard the call. Yeah. None of
that. None of that has the element of the pharmacist from the pagan magic. Right. There's no magic in
faith. No magic whatsoever. You took Jesus, a magus, with an orific title Christ, and you neutered
him. You neutered him. You made him neither a son of God, nor a daughter. You made him neither.
Because you took away his magic. Dude, I'm sorry. I know you don't like the transitions.
I know. It's tough. The watchers, they're always telling me it's tough. It's tough. Uh-huh. It is.
They'll figure out. I tell them. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong, but I tell them they'll figure it out.
