bringing in the apocalypse and killing everybody else? Yep. Yep. You got it. You thought it was
about America? You thought it was about democracy in the West? No. It's not. It's about the fulfillment
of prophecy. Give me the next one. Hmm. Here's the logical follow-up. And I, Daniel, saw. I alone
saw this vision, this optacion. Right? What is it? What is it? No. The guy's next to me, right? The
guy's with me, he says. They didn't see it, but I saw it. They were just sitting there high.
That's what it says. Ecstasis. Give me the next one. Ecstasis. This is what they're in.
They're in ecstasis. Wait a minute. Your prophets were on drugs? Yes. The beast that bears up Lady
Babylon is a theriac. Christing is the activity of applying drugs.
Ecstasy. That's what it says on the screen. Ecstasis. Right. Thank you for saying, by the way,
all 756 of you. Thank you for staying while we fly by the disturbances. Ecstasis. Do you know what
the prophets are in? Do you know what Daniel is in? He is in ecstasy. This unique boy who had his
testicles cut off. He's in ecstasy.
He's in ecstasy. Give me the next one. What do I want to tell you? I just want to tell you this
bronze stuff. This stuff is unbreakable. This stuff is unbreakable. The feet of the tyrant that
you have raised up to the status of divine. They are unbreakable. Now, as Greeks, we're really afraid.
But thankfully, Medea stepped forward. In the middle of all of this, Medea stepped forward and
she said, you know what? Listen to me. I'm the only one. I know I'm the only one who can take this guy
down. Whoever he is, even if his flesh is all bronze, not just his feet, but is all of his flesh
is bronze. Yeah. The only thing that I can't take down is that which is Ionic. She says that.
Right. Okay. So this is something different. This is a bit of magic. So the Greeks look at her and
what do they do? The next one, they row out. They row out away from Crete to get as far away from
his casting of stones that they can get because he's going around ripping the stones out, throwing
them at them, right? He's got that fist held up, right? These stones, they're coming and the Greeks
row out there and they're like, hey, they're looking for what's she going to do? Give me the
next one. What's she going to do? She's going, watch this, people. What does she do? How do
you defeat? How do you defeat from a distance a bronze giant when you're on a ship? What does
she do? She takes the folds in her peplos, her purple peplos and she pulls them over her cheeks
on both sides and she goes up to the deck. Next one. And then what does she do when she gets the
debt? Are you ready? I'm about to show you the death from a distance. It's not what you think.
It's not what you think it is. What does the tyrant do? What does the tyrant do? He'll end up
killing himself. Happens every time. Happens every... You mean suicide? No. He will push the train
towards his own demise. He'll push it, right? He'll push it to that bunker in Berlin. He'll
push it to there or wherever they were. Where's that place? I don't know. And what does she do?
What does Medea do? She steps up on the deck and she starts mollifying the K-race. She starts
singing. And who does she start singing about? The K-race who devour your chest, who devour your
heart, who devour your mind. What does she pray to? She prays to the dogs, those dogs of Hades
who are swift. And where do these dogs of Hades come from? They're in the air around you. They're
in the air. Go ahead. They descend upon you at her command. They descend upon you. What do they
bring? They bring Eumenia. You want to be a tyrant? You want to be a tyrant? The cure to the tyrant is
not stepping in front of them. The cure to the tyrant is accelerating them to bring their own
doom. And in the process, everybody else gets punished. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? You
purify the whole people by stuffing their face in their own stupid reality. Give me the next one.
Tell me not to talk about politics. What kind of person would do that? What kind of person would
do that? Yeah, that's the next one. Boom. And what else does she do? She gets down on her knees,
right? And three times she calls out in songs and in prayers. Three times she calls out. Now watch
what she does. She's feminine. She makes her mind cacón. And with this hatred in her eyes,
she does something. She transfers it to the bronze tyrant. She takes his vision and she gives him
the fury. And what is it that she's actually doing? Here's the verb. Here's the Greek verb. Give me
the next one. Here's the Greek verb that she's actually doing to the...
All right. All right. Look at you. Your people are so patient. Thank you for waiting. We only
lost about 10 there. They were like, oh, this guy's setup sucks. Right? It's the information's super
slow highway. Yeah, look, oh, we lost some more. They're leaving. They're like, this guy's an idiot.
Give me the next one quick before we lose anybody. What does she do? What does she do to him? She...
Are you ready? You're going to get this now. This is Project Talos. You'll get it. This is
what she's going to do. She's going to grudge the tyrant. Okay. I want you to think about this. This
is one of those advanced Greek concepts. You know how you send the mania to the tyrant to
accelerate his doom. You grudge him or you begrudge him his power. Power should only be held by those
who are just. The universe is out of order when the unjust or those who have usurped justice
are now in control. So Medea begrudges him that power. Do you see what happens? What she is doing
mentally with the image? Give me the next one. What she's doing mentally with the image?
She is begrudging him and what happens? She throws at him her holon. Her holon. She makes
fantasies that will correspond to the maddening serpent venom. Fantasies for your mind. Do you
know what tyrants do when they are anointed by God? They become paranoid. They all become paranoid
because it's not right for them to have power. And in the middle of their souls, they know
the lies are all lies. And I have usurped justice to be here.
They know that instinctively. Nature puts that within them. And do you know what that does to the
human mind? To know that you have taken power and you are illegitimate? To know that you have cast
aside justice? It makes you afraid because there's always another attempt coming. Tyrants are never,
never safe. They're never safe. What happens to the mind under these circumstances? Well,
let me tell you what happened to Talos. He got really pissed off. He got really pissed off while
Medea is doing this. He is getting really pissed off. And he kills himself. Yeah, he brushes up
