she is the spirit of love and unity. Now the monists came out and they've said we are going to
unify. Yeah. You're going to unify yourselves and everybody else. You're going to kill or enslave.
That's the way it works. It's going to be fast too. Don't think tyrants don't work slowly.
They don't, they don't need, they don't need a Congress, right? The Congress just becomes a stamp.
That's how it works when you transition from some kind of a public constitutional democracy
to an imperial bureaucracy. That's how it works. And here we come. Here we come with tears in their
eyes. They're coming and you have to sit there and see it coming because that's our judgment.
Isn't that gorgeous? I told you we were in hell, people. I told you we were in hell, right? Who
rules this place? Who rules this place? Even the Christians. Come here, naughty, naughty,
naughty, naughty agnostics and people who are, what do they call those people? Atheists. Come here.
You just don't get it. You just don't get it.
Hit me with the next source. Hit me with the next source. I just want to see what's going to happen.
What's going to happen to me? And though, yeah, of that, that continuous birth, King Helios is the
primary creative cause, yet Aphrodite is the joint cause with him. She who enchants our souls
with her charm. Isn't that nice? Wouldn't you like to worship a divinity that was charming?
Or is that charm on Yahoo? Yahoo's got no charm. He's always killing people. He's always getting
people involved and genocide. He's got no perfume. He's got no charm. Who wants to be possessed by
that? That's the monist. I don't care if it's a tin from Akhenaten's time or if it's Jaisu.
I don't care. Those monists never have charm. And personally, I like charm. Charm is a good thing.
All of your classical art has charm. Watch what happens when the Byzantine art takes over.
The charm goes right out of the room. Haven't you wondered why that is on a quantum level?
Why is the charm just rushed out of the room? Why does the art go to garbage? You're seeing
those Byzantine sticks. Oh, God. Oh, God. They're dressed from here to their ankles. They look pale.
They look like somebody beat them up and they're waiting to die. A bunch of 12. Who are those
12 men waiting to die? Those are the apostles, right? Oh, God. Oh, God. Make America charming again.
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who else is in our bag, people, when we created
democracy? Who else was there with us? Hermes and Aries. Hermes and Aries are connected
with Helios, right? Because what are we worshiping? We're worshiping Saturnian religion. This is of the
sun, the moon, and the stars. This is the power of hackety. This is the fury of Dionysus.
And you've got to have the hermeneutics and you've got to have the war, that repulsive force.
Do you know what is great about being strong? You can honor Aries. You can honor the ability to push
away that which is causing you to fall, right? Okay. So this is all built in. It's baked into the
democracy. If you are a tyrant, you are everything that is opposed. And it doesn't matter if you
stand there and say, I am the defender of democracy. Do you know who says I'm the defender of democracy?
The tyrant, right? Everything out of the liar's mouth is bizarro world. You just turn it upside
down. When he says I am not a tyrant, he's saying I am a tyrant. When he's saying I am a defender
of democracy, he's saying I am not a defender of democracy. Yeah, yeah. When he says unity,
he means disunity. That's how the magic of the tyrant works, baby. I don't see you think they
get in power besides lying, right? Tyrants are marked by their tongue that has no truth.
It has no truth. And if you love, I'm going to say this to those of you who love the tyrant,
I'm going to say it because I have a lot of viewers who love the tyranny. And they say, well,
what about, don't be political. And what about Joe Biden? Joe Biden's an old coot who needs to
step aside or needs to be found incompetent and then step aside forcefully. It doesn't matter
who you're going to push. I'm talking to those of you who love tyranny, who look into the eyes
of Jesus Christ and see the bronze orange. Yeah, I want you to see it. Let's see it,
Chewie. Let's see it. Let's go. This is Project Talos, isn't it? Yeah, they needed a warm up here
where our tech was going south. Give me the next one. For he extends to them the faculty of judging,
guides them with justice and purifies them with brilliant light. You know what kind of gods the
founders of democracy worship? Those who protect by means of justice, justice, justice. As soon
as money entered the Supreme Court, we elevated a human being to the status of an untouchable
divinity. That is raw greed. It is raw greed. Do you know what the historians a hundred years
from now will say? They will say America was consumed by its own greed. They gave away everything
for their greed. Give me, give me, give me, give me. Do you want it? Do you want the prosperity?
You want the blessing? You want the eternal life? You do. You do, don't you? And that's why you're
here. You're here for the spanking and the misery. And unfortunately, it's pretty awful. It's pretty
awful what's coming. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Let's see. Let's see. Oh, God.
For Plato himself, see what's happening? This dude, Libanius, he's quoting Plato now.
He didn't know where, I think this is cute. He says, for Plato himself says somewhere
that our race was by nature doomed to toil. And so the gods pitted us and gave us Dionysus
and the Muses. And we recognize that Helios is the common Lord since he is celebrated as the
father of Dionysus and the leader of the Muses. We are in Saturnian cult. Do you know what democracy
is? And I'm going to satisfy every Christian. It's going to click in the mind of every evangelical
out there. Every Christian who wears the red hat, which is the equivalent to saying swastika,
if you want my opinion, every person who has tried to make Deutschland uber alles,
I want you to see it's coming to us through the Muses, through Dionysus. We have our Saturnian,
our satanic gods. Those are the gods that gave us democracy. Jesus Christ didn't.
Jesus Christ did not give you democracy. Paul the apostle that junkie did not give you democracy.
All those kids that worked for Jesus, those runaways that you call apostles,
all of those kids that were prostituted when he was arrested in a public park with a naked kid,
saying I'm not a trafficker. All of that was not a part of democracy.
Let's give me another one. Give me the next one. They know it. They feel it. They know it's right.
