against a sharp rock and cuts open a vein in his leg. And he bleeds himself out. All his holy
icker comes out. Now, that is the fate of the tyrant. It will happen exactly that way. Exactly
as the paradigm of the mystery demands that it takes place exactly in the same way.
It's physics, people. It's physics. Now, if we just know, if we just know those songs,
we can come to the aid of America. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. I want you to see
what do they attribute this power to? Are you ready? Anybody who's into politics and say,
where is this going to come from? What is this going to be some kind of movement? No,
it's going to be by the brime. By the brime of much drug using Medea. What is brime? What is
brime? What's the secret ingredient that she's got that we all need to take down the Talos? Strength,
might, bellowing, roaring. You can remember their farmers, right? Farmers and herders and stuff,
right? So, okay, but look at number three. Gunakia aretopoia. What is that? It's feminine
something. Gunakia means feminine. What is aretopoia? It means literally. It means literally to make
something that's not speakable. Something that we can't speak about. What is her power?
What is her brime? Are you ready? Here it comes. You thought we were far from the Bible,
but we're not. This is where the people who made the Bible took their information from.
What is aretopoia to practice unmentionable vice? Unmentionable vice. Thank you, historian of
Victorian England. Practice unmentionable vice. Can we be a little more specific?
What is that? Filthy lewdness. Lady filthy lewdness is the power that will kill the tyrant.
Lady filthy lewdness. I'm going to leave that to settle on your brain. Give me the next one.
Lady filthy lewdness. What are these things? What is that aretopoia? It's really that which
cannot be spoken or expressed. But I want you to look at the very bottom line. What can you talk
about as something that's aretos? You can talk about the Eucharist. You mean the Eucharist?
Did you think that we had left the mystery religions of Judaism and Christianity? No.
No, we didn't leave those. We're squarely in their world. And this is why John or whoever wrote the
Apocalypse, who clipped out all of those sibling oracles and then put them into orders that they
weren't supposed to go in and shaved it here and tucked it here, right? Whoever did that and came
up with the Apocalypse that they call the Apocalypse of John, they understood that this is how the
mystery works. To them, the seals were not what you consider seals. They were drugs. We've seen
that. We're we're drugging people. We're giving them visions and we're controlling them, right?
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. And we're doing it as Christians. What do, what do
they do after the tyrant falls and everybody's like, yay, right? And all the supporters of
the tyrant are like, oh, right? What happens? We set up a holy shrine. Are you ready? This is
going to blow, for those of you who do a little bit of the history and a bit of the literature,
this is going to blow you away. We set up a shrine to Athena the Minoan. That's what it says.
Athena the Minoan. Do you know where Medea ends up at the end of the Argonautica? She ends up at
Thera, prophesying in the skin of Athena the Minoan. Yeah. Oh, God, gorgeous, gorgeous. Give me
the next one. This is our last one. Remember, she's the cure. She's the cure to Talos. She's the only
one that can cure the problem. I wanted to bring this last passage to show you a couple of words.
I want you to go to the first word on the second line, Bab Tusa. I want you to notice that it says
baptize. I want you to go two words in on that second line to the third word, kukkeonos. I want
you to notice the kukkein is there. You mean the formula that they're using in the Ellicinian mystery?
They're using it here? Yes, it's a component. It is a compound itself, but it's a component of
other formula. And Medea is using it. And what is she using it as? Pharmakha, as those drugs.
Those drugs. And where is she putting it? Kata of Thalon on the third line, into the eyes. She means
she is Christing. Yep, she is the first Christ. And she, in Christing, is entering herself into a
state where she can drive you mad. It's therapeutic, people. It's therapeutic to watch yourself on the
stage of life, to watch your own tyranny. Your religion is not what you think it is. Your God
is not who you think he is. And you are not who you think you are. Thank you for coming tonight.
And thank you for putting up with all of the interruptions. We still made it through. I want
to say thank you to Teddy Bass, because his latest album is gorgeous. And I want to thank him for
that. And I want to thank Chewy for putting a lot into making videos. These videos are meant
to control your brain. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Avalon, Avalon. Lady Medea. Lapis lazuli lines the walls. The news sings with me.
Extra illumination for the vibration. I have under me the knowledge of our Genesis.
Crystal towers. The Punisher Frank Castle. Purple rain for the news I sing her favorite song.
All night long. No stems, no seeds. That you don't need. Got a bag of goodies. Ice creamy cream.
Hail Satan. Closed minds forever. Coming through in waves.
Towerhouse on the hill. House of Frankenstein. Darkness through dreams. I dream of Genie.
I purple. The deacher work you. I purple. I purple. I purple. The deacher work you. I purple. I purple.
How purple, how did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple
How did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple
How did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple baby
How did you work you?
