How do the Romans bring this future telling capacity to everyone? That's in the next one.
How do they do it? Are you ready for this? Do you want me to talk yet about another proof?
I mean the work of King Numa. Are you ready? Are you ready? Here it is. Here is what protected
Rome from Christianity. Here's what protected. And these people who he's about to talk about,
these people were the first targets of the Christians. Are you ready? I mean the work of
Numa. In Rome, maiden priestesses guard the undying flame of Helios at different hours in turn.
They guard the fire that is produced on earth by the agency of the God. They prevent the rise
of tyrants. If you do not have these maiden priestesses of the flame in some sort or some way,
you will lose your power to the tyrant. The tyrant will take everything. Oh and he is so ready.
He is so ready to execute his righteous godly justice. He is so ready to bring to you the
apocalypse that all of us with red hats are so crazy for. And the rest of us who don't wear red
hats but do go to church, we want it too. We want it too. How about those of us with red hats who
were sitting in Congress? We want it too. It's lovely. It's lovely, isn't it? Don't you think the
devil is brilliant? Look at him. He's sitting. He's sitting there. You can just imagine his big
desk that he's got there. You know he has his meetings at. He puts his feet up. He's got his
hooves out. And he's like, well what do you think? What do you think? It's worked pretty tight,
wound up pretty good, isn't it? And all you got to do is make them miserable by showing them
the future. I was like, oh god, you are the man. You are the man, devil. You are the man.
You are the sternian king. It's gorgeous. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. I want to
bring you a little Greek. And what this says here is Libanians is talking about a friend that he went
to school with. And this friend had an uncle. Now again, here's the echo. The echo that shows us
the immediate future. He's got this friend who's going to school, right? And his, this friend's
family's estate has been removed. It's been confiscated by one of these religious laws,
right? Because, you know, he's been in the family for a long time, etc., etc. Now he says this guy
has an uncle who practices a closeness, a communion with the gods more than he does with people,
even though he knows the law expressly forbids it under punishment of death,
under punishment of death. If you don't want to worship Jesus Christ,
if you don't want to worship Jesus Christ, if you don't want to worship Yahu, if you don't want to
worship any of the monist atrocities that they call divinity, if you don't want that, I suggest
you pay attention to what is immediately in front of you, immediately. And you will sit there and
say, no, no, like the Germans did. I had a German TA. I had a German TA in high school, in this great
school that I went to. It was originally called Special Projects. I had a great German TA. And I
asked her once, because she was old, and she's long gone by now. And I asked her, I said, you know,
what was it with the common ordinary person, not the national socialist, but just common German?
What was it about the tyrant? And she said, you know what, we went to his rallies. We went to his
rallies. And we liked him. He was very optimistic. He was all about unity and restoring the greatness
of Germany. How many years later am I now standing in that crowd of people? I know people in this
crowd, as everybody does. I know worshipers of the tyrant. I know them. There's a lot of them in a
state that calls itself, this is sealed by Sixth Semper Tehranus. Yeah, they're all over the place.
And guess what? They're bringing you this past. They're bringing you this past. Give me the next
one. You're not going to be able to, you're not going to be able to have your reasoning when you're
handed a Bible and told this is the American, this is the document. This is what they'll do.
This is the document upon which America was founded. Where are my guns? Right? That's what they'll do.
Be waiting. Be waiting for it. I watched the crowd. I watched the crowd in, what was that,
Chewie Vienna? I watched the crowd. Now we have a tape, but I can't play it because somebody will
strike. Somebody will complain and I'll get a strike of some sort. Don't Chewie, don't play it.
But I saw a concert in Vienna. I think it was Vienna where Emma Koch
sang and everybody in the audience, old and young men, women burst into tears,
burst into tears. It was like you were watching divinity manifest itself in purpose and life
and beauty and people were smiling and crying. What is the audience of the tyrant doing?
They're raising you a fist. They're raising you a fist. You are about to feel the force
of the tyrant in classical antiquity. They said that tyrant is the one who commits
hubris. Hubris. Hubris. Do you see your hubris? Can you look into that mirror and see your hubris?
You brits that are sitting there, by the way, and you Canadians, you Australians. Yeah?
What do you think? You like to watch America rule the world. You like to watch us police.
You like to watch us hold up an example of what is freedom. What is right? What is beauty?
You look to us to do that. You passed us the torch. Now what are we going to do with it, America?
Not only are you dead ancestors watching, but the rest of the world is. The attention is on you.
So you're going to have to choose. Are you going to worship the tyrant? Are you going to love the
orange Hitler? Or are you going to stand for what everybody in our family stood for when they fought,
when they fought for this country? Yeah, yeah. Okay, let's do it. Let's bring back the honor
to those dead soldiers, right? That son of the general who the tyrant told these people who die
are suckers, right? Let's honor them and their memory. And by the way, if you are one of those
people who walks around and salutes and swears to defend the Constitution and you support a person
who stood on graves and said, these are suckers. Well, let me ask you this. Who's the sucker?
Who's the real sucker? You're in hell looking into a mirror of yourself and you are dishonorable.
You are dishonorable. We here at Satanic Initiation, we at Initiating Apocalypse, we at the
Satanic Congregation, do you know who we support? We support those who sacrifice,
those who sacrifice for those they love. We support them. We support them. We don't support
those who take power. We support those who lay it down, who lay down their own blood.
Yeah. To my family that was killed in the 1880s, 70s and 80s, to my family that was killed from
