our future
how purple, look here, she'll work you
how purple, how purple, look here, she'll work you
how purple, how purple, how purple
making pale deuces, them pen and doom, it was herses all over but the cryin'
all that bullshit they was tryin'
at the gates of Babylon, money changers, flippin' tables, rearrangers
hot purple slangers, Medea she'll work you, it's a banger
smile away from the treeline, the man of rain
ridin' into the sunset, my Medea dragon venom
jewel in the lotus, amethyst serpent
the need for anti-venomous urgence, Athena work it
seashell purple, dielectric water flow
Castle Franco, Vampirella, Belisema
the dope is hot purple, Medea she'll work you
the circus an analima, to hefe ese de boss
heliocentric, come to the crow
Athena, run the sky, for the Mio Maz
try a little bit of death bubble kush
on a chairhead full of zombies, original sources
ionic omni, hot purple, Medea she'll work you
hot purple, hot purple, hot purple
Medea she'll work you, hot purple
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. I have something for you tonight.
We're going forward. We usually go in the past, tonight.
We're going in the future.
Look at how far into the future we came.
That was brilliant. What have I got for you? We're going
forward. We're going forward on this tiny eight
Mbps highway of the internet. We're going to go forward
with that little bit. We're going to squeeze out the future
and I'm going to bring it to you tonight. Exactly. Hail the
muse. Nice job. What we're going to do is I'm going to
shock you. I'm going to shock you. It's going to feel
funny and this is how the machinery works. We bounce
an echo off of history and it will reflect back
the outline of our future. It's a technique that people have
been using for the longest of time. Yes, fantastic.
Fantastic. Let's go right into it. Where are we going to
step off? Everybody get off the ship, right? We're only
going a little bit ahead, right? So tonight we're running
off the ship. We're going to have some quotes here for you.
Hit me with the first one, Chewie. Hit me with the first
one. Yeah, the ship is not reacting the same. Here we go.
Here we go. Watch this people under Constantine. Where have we
bounced our echo off? We've bounced it off the fourth
century, right? Here we go. And by the way, the devil has
authorized me to give this to you. I know that the spreading of
future is not looked lightly upon. Yeah, you can get
yourself in a lot of quantum courtroom business tinkering
with that, but I have been authorized to bring it to you.
So contract fulfilled. This is gorgeous. Where did we bounce?
Where do we bounce our sonar off? We bounced it off the fourth
century. We're about 320 Anno Domini. Get out and smell the
air. Are you ready? Constantine steps up. You know who he is?
He is the emperor who made Christianity the power of the
state. He's the one who did it. He embraced that 30% and he
rose to power. Isn't that fantastic? He used them. He
used them to maintain absolute control. And in doing so, he
made some laws. He made some laws. Here's one. Magicians and
sats who use their art against the minds of men are guilty and
shall be punished. However, to use the art for good, you know,
like good weather, that's okay. But you're messing with
people's minds. You're messing with their minds. Hmm. Okay.
Who's he talking about? You and me and everybody who is not a
monist, a follower of the Christ. That's who he's talking
about. He's talking about all of us. Here's another one.
Magicians and such. Give me the next one. Joey, sorry. I jumped
ahead. Boom. Constantine gives Christians the right to take
their cases before an ecclesiastical court rather than a
secular court. Okay. Did you feel the echo? Did you feel the
