So, thank you for your patience, I know, I've been trying to get this going for a while, and thank you for your patience.
The ultimate goal is to get people reading, and when you see people like Neil, and you see people like Old Boy, and they're sitting there debating about points of grammar,
looking at texts, right, you know that we're building the Renaissance, we're building something that will bring us eternal, eternal glory.
I can promise you that, I can promise you, at the beginning of the Renaissance, what, how does it always start?
Oh, go back to the Greek, go back to Mother Greek, look at what those Greeks were doing, my God, not the Spartans, those people are nuts.
Okay, I wanted to say that, you can be looking in your email, if you don't get a message from me, it means I still have you on the list,
as soon as I get these classes off, I'm thinking about, well then I can start another one, following that, I can start another two classes.
I'll push myself until it becomes physically not sustainable.
The devil tells me, you've got to work for it, brah, you've got to work for it.
So I'm going to be putting the work in, I'm going to be honoring you people as professionals, and I appreciate, I appreciate your interest.
I will be in touch with you shortly, I'll be in touch with you shortly.
And if you're one of those people that I select who says, look, I need some help.
Let me know that, let me know that, I am building scholarships into it.
The purpose is not here to make money, the Marine Corps is not there to make money.
The Marine Corps is there to make Marines, and that's what we want, that's the beauty, that's what brings Renaissance.
So I thank you, I thank you, everybody involved, hats off to the French tonight, all of you folks in the French school,
you know, you know what I'm talking, you know what I'm pointing to, thank you, thank you.
Let us all follow the muse, Hail Satan.
Lady Medea, Lapis Lazuli lines the walls, the muse sings with me, extra illumination for the vibration.
I have under me the knowledge of our Genesis, crystal towers, the Punisher Frank Castle, purple rain.
For the muse I sing her favorite song, all night long, no stem, no seeds, that you don't need.
Got a bag of goodies, ice cream and cream, Hail Satan, close my eyes forever, coming through in waves.
Towerhouse on the hill, House of Frankenstein, darkness through dreams, I dream of Jeannie.
How purple, how did she work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple, how did she work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple, how did she work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple, how did she work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple, baby.
