They have, Galen uses Lemdian earth on a breast.
And I was talking, when I was in grad school, I was talking, because I was privy to these texts.
And I got my Bacteriology Advisor and I said, hey, can we sit down with some of the people from Bacteria microbiology and classics?
And can we have like, can I give a paper on this cancer cure?
And maybe we can come up with what the hell's going on.
And we had a nice discussion about it, but it was basically guesswork.
Well, it could be something.
One person said it could be some kind of radioactive element in the ground, in the clay that was causing some kind of deterioration.
Because Galen says he takes it, he puts it on the breast, he sows up the breast, and then the lump goes away.
It dissolves, right?
So, I don't know.
We got to some interesting possible conclusions, just like this paper did.
But the fact is, until we get into the source cult, we don't have a hope of ever trying to really, you know, achieve what they achieved,
or get to what level that they got to.
Give me that last slide.
I just wanted to end here by saying, look, this is a priest writing this.
He's writing about pharax.
And he says, hey, this Lemnian earth, and he uses the word mealtos here, mealtos here, right?
Which is what the guy in the paper was talking about.
But what does he say at the end?
On that bottom line, he says, it is a thelctadion for every sort of problem.
It's a thelctadion.
And that word that means to enchant, to enchant, yeah.
And they're using it in order to, they're saying, we're able to change a mental state, for example, towards sexual drive, right?
You can change that with the right drugs.
You can, so the person, the model for ancient medicine, I'll end with this.
Then we'll take some questions.
The model for ancient medicine is that the person has a natural disposition, and that differs between all individuals.
There is no drug, one, that is going to treat all of those different individuals.
It doesn't work like that.
The fact is, every individual is different.
And by understanding your particular composition, you can balance yourself with what is in your environment.
So it's a very different model of medicine.
And it's very old, very bronze age, and it relies almost exclusively on an in-depth knowledge of plants and animal products as drugs.
Good for human use.
Yeah, thank you very much for coming today.
I appreciate it very much, and I'm going to put, I'm just going to ask, is anybody want to ask any questions?
Anybody from, maybe from down under, everybody's Satanic congregation, nice.
I don't mean to turn you away, but does anybody have any?
Right now, let me just explain.
Right now, you can go on the chat that we have here, and you can post a question if you're curious about something,
or you want to follow up on anything, just give me a thank you, Edward.
Thank you, Edward, I appreciate it.
That's the approach that newer medicine is taking.
Look at this.
Thank you, Dr. Rahm.
You're welcome.
Do that one that says that's the approach.
Yeah, where'd it go?
Oh, it disappeared.
Look at that.
That's the approach that newer medicine is taking.
Well, that's interesting.
I hope it is.
I hope it is neoprototype.
I hope it is, because I think there's a lot of valuable stuff there that we kind of dropped in the Middle Ages,
kind of dropped and let it go by the wayside.
I think we're behind a little bit.
We can't end without any mention of Mark 14.
What is that?
Mark 14, 51, and 52 says, Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy.
Screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
That's what the Greek says.
Check it out.
Go to the next one.
Why do you think scientists are bringing back these old recipes?
Oh, yeah.
No, I've actually talked.
I've talked with a couple of biochemists now.
Three, actually, three.
Yeah.
And there's an interest, of course, in novel sources of novel drugs.
I think that's what it is mostly.
But the approach in every person that I've talked to, the approach has always been,
that's the one thing that's going to, you know, we're going to find one drug
and we're going to study that one drug and what it does to the body
and that's going to be our drug.
It's a very one-dimensional approach.
And scientists are going and physicians are going to have to get used to a new model
if they're ever going to embrace what the Greeks were doing.
You're going to have to change the way you think about medicine being a one-direction
vector to a cure.
Life is not like that.
And what can you do, though, with our capacity now, right?
What can you do except take one of these formulas
and hash out what all the chemistry is in each of those plants.
But if I've got 45 ingredients, you know, and this is what biochemists say to me,
you know, it's too much.
It's overload, right?
It's overload.
There's so much that can be going on.
You'd have to, I had one tell me, you'd have to make a model, an AI, an AI.
It was Hamilton.
I think it was Hamilton.
You'd have to make construct an AI.
They would be able to break down what every drug is doing and how, not only that,
but you've got to have what it's doing in the body.
And I know for a fact, though, just those interactions alone,
I can't imagine with our level of tech being able to track that.
Yeah, it's just, it's information overload.
It was much better when the knowledge of how to do that was codified by religious groups.
Yeah, religious slash physician slash.
Remember the temple of Asclepius with the serpent on it, right?
And our symbol of medicine.
That's all a cult.
That's not, that's not, you know, ancient Johns Hopkins, right?
It's a cult.
Let's go.
Question.
Could we cover the counterfeit drugs more?
I think it would be interesting to understand how they grifted in comparison for the real deal.
That's a great question, Kerry.
That's a great question.
Yeah, Galen warns us, he says, you get adulterations and it will change.
He said, you can tell from the color.
You can tell from the texture.
You can tell from the taste, whether or not something's been adulterated.
And he even says in some cases, he says, Hey, this stuff that they're trying to pawn off as living in is not.
Right.
You notice it doesn't have the seal and the colors a little bit off.
So people are trying to, to adulterate drugs, obviously for the same reason they do now.
Right.
If you can take a cheap substance and put it into your drug as a substitute, you're going to because you're going to be, you know, making more coin.
But Galen says it's it's become a huge problem.
So the response of doctors and seals that that's an entire.
It's a mechanism to keep the drugs legitimate.
It's almost like an old FDA or something.
Right.
When, when, when this drug has my stamp on it, you know that I produce quality material.
Right.
Dr. Andreas sucks.
Don't go to him.
Right.
Right.
But this other guy is great.
Right.
And Galen's always talking about these physicians all the time.
So notice, can you notice that the physicians are a lot more well rounded, well rounded in antiquity?
I don't know this science of geology.
I don't know the metallurgy.
I don't know the, you know, X, Y and Z about dye formation and mordant.
How do you do mordant to fix the dyes?
And what does that do to the entire drug?
The doctors in antiquity are having to have this working active understanding of plants and animal substances and dirt and spits and urine.
Right.
Can you imagine that after after a long day of traveling and, you know, finding buying 20,000 these pills and got to get them got to get them back to the marketplace.
And, you know, now you've got patients, you got to drink their urine.
It's, it's a tough life.
You know, sounds like a tough life.
Is there anything interesting in the Greek text of Leviticus?
That's, that's of course, it's all interesting.
Right.
It's all interesting.
Um, you know, you can talk about the oils that are used in the preparation for the priesthood of the tent.
You know, they call that tent in Greek, the Telesterion.
Right.
What is Telesterion?
It's an iracular place that you can capture the voice of a God.
Very pagan, very pagan, but they're using the same.
They're using this, not only the same plants, but also, you know, when Moses is holding up the serpent back in Exodus, there's a reason.
There's a reason.
Remember those priests of Hephaestus who are that unquenchable fire.
Right.
They hold up the snake.
They hold up the snake.
Right.
The Egyptians know about the craft as well.
Right.
They do.
They have their own traditions.
And to be honest, their medical traditions suck compared to the Greek.
The Ebers papyrus is garbage compared to the Greek.
And it's not, it's not because, you know, the people were not smart.
