I just want to read this to you.
Lemnian Earth, the medicine and the shape of a stamped clay tablet,
or Spragas, from Lemnos, northeastern Greece,
was much valued in antiquity.
And in the post medieval period as an antidote to poison
and a treatment for other ailments.
Although it was among the first archaeological materials
to be subjected to chemical analysis in 1807,
that was yesterday, there is still no clear understanding
as to what made Lemnian Earth an effective medicine.
We argue that Lemnian Earth, the artifact,
was not the same as Lemnian Earth, the raw material.
We suggest a composition for the artifact by scrutinizing
the documentary evidence for its properties
and by considering the geochemical processes
that led to the formation of the raw material
and the ritual relating to its extraction.
Wait, what?
You're going to talk about the ritual?
Why?
The study of the latter highlights the need
for archaeological materials scientists to recognize,
wait, what are these nerds going to have to reckon with?
To recognize ritual as the possible manifestation
of physical and chemical processes carried out
within the framework of past beliefs and practices.
What do we have to do?
You can take it down.
What do we have to do?
We have to consider that these drugs are being used
and they're being prepped.
They're being made in environments that are cult.
We have to understand there's history here.
There's context, right?
We can have lists of all the drugs that they're using
and their rights.
We can have those.
We do.
But what we don't have is that environment,
that authentic antique environment.
This is late Bronze Age.
I want you to be thinking, where's all this tech coming from?
It's coming from women with aero poisons.
And they're dangerous, you know what I mean?
And we've got a technology that's developed of dope
and antidote.
This is a late Bronze Age.
Oh, God, like 1200 BC, right?
I forget the 1200 BC.
And what happens?
What happens?
The drug knowledge goes through the roof.
And we even have particular individuals historically
that are noted as the craftsmen that pioneered the field.
And a lot of them are called witches, right?
The most famous of which is Medea.
And she was known for having just a phenomenal, amazing
pharmacological knowledge.
And she developed rights, rights where she would Christ herself
and then turn an entire community into a psychedelic dance.
Oh, my God, it was Bacchic reality.
This Lemnian Earth that Galen is looking for,
this Lemnian Earth is part of this tradition.
There is a priestess there, right?
There is a priestess there.
And it's only through her that we get this once in a year supply
of drugs.
She only does it once a year.
Yeah.
And they make the drug.
It's got her seal on it.
It puts her seal on it because for those of you who don't know,
if I'm living in the second century and I need to go buy some drugs
because I just went to see my doctor and my doctor said,
hey, you need some drugs.
Why are they always throwing drugs at me?
It's just like today, isn't it?
No, not quite.
Not quite because back then it's the balance of individual
that you're looking to maintain, right?
So everything in my environment that I use in these compound drugs,
and when I say compound, I'm talking 20, 30, 40, 50.
The Mithridatex have 50 to 65 somewhere in that range, right?
Ingredients, different ingredients.
And these are all plants, animal products.
I've seen things used.
Oh my God.
Today we're going to look at the grime that you can scrape off
a boy wrestler's skin.
Do you know that stuff's the drug?
Wow.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
Oh, is it babies?
That's somebody from the Satanic congregation.
Yes, because they want me to note, I think,
that baby blood was used as well as medicine.
Yeah, fantastic.
Yeah, interesting.
Let's go to the next one.
Boom.
And so this is the introduction.
It's from Timothy and Earth, from Limnos to the northern Aegean,
was a medicine feigned from classical antiquity,
post-modieval times.
Hit the next one.
We already got that.
Go.
Chewie, we're off.
One star assistant behind.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Eustatius in his 12th century,
on a dominant commentary on Homer's Iliad, right?
He notes that the priests of the metal Smith god Hephaestus
were healing those who had been bitten by snakes.
Now, he gives the Greek here.
Thank you.
Thank you for this very much, Jeb.
I guess this is.
Hoy to Hephaestu hires.
Those are those priestesses, or those priests of Hephaestus.
And who are these other ones?
Aetherapeon.
Do you see the verb?
The verb's right there on the third line down.
Aetherapeon.
That's where we get our word therapy in Anglo-Saxon barbarism.
Right?
We had to steal it from them because we're stupid to thank it up for ourselves.
Thank you, mother Greek.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Yes.
All languages are not created equal.
You know, it's a shame.
It turns out you are who you are because of the language that you speak.
Can you believe that?
Are we capacitating people?
Yeah, with the Greek.
This is wonderful.
Let's go to the next one, please.
Boom.
Yeah.
No, wait.
Did we do that?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Here, I want to keep pointing out that we need to still need that one.
Take that rediscovering medicine down for a second.
I want everybody to see what is it?
What is it that they treat these priests of Hephaestus?
What is it literally?
I don't want any theories.
I don't want any ideas.
I want to see what is it they're actually trading.
And it's that last word.
Otheodectus.
Those who are Otheodectic, bring it up.
You know how this works.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is from this.
What you're seeing below you, below me is a Oxford is the Oxford lexicon for
Greek, ancient Greek.
So all what we have here is a word and then a whole bunch of different sources
that use the word.
And what you can do with this type of lexicon is you can track the history of the word
because word meaning drifts over time.
Your context determines what that word is going to mean.
And if you don't know different styles and different periods and different lexica,
you're in trouble.
That's what reading these ancient texts does for you.
It creates in your mind a history of where the Greek was.
