Welcome, Austria, yeah.
Bolts hit the mark every time, psychotropic logos.
You know who's in the right.
Urses with the giggling smile, produce the flowers with the pow.
I give you my blood.
Do you have the blood of the dying god?
Sell fire with the stars in your eyes.
Rub it in with the man who's laughing.
I am being Frank Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips.
Ethos, purple juice cult.
Gorgeous, make your face melt.
Terror cards dealt.
Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead.
Simon says he'll see.
Hello, hello to everybody tonight.
This is a special Lady Babylon.
What am I doing tonight?
Tonight I am addressing the good people of Australia
who are also devotees of the gods of medicine.
Yeah, what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to create a bridge
tonight for you.
I'd like to be able to bring you to the place where the medicine
was happening in the ancient world.
And I'm going to try to sink you into that matrix
so that you can see how different what it is that we do today.
How that's so strange compared to what it is they did then.
Are there advantages on either side?
I want you to be able to skip across time just to look at the medicine.
And what I'm going to do is look, I'm going to introduce myself
so that you can feel a little bit more comfortable.
I'm not just the guy in the park with the trench coat.
I am Dr. Amen Hillman.
And my PhD is in classical philology.
That is Greek and Latin.
Yes.
So philologists use those tools that allow us to access
those written sources from the ancient world.
My specialty was Galen.
The medicine, right?
I did.
Oh, for my masters, I did a translation of Galen's black bile.
It was about the plague that was going on.
Oh, God, it was gorgeous.
Anywho, then I worked on Roman pharmacy and in writing a dissertation
on Roman pharmacy, I was told by my committee,
we won't pass you unless you take out the chapter on recreational drugs
and any references to those drugs anywhere else in the text.
So I said fine and took it out and then turned it into a book.
It blew it up and sent it to St. Martin's Press and they took it.
So that's kind of how I started off in my career.
And what I bring to the table is, you know,
classics should be a thing for scientists,
not for the keepers of humanities.
I like to keep one foot on either side of the fence.
So I want us to look at something a little bit scientific
and kind of follow these texts.
I think you're going to be very pleased with this portrait of medicine.
I'm going to take 45 minutes and then I'm going to give you a chance.
Whoever is here from down under.
I want to give you a chance to ask questions
and we can have a short session here where I can take your questions
and post them up and give any kind of answers that I can give
or if I can, I can say, I don't know, should be fun.
So I appreciate you joining to me, joining me tonight at Lady Babylon.
And we're going to go ahead and jump in, Chewy,
and jump into the fight.
Are you guys ready for this?
What am I bringing you before you bring it up?
Just to give you the background.
We're talking about Galen, second century Anno Domini.
He is a personal body physician to the emperor,
the current Roman emperor, Marcus Raleus.
And he's the most prolific writer of antiquity by far.
By far.
Thousands upon thousands of pages, many of them.
Just about drugs. I've got three volumes sitting here.
They're all, can you hand me one of those?
Chewy's my pilot.
Here's volume 12.
Here's volume 12.
I purchased this from Johns Hopkins when I was a grad student.
This is a 22 volume set, complete set of all of Galen,
published in 1826 there.
So it's Greek, right?
It's Greek, just for people to see.
It's Greek.
Okay. What is it?
It's basically a physician's medical texts from, you know,
Civil War-ish here in the States.
Yeah.
Anywho, I'm going to be bringing you works from those texts.
Let me tell you something.
Nobody does this kind of work.
In the last 10 years, I did find a dissertation.
Somebody's translating Galen.
And I know there's another, I'm aware of another scholar out there
who's an MD who also did a PhD with emphasis in Galen in classics.
So I know that there's a potential out there.
But when I was in the field as a graduate student,
it was not acceptable.
My Bryn Mawr, I wrote the book called The Chemical Muse.
And my Bryn Mawr classical reviewer said,
this is a dangerous book.
It shouldn't be read at a university, right?
Yeah.
Now that same person is writing a book about shamanism,
which will inevitably have drug use in it.
What do you think about Dr. Hillman's work now?
Well, yeah, no, it looks like they're drugged.
Oh, nice job, people.
What happened to me in my career was I was about 10 years ahead of the curve.
And the frontier, as the London Times said about the work that I do,
it's really the last wild frontier, they call it, of classics.
I study the medicine.
And again, that whole volume that I just held up here, that's all drugs.
It's all drugs.
I have forgotten more ancient drugs than most people know of total drugs.
How is that?
It's because of the language.
It's because of the language.
The language of ancient Greek is powerful.
All languages are not created equal.
Ancient Greek is powerful and has just a crazy high,
crazy high number of independent words.
Yeah.
And it does that by word building and giving people who used it the ability
to be able to coin words as they lived, right?
On a daily basis.
It's why we have so many, so many hop-hocs, lagoana,
not because these words only appear in one place and we didn't find it anywhere else,
but because those are the individual author's creations.
Some authors create more than others.
And to watch the artistry of ancient Greek, it's humbling.
It's humbling.
It makes you want to burst out into tears.
Oh, God, it's gorgeous.
Okay, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to give you an article.
This article is about Galen.
When he decided, hey, I'm going to go over to Lemnos,
and I am going to purchase 20,000 Dismuria,
20,000 pills from the Lemnian priestess who makes the Lemnian Earth.
Oh, my God.
Listen to how many different layers.
Okay, so I'm going to give you an article and I had people look at it before
and I put the link there.
So I know you've seen it.
I want it.
Oh, look at that.
Yeah.
I know that you've seen it, but let's run through it.
Hit the first star system.
Yeah, this is from Archaeometry, right?
Archaeometry.
Fantastic.
2008.
Accessing past beliefs and practices.
The case of Lemnian Earth.
Lemnian Earth is a drug very well known in antiquity,
just in great reputation as a panacea.
This thing does so much.
It wards off poisons.
It takes the negative side effects of those poisons that you've been using
and it turns it into a positivity.
Wait, what?
Yeah, they're talking about capacitating drugs.
Oh, my God.
The tech here, the pharmacological tech is off the charts.
Watch this.
Yep.
Give me the next one, Chewie.
Boom.
