Well, look at this word office.
What are these people who are in need of treatment?
They're office something.
What is an office?
Oh, serpent and stop.
It's not exactly what you think of a serpent.
Right serpents, just a snake.
Right.
Look at Roman numeral number two.
It's like a dracon.
There's another word for snake.
There's another word for snake.
Different kinds of snakes.
The office.
What is the best example of the office?
The office was in the garden.
The office is the one who opens the eyes.
Yeah.
Gives access to that fruit.
Look here.
Also constellation.
That's nice.
Nice.
We've got a lot of whenever we get old bronze age religion.
And remember, there's no distinction between religion and medicine.
There's no distinction.
All right.
Okay.
Good.
Good.
I want and you have to understand the connection to the natural.
You have to understand the connection to the, you know,
these are polytheistic nature, nature lovers.
Yeah.
And they're taking all their resources and Galen is traveling to Limnos just so he can
pick up a whole giant batch of these things.
Yeah.
It's got to have the seal of the priestess of Limnos or this stuff doesn't work.
And it's expensive brah.
As you can imagine, it's a cure all to cure all you start taking this stuff.
Oh God, people at work.
They're going to notice.
They're going to notice.
Whoa.
Look at that.
Marcus Aurelius did.
And other people were like, who?
What?
What?
Look at him.
He looks 10 years younger.
Whoa.
Oh, I love it.
Give me the next one.
And these are the details you get in the medical side.
What are the, now where are we mentally?
I just told you the priests of Hephaestus, they treat people who are Ophiodectis.
Right.
And we know we saw the office from that that is the first part of the word is a serpent
like a dracon.
We get our word Dracula from that one.
I like that one.
Dracon.
Those are the dragons.
Where are the dragons?
Dragons are temple guardians.
Just like Medusa, the Medusa, right?
They're temple guardians.
They guard things.
Medusa usually guard individuals.
Right.
And they have more of a governing role.
Where as the dracon taste those dragons, they're just there for the security of that relic.
You know, in the case of the people who were researching the drugs, it was a song that
was written on a golden fleece by a woman named Medea and we get medicine from her name.
Isn't that awesome?
Oh God, I love it.
Okay.
We got to keep the track here.
What is that?
Tectos.
What does it come from?
It comes from this verb, docno.
Right.
And it really means to bite.
If you look through this to chomp down, to bite.
But look how the meaning of it is gaseous.
Look at number two.
Roman numeral number two.
It's a pungent.
You know, what happens when you get the smoke in your eyes, you got that bite.
You got that sting.
And what did the Greeks do?
They did what they always do and they take the concrete and immediately turn it into
an abstraction and then they can play with it mentally.
And that's what they did.
Look, of the mind, it means to bite or sting.
Yeah.
And what is it used of?
Can be used of love.
Right.
That sting.
Do you know where the love of Eros comes from?
It comes from a bow.
Yeah.
It's a toxin on the end of the bow.
We have one that's called satirion that I can shoot you with.
I can shoot you with and then apply it to a medicated dildo, a leather.
The ones that I've seen leather, right?
But apply it to a leather dildo and then give you the medicine, right?
Apply the medicine to you rectally.
You can see how the lines between sexuality and medicine and cult are totally blurred.
What is the symbol?
By the way, we're on the island of Lemnos.
We're on the island of Lemnos.
And what do you find there on the island of Lemnos?
It's the God Priapus, baby.
It's the God Priapus, this old Pulaski and God.
He's the God of the erection.
Yeah, the Romans rub his statues phallus for the sake of luck, for the sake of luck, right?
And when I say luck, I mean marital luck.
Now, is this medicine that we're talking about?
Yes.
If you want to treat depression like they did in antiquity, and you say, well, they
use a whole bunch of drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs, they use drugs.
Depression, like they did in antiquity.
And you say, well, they use a whole bunch of drugs.
Yeah, they did.
But they did it in a very, very strange way.
You can induce states of mania for the well-being of the patient.
Remember ecstasy, ecstasis is a Greek concept.
And what is the idea based on the word?
It's a yanking out of yourself from your location.
It's literally where it is.
It's a transfer of your consciousness to a place that's outside of yourself so that you
can look at the person who is you.
That's what it says on the top of the temple of Apollo.
He's the oracular divinity.
He says, know yourself.
Know yourself.
And how can you do that?
You do that with a regular mirror magic.
And yes, it involved a whole bunch of drugs and a whole bunch of rights.
The drug that Galen is purchasing to the tune of 20,000 of these things, he's doing it specifically
via the priestess because it's her line that preserves the scientific knowledge of how
to prep the drug.
It's pretty complex.
Let's go on.
By the way, for those of you who think everybody who lived before you did was dummy, you got
another thing coming.
Let's go to the next one.
Look at this.
What is it we're all looking for?
We're all looking for oistress.
Notice the sigmatal row root or STR in English, sigmatal row, you're going to see this.
Gadfly.
It's a gadfly.
Oh, okay.
A gadfly.
Look at number definition number two under Roman numeral number two, any vehement desire
and sane passion.
You see what we're doing?
We're taking the concrete and we're creating the abstract.
And then the abstract has its own vocabulary.
If you keep reading, you're going to find it means madness and frenzy, madness and frenzy.
Madness and frenzy.
Let's go up.
Go ahead.
Flash that up.
Chewie wants to mesmerize.
Look at that.
Oh, look at that.
Now, you know, if you were a horse and you got bitten by Mr. Gadfly, you know that it's
