That's what we're going to have to do. Give me the next one, Chewie.
And, you know, it's not that hard to do that.
Yeah, yeah.
Believe the sacred earth, the alum, oh here, look at the bottom.
The alum bearing waters of the spring derived, right?
So what happens, he says, the ritual of the extraction of this clay and of the creation,
the ritual of the creation of this Lemnian earth, right?
And manual processing imparted with divine blessing, whatever, it's off.
What a procedure, part natural, part manmade that was carried out successively on a set of days you're in,
you're out. This involves the redirecting of the waters of the nearby spring over the pit from which the earth was being extracted, right?
Yeah, yeah, the redirection was carried out deliberately in the course of a year.
The pit on its own would have provided no more than a clay used for potting lowest grade or a clay, blah, blah, blah,
with those different constituents in it.
And he gets down to, he says, the alum bearing waters of the spring derived from Alanite-rich rock below
would have been absorbed by the clay enriching it into alum, which we believe to have been the special ingredient.
Now, notice, now go ahead and take it down.
Notice that he's concerned about what is the one ingredient, what is the one thing, right?
What is that one communion?
What is that one drug they were using?
Greco-Roman pharmacy is so far advanced that they would never be asking the question which drug is the one doing the job.
Remember, we're talking about balance.
We're talking about changing human physiology by means of the balance that's in nature.
That's why it's good for you to have some venom every once in a while.
Yeah, fantastic. Let's go to the next one, see what they do.
These people are using venom, by the way, right?
The venoms, the venoms are all, they affect growth.
Oh my God, chronic. Imagine it's chronic administration.
How are they, go ahead and leave that up.
But how do they ultimately, these venoms, how are they administered, right?
You make a compound drug with the venoms in it and then you impregnate a strip of cloth bandage
and put it over wounds that you have self-inflicted.
Isn't that nice?
And you get a chronic administration of your venom-enriched formula.
And yeah, to watch what it does to growth is amazing.
It's amazing.
The stuff that they were doing in antiquities is mind-blowing.
When you get into the tech, when you get into the...
Remember, these works in Greek, these are not translated.
These are not translated, right?
Why? Because classicists are not trained in the sciences traditionally.
So it's like struggling.
Go to the next one, it's like struggling with a giant gorilla.
Documentary evidence for alum Galen says,
Lemnian Earth is astringent.
This is powerful evidence that the alum is a significant opponent of Lemnian Earth
as there are very few potential astringent substances.
So look, what is he doing?
He's interpreting.
Let's just see what the source says.
Let's just see what the source says.
Blow it up to you.
This one, the print is terrible on this one.
Blow this one up.
Whoever did this for that article, shame on you.
You should be...
Go back.
Yeah, blow that one up.
Thank you so much.
Here we go.
Watch this.
Two-tone.
Ha-pa-son.
Yeah.
He lemnia dunamen iskuroteran eche.
Yeah.
So the Lemnian Earth has the strongest effect.
It has the strongest capacity of all the Earths.
And you say, wait a minute.
What am I talking about?
Those Earths...
You gotta leave it up.
Those Earths are what you get from metalon.
Metalon sounds like metal.
It's not.
Metalon are mines.
Metalon are mines when you are digging into the dirt
to harvest, to farm out those medically active components
that create the balance.
Those things, you're creating Earths.
Earths.
And the Lemnian form taken at this one time a year
by the same priestess, right?
Or the same priestly line, I should say.
That this is the stuff that really works.
And you're gonna want to say, oh, it's one thing.
It's one ingredient because that's how our medicine and pharmacy,
that's how they're oriented.
What's the one drug?
Right?
No, no, no.
The thing compounds here.
And he says, what else does he say?
He says, it's got a styptic power in it.
It's got a styptic power in it.
Go to the next one.
This is what that word, styptic, is coming from.
It comes from this Greek word, stupsis,
which means a contraction.
It's a stringent.
Causes you to stop bleeding, right?
Causes you to stop bleeding.
And dying.
Now, wait a minute.
Is dying medicine?
Yes.
In antiquity, dying is medicine.
All you Baptists out there who have been died in the purple
and have been to the death and the resurrection,
those of you who have been there know what I'm talking about.
You've taken that Thalassimus, that death inducing drugs.
Wait a minute.
You mean they even had death inducers?
Yes.
Why?
Because when you put somebody into a death state under the right conditions
and you bring them back using the proper Adola,
the proper images, we get idolatry in English from that.
When you have the proper images, you can give somebody a new life.
How's that?
You send them to the other side and bring them back.
You know what that does to your psychology?
Let me tell you something.
Medical professionals of Australia, for those of you who have ever had to deal
with patients of mental issues, psychiatric issues, psychological counseling,
any of those, you can take certain types of patients like the splenic melancholic people
and you can put them through a week of fasting, give them a drug,
drop them into a cave full of snakes.
After three days, pick them up on the other side.
Don't worry.
There's water in the cave.
Although it's completely dark, if you follow the stream, you'll get eventually to the outside.
Have people died doing this?
Yeah, but you know, you kind of break some eggs, baby, for the sake of mental health.
When you get to the other side, they call it, you look like you've come from the cave of
It means that you're completely and utterly destroyed and afraid, terrorized.
Why?
Because they gave you a psychosis-inducing drug when they dropped you in there.
Now, my question for you, modern healthcare and allied fields, you know, we would never do this.
I don't care what side of the globe you're on, we would never do this.
But for some reason, you could take a person who's depressed and you can cure them of their depression.
And it's a one-time deal.
Is it something to do with all of the brain chemistry?
I'd like to think that was an elegant, elegant part of it.
Yeah.
But, you know, hey, it may be fun too.
Maybe you've got some people you counsel or you've got some patients who would be well-served
by getting dropped into a cave full of snakes after taking psychotropics.
Yeah, it may.
Now, the other one that was, I did read, Gailen was talking about the cure for one of the cures for a type of,
I guess the best way to call it would be manic depression is involves intercourse, right?
Drugs and intercourse, which you never think about that either, right?
At what point, you know, what they're doing is they're working with the brain, right?
And at what point do you stop and say, OK, what are the drugs that they're using?
What are the effects that they're having on the brain?
And how does the sex act that's involved, how does that sex act reset the brain as well?
Is there something that your brain is doing while orgasming that is different and those drugs are affecting it in some way
and that's going to cure your depression, right?
We're cleansing ourselves.
They're looked at as purifications, purifications.
And you'd be surprised at all the mental health care that ancient physicians are wrapped up in.
You'd be really surprised at all the mental health care drugs.
Amazing, beautiful stuff, beautiful stuff.
Let's go back.
Oh, God.
Yeah, I'm on a little bit of an extra role, but I'm going to give you everything.
Look at this.
Gailen makes it clear that limny and earth should not be washed more than once.
I'll just tell you that really quick.
He says, look, the other stuff, you got to wash it a couple of times, right?
Two to three times.
He says, but the stuff that is already prepared by the priestess, don't touch it.
Don't do that, right?
You're going to alter it.
