I never meant anything I said, just spittin' it up
Everything I've been fittin', keepin' from eatin' away at me
Never said anything I meant, I never said the letters that I should've said
So it's askin' too much for you all to believe
Never knew what I said, never meant nobody knew what I said
Never was a cause for a long, never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Welcome back to Season 3!
We have another crack!
It's seven weeks!
Yes, yes, beautiful!
I love it!
It's great to be back!
Had a great working vacation!
It was given our work, and we have a great show for you tonight
All I'm going to do is bring out in front of you the words from antiquity
And we're going back to Lady Babylon
But this time, it's Lady Babylon Rome
Oh, that's fantastic!
I'm going to bring up a series of text tweets tonight
And what we're doing is we're setting our sights to the West
We've been to the crime scene, we've seen Jesus arrested with the naked boy at 4 a.m.
We know that he was calling himself a sex trafficker
We know there are drugs involved
We're looking for the cult
We're trying to dive as deep into it as we can possibly get
Why not go to the founder of all this mystery?
Yes, why not go to the founder herself?
And that's what we're going to do tonight
So we're jumping out of the East, in the West
To the dropping off of the sun
And the arrival of night
This is gorgeous, this is gorgeous
Who do we bring? Who do we summon tonight?
Oh, we're bringing a North African
Oh, I forgot to make an announcement
For the chat people, people that jump on there
Yeah, be cool, be cool
Or get zapped, be cool or get zapped
That's the place to come
So don't bring any of that racism, misogyny
Whatever your values are, we don't care
We don't
Leave that stuff outside
Or Cersei, was that you?
Cersei, please, jump on
We need this, right?
Human sacrifice, love it, it's delicious
So we're going to the West
And we're going to North Africa
And we're going to dredge out of the soil
From late 5th century
A very special lawyer
This lawyer was, boy did he have the sources
Well educated, his was that Latin
Yeah, anyway, and what he did was he preserved for us
Some of the most culty references possible
This is the, he has preserved the actual
Functioning of the mystery
Many of you will say mystery, mystery
Look, it's all on YouTube and we're all figuring out
Mystery, mystery, mystery, right?
And where's it from? Oh, it's from the secret
And, right, and okay, we're coming away
We're stepping away from that crowd
That wants to take us in the back, right?
We're remembering that, it's good technique
This season, right?
We're going to practice that
We're stepping out, we're going to say, okay
Just let us look at the cult
Tonight I just want you to see the cult
Through Lady Babylon, right?
Scholars with their books
And their selling and their position
Trying to give you their theories
That's not for us, we just were detectives
We want to know what was the reality going on
And so in order to get there tonight
We're going to start our
Johnson to Rome with Dracontius
Dracontius, don't you love that?
It means a Draco, right?
It means the dragon
Anyway, he was preserved
He preserved for us the strains of cult
In an epilion, an epilion
And what dare you ask is an epilion
It's a short epic, okay
It's a metrically an epic, it's short
And yeah, he wrote one
He wrote one
He did some time in prison too
There were wars going on
Between Christian and non-Christian
And it was going against, it was terrible
A disturbing time, disturbing times
I can smell it, can you smell it?
Okay, let's pull out some Dracontius
Let's get serious, pull out some Dracontius
And tonight I want you, you're sitting on that throne
As you are within Asterian
I want you to go ahead and look at these images
We're looking at images, we're going to be working with the words
But we're looking at the images
Okay, number one text, please
I just want you to see, I'm going to sit here as the voice
And I'm going to try not to yell here
I don't want to yell, so why don't I do this?
Yeah, what we've got here is that gold and artifact
It's protected by a dragon
Yes, and on that skin
And what's funny, the word for parchment is used
So it is implied that there is writing
That that song that is being serwata
That that song is what that guardian is guarding
It's what that dragon is watching
Yes, but look what we get here
And the third line, hank propter pelagi, temerator primus yasson
Isn't that nice?
Isn't that nice? Look at this
The first yasson was a rapist of the burning purple
Isn't that nice?
And so I want you to see that we're right there
Right from the beginning
So he's gotten us to the place
And he's letting us know
And I want you to get prepared for all the snakes
And for all the, we want to see the right
As it's being performed
We want to go there directly, right?
So, okay, we're just settling in
Give us another one
Another
Yeah, ut sitha conspexit kraim
Isn't this wonderful?
Look at the second word, sitha
That's her, right?
He's describing what Medea is doing
And he says she is sitha
Those of you who are lovers of that history
And I know those of you who are here
Just notice, just sit back
Those of you who said sithians, sithians
Who said sithians?
Please don't
Sithians, what about these people?
Yeah, well her name is sitha
Gorgeous, same text again, please, Chewie
She's amazed, right?
