Κοίτας, σύντομα, είναι αυτό το άνθρωπο who wrote the series left behind and the people that were involved with it.
Είσαι δεν είσαι στην καλή στιγμή.
Αυτό που είσαι ένιωσε ήταν φεύγη.
Είσαι φεύγη.
Και ήταν μια καλή στιγμή από ένα κομμάτι, ένα κομμάτι, ένα σκρόλο, ένας σκρόλος που είναι σκορσμένος.
Είναι σκορσμένος και έτσι είσαι.
Και πάνω από το δεύτερο μου ένιωσε να μου πω.
Είσαι ένιωσε να μου πω.
Είσαι ένιωσε να μου πω.
Ένα φωριστική μου έματο εδώ μου, κατεύθυμ ο έγγραμμς.
Yeah, yeah. It's amazing. Nobody reads the Bible though, people. I don't know why.
No, nobody reads the Bible anymore. Okay, we're gonna read the Bible. Watch this.
Here's a Christian, Cristianos. Give me the next one. Here's Peter.
He says, look, you know, if you get persecuted because you're a Cristianos, don't be ashamed.
Don't be ashamed. Let it be to the glory, right? To the glory and the name, right?
Because that, to us, is everything. What are we? We are the Christed.
You have none of these people walking around today. Christians are not the Christed.
They have not taken the Thonestimon that Jesus said you have to take.
Realize, your life is a figment of an imagination that came from the first, second and third centuries.
A monism that destroyed your own understanding of yourself.
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going. More of that Christing. I think we're just gonna jump.
I think we're just, here's the pseudo Christ. Yeah, here's a couple more verses and I think we're gonna finish up with that.
Finish up with that. This is to anoint yourself all over. Now, if you anoint yourself all over, good for you.
Good for you. I think that's how it should be done too. I'm with these. I'm gonna hang with these people.
The Amphichrist. Look at how many new types of people we can have. Are you an Amphichrist?
Oh, yeah, you know it. Give me the next one. What is that one? I wanna see with that coin.
Oh, yeah, yeah, no. There's lots of pseudo Christs, you know, prophets.
And they're all doing this in the sun, right? In the moon. Selenius there, right? Beneath the feet.
Did you get your anointing on? Is that why we're hearing? What we're hearing? Yes, it is.
And finally, here's your invocation and here is your anointing, your besmearing, right?
Okay, I just wanted you to see. It's a lot of Christing. It's a lot of Christing.
So, I've given you the context of what people did when they actually Christed.
And I hope that you're beginning to see where the right is coming from as we look into the Bronze Age,
to the drugs that they were first using, or at least it's the first record.
I'm sure, you know, I don't know how old it is, but it's when we begin to see literary depictions, right?
It's when we begin to see, it's at this time, the late Bronze Age, that they're coming up with this drug tech,
or at least they're employing it. And guess what, ladies? You're right in the middle of it.
You're right in the middle of it, and it turns out our society is just a weak reflection of what that original
Amazonian, democratic, oracle-creating Bronze Age world where women could castrate captives, poison them,
and turn them into sex slaves. When you say the good old days, that's what you're talking about.
To the Greeks, these were the good old days. You had to be there. The tech was something.
Okay, I'm going to call in Neil now, and I'm going to see.
Look, you had to wait way longer. This is terrible, but you told me not to worry.
People, I want us to welcome back Hercules, who has come back to us from his adventures.
Yeah, and he's gotten everything out of the system, and now he's come back,
and he's ready to hit you with some sources. Thank you for coming tonight.
I don't want to set up your clip, Neil. I want you to set it up, but I want people.
I'm going to be sitting in the background saying, I tell you so, I tell you so.
Okay, I'm going to let you... Yep, you're good. You're good. I'm going to give it over to you.
I want to play that clip last, so that way you can come back and react to it. We can talk about it.
Okay, turn your volume up a little bit. Chewie says, Arg, turn it up.
How's that? Better?
Yeah, a little bit better. Okay, cool.
Let's go with the first slide that I have. It's the white text, not the video.
He was talking about gods in the Bible, so I'm sure somebody in the crowd wants to see what he means by that.
I pulled it up, and this is the clear example of...
You find this type of rhetoric and this type of style and the sibling oracles,
which were around in the 1st century, 1st century BC, 1st century AD, 1st century, 2nd century, and so on.
By the way, sibling oracles, they're written sort of in the...
Well, obviously, they're written in a hexameter prose, like they're written in a certain style of Greek,
but like Revelation, which isn't written in that same style of Greek,
but Revelation is like sibling oracles in the sense that they're both very prophetic
and they use gods as concepts of things in the world.
They're both very ideas-based, I guess. That's the way to put it.
But I want to throw something at you. I want to show you what he means by that.
At the end of Revelation, chapter 20, verse 11, he says...
He saw a white throne, a great white throne,
and on it, sitting who's from the face, fled the...
You got Gaia and Aranos in the nominative singular, both of them.
Now, this doesn't necessarily mean, because in the nominative singular,
it doesn't mean it's a person necessarily or a god necessarily.
It can be heaven and earth, but watch what's going on in this chapter.
That's what matters to me.
So as it continues, and heaven and earth were in place and was not found for them,
and I saw the dead and great and small standing before the throne,
and the Biblia were open, and another Biblia was open,
which was the one of Zoe, the book of Zoe,
and were judged the dead, the nekroy, out of the things that were written.
And in these Biblios, according to the deeds of them,
and he gave up Thalassa.
Now, Thalassa can just mean sea, but in the Orphic hymns,
I have no Orphic hymns right there, there's a whole dedication,
there's a whole sacrifice, there's a whole ritual,
where you can actually light certain incense and him and honor Thalassa.
Thalassa is a god.
So let's continue.
I think the evidence gets better as we go.
It says,
Θανατος.
So what did I just say there?
Θανατος and Hades are there.
Not only is Thalassa there giving up his dead,
but Θανατος and Hades are giving up their dead,
and who were in them,
and they were judged each according to their works,
Θανατος and Hades were cast into the lake of Puros, of fire.
Θανατος, this is the second death.
Θανατος and Hades are actually characters in Orphic mythology,
or the greater Orphic textual corpus, if you want to call it that.
They do have their own dead.
Hades has his own dead that he has control over.
He has souls that he has power over.
Θανατος and Θανατος.
Θανατος is Chronos who rules Elysium.
Θανατος is Persephone.
There's also a lake of fire down there.
The oldest lake of fire we find is in Greek mythology.
You don't find a lake of fire in any Old Testament or Hebrew mythology.
That's a totally Greek mythology thing that you're finding in this chapter.
So I think Revelation is playing around with gods,
and they're being judged.
By the way, these are great gods, not just little gods.
These aren't just daemons.
These are great gods who have Orphic hymns dedicated to them, all of them.
Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος.
All of those gods that were mentioned in this chapter, all of them have specific hymns dedicated to them.
They all have specific honors, specific ways to sacrifice, specific incense is burned to them.
So that's a really good point here.
I think there's some polytheism happening in the book Revelation.
To me, there's no doubt.
So I wanted to start off with that, because the reason why I want to start off with that is because this is what we find in the mysteries.
Υπάρχουν πολλές ανθρώπτες, δηλαδή οι μυστήρες είναι κάθε πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Λοιπόν, στο ίδιο το ίδιο της Χριστιανίας, δηλαδή έχουν οι μυστήρες πραγματικές,
και τίποτα πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Μυθραϊκές μυστήρες, δηλαδή αυτά τα πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Εντάξει με την Αθρατολήμη, το ΣαΚΣΕΣΙΣΙΑ,
όλα τα μυθραϊκές πράγματα, τα Λέστα,
consists the operation to convince the Byzantine people that they can live as
they can live un tym, as they can live in the Byzantine Brotherhood...
Τέλος butterfly, rose as a flower.
Umm, but sometimes they turn the leaf into a star is again put.
They all end up transferring their cult over chase f ministreok outfits Montoser Shank.
They just slip inside themselves.
They end up transferring their cult over to the Romans.
And in that way you could never forget the cult of Mithras.
That's according to Pluto.
Όλα those basically go back to the least early Iron Age.
If not Aelousinian and Samoa Thrasian, go back to the Bronze Age.
The mystery religions are old, is as old as writing is.
You don't even know how old Aelousinian mysteries are. Who knows?
Samoa Thrasian mysteries are even older than the Aelousinian mysteries.
Even the Aelousinians admitted that.
So Samoa Thrasian mysteries, who knows?
And if you actually...
A little bit we do know about the Samoa Thrasian mysteries,
They have pre-Greek, archaic, what they call Pulascian gods, the names of their gods that go back before Greek, that's how old it is.
That's what the sources say.
So I wanted to share, let me see, let me stop this screen.
I got a file that I want to share.
Let me see, what do I do with this file?
Just give me a second.
I got some good stuff to add to what Ammo was saying.
So speaking of the mysteries, you got the word Muo.
And if you look at Perseus Tufts and Alice, you get close, be shut of the eyes.
Remember what Ammo was saying?
He was talking about having your eyes be open by being Christed.
But yeah, that's what the word means.
It literally just means to close.
So Muo means I initiate or I disclose.
Moustace is a word that's used that just means initiate.
So from that word Muo, I shut, you get these other words having to do with religion, having to do with being initiated.
Paul, talking about Christ crucified as the mystery or the secret, is a language that would have caught the ear of the God fearing Greek in the time period.
And what I said, mysteries.
Ooh, I love mysteries.
What do you got for me?
I'll be initiated.
Give me a baptism.
Give me a Christ.
Give me some Eucharist.
In fact, we have some sources on that.
So let's talk about that.
By the way, I wrote Marcus Magus down here because I have him in my notes and I was trying to write Diascortes.
That's not Marcus Magus.
This is Diascortes.
I don't know why I wrote that.
But he did.
Diascortes did die in 90 AD.
So that is true.
So I got that part right.
Diascortes is going to be the subject of the next couple of minutes.
He died in 90 AD.
He's a contemporary running around with Paul.
Maybe he was even Paul's plug.
Who knows?
Maybe Paul was buying his shit off this guy.
But anyways, the verse that I wanted to address here is Porfura Caesa, which I'm going to cite Oldboy here.
I got to cite Oldboy.
This is a screenshot from one of Oldboy's videos where he translates this as the burning purple.
Now, I wanted to translate it myself too.
I think it's the...
Let's see.
What does he got?
He's got the heiress active.
I think it's the heiress passive.
But I could be wrong.
I could be wrong.
I'm just saying.
I want to see what people think about that.
I'm throwing that out there.
We can go back to that.
We can circle back to that.
I'm not trying to start nothing.
But it wouldn't even make a difference.
It will make a slight difference.
It would be the burnt purple.
The purple that's been burnt.
Whereas in the heiress active, it's the burning purple.
Now, the reason why I bring that up is because Dia Scorides talks about this burnt purple,
where he says it has these different uses.
You can use it to clean wounds.
You can use it to clean scars.
You can use it for checking overgrown flesh, whatever that means.
And it's a detersive of the teeth.
It cleans your teeth out,
which is odd because you see a lot of teeth cleaners these days that are actually purple.
I don't know if you guys know that.
Go to your local cosmetic store and go to the teeth cleaning stuff.
You'll see there's purple teeth cleaners out there.
And I almost wonder if they rediscovered Dia Scorides' methods of cleaning teeth.
Just saying.
You never know.
But yeah.
So, okay, that's that.
I'm going to lay...
That's the Dan clip that I have saved for when I need it.
So I'm going to go to...
I have one more thing I got to show.
Since we're on the topic of burning purple,
or the burnt purple, whichever it is,
I want to share my last screen before I get to that video.
And that is this.
So this is a story we get...
This is a story we get from Hippolytus
at the end of the 2nd century,
I think, early 3rd maybe.
But anyways, he's talking about a guy named Marcus who lived in the 2nd century.
Now, before I read this story, I want you to realize how big of a deal this guy is.
He gets his own...
Just entire multiple chapters dedicated just to him.
Where most...
Most heretics get like a paragraph or a page or a sentence.
Marcus gets multiple pages and he gets multiple books dedicated just to himself.
Only Marcus...
Valentinus, by the way, Marcus was the successor of Valentinus.
We're going to get into that.
The Valentinians were a huge...
I think they were the mystery, the earliest...
I think they represent the earliest shred of Christianity.
But we'll get into that too.
But anyways, the Nassian preacher, who we don't know his real name,
Valentinus and Marcus,
they get the most...
Most action in these texts.
They get the most...
They're the most serious by far.
And it's because of how much power they had.
It turns out, this is not just me spewing nonsense.
Anybody, this is like well-known...
This is like consensus stuff.
The Marcosians, who are an offshoot of the Valentinians,
are the largest growing faction of Christianity in France
in the second and third and fourth century.
All the way into...
They were there for a while apparently.
And they got their name from this guy.
So, European Christianity comes from this.
What are you about to hear?
Alright, let's read this story.
But there is another among them
of these heretics, Marcus by name,
who boasts himself as having improved upon his master.
He is a perfect adept in magical imposters.
And by this means, drawing a great number of men,
and not a few women,
he has induced them to join themselves to him
as to one who is possessed of the greatest gnosis and perfection.
That's what the word actually is.
And who has received the highest power
from the invisible and ineffable regions above.
Thus, it appears as if he really were
the precursor of Antichrist.
For joining the buffooneries
of a noxulus of the craftiness of the Magi,
that's why he gets his nickname from Marcus Magus.
As they are called,
he is regarded by his senseless and cracked brain followers
as working miracles as by these means.
What miracles?
Pretending to consecrate cups mixed with wine,
the Eucharist obviously,
and protracting to great length the word of invocation.
He contrives to give them a purple and reddish color.
Remember, the purple, we talked about this all the time,
sometimes it's a dark red crimson,
it doesn't have to be purple.
Sometimes it can be a little on the reddish side.
But here we got a good candidate for this right here.
Purple and reddish color.
By the way, I love this translation.
The one that I was going to use translates this to grace.
This person kept the word keras.
They actually transliterated it. I love it.
Because it makes you hear the Greek.
It makes you hear the original context.
So I'm going to read it.
So that keras, who is one of those,
so that the grace, superior to all things,
he just totally changes the translation.
But this is what it really says.
So that keras, who is one of those
that are superior to all things,
should be thought to drop her own blood
into that cup through means of his invocation.
And that thus those who are present
should be led to rejoice to taste that cup.
In order that, by so doing,
keras, who is set forth by this magi,
may also flow into them.
And again, handing mixed cups to the women,
he bids them consecrate these in his presence.
When this has been done,
he himself produces another cup of much larger size
than that which the diluted women have consecrated
and pouring from the smaller consecrated by the women
into that which has been brought forth.
He's explaining how he drugs them and stuff, whatever he does.
He has a sleight of hand going on.
He's got a small cup and a big cup.
The drugs are in the small cup and when they're not looking,
he dips it.
