Oh, you mean you can take scopolamine and atropine and all these other Belladonna-derived drugs, you can put them into a person and you can create a psychological hole? Yes, yes, experiential brain holes.
Yeah, uh-huh, chemical. What do you think anesthesia is? Yeah, yeah, fantastic. You know our chemistry is all from those plants, right? That's where we're getting it all. The Romans are using it because they know you don't want to patient when you're doing something serious like amputation or something.
You don't want a patient to have to experience that trauma, right? So if you've got the anesthetics, you give them to them. This one will help them to forget. This one will help them not have pain. This one will help to put them to sleep.
It's all plant chemistry. Yeah, love it. Love it, love it, love it. You thought that the only thing there was the THC, right? That's what you thought, right? Yeah, no, there's all universal stuff in those things.
Right? We better start walking around sampling different shrubbery if we want to recapture antiquity because they were way ahead of us, way ahead of us on all of this plant.
Okay, so it's the terminology in the Greek. The long and the short is the terminology in the Greek is so specific that she is taking that from him that he's got to have an erection. Lot's got to be erect, which you know doesn't happen when you pass out dead drunk, right?
So what about these drugs? Let's go see. Let's go back to the beginning of the chapter now and try to take a look at what's the environment like that these girls are being raised in. You know, they're acting this kind of way.
Let's see. Let's see. It's fantastic. Fantastic background. Before we do, I want to hit that video again. And I want you to take a look. Take a look at the imagery. The imagery that's in it and help me match it up to the next text that we look at. Go ahead to it.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in front of him.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in front of him.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk. Worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings. One slot was in this incapacitated state. She proceeded to have sex with him. And it's impregnated.
The fairy tale is far less interesting than the reality, right? The reality is what Hosea, look at this. I'm quoting prophets people. You know, rule number one with the devil, read.
Read your Bible. Read your Bible. Read it. And there's this quote that I wanted to give you from Hosea. It's just three words. Here, give a Christian a tickle. Oh, there we go.
I love it. Can you feel it with my hands? I can feel it. Okay. Par oistrosa. Par oistresen Israel. Israel does what? Hosea? They are oistromaniacs.
What are oistromaniacs? They're the ones who are entering via the burning purple. This is an arrow poison, people. This is an arrow poison.
Fire the burning purple. You too can have the flux in your eyes. You too can enter into that place. Yeah, you can see. You can have your eyes open. Yeah.
Hosea doesn't like it because that is causing people to revolt against kurios. Wow. Okay. So you see some politics, right? But in the world that we're looking at, these things are not unusual.
Putting yourself into a state of mania is not an unusual thing. There's a dozen different religions you can join if you want to do just that. Okay. Fantastic. Let's go. Let's go back to the text.
I want to bring you this from the beginning. Yep. Now I'm just going to read this one. Blow this one up. Thanks, Chewie. By the way, everybody who's saying Chewie is doing such a fantastic job on her vitties.
Thank you so much from Chewie. Yep. Shout out to Chewie for having done such a wonderful job.
