Oh, you know, before we do, let's throw up a comment, get a couple of comments in here so we can warm up a little bit. I'm sorry, let's throw that in.
Thanks, Nathan. Yeah, with a real slim Jesus, please stand up. Very nice. Yeah. Okay.
I give it in the middle, right? Keep, keep working comedians. Okay, give me another one.
Give me another one. This video explains the what we need to think more now on the why and how, right?
That was last week. We're in the, into the what's going on.
Well, today, today for everyone, this is the what's going on, baby. You're looking at it. You're looking at it.
Bring up that dirty biblical text and let's get deep into it. Yeah. Yeah.
Now, by the way, for those of you who watch the video, remember that the age group on those two women that we're talking to each other, they look like maybe 45 and 25 somewhere in that range.
What we're talking about with lots daughters. Come on. This is reality. This is reality, kids. All you evangelicals out there. All you evangelicals.
Sit down. Sit down there somewhere between 13 and 17 somewhere in that range. Okay. These are his virgin daughters.
His virgin daughters who have yet to become nymphs. You mean the Bible, the good old fashioned Old Testament Bible talks about nymphs?
Yes, it does. It talks about men and women too. Yes, it does. All of this in this work that has been pasted and plastered over with medieval Hebrew to give it an appearance of something it is not.
You have to strip away that layer. The King James is going to have all the errors and everything after it's going to follow them because they're following that tradition.
We're looking at the Greek. Let's see what these girls do. Can we bring up that text again? Oh, this is fantastic. Let me put on my glasses.
Oh, you biblical scholars and evangelicals. Listen up. Yeah. And so Lot left this city called Segor, right? And he went up into the mountains, both he and his daughters.
I'm just translating to you. This is my translation by the way.
And why? Because he was afraid to live in the city of Segor. Okay, so he camped out in a cave. He and his daughters with him. They're all in the cave together, right? It's a family cave.
Yes, no problem. Still, we don't have anything. Officer, there's nothing to see here, right? All the kids in Bible study. Just wait, just wait.
Okay. Verse, verse 32, 31, excuse me, 31.
And so the older daughter said to the younger daughter, our dad, our dad is getting old. He's so old.
