Look, I'm just going to translate. It's just a translator, right? Okay. So two messengers came to Sodom about the time the sun was going down and Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom.
So seeing the messengers, he got up and he went over for a meeting and he prostrated himself. He got down on one knee with his face toward the ground, right?
He's given them a sign of respect and he said to them, hey, they're lords. Wait, that's not going to... Yeah, that's what he says. Hey, they're lords.
Lords, right? It's clean out there. Take a detour to my place. Now be your boy. I'll be your boy. That's what he says. That's colloquial Greek, for I'll be your servant.
You know, whatever you want, I'll give you. Come into my house. So he says, look, just take off your stuff, wash your feet and get up in the morning and take off on your own way.
It literally says on your own way. But they said, ooh-hee, ooh-hee. No, we think not, bro. Right? We're going to stay on the street tonight. They're going to camp in the street.
And Lot knows this is Sodom, right? Lot knows this is Sodom. Do you feel the fear? You've been falsely, you've been lied to about this place, Sodom. You do not live in Disneyland. This is the reality. Everywhere is Sodom.
Verse number three. So, you know, he got a little bit physical with them, you know, just directed him on as he beat him up. Just says he got a little forceful and he directed him to his house. So they came to his house, right?
And he made them a poton. He made them a what? He made them a poton. Now in the King James, you'll see this. This translated as meal and in the Hebrew is twisted.
But in the Greek into the meal, but in the Greek, it doesn't say that. And all of a sudden, it now makes sense. A poton is something you drink at a big banquet to get smashed.
It is something that you create to give to somebody to put them to sleep. You know what the doctors do? And this is, you class this out there. You are terrible because you don't read the physicians.
You know what the physicians do? They can make these things for you, right? They're compounds, compound drinks, and they have a base, you know, typically wine, but it's because that's alcohol in it.
They've got other bases, right? So what? What do you do? You make somebody a poton. You know who makes people potons, right? You know who makes people potions?
Witches make people potions. And you know where to go? If you can't get an erection in antiquity, if you can't get an erection in antiquity, you go to a witch. She'll make you a potion that will give you one.
That's just life, right? Drug stores with medical stuff. That's all. Lovely, lovely, love it. So what does he do? Lots making these guys a potion. It doesn't say he's making them a nightcap.
It doesn't say he's making them something to make their tummies nice while they go to bed. He's making them a potion. And they start to go to sleep. But before they drop off to sleep, before they drop off to sleep, what happens?
The city surrounds them, dude. The city surrounds them, right? Before he could drop off, this is verse four. The men of the city of Sodom, they surround them. They make a circle around the house.
From the Neoniscu to the Presbyteru. The Presbyteru is the oldest. The Neoniscos is the youngest. Do you like that? Those of you who know, praise his name, Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park with the naked Neoniscos.
He was 35 and he wasn't naked. He was wearing underwear.
Okay, okay. Well, if you actually read Greek, and this is good third century, second century, you know, Greek, it's a Hellenistic kind of about jumping into the stream of Koine, but still very, very, very didactic kind of Greek.
