Still has a tinge of that attic elevation, if you will. Can you smell it? Whenever you smell attic, it smells like a saddle. It smells like a horse's leather saddle. Very peculiar combination. You lean in. Love that stuff.
Oh yeah, but this is, you know, this is a little bit more utilitarian. So what do we have here? We have the old men. Let's go back to the text. We have the old men and the boys, right? This is a crowd that goes from the, from the old men to the boys.
Yeah, and they're acting together as a group, but I'm just going to translate it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And they called out the lot and said, Hey, he said, Hey, where are these dudes that came to you tonight? Bring them out so that we may
I can't say it without getting myself in trouble. But if I were to translate this, if I were to translate this using my great dirty language translator, it would be a word begins with F. Yes, yes. Okay. Yes, so that you may what them.
How many words? This is another word. This is soon gig no more. Right. This is really to be with. And in the sense of, in the sense of bringing, bringing these two things together. Yeah, you can be born with somebody too. Isn't it weird?
They looked at twins being born the same as having intercourse. Huh, to be together. Yeah, to become together. And then they've got another sex verb coming up, which means to know, to know.
I know you. Right. Right. It's a little bit in your face. Right. But it's that idea of complete and total knowledge. You know everything. Right. We've known together.
The King James people like to rely on this. Thank you to scholars like Jeffrey Henderson who write books about the dirty, the dirty language in Greek. His first book about dirty language Harvard, shout out to all the morons at Harvard.
His first book about it was about dirty language and out of comedy. He took it to the Harvard Press and they said no. No. Oh, I see. Yes. It was too rough for their palates. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
But he got it published anyway. Eventually. Right. Some things are sensitive. Right. And they end up, he didn't even make it to the book burning. He just didn't, didn't get through the door without going around doing a run around the academics.
So the dirty language is very specific. And I have students that I'm working with now that we discuss and look through his work on dirty language. And it's so more so so much more sophisticated in Greek so much.
There's nuances, just smells, little odors, little bouquets of every little, every little naughty word has a little bouquet, a little ping ping. Oh, smell that smell that. So this is disturbing.
Are you finding it disturbing? Let's go back to the text. Let's get them. Let's get them out. They've got to see why that we came or this is not going to be productive.
Okay, everybody, let's go really quick. Lead them out to us. You know, you know, so he goes out. Lot goes out and he's standing on the porch, you know, and he closes the door, right, so that they can't get in.
And he says, look, guys, don't do this. Don't mistreat these men. You know, what does he say verse eight? And this is perhaps the most interesting verse in the Bible, which will show you that you really don't understand what's going on.
Verse eight.
Look, I have two daughters, and they haven't had sex with a dude.
Yeah. How about I bring them out to you and you enjoy them as you deem appropriate.
And you ask yourself, what? What? Wait, he goes on to say, just don't violate these men, right? Right. Or before he says, don't violate these men. That's why they came under my protection.
Here are my daughters. Here are my daughters. What is going on? These are girls who are virgins. They're going to go out. What do you think they're going to do?
