I knew that it would be great to have you so that you could talk about
Can you start us from the beginning?
Can you tell us about casting out demons?
Can you tell us about purification?
Can you tell us about those powers that you're interacting?
Can you tell us about mania?
Can you tell us about mania?
Can you make us comfortable with your Herculean cross-dressing mania?
That's the whole point, is to enter into the mania
And to harness that energy and to hold on to it
And then to focus it on the image of the goddess, Nix
And pseudo-nix means the image of the Nix, of the image of night
And sometimes you might need a little boost, which is, you know,
Some ayahuasca or some kaikyan or something, that gives you that mania
And then that's, you see this even outside of the mysteries, even Christianity
You see this in the churches, people are speaking in tongues
They don't know why that's working, they think it's Jesus doing it to them
But no, that's the spirit of the bakoi, that's the mania, that's the frenzy
That's what that is
So, Neil, could you tell us about working with some of those images?
You went to the Thesmophobia, you went to the Thesmophobia
And I can tell you confidently, from the throne of Satan
Going with the congregation, knowing what that is
We went to the Thesmophobia together
And tell me about the Korah, and tell me about B. Eubuleus
Will you for a second, witness to what's going on?
The dawn, it's that dawn energy
If you know, I want you guys to pay attention to something
If you have a chance to get out at dawn, 5 a.m.
And just take in the atmosphere, there's an energy, there's a magic in the atmosphere
The dawn bringer, Lucifer, the bringer of light out of the darkness
That is the most psychedelic time of the 24 hour period
That is the most, that is the time where you're closest to, if you want to say
This is how I'm going to interpret it, because language is hard to express this
But I guess the best way to explain it would be, that is the time where you're closest between here and Hades
Hades is closer at that time
The portals opened up, that is the time to be doing, get your hymn out
Get your hymn to Nix out, get your hymn to Bacchus out, and do the hymn
That's the time to do it
That's the dawn time, the Lucifer bringing Lucifer from your head
That's what it says in the Hercules
His head was rising with the light
Which was the last word that you told me to look for, which I was blown away by
You look at the English, it's not there
You know a little bit of Greek, enough to translate
Just enough to look up each word, oh I can read the word and look it up
That's all you need to do, because you can go word by word and you'll find it
This is one of the things about the Greek tool, is you become your own translator
You don't need Thomas Taylor anymore
You pull out the Greek, you read the Greek, and then you can translate it yourself and interpret it your own way
There's something magic about that
Hey, all of you who heard that, don't forget that
There's no charge, you're not going to use that as currency
No, because those are holy words
We're guardians of those things
Neil possesses the sacred name, he looks into the hymn
People don't realize it, Neil isn't it funny once you realize how the hymns work within the magic
Isn't it funny that before you saw it is just the
You've been to church and you've had hymns
You've sung hymns
This is the power transfer is amazing
And now you are in night, you are in black night and you're standing
You as Heracles were searching, I gave Neil the search
Which he's now profaning, right?
We're bringing to you, the action is to bring it to you
So live this through Neil, the initiate
I wasn't going to do this if he couldn't unlock that door
He found the thosmophobia, and I knew that he probably would
But I knew this last final key
That I asked him for a name
That he was able to look into the text and pull out
And suddenly make sense of how that hymn is working
He understands, now he's got, he possesses the magic name
So that gives him a vision, right?
That gives him an understanding or a reality
I had a choice to go with the IV diadem or the Laurel
But I wanted the Laurel because the thesmophore is the light
So Apollo is the Laurel
That's why I went with it, I picked this for that reason
And because the Laurel is feminine in the IV's male
That was another
Correct me if I'm wrong, but we're talking
We're standing there with Heracles
And we know the family of Don Bringer
We know that he is both male and female, right?
Yes
You talked about dreams and visions
Could you tell us something?
Please, because after the initiation
You sit with a priest in antiquity
And the dude writes on a scroll what you've been saying
And then they use that, they read off of that
They're really using you as a guinea pig, right?
But they read off of that, it's a real quantum act
So could you tell us about your visions?
Yeah, he's also Diana, the Luciferia, the Torxbringer
My last ayahuasca trip
I'm not going to say when it was
It might have been yesterday, it might have been today
I'm going to tell you, it might have been a year ago
I'll just tell you what it was
Nix was in the sky
She was crying
She was pointing to a bright star in the sky
And I just, I'll never forget it
It was very vivid, it was very real
And ayahuasca is the, it's that kaikion
It is, it really is, there's no doubt in my mind
That the kaikion had DMT and it's just like ayahuasca
It brings you into that media and it shows you something
It's real quick too, but it's all it takes
We were, let's bring it up to the church library
And say here in the initiation
We're concerned with the one most potent element of the communion
Is the historical power of the song
So Neil is, you know, they're going to come
Bust down the door in a minute Neil
And drag you away to the inquisition
And when they do, I'm going to swear
I'm going to swear that you are a Satanist
Like full-fledged, right?
Full-fledged
But before they, before they get here and do that
Neil is talking about a magic
That right now in society is extremely forbidden
And not just for legal, not just for legal sake
Or for clinical health sake
But also for religious sake
Because the communion is that transfer
Now Neil is working on his own end on that, right?
I'm here to provide the images
I'm the mystic god, right?
I'm providing you with the images
That's all, right?
And as I was telling Neil that I was like dude
You've got to do this
You guys should have been there today
He was so mad, he was so mad
And he was like god damn it
Oh, I'm sorry, I shouldn't say it online
He was saying, you know, what are you doing?
What are you doing? You lied to me
This can't be the case
This can't be the case
I went through it here
He's been searching
I went through every word
Greek, one by one
And I was looking up the definitions in the
With these Perseus Tufts
We call it Alice
So I was asking Alice
What's this word mean?
What's the context of it?
What has it been used?
