Catholic churches, we might even take an old Catholic church
That turn, that fell apart
And rebuild it as a temple of Bacchus one day
That's what we need to start thinking about
That's ahead of the times, man
You're...
I think you're ahead of the times with that one
Imagine if people were like you
And had as much guts as you do
And that same vision
And, you know, started building temples
Started going back to the pagan practices
That built things like democracy
That's all we had to do
We had to say, what was the algorithm
That allowed you to do democracy, you know
And how do we worship that?
You know, Mary, Mary Beard
They worship female gods, Mary
There's a reason, let me ask you that, Neil
You're talking about night, black night
Dark night, who is a female
How does it make you feel to worship a female?
Absolutely, perfectly fine, great
Makes sense
It makes sense
Like, I don't know how to say it, it just makes sense that way
Because we were born from a woman
That's where the...
That's Sophia
The ancients weren't stupid when they assigned Sophia
To be female, they weren't just making...
They knew what they were talking about
That wisdom, that divine wisdom comes from the goddess
You see, this man did more
With the songs of the ancient priestesses
Than he did with all of your modern scholarship
And all of your feminism
He just was able to break through, you know
To that place
That special worship of the great mother
It almost feels like your life as a man
Is incomplete
If you don't have that
You sent to me one of the clips that you sent to me
You said, oh, wait a minute, it's the child nourisher
Right, you were recognizing
You were recognizing those attributes
Those symbols were coming out to you, they were healing
It's a healing presence, don't you think?
When you cast out those demons, it's a healing presence
I think, what do you think?
I agree, 100%, couldn't have said it better myself
Yeah, it's that
Okay, so you have the great mother
And then you have Saturn, the father
But you have to enter into that divine child
Rebirth, death, and come out as the divine child
And you need to reach that apotheosis
And become one with the mother and the father
And then yourself
Now, does it bother you that Jesus, or do you understand
When Jesus is saying, look, look, look
You've got to re-enter the womb a second time
He's the most misunderstood person in the world of history
He would have been one of us, he wouldn't have been
If you actually could resurrect him
Brought him back, he would not like
Where his movement turned into
That's my final, I'll never be convinced otherwise
But if he came back, he would be just disappointed
In what his name ended up as
He'd be looking for people like you and me
Say, that's what I was talking about
That's what I meant by being God
By calling yourself God, that's what I meant
You can do it too, that's what he would say
Do you think now that you have been through
The gallery that is the Hercules initiation
And you understand the core Dark Knight
Do you think you could help explain
Help explain why the Christians
Would be so fearful of this cup of porneia
Giving goddess
Why? It's in all the apocalyptic
It's all there and it's all a big important part of it
So in your experiences now
You're looking back and you've gone through this
You've been through it and you may continue
You may make yourself do it again
Do you notice Apuleus is like
There's a whole bunch of different times
That he's initiated, right?
Augustus, the emperor of the western world
He had been initiated like five times, they said
Twice in the Ulysses itself
He didn't have to go there twice, but he did
He went to Delphi, he went to all these different mysteries
And got initiated and he wanted to be that August one
He wanted to be, there's something about that
Yeah, for sure
And another thing, I was just talking earlier
I was starting with Dr. Andrew Henry
Scholar, we're talking about early Christianity
And this is the...
I know you're gonna have to have me
I know you're gonna know what I'm saying right now
And you're gonna be...
Because the default position by scholars
When they talk about the Ophites and the Nasins
The serpent Christians
The ones that had the Agathos Daemon
The good Daemon, this was a charm
A magic charm that they would put in their house
For good luck, it was a serpent
And anyways, the Hippolytists
Irenaeus, Justin Martyr
All these guys that are writing about these heretic Christians
And saying that they're all drinking porneia
And having orgies
Clement of Alexandria is writing about this
And the scholars today
The default position is
That they're probably just making themselves to make fun of them
Which could be true, but
I've heard a few people
And I know you say this too
We know the Bacchic revelries are real
We know these rites are going on all over the Greek world
So why can't the Christians do it?
Right, it doesn't seem to...
It doesn't seem to fit when...
You know, okay, look
What is better than these gods of antiquity
Than the god Don, right?
Who would you want to embrace more than Don?
When we perform the mystery
We know that that time is our time
And that we rise to her, right?
And that does something to us
Guess what? The Christians
Were doing exactly the same thing
Haven't you ever wondered why it says
They all got up early and they all went out?
It wasn't because Christianity went
Pop onto the scene
Which is, I swear, what the academics
Support, right?
They know that's not the case, but it's what they support
Yeah, and you're exactly right
In undercutting the Ophites
And saying, oh, it's the...
You know, they're just making this stuff up
To make their enemies look bad
No, they're doing exactly what the pagans are doing
