What I'm about to show you is an actual right.
I'm not going to comment on it.
For those of you who have ears to hear, I want you to pay attention.
I want you to be focused.
But I'm not going to comment on them.
I'm just going to translate it because I think you just need this source.
I don't want any of my ideas going into it.
Chewy hit us with the first one, blow it up so that I can just begin.
All right.
Here we go.
I'm putting on my glasses and it came about when the apostles had gathered together with one another.
Of their company was Philip and Bartholomew and Mary Omne and the leopard and the goat, both of which talk.
They went around for five days.
And after the midnight prayers, they got up early and got on the road.
When behold, all of a sudden, a great dark wind blew upon them.
And from the darkness came upon the servants of God, the dragon, the greatest dragon who comes from the dark.
His back is black.
His belly burns like the coals of bronze in this in the oh shit.
What is that?
In the sparks, in the sparks of the fire.
His body is stretched out over a hundred cubits.
And a multitude of serpents and a multitude of the offspring of those serpents serve the dragon.
The entire place that we call the void quakes.
Next page.
When Philip saw all of this, he says to Bartholomew and to Mary Omne, right?
Hey guys, we have the need right now of the Savior.
Let us call to mind the great Oracle of Christ who sent us out and said and ready people.
Here's a quote of Jesus you've never heard.
Don't be afraid fear neither persecution nor the serpents of that place nor the dark dragon.
So Philip says, let's stand then.
Let's stand then as pillars rooted before the face of God.
And you know what we'll do?
We all of the power of the enemy will be stifled and their platform, their argument, their arrogance will fall.
Let us pray and let us purify the air in the cup.
There that darkness will be established and a cloud will rise.
Okay, wait a minute.
Okay, let's finish this.
Those of you who are watching the cult happen, let's finish it.
He's about to get really culty.
Forget about the talking leopard right now.
Forget about why Philip is walking around with a leopard and goat.
Right? Forget about the Bacchic influence.
Forget about all the Bacchic terminology that they're using.
Forget about the shouts and the drugs.
Let's see what happens to the dragon.
This is going to be weird, right?
Go ahead next.
Yeah.
And so what happens taking the cup and this is the cup of communion people taking the cup for each.
They prayed in this way.
Are you ready?
They're holding that thing up, right?
You're looking at the cup of communion.
This is the cup of Christ.
And what do they say to the cup of Christ?
You are the one who creates the all fire do.
You are the darkness of the bridle.
You are the one who bridles the mouth of the dragon.
You are the one who controls the dragon's anger.
You're the one who turns away all of the ill that my enemy would do against me.
You are the one who plunges the man into your own fire.
You're the one who guards the burrow.
You're the one who makes strong the coming out of the dragon.
