That one guy in the audience said, oh, see?
As soon as he said, Sabakthon, that one guy said, I told you.
I told you the guy was the Satanist.
He casts out demons in the powers of the underworld.
I told you he was.
This is exactly what the craft of the lace days is meant to do.
You are meant to shadow within that Saturnian kingdom to perpetuate this abuse.
It's amazing.
It's amazing.
I'm going to let you fill in any questions, anxieties.
What do you think?
I think I might have found a kidnap right now.
Can we pull up the screen that I got?
Ready for this?
This is Taylor Swift at her concert.
It's never done to me.
I've had it.
I've had it to anyone, to anything.
I've had it to anyone.
It hits right when she screams the lightning scones.
There's like four other videos like this with Taylor Swift, like,
yo, is she the Christ?
Is she the Chosun one?
I'm just saying.
That is a base appeal, Neil.
To Tay Tay, right?
Right. Okay. She got your message there. Okay. She got she's got your message
That drag really puts context in what's going on in revelation now all of a sudden this text
Gives us the context of what's happened in revelation with the dragon
Yeah, the more cult terminology that you pick up and the more you see how the cult are operating
The more you can track it that way and it all of a sudden those things that you think are signs and wonders
That preachers preach about all the time and always coming up with the latest theory about who is the antichrist
None of that none of that stuff matters
It doesn't matter at all once you see the context of what's going on it locks in and it makes sense the authors of
What we call the apocalypse they didn't
They they didn't assemble something that was meant to drive us all nuts that we wouldn't understand
Right, they're not going to be able to talk outside of their natural sibling
Oracular, um expressions and that's what they're using it's it's the the apocalypse is all sibling
It's it's early earlier than john reprocessed by john in fact
Calces when calces is describing the christians
He says that he's he branches them out
He says the people that call themselves christians are among the first thing he says is
Sybalist then he says simonians
Then he names off uh mark heonites a couple other groups first thing he says though sybalist
So i'm like the sybalists are tied to the christians early on
Early on and everyone knew it
Calces is a prime example of giving you telling you that right away when he says the people that we call christians are these groups
And the first name he gives
Sybalist
So he talks a lot about that too
Not nice. That's good backup. What do you think about give me your opinion neil about the transformation?
He does this to three different women. Um, he transforms them into men. Do what do you think is the significance of that?
There's this idea of coming reborn and transformation metamorphosis
Ovid don't look look. Let's ovid apolaus
Bacchus all these texts that are called
Metamorphosis the story is you start off in this place
You go through your passion and then you come out
Metamorphosis that's the whole that's that's the tragedy of life
You know how nishi talks about the apollonian and dianesian
Combined is a tragedy. You can't have one without the other. That's like a yin and the yang dianesis the dark
Apollo the light they're like a yin yang
They have to the opposites of each other
Dianesis is catholic
