And the messengers anointed us.
Who has been anointed possesses everything.
Resurrection, light, cross, Holy Spirit.
That's that Desi demonia.
The Father gave him this in the bridal chamber.
There you go.
Christ in the bridal chamber.
Just like I just mentioned in the last passage, he merely accepted the gift.
You are the beloved.
You are the disciple of the, of the adept when you're an initiate in the mysteries.
You do, as they say, you are the young boy being initiated probably around 12 years old, usually.
Mithraics did this.
Christians did this.
This was the way it was.
The young boy gets anointed and initiated by an elder man.
You become his beloved.
You get Christed and then you pass it on to the next.
Every time, as soon as you become a vage and you're old enough to find your own boy to Christ, that's when it happens.
You initiate the next.
That's how it started off.
That's what the sources tell us.
The Father gave him in his bridal chamber.
He merely accepted the gift.
See how those, these, these two passages are linked together.
The one was about the bridal chamber.
And this one's about Christening.
So, and he gets in his bed with the splendor.
What does that mean?
Naked.
That's what that means.
So, I got one more text that I want to show.
And this one, I met, you mentioned ejaculation.
This is not from the Gospel of Philip, but it's also part of the same group of texts that came from the same area, Nagamadi and Coptic.
And it says, darkness ejaculates mind into the, let's read the first paragraph.
And when the darkness saw the womb, he made, he became unchast.
And when he had aroused the water, he rubbed the womb.
His mind dissolved down the depths of nature.
It mingled with the power of the bitterness of darkness.
And the womb's eye ruptured at the wickedness in order that she might not again bring forth the mind, the noose.
For it was seed of nature from the dark root.
Oh, one more sentence.
And when nature had taken to herself the mind by means of the dark power, every likeness took shape in her, in her.
And when the darkness had acquired the likeness of the mind and resembled the spirit.
So, I want to get your thoughts on this text.
What do you think about this?
I think it's gorgeous.
I think it's gorgeous.
And I think it's a perfect, it's a perfect lead up to that, which they pull out of that darkness.
When they're talking about that seed, why don't we talk about the seed of the dragon coming from the darkness, right?
People don't realize, and people are like, what, what are you guys talking about?
This is Christianity people.
This is the symbols that they're using.
And Neil, assuming your translator from that Coptic hit the symbols, right?
I mean, you know, just from, you know, somebody who doesn't do Coptic, those symbols that you're hitting are straight up mystery.
They're so perfectly meshed with the text that I'm about to show.
Neil, if you can stick around.
I'm excited for this because we have two texts that are attributed to Philip.
So we're thinking, is this a, you know how they have the Johanine collection?
They have the Pauline collection where we're today, we're looking at the Philippine collection.
So let's continue.
I like that.
I like that.
Okay.
