recognitions in this and recognitions of a self, of a human, of the entire subject, everything
and you've been asking for a spell, you've been asking for magic and I bought you some tonight,
we're going to have a look at it, we're going to have a look at a spell tonight and it's dark,
it's extremely dark and if you thought Marquis decide was bad then get ready for this one.
What can you tell us Rob about the asylum, is there a benefit to staying in the asylum
because both the ghosts that you are bringing together here, two of the several that you're
bringing together brilliantly, is they were in insane asylums, the Marquis was in insane asylum
and correct me if I'm wrong but it was Arthau as well. Correct 10 years, 10 years and even in care
when his group of friends helped get him out, got him out of the asylum he was in
and that's where we'll go to the Ville d'Evrard and we'll move into Lunatic asylum and we'll view
I hope you've got this one Cherry, I hope you've got the image of the spell
and we'll go into a spell and we'll find out how we get from the Marquis decide
all the way to the great mother, I believe. Real quick Rob go ahead and email me that thing again
and we'll get it up here, give it to me again it's not coming through on our end. Okey dokey,
how do we get to Jacob's Ladi and how do we get to the centre of the universe?
Let me just get this up then, I'm sorry.
As we're waiting for this, people should be thinking about things like
French film and should be tracking down our toad if I'm pronouncing his poor name properly.
Okey, I've done that again. Ah Toe, yes, like Toe.
So let's just bring it together for people as Chewie gets this. Let's just bring it together
for people and make sure that they see this is a necromantic act, right? We have to bring together
these forces that we're performing necromancy. Go ahead, can you put that up,
what we've got is a gentleman who's treated as a lunatic and locked away as a lunatic.
He essentially is one of the most brilliant men there is around his time and he's recognised for
these facts by Matisse, by Picasso, by all the intellectuals around in his day. This gentleman
has taken quite a hit in his life basically because he didn't have the finances
to keep himself out of a lunatic asylum. So then he was put in a lunatic asylum by decree.
That's where he's gone. The friends decided they went and visited him and they thought
we're a terrible state. What changed in them 10 years is tremendous. He'd been in there and had
over 50 bouts of electroshock therapy, various degrees of therapy that just ruined you.
There we have the spell. This is a guy who is qualified. He knows his stuff. He's not a person.
He doesn't know how to write a spell. This is a self-titled spell. It's from May,
the 14th, 1939, and it's addressed to Mademoiselle Moseille. She never received this letter.
Mademoiselle Moseille never received this. It's purple crayon and coloured pencils.
You can see the state of it. It's beans. It's got beans in it.
And I'll take you through the description in the book it's in.
And it was made on the third and fourth pages of a letter signed and dated, as I've said.
The letter with its spell must have been entrusted with a visitor who had come to see
Otto at Villebrade to be delivered to the addressee who never received it.
The paper is being in several spots and one outer edge with a cigarette or match.
It reads, you will live a dead woman. You will not cease. Departing this life and descending,
I send you a force of death.
Shocking.
Read it to us, read it to us, Rob, one more time. I want to hear it one more time. You will what?
