Yes.
Shedding venom, venomous, of animals, right?
Of animals.
Um look down at the last one.
Number two it says of arrows poisoned and it gives you the
The Orphic Hym, 12 lines 16. 12 lines 16. Can we go to that? We have that. Yes, let's go to that,
that one, the Orphic. The next passage, yes, good, good, good, good, good. And who is this Orphic Hym too?
The Orphic Hym is two Heracles. He's not who you think. You've been living in a fairy tale world. I love
doing this. I absolutely love doing this. You've been living in a fairy tale world, right?
Yes, no, who is the real Heracles?
Yeah, quite a different fellow. Quite a different fellow. Let's just look at this one line.
Yes, look at this. What does he do? He sends out. The command here at the end is to send out
his Kaelas Chalapas, his Kiris. What are Kiris? Kiris are the death spirits
that come for you in your justified right moment. Usually they're depicted in a battlefield
where the Areis is, that repelling force of war. They're usually there and, you know, different cultures
pick these up in different ways, but they're the spirits that go along and harvest. They rip the soul
from the body. Isn't that nice? Anyway, that's what Heracles sends. And how does it say he sends it there?
Says he sends it with his arrows, with his arrows, his flying. Go back please. Yes, with his flying
Ioboloi, his flying Ioboloi. Yes, the delivery mechanism of his Eos. Bring us up the Eos please,
Chewy. Next definition that we're getting to down here maybe. There we go. Eos, take a look at this.
Eos. In one case it's an arrow. Notice at the bottom, good arrow. And then let's go to the next Eos. Oh,
look at this. Poison as of serpents. Poison as of serpents. That's the base of everything that they're
talking about with this communion toxin, right? It's an arrow toxin that they're using. So, again,
get your bearings. Know where we are. You can kind of see the people around us dancing. You know who they are.
Okay, let's go back to, I'm going to read you a couple of things from that translation again. If one of these guys
from the Ioboloi, right, one of these poison throwers. By the way, it's also an apathet
Artemis is called Eokaira. Eokaira, she who dispenses
the Eos. Isn't that nice? And that's why she's a huntress and a midwife. A huntress and a midwife.
It's the poison that connects both of those things because she's using the poison in her
hunting and in her midwifery. Isn't that great? Isn't that great? If one of these Ioboloi should
be overcome in the bending. Yeah, and should take or should take if somebody should take the poma
of the Black Death. Now, realize that is a specific medicine slash communion drink.
The poma. The poma is like the sacred drink. This is the communion, right? It's the prepared cup
that you're taking. Potion. Old, old word. You can translate it as potion, but then you
start to sound like we're drifting into something extremely modern. Yeah, it's the potion of
cyanic death. Interesting that they would call it that. So then you would prepare, he says, you would
prepare the cup, right? That, and you do it through the transition. It's strange, but you do it
through the transition from that dark night, Kulianukta, to the dawn, because that's what we're
doing here is we are bringing the dawn back to the person who has entered into the death.
This is good cult stuff. I mean, come on. Yeah, wow. Yeah, people might want to tell you things
about ancient cults. It's never worth it. Go to the cult itself. Watch how they're interacting.
Remember, this is Nero, by the way, for those of you who are asking the question, what does this
have to do with the Bible? Right? The person who is reading this, who it's addressed to,
that person is the person who beheaded another cult leader. Yeah, very popular cult leader
