to. Rob, tell me something. I want to put this quote up on the screen and I want people to see
and I want you to tell me a little bit if you can about the gentleman that we're putting up here.
Yeah, I would like to write a book which would drive them in mad, which would be like an open
door leading them where they would never have consented to go. In short, a door that opens
onto reality. Thank you, Mr Artoe. Do you want to add us something if you could resurrect this man
from the grave? Would he have anything interesting to say relevant? Oh, yeah, interesting,
irrelevant. But it's a story and it's a very interesting story that goes back. He's an
ancestor to some degree. I don't know what degree he's an ancestor, but to some degree he is.
And we were talking about him last night and you've really got me going into the research
and I've got to start at the beginning. I've got to go back to the beginning and I've got to go to the
discord, a discord that's happening on the beaches of Troy. I want to take you back to the beaches
of Troy, where there's a discord going on between Agamennmon and Achilles. There's prizes that
have been distributed and there's a plague. He mentioned the plague recently and there's a plague
going on and they're trying to appease the plague. Apollo sent the plague and they try to appease it
and prizes have got to go back and prizes are getting mixed up and distributed about
and Achilles isn't happy. Achilles is just about to draw his sword and Agamennmon has been disgraceful
towards him and he feels it. So he's about to draw his sword and down comes Athena and we all love
Athena. Even Achilles loves Athena, he listens to her. She comes down and she
stops him, she checks his rage and she's probably the only person Achilles would listen to.
So he listens to her and he checks his rage and he leaves and he walks away. He walks away from
the problems he's having and he makes his way to a beach. He loses his prize and he makes his way
to a beach and he sits on the beach and he's looking at the grey sea and that's all he's doing.
So I get to this point with Homer in the beginning of the early ad and
I'm thinking, can I introduce Heraclitus? Would I be able to introduce him?
And because he's a miserable sod Heraclitus says, you know, he doesn't mix well, he doesn't go
go into town that often, he takes himself off and he likes to take himself off and Achilles has
took himself off so I'm thinking maybe we've got this time machine and I can move Heraclitus
next to Achilles, forgive him a bit of advice maybe. This guy is a hell of a philosopher,
not much of Homer if you know your Heraclitus. I thought I should have been clubbed and thrown out
but here we are and I want to sit with Heraclitus to sit with Achilles and if
Chiri you can bring up my first image please. We're not prepared on this in with the images.
Here we'll search for him, you keep going with the narrative please. Okay well I'll just come with
the quote and we've got a quote from Heraclitus and the quote is, what opposes unites and the finest
attunement stems from things bearing in opposite directions and all things come about by strife
and I'm going to read it again, what opposes unites and the finest attunement stems from things
bearing in opposite directions and all things come about by strife and I think Achilles listened
to this point and so we moved into Purgatius. Now I've got little things all littered around
my screen here and it all stems in one question, I've got one question for the gallery out there
and anyone who's interested in Armen's work and interested in getting involved in it and
I've kind of got an example of how fascinating these things can be and how they can work,
they're incredible. So the question is how do we get from the Marquis
decide to the centre of the universe and I've got this littered all around everywhere and I think
what I've been given is a mirror of sorts, it's a gentleman I'd like you to look into
and you've seen his quote at the beginning but we're looking for recognitions, I'm looking for
