in it?
That was because they were using it to their advantage.
That was their whole thing, that he was God's chosen appointee, it seemed like.
That's what he was trying to, he was trying to kind of, in a way, deify himself as like
a king of America, like a dictator in a way, that he truly won that election when he didn't.
And they were using Christianity to arm themselves, to make them, to brainwash them, to think
it was okay.
That's what I think, truly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, snappy, snappy.
The same people that stormed into there, the same people are the ones who would take somebody
who would put on a feminine kit and might take them out and do something to them.
They might, you know, they might put laws, they might make laws, their laws being made
around the world against LGBT communities.
What, is that what we get with the theocracy?
Because what Chthonius is describing is a theocratic, an attempt of a theocratic takeover
of the US.
We all live through it, we all watched it, and we're all shocked, like, what do we do
now?
Right?
Snappy, what's the future for all of this?
Oh, you're muted, sorry.
We really have to stand up and help the people who are being scapegoated in this time and
recognize it for what it is.
Like, this is an opportunity to divide the country, right?
And they're using a marginalized group of people to vilify them and to get all of your
hate wound up.
You know, they play on people's insecurities, they play on people's fragility.
You know, they first, they abuse you and they make you a man or a woman and they tell you
you can only be that and they force you into this dichotomy and they force you to be a
specific way.
And now when you're seeing other people who are trying to live differently, they use that
against you.
They point out those people who do not follow these strict laws that have been forced upon
you in an abusive, controlling way, and they make you hate those people who refuse.
And we all should be refusing to follow because this kind of oppression is the problem.
And we got to be really weary.
Like I was watching TV the other day and Charlie Kirk came on the news and he was talking about
how they needed to take people like me out and hang them by the trees like they used
to do in the 1940s.
That's where this is going right now.
And Putin is saying the same thing.
He literally just went on TV and was saying that the West is trying to make God by gendered.
Pretty sure God is beyond gender.
Like, give me a break.
Hey, Rob from England, across the way.
So we've got Canada.
We've got Canada's word.
We've got America's word.
What does England tell us?
Tell us about this movement.
I mean, we just had an insurrection, Rob.
Give us some advice from England.
It's tough.
It's tough to give advice for England, you know.
You only hear what we hear.
So I interpret it as with this presentation, you've done and with the comments made.
Like, how'd you launch a thousand ships?
We call it the face that launched a thousand ships.
But was it the face that launched that thousand ships?
Was it a sacrifice that launched a thousand ships?
And who wanted them thousand ships launched in the first place?
And what was his game?
And what was he up to?
Because that's basically what this guy's doing, isn't it?
He's using corrupt means for gain power.
That's all I can see.
I can't see much else in politics if I managed to read you completely.
There's far too much corruption involved for me to weave through and try and pick out some sort of hope there.
Because from my point of view, the train, the train then lies and deceits the technicians.
They don't get anything done.
They don't produce anything with a value.
And I don't have much time for them, to be honest.
And how that affects America and what you've got there is, I don't know, chain off your TVs.
OK, now each of you, now each of you want to do, sorry, I'm excited though.
Because I want each of your opinions and I want like a very short 30 second take on it.
