Like supposed to be old old old like before
Olympian before anything you're seeing and in he seed she's supposed to come back from then
So she's this like goddess of justice, right? She turns out to be very much like
Themis
Very like and thank you for mentioning the thesmaphoria and all that kind of stuff like that
People think the laws were given, you know, here's western civilization law was given by moses. He's looking into the burning bush
He's getting all high and he's bringing down stone tablets and saying don't do this. That's where the law comes from bull
That's a third century story
Right already have legal precedent
Already in greece just through the agency
Right of oracles all that kind of stuff. Um, their god is the god of justice
Right. Hello
The orphic him to misa
Because there's a there's a female version of Dionysus in the orphic hymns called misa
In the orphic hymn to misa cause her Dionysus the lawgiver
And everyone wants to say pagans were all all lawless and just going around having orgies
No, they were as a civilized world where they took the law very seriously. That's how democracy works with the law
That's before you
Let me ask you a bible question before I forget
When in the in the acts of the apostles there when paul is doing his thing and those
It says those seven sons of the high priest
Uh, did you d and high priest went into the house with the guy and he had a bad spirit and they all come running out?
He says
Look, this is not how jesus did it. It's not how paul did it and they all come out running out naked
I wanted to add
I want I wanted to get your comments on that but I wanted to add that
Um, it I think it's reasonable to assume
If you have seven men in a house and they all run out naked at the same time
They weren't probably dressed
And then had their clothes ripped off
By this demon possessed guy more likely that they were there naked and he was like no
No, this is not how paul so you're using common sense and logic to figure out what we can't know
It's true
It makes me wonder why do you think he was so mad and beat him up?
Was it because it was seven of them and that's not what paul did is that I don't know. What do you think?
I don't know
Why is it? Why was he so mad? I don't know
um
But by the way a lot of those other apocryphal
I don't we you and I have both looked at these apocryphal early christian second century text
There's some weird shit going on
Like you have stories about mary being a child being given over to joseph as a as like a child bride
No one talks about that, but that was that was basically canonized from what i've understood
That was like understood to be like the truth about mary being given over to joseph as a child bride
And ever all these christians want to talk crap about muslims and saying oh
Mohammed had a child bride. So did she so did fucking joseph
So I don't know what's going on. What are your thoughts on that?
Well paul by the way, I think the
the apocryphal text that says that um, the
The midwife came into mary and palpated her and her fingers. Uh, she pulled her fingers out because
They were burning and I think that kind of anthropological evidence. I think that's the most valuable
Right. I think when you get down to the dirt, right? That's like archaeology. That's like literary
That's why I take that's why I take um epiphanious and apolitus and irony is so seriously
Because you're getting
You're getting an a view of you're getting a little window into things that you're not supposed to know about
Those are the dirty sources that you're supposed to be forgotten about okay, what about speaking of dirty
Speaking of dirty sources. What is your opinion on jesus going up into the mountains with mary alone?
And pulling her out of his side and then ejaculating after self-pleasuring and telling her she has to eat it or they're gonna die
I think what you're getting from epiphanious and by the way
Real quick epiphanious was a encyclopedias
So he if you read epiphanious's works, he's got sources that go back
He's got a lot epiphanious wrote almost as much as plutar probably wrote
We're talking books upon books upon books upon books. He was just writing every day of his life
He wrote a lot. He had a lot of sources. He was citing a lot of ancient texts
So when he tells us about a sect of christianity that existed in the first century
That had these certain gospels about mary that have jesus going on the mountain and splitting his self in the half
The way that you get with like adam and eve
It's part of the mystery like you mentioned the dyad
The monad rips into a dyad and splits off, right? That's what it's supposed to be. That's what it's representing
That to me sounds like an early ripple of christianity that they try to distance themselves from
That's what I think is going on
But I think what you're getting in that text is not some random heretical offshoot. It's early christianity
itself
Why is it
That eating jesus's semen is going to give mary life. Why do you think jesus was insisting on that?
Because that's
That's the that's the that's the
I want to say it's the mystery, but it's like a corruption of the mystery because you would eat dionysus
At the elizidian mysteries you would take part in drinking the kukion
That had the blood of dionysus in the in the body of demeter the beer. What if you
Just do it your own version of that in christ
And by the way that just like the lamb replaces the bowl
It's mystery talk. It's it's it's the we're talking about
language that is would be very
Noticable to any any Greeks living in that time period
So
What about
The semen I really want to dwell on this point. I really want to dwell on this point
What about the semen is going to be giving?
It is his essence
That is giving life if we know that they're using
semen in rights number one and we know in christian rights
And we know that they're using semen in medicine
Could the use could could jesus's i'm just trying to get in jesus's mind if I were standing there
And we had gone to this private place like he said
And you know there she is and all of a sudden I start spanking
And then I tell her you've got to eat this
Or you're gonna die
um
I'm only gonna do that
If I know there's something in that semen
Ready for this like that's gonna counteract what she's got
I mean when I saw the first time I saw two roman soldiers piss into each other's mouth
Right, um, I thought okay
Okay, I get it. I knew gaylin was drinking the urine all the time, but okay, I get it. Um
Is there something in jesus's semen is this
Already semen. I gotta share my screen real quick that I got down there
So
It's this is from john's gospel. This is not just some apocryphal text
in john six
he says it
he says
Anyone eaten of this bread he will live and then he says
I will give my sarks
That word sarks could be either blood or semen
right
It's kind of no the sarks is going to be flesh and the um the semen
Uh, I'm going to be the hyma hyma in greek originally hyma does just mean any body fluid that is your essence
But it comes to mean blood
So yeah, okay hyma. Yeah. Yeah
So
Flash
Yeah, whoever eats the hyma
Whoever drinks the hyma and eats the sarks gets to be zoe
Yeah, and that's what he's talking about when he splits himself off
You see how it all comes back to the circle full circle when he's the the the the female that splits off from the male is zoe
He's basically saying you could be zoe too
Eat my zoe
That's what he's doing. Yeah, isn't that?
That's crazy, but it's it's kind of
Wait a minute. So we've got two factions. Tell me if this is right. We have we have tons of factions
But we've got two kind of sides. We've got the people like the ophites
And jesus who is into semen consumption
Right, then we've got the people who are saying no no no
We've got to stop we got to stop doing that
um
Is this the biggest problem of christianity and it's and it's
Seminal form and it's earliest form. That's that problem. Are they trying to sort out the the whole sexuality of the mystery?
I don't know what's going on. I think early early in the early christian days. You had a lot more
deeper darker mysterious things going on and as it starts to popularize
Just like any other thing in the world it becomes corporatized and then it becomes oh, we got to make it pg 13
You can't have it rated r anymore
So then they start distancing themselves from their ancient
The real the the real pioneers of the religion christianity. That's what I think you're seeing
That's why I think these these these uh refutators were so important
the iranace
Apolitus epiphanius justin martyr because they had there was their job
to cut off
Cut off their roots
And basically distance themselves from their own past
So it's a shame now what took you
Um, what did you have to do to get to this point that you understand that because you know, most people don't understand that
What you just said
How did you get to that point? Just tell everybody real quick. How did you get to that point?
Well, because you don't have any other sources besides those
You have a black hole in the first century
Black hole besides paul and the gospels
There's nothing else
But then you start reading the refutators
And they go, oh, oh this guy, uh, his name is saturnius. He lived in the first century. He was a heretic
Oh, this guy justin or this guy, um
Facilities he lived in the first century. He was a heretic. Oh, this guy lived in the second century. He was a heretic. Wait
So who was not the heretics?
There's only all we have a bunch of heretics and then you guys living in the second century
And then all of a sudden it's like, oh, where's paul's writings at you got those. Okay. What about
peter what about
James what about oh, we lost all their stuff. So all we have are heretics
paul
in the gospels in the first century
And uh clement development clement of rome and 50 000
worth of magic books in one little village
right 50 000
dollars
in magic books
And that's what that's what i'm saying like all exactly then we finally discover
text
And what do we find we find the heresy stuff?
They go in they go to nagamati. Oh, we found ancient christian documents. Oh, what are they going to say?
Is it going to be on the trinity? Is it going to be something that that that promotes paul's writings?
Is it something that promotes uh, justin nope heresy heresy heresy heresy heresy?
So it's like what else do we have what you have nothing else but heresy?
That makes me think that the heresy
Was the real christianity
It's just very simple
Yeah, we have a duty. I love it. We have a duty to keep this stuff out in the
public and to let people know for
for humanity to know because you're painting a very different picture
And but what it does is it does you're getting you're creating right now the type of comments that I get
Which is oh now it makes sense. I never always thought something was wrong
You can actually see from what you're doing
With the sources you can kind of shine light on what the movements in christianity were and how they took over and destroyed
classical civilization
And that's classical civilization had to bubble up over time in the renaissance enlightenment
Right. Oh god. I love it. It's a long line, man. I I uh my hat's off to you
For being one of those
documentarians people remember they will burn
statues
Of gnostic informant, right? They'll they will burn them in effigy and then they'll 400 years later
They'll burn them in uh into bronze. They'll make a statue of him and they'll say this guy
This guy was good, which we always do
First of all, you they always demonize the dude who comes up with something new
Right, they always demonize that person and then it takes them a couple of centuries and enough people do enough work
On what that person was doing that they realized. Oh
That person was actually right. You know what bruno was saying bruno was saying there's other planets out there
Right un innumerable other planets out there with people on them
Imagine imagine, right?
Um gorgeous. Um that was heresy. It was heresy at first, right?
Right, right
Because everything has to revolve around earth where the whole this is and Jerusalem is in the middle, right?
That was the universe of that was the cosmos of the of the church forever
Right set set us free. Let give us the give us the sources. That's where the where the beauty is
Thank you for coming tonight. Neil. Tell us if there's anything we need to look out for coming out soon or anything
Yeah, I got some stuff coming out very soon
This weekend. So look out for it
You don't have to tell us what it is. That's cool
A reputation a good one a reputation. Oh that that leaves it off. Perfect exciting. Okay
Um satanic congregation. Thank you for coming and for uh supporting this venture this dual ventures tonight between
Myself and Gnostic. Um, thank you for your attention and hail Satan
Hail Satan
But you are all the flames of fena in the sky
Diamonds sharp on the magic cover
The man who laughs will mess
Ain't away from make these bitches jump
Posse out on Broadway
Dr. Do
Baseball rules
If you begin to face
If you want to
Crush you begin to face
Magic is best thing
Wish you could
Jesus Creepers
Mahathena
You
