I'd say that's the magic for me.
That's the magic when you read it and it changes your perception
and you think, oh, I get where this guy's coming from.
You have to buy it and become it.
What it means is, you acknowledge it to me.
I don't talk too much.
For those of you who want to talk to Lucifer,
I encourage you to.
For the rest of you who just want to come along for the ride,
or to maybe such a personal calling isn't there
or isn't there yet,
I recommend some more Medea.
Let me just make sure I finish covering this text
before we get to the redheaded kid.
I know that's the fun part.
Look, guys, we're going to spit someone tonight.
This is great. You're going to love it.
I want you to see, I just want you to make sure that you understand
that text with Medea is talking about what she is doing
and she is getting ready.
She puts this on her private parts.
She puts it on her private parts and not just on it,
but in it and makes herself into this fury.
You might could say,
Menad.
But the text says fury.
It turns her into a fury.
This medicine that she uses.
Later, you remember that she is the black vulture
that tortures Prometheus.
Everybody loves Prometheus, right?
Everybody loves Prometheus.
She is the one. Get this.
She takes a drug from blood that comes from his liver.
All right.
So now you're going to want, again, you're going to be disorient.
You're going to say, am I in fairytale world?
What? No, no, no, let's stick with reality.
If we go to the codex Waluwani from 12th century, right?
We read the Latin.
It's just a base description of Medea's fire or Greek fire.
And it has a nice group of ingredients for the incendiary.
Beautiful.
But within this incendiary formula is sandwiched these instructions.
And I thought I would just bring those to you
and let you digest them.
The first thing that we do is we need a red teenage boy
with lots of pimples.
Lots of pimples. The more pimples, the better.
That's my addition.
It's the more the better.
The text just says, with the pimples.
So a youth with pimples has to be the red hair.
You take this guy and it says you lure him into a banquet.
You lure him to a banquet and you give him drinks
that will put him into the Bacchic state.
That will put him into that influence state possessed.
Into that possessed state.
And after 30 days, you keep him in a banquet
that is designed to fatten and heat him.
Now, you don't let him get near the dancing girl.
Don't do it.
It's always they have to stay at a distance.
He has to be able to see him and they're there,
but he's not allowed to satisfy himself.
So this is, again, this is from the codex Waluwani.
I think it's a Welshman.
I read a guy who did a dissertation on it.
It's a crazy text, but his Latin is awful.
It's absolutely awful. It's just painful.
But here's what you do with the boy.
Now, is everybody with me? So you've got him.
And you keep him this way for 30 days, it says.
Now, during this 30 day period, for those of you in Satanic initiation
who were interested in the alchemist side
and in the psychedelic renaissance,
this is probably the part that you would enjoy.
So you take a copper pot and it describes a covering
that's made for it that has what's obviously some kind of pressure release.
And you put this thing, it's a cauldron.
You put it on a overfire and it's for heating.
Well, anyway, you take this thing, this cauldron,
and you put toads into it.
Toads.
And you feed those toads a regimented diet for 30 days.
And it includes the milk. It includes milk.
You're actually attaching them and forcing them to take nourishment.
It's obviously not meant for, you know what I mean?
It's not meant for toad consumption, right?
It's not a bug.
But you take them for 30 days.
And after, I think it's like 15, I don't remember how many days it is,
but then you add this sea snake or sea crate.
It's some kind of, it's a sea snake.
And you have to have fed it though.
You have to have fed it. Just hang in there with me.
Human flesh first.
Human flesh first. I don't know why it makes a difference.
I'm just interested in the pharmacology, right?
Anyway, so you keep this thing going for 30 days,
and there's other things that you pile into it.
And you make this kind of half living, half dead concoction
that you're going to now boil and what looks like maybe
distillation or attempts to, you know, good alchemy.
You know, it's good stuff.
Anyway, so your redhead boy after 30 days, what do you do?
You're stuck with him, right?
Well, you haven't even got, it's not even why you brought him, right?
You haven't even achieved the effect that you're looking for.
You take that redhead teenager, you know, who's under the influence
of tremendous amounts of drugs, and you take this guy out
and you lay a bed of coals down and you put a spit over it
and you tie him to the spit.
Now, wait a minute, why do you do that?
Because you have to keep him a certain temperature, right?
You have to raise his temperature.
So, and then you cut his wrists and you bleed him.
You bleed him, right?
Now, it says you're supposed to bring him just to the point of death,
just to the point of death.
You put him in that intermediate space, right?
And then, unfortunately, the text doesn't say you bring him back,
but I think we would be remiss as scholars, if we didn't notice,
a ritual here of burning off what they call burning off mortality.
