And Rob, you're still as, as chief Mason of the crown.
You are still chasing down all the, all the regal connections there and the, the history
of your people with the right, right?
Pretty soon we're going to hear a presentation.
Rob's going to talk to us about the same individual within the same mystery through his own people's
soil.
Yeah.
And maybe some, I don't know, maybe you'll go over to the Saxons and pull up, pull up
one of their, you know, images, uh, one of their, one of their linguistic images of the
great STR queen.
Yeah.
Something like that.
But Rob, Rob is working on that.
I've got, remember we're detectives here and we're just tracking down where this thing
is coming from at the garden of guest 70.
And I wanted everybody to know that you, um, I'm having people on the show, right?
I say show on satanic initiations, not a show.
And I've got people coming on, but the rule is you have to, to maintain the integrity
of the process.
Um, I'm using the same ancient practice, right?
The Scythians did this.
It's why the, you can, you can say to Scythians something is to shave your head, right?
That guy's doing the Scythian thing.
He's got himself shaved.
Um, we'll have Chris Bennett in the future come and talk to us about those Scythians.
What they're up to and, uh, with their esterion, but in order to come on, you have to, in
order to be interviewed within this space, you have to shave your head just like they
did in antiquity.
You have to shave your head, right?
And if you, if you don't see the purpose yet, if you don't see the death and rebirth
process, um, call up Apuleus book 11 and watch how he prepares for the initiations.
Watch and you'll, you'll pick up on key terms and you're having ears to hear now.
So you'll pick those up and see how he's using the magic.
If you don't want to shave your head, I'm, I'm, uh, talking with, uh, Dr.
Rigo Yoso about coming on and talking to us about virgin birth because we need to address
the virgin birth, right?
It's part of the whole, part of the, the whole mystery.
So, um, she, uh, she can, uh, uh, there's an option as there is in the worship of Aphrodite
and she'll understand this.
If you don't want to shave your head, you must present yourself publicly for the rights of
Aphrodite.
There are two peoples, right?
There's those who mourn and shave their heads and there are those who don't mourn and keep
their hair.
And the only time that we keep our hair is when a Donus has been resurrected and then it's
you're well within your, you're well within your rights.
So if you honor Aphrodite, um, great.
But otherwise shave your head and mourn, mourn the death of the God.
That ice, right?
For ears, for those of you with ears to hear.
Hey, uh, great, uh, great, beautiful.
Darren, thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
Now my mind is blown and I'm going to have to go sit somewhere and contemplate, just
kind of catch up and I will go to the discord, uh, briefly because I'm just, I'm overwhelmed.
I'm just overwhelmed.
You guys are, everybody out there is doing all the questions and discussion.
Hey, you guys are like a school.
This is the future, right?
This is, this is the university of the future.
Uh, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Absolutely.
Well, anything, everybody, can I get a Hail Satan from everybody?
Yeah, a Hail Satan.
Yeah.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
