I want to read to you a couple of lines. Here's a good one to start. Here's a good one to start.
How good to see the moon. She is like a little piece of money, a little silver flower. She's cold and chase.
I am sure she is a virgin. She has the beauty of a virgin. Yes, she is a virgin. She has never defiled herself.
She has never abandoned herself to men like the other goddesses.
You know Salome is the one who danced. The one who danced and killed the prophet.
From her dance came the head on a silver platter, dressed in silver he was for his death.
Yes, yes, killing saints. Why kill a saint? Let's see. Let's see. Oscar, can you tell us what John said?
John said, where is he whose cup of abominations is now full?
Where is he who in a robe of silver shall one day die in the face of all the people? It's you, John. It's you.
Let him come forth, that he may hear the voice of him who had cried in the waste places and in the houses of kings.
Salome, of whom is he speaking, young Syrian? No one can tell, princess.
Where is she who saw the images of men painted on the walls? You and I have seen these images. We know where they are.
Thank you, you dirty perverted Ezekiel.
Even the images of the Chaldeans painted with colors and gave herself up to the lust of her eyes and sent ambassadors into the land of Chaldea.
Salome, it is of my mother that he is speaking, a young Syrian. Oh, no, princess. Salome, yes, it is of my mother that he is speaking.
Her mother is Herodias. And who is Herodias? She happens to be, if you're living in the Middle Ages, she happens to be a very important witch queen.
Yes, if you're living in antiquity, she happens to be a very important witch princess.
Yes, yes. We see her originally, ultimately elevated to queen. Yes, with her daughter, Salome. Isn't that nice? What does Salome think?
It's my mother he's talking about. Who is she? Who is the moon? As you begin to see, you can use this guide to show yourself.
Use Wild's Ghost to show yourself the rights.
Where is she who gave herself unto the captain of Assyria? Who have bald ricks on their loins and crowns of many colors on their heads?
Where is she who has given herself to the young men of the Egyptians who are clothed in fine linen and hyacinth, whose shields are of gold, whose helmets are of silver, whose bodies are mighty?
Go, bid her rise up from the bed of her abominations, from the bed of her incestuousness, that she may hear the words of him who prepared the way of the Lord,
that she may repent of her iniquities, though she will not repent, but will stick fast in her abominations. Go, bid her come.
For the fan of the Lord is at hand. Salome, ah, but he is terrible, terrible, the young Syrian. Do not stay here, princess.
Salome, it is his eyes above all that are terrible.
They are like black holes burned by torches and a tapestry of tire. They are like the black caverns where the dragons live, the black caverns of Egypt in which the dragons make their lairs.
They are like black lakes troubled by fantastic moons.
Do you think he will speak again? The young Syrian. Do not stay here, princess. I pray you do not stay here, Salome. How wasted he is.
He's like a thin ivory statue. He's like an image of silver. I'm sure he is chaste.
As is the moon.
He is like a moon being like a shaft of silver. His flesh must be very cold, cold as ivory. I would look closer at him.
No, no, princess, Salome, I must look at him closer. The young Syrian princess, princess, John.
Who is this woman who is looking at me? I will not have her look at me.
Wherefore does she look at me with her golden eyes under her gilded eyelids? I know not who she is. I do not desire to know who she is.
Bid her be gone. It is not to her that I would speak.
I am Salome, daughter of Herodias, princess of Judea.
John, back, daughter of Babylon. Come not near the chosen of the Lord.
The mother has filled the earth with the wine. Your mother has filled the earth with the wine of her iniquities and the cry of her sinning has come up even to the ears of God.
John, daughter of Sodom, come not near me but cover your face with a veil and scatter ashes upon your head and get thee to the desert and seek out the Son of Man.
Was it a conscious process that brought forth this right? Or was it something of a design, of a classics design, a way to bring to you, encapsulate the mystery?
If you are able to read Oscar Wilde Salome and have ears to hear, you will see her whom the mysteries hold as a center.
You will see the Adolon. Oscar Wilde was able to bring you the Adolon, the image of the Queen.
