Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met, I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that whore called Destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Thank you for coming tonight. There will be two messages delivered simultaneously.
One's a left-handed and one's a right-handed.
Yeah, so that's nice. We have a privilege tonight that way.
We're going to jump in. I'm going to take you guys to a place where people in antiquity got high on the burning purple.
And I'm going to show you what they saw.
That's what's tonight on Lady Babylon's Bible Study.
The first thing that I want to do is take you just hop right.
We're going to hop right in the ship and we're going to go.
We're going to just take off tonight because I want to show you.
Look, we've been talking a lot about drugs in the ancient world.
We've been talking a lot about sources that talk about the drugs and we've been talking about it in cold context.
We've looked at some parts of a formula for one of the Galenae, one of the famous antidotes to counteract the communion.
So we've looked at all of those things.
Now let's look at some people actually using them.
I want you to recognize while we're doing this that we are communicating on two different levels.
So the idea is that look, I mean, this is the this is the world war happens to be two dimensions, right?
Overlapping each other and you can talk back and forth.
You can interact, right?
And if you know the right things to do, you can move the mountains, right?
It's pure mystery, pure mystery.
The Christians cannot deny this, right?
It's pure mystery.
So what I what I'd like to do is to teach you if I had a group of people's very secretive group of people and we were working on some big private projects, I would have them reach out, reach out to this frequency to tap in to be sitting on that throne.
What throne is that?
They call it the throne of the devil, right?
I would be sitting in that position in order to hear the left-handed track that's being played, right?
Two tracks.
Fantastic.
Okay.
So tonight what I want to do is I want to start with Orpheus.
We have to bring up Orpheus and I'm going to have a nice little video to beautifully done.
By the way, thank you to Chewie for everything, for piloting this ship.
Thank you, Chewie.
You've been a great, I wouldn't be able to do it without you, so we're fine team.
Let's go to the text.
I want to bring Orpheus back and in order to get Orpheus back, we're going to have to go here to a root cutter, right?
This is where we're going to get this information.
We're going to get this information from a root cutter who is the root cutter.
The root cutter is that professional who knows the plants and who knows the drugs, who knows how to acquire them, how to process them, what time of day it needs to be done, specific times of the year, different weather conditions.
She knows what to do with the drugs.
She knows how to prepare them, to combine them.
This is somebody who's got a lot of knowledge and this knowledge is passed down.
It's generational knowledge, right?
And some of it gets ended up, ends up getting written, excuse me, written and recorded for us.
And we have these gems of these sources.
The one I want to take you tonight is written by the son of one of these famous root cutters.
And by the way, Sophocles wrote a play called the root cutters, right?
So it's a big deal in antiquity.
So here we go. She is passing the knowledge that we are getting tonight.
The scene, the ability to see the scene of these drug users, actively performing the mystery.
The power of that tonight comes from Orpheus, right?
It comes from that root cutter's tradition.
We have to summon them.
This is our first text, right?
This is our first text.
E minton or fheus eion, opatheir, logon, peythen eaidus, ost homarten moe petras, kelem te tois, logoesi kus ebulome.
Yes, these are the lines of the great virgin.
These are the lines of the great Crimean Virgin, Crimean Virgin.
Who is she?
She is the one who was sacrificed for the welfare of her people.
And when I say virgin, I don't mean sexual virgin.
I mean an age group, virgins and antiquity are an age group.
The nymphs are the ones who are ready for marriage.
Ready for marriage.
So we're talking about an age of life here.
Iphigenia is the great Ithiwanasa.
This is old, old Mycenaean cult.
Okay, so we're setting the stage here, right?
We're just landing our ship.
We're getting out.
Where are we?
