7,000 7-8,000 word vocabulary
Right, they reported ten times that there's their greatest minds who read all the books and do everything that they can do
Do you understand why they won't come and talk to me because it's a circus
It's a circus. It's a show and it's disingenuine what I'm giving you here is my kitchen and
My crappy internet
That's what I'm giving you and I'm giving you the texts
I'm showing them to you. It's a whole new world out there. Give it to me. Chewie give the next one
I wanted you to see what the gnosis is to right just so you can kind of reach in yourself and your soul
Nostalgic informant will love this look at I like definition number three
Recognizing right it's from Ginosco, right or Gignos. Let's go and it's really it really is that
Acquiring of knowledge
Notice in the very first definition they give you it has to do with inquiry, right?
investigation
gnosis is
Investigation
Gnosis is investigation now you see how complex that is and you have to start with good
You know basic terms in the Hebrew to kind of filter that down into something you that you know is manageable
Okay, okay, but it's clear people all of this is clear
evidence
Clear evidence that Greek is the primary language. I'm gonna show you let me show you a little term of these little colloquial
Expression they use in Greek
Yeah, he makes his angels
now my top spirits
Right and those who exercise his rights
He makes that poor flag on do you guys remember the flux?
Right flux
Do you remember what that was give me the next one give me the next one?
What is by the way, what did the Hebrew do with that for they used the word fire, okay?
And then another word give me the next one another word. Here's the regular word for fire
That's fine because poor in the Greek is it's the same thing. That's okay. Give me the next one, right?
Like you can imagine a third gray or fire daddy, right? Okay, good and what is the verb that they use la hot?
to flame or to blaze so the flaming fire
Only there's one problem
That's not the Greek
Term that says when you put these two things together watch this
Look at the here's the flocks, right flame fire is an element
Right in similes and metaphor you talk about fiery warriors, etc.
Etc. Right a flash of lightning look at number three and you see it used with
Keraunia and urania. Oh look there. She is there. She is
Right. What is that flocks?
Have you ever?
Seen the flocks of the lightning
Yeah, okay. Have you ever seen the flocks of the lightning? You know where that is?
Remember I told you about the purple lightning before we're gonna find that purple lightning and Jesus's eyes here. It is the
Flocks puros. Give me the next one the flocks puros. So you ready and the eyes of Jesus when he comes back, right?
They are flocks puros
Yeah, do you understand they are flocks puros
He has that burning purple
Yeah, and what's he got on his head?
He has that crown you want to see them all you want to see them all give it to each other give it an extra
You see them all give it to each other
That flocks
Can travel where does it end up here this is from Euripides
It ends up on the remains of
The place where the mother of Dionysus was consumed by the lightning
Yeah
Yeah
It is living
It is living
Did you hear me?
That flocks
Is a living
Fire of lightning and if you reveal the mystery
You reveal the lightning you receive it
Yeah, you receive the lightning
Right, right
Okay, wait, let's keep going because we're gonna see let's okay. You said I want to see people using this together
Okay, pull it up pull it up. Let's watch people
Who are some of the people that used it? Here's a Bronze Age group of people
This is from Pindar now his fourth pithy and Ode and
They're Bronze Age people who are using that flocks see the first second word flog
Right, that's from the flocks and who are these people these are bulls
These are bulls
The Jason was supposed to get past in order to go get the fleece
But they everybody knew that nobody could take these guys
Right, so
What are these guys known for they're known for breathing penelope?
They're known for breathing that burning flocks of fire
Okay, they're known
For breathing it Jesus has it in his eyes
And they are known for breathing it
Yeah, you wonder you wonder you know what they called these bulls
Um the people from whose culture they came
Talked about their ancestors being the fang of the viper
The dragon's tooth
That's how they were born
Do you know there's a first and a second birth?
There's a first and a second death
Yeah, yeah
From the serpent came the knowledge to open your eyes
Fantastic if you're a christian and you haven't been involved in drug rights, don't worry
None of this applies to you christianity is not what you thought it was
Enjoy your celebration for whatever ice cream you can get out of it. Give me the next one
Um, what happens? Okay, here's paul. I want to just bring you to paul, right? This is all new
All new watch this what happens
Paul's put in his hands
On people remember how jesus said you put your hands on people. It's a part of the it's part of the friggin right
Right, you're gonna put your hands. You're gonna lift up snakes. You're gonna drink poisonous drugs
And or you didn't say drink. Yeah, it does say drink. You're gonna drink poisonous drugs and then he says
You're going to be unhurt
From the drugs and you're gonna put your hands on people
Do you want to see people putting on hands the fairytale putting on hands is jesus looking like a 60s hippie
Stand right totally white guy too like as white as he can possibly be
Right blonde hair. He's kind of blonde hair and he's standing. You know what pictures i'm talking about
And he's standing next to that kid and the kid's all happy looking at him
You know and jesus has his hand out over the kid. Huh, he's putting his hands on
You can see some little light radiated from jesus's hand like he's doing something
He's putting some kind of energy in him or something. I don't know to give him some he's blessing him
He's blessing him, right? Well, that's not reality
You would you like to see and know
What reality was of the putting on the hands go ahead go ahead. What's this say?
So paul's putting his hands on people and why is he doing it?
Because he's transmitting to them the panel mahogany on the holy spirit
Okay, the holy spirit and you say i know holy spirit father son and holy ghost
Right
Okay, no
He's giving them
His hands
And what happens after he starts getting handsy with them?
They start talking
In dead languages
They start talking and things that you should not none of us can decipher
right
They should be prophesying
Okay, and that's exactly what they're doing. Look, that's exactly what they're doing
They're using those mystery tongues. They're using those mystery tongues. Did you think it was
Seriously, did you really think it was that?
That kind of stuff is circus, man. You got to get over it. Your theology is crap
Right, all of it. I'm not saying your theology. I'm saying all theology is crap
Here are the texts and what they're saying. Let's just continue on
So and what kind of men are these they happen to be?
12 dudes
And now you got to ask yourself you got to say wait a minute. Jesus is with 12 teenage kids
One of whom is sitting on his lap. They never show that dude in the last supper. They all look like they're 40
How about the one sitting on his lap that comes up to his mid chest?
right
He's sitting there with his 12. Why do you think these magi are always getting the 12
Apostles, why do you think they're always doing that?
Boom god was creating a great work through the hands of paul
Paul's hands
Are causing these people to enter into ecstasy
To be able to communicate with the angeloid
Okay
I see him. I see him right. They see him when they see him. Peter saw him. There's two dudes there with him
Both dad do
Ghosts right there, right and what does he what does he do god works with the hands of paul?
But wait here watch it happen watch it happens. What happens?
He put his hands right on him, but he also gave him his sudaria
His sudaria. What is that? It's a napkin or a handkerchief
Some kind of cloth that you wipe your face with and your armpits
When you're sweaty when you're out in the sun
You should wipe that stuff off paul gave them that
The people who were sick and he gave them his
Oh my god, what it sounds bad. What is that?
it's a
girdle
And if you don't understand what I mean by girdle if you are out
Walking around and you take off all your clothes and you dance around
It's going to become apparent
But you need girdling
girdling
Do you mean that was the wrap of his testicles and penis?
And he was giving that to people to lick
Are you kidding me? Yeah, but there's more there's more watch this
Jesus does the same thing. I'm about to show you. You're gonna you're gonna be shocked. Give it to me. Give it to me. Look, he's back, right?
So here's jesus
And there's a dude
Who's been in a tomb
There's a dude in a tomb once again
And this dude is bound by his hands and his feet. I mean, there's some funny stuff going on here, right?
Dude laying in the tomb and he gets up and he walks out, right?
He walks out, but when he walks out of the tomb and everybody's like, oh man
What has he got? He's got a sotario
covering
his eyes
Covering his eyes. Why?
Why are you gonna have this?
What are they doing?
Because wiping that skin. It's the same reason that jesus made that old woman high from just touching him
Right just touching his clothing
right the magus is a
Drug user extraordinary
Paul is so good at drugs. He's immune to viper venom
Right and jesus is telling him all oh all these poisons. Don't worry. They aren't gonna hurt you
Right. He's a drug man. What does the guy get up out of the tomb and come to do from the bible?
He's got that covering over his face the same thing paul is giving people
As paul is laying on hands
Yeah
Do you know what the cure is?
For your demon. Do you know what the cure is?
Yeah
It's in paul's nutswet
It's in paul's nutswet
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. It is the apostle paul after all
Right, right. I don't know. Maybe
Maybe, you know, if it was like
collected earlier
I think my faith would only take me so far with paul's testicular sweat
But remember people so when paul is with his
his
people
is 12
when he's with them and they're passing around the
The
Taint juice, you know, whatever that is the the by the way the crusaders. I say that with all seriousness the crusaders
Had initiates lick new newbies
Had them lick that tank because that's where the purple cross was
In their girdings
Okay, so this is a very practical thing that i'm talking about. I'm just talking about drug transmission. That's all
All right. Remember ristos
is
druged
That's what it means
God fantastic and not just with any drug but with ones that cause you to go nuts. Give me the next one
We're going to go nuts here at these last sources. Are you ready?
Um, okay. Now who else is doing it? You think, okay, right like every
Jew in the room there's religious Jew, right? Not secular Jew, right?
What a religious Jew at monist Jew every monist Jew is going to say
Aha, look at the pagans and the dirty stuff they're doing now you be quiet
because
We've got your magic writings that talk about
Homosexual love affairs
specifically between men and how
Jehovah
sponsors that
What are the and here? What are the what's going on here? Look this?
What do you think the seven sons of the high priest skewa?
This is his name. What do you think the seven sons of that high priest?
He's the jewish high priest, right?
See the word you die you
What do you think they're doing?
remember
Her fingers are purple mary's fingers are purple. What do you think they're doing?
They're doing the same thing with the drugs and they try it with a dude and he gets mad and this is what he says to him watch this
It's like a it's a terrible
