those are pagans and we're Christians, we're different.
We're going to put a fake border around Israel or Judea and say,
this is Judaism and everyone else's pagans.
No, no, no, no.
You don't get to do that.
This is all the same cultural milieu.
They're all being influenced by these Orphics,
these ancient magical rites.
Medea is, she's a magus.
Her and Cersei have the famous Rambos,
which is what Jesus is depicted holding.
Let me show you guys.
Here's Jesus holding his Rambos.
These are the oldest images of Jesus in existence.
Before the beard of Jesus that everyone knows,
he used to be depicted like this, without a beard.
In fact, sometimes there's actually,
they found a statue of what they thought was Apollo.
Exactly like Apollo.
That feminine look that Apollo carries.
Then they found out later on, it wasn't Apollo.
It was a statue of Jesus.
They just took a statue of Apollo and called it Jesus.
I'm just trying to explain to you the imagery,
the culture cannot be escaped.
The influence cannot be escaped.
Jesus is a magus like everyone else is.
Now, I want to go to Revelation.
This is Revelation 1,
where you have this idea of this Jesus coming.
The hair on his head was white like wool.
His eyes are blazing with fire.
His feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace,
and his voice was the sound of rushing waters.
In his hand, he held seven stars.
What is this?
What kind of imagery is this?
This is everywhere back in this time period.
You have the images of the invincible sun.
I'm going to show some more.
This is one coin of Roman Mithras,
with the seven stars.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
There's your crescent moon,
and there's your gradient crown.
This religion of the unconquered sun
comes from the east,
in particular the Caucasus region,
where the Magi are.
The Persians are mainly influenced by this, too.
Ultimately, if you go back far enough,
you'll see this is from that little wedged region
in between the Black Sea and Caspian Sea region.
Medea is the daughter of the sun.
There was the kingdom of the sun,
the Bosporus kingdom.
Even in the time of Augustus,
this area of the world was so revered
that no one was allowed to have a kingdom.
You couldn't have a kingdom under Rome.
You have an emperor,
and everybody is either a console
or a governor, some sort of tetrarch.
But the Bosporus was allowed to keep their kingdom.
The only place in the world
that was allowed to keep their kingdom.
There was a lot of respect paid to this part of the world.
When Ovid got in trouble,
he had to flee to that part of the world.
He had nowhere else to go.
He had to go to the Bosporus,
where he'd be protected, basically,
as like Edward Snowden is right now,
where you're in trouble.
If he goes back to America, he's going to get arrested.
But he can hang out in Russia.
It's kind of like that.
It's kind of like Ovid, right?
So now I wanted to show that,
but I got some slides that I want to go through now.
And it's relating to these rights that I'm talking about.
I want to explain what I'm talking about.
Oh, I think...
Yeah, technical difficulties, people.
Just a second.
Joey, were we flying through an asteroid?
Back.
Here he is.
Here he is.
Okay, good.
What do you think?
No, hold on.
Let's give me a second,
because I've got to load it back up again now.
Okay, okay.
Let me say, while Mastic is reloading up here,
let me just say how nice it is to hear the words of Medea
out of the lips of Paul the Apostle.
That's so nice.
And what's even maybe even more incredible
is to hear it from Epiminides.
Because Epiminides, the prophet,
he's considered the one...
He inspired some stuff that ultimately ends up through Solon
going into a world of democracy.
So these people,
especially the pre-Socratics man,
you cannot not give them enough credit.
I mean, this guy is the Thomas Jefferson of antiquity.
Thomas Jefferson and this guy, I guarantee you,
Epiminides and Thomas Jefferson are sitting in hell right now
with a table and a fine French wine.
And they are both having a conversation that
the demons are just sitting there like this.
Oh my God, these guys are fantastic, right?
So hey, thank you for that Epiminides link.
And also the fact that Colchis is a region of the world
where this art is evolving,
that ultimately is the mystery that Christianity and Judaism spring from.
Yeah, I love it.
And this is where you get the Medes who name themselves after Medea.
You have Herodotus explains, right in book one of the histories,
that all this comes from Medea.
The Trojan War itself is a result of some things that happen
according with Medea and Helen.
But I got some slides that I want to bring on the screen now.
And now I click the right button.
So this is from Plutarch.
I'm going to go through some stuff that Plutarch has to say.
Plutarch is talking about this Zorrest or Magian.
He says before the Trojan War, he says 5,000 years.
I don't know about all that.
I don't know where he's getting that number from.
Anyways, but he says he calls the one Oramazes and the later Aramanios.
And there's something that's going on here that we see in Judaism
where you have the Yom Kippur or you have one goat
that you set off into the wilderness, which is Azizel, the evil.
You have these two different opposing spirits, right?
This is something.
This is coming straight from Zorrest,
who is in part of the same region where Medea was located.
Anyways, he says, furthermore, the objects of sense,
the one resembles light, the other darkness.
Mithras is between the two.
The reason the Persians Mithras, the mediator.
Remember Jesus says, I'm the mediator.
And he says, I am Lucifer, the bright and morning star.
This is all cultic terminology that we see everywhere, right?
So mediator taught them to offer sacrifice and vows and Thanksgiving.
That's in English.
If you go to the Greek, you could check.
You guys can all check.
Hopefully you guys are checking me.
I don't want you to just take my word for it.
If this was hit Amon doing it, he would just have the Greek up
and I'm not as good as that.
So I just kind of go with the translation.
I checked the Greek just because I want to know.
I don't know what's the terminology.
The word is not Thanksgiving.
The word is Eucharist.
He says that he's saying that Zoroaster taught the rights of the Eucharist.
This is exactly what it says.
And it says vows and Eucharist to the one of deprecation and mourning to the other.
The rights of mourning, ritual mourning of Adonis, right?
Ritual mourning of Jesus.
And for they bruise a certain herb, I think it's Amon or something.
And it's in a mortar and they invoke Hades with it.
Mixing it with the blood of a wolf they sacrifice.
And then they carry it and throw it into a place where the sun never comes.
In this plant, they call the daemons, right?
Okay.
Now, the reason why I wanted to show that is because I'm going to go,
because Plutarch in another text that I have right here called the Symposiums,
where him and his buddies, and he's with his teacher, his name is Amon.
By the way, Amonius, that's his teacher.
And they're discussing, what is this God of the Jews?
So go back to the slides if you can.
And it says, all right, who is this God?
Who is this God, right?
And he says, what's the mysteries of the Jews?
And is there a solid reason that we can give him to prove Adonis to be the same with Bacchus?
Here's where we get into the syncretisms that we see with these middle Platonists.
They're syncretizing.
They're syncretizing.
They're combining all these gods into super gods, right?
So here we're seeing the rites of Adonis and Bacchus being mingled together.
And he talks about how, I'm just skimming through this.
You guys can read this.
Pause it later, or come back and pause it.
Read the whole thing.
I'm going to flip right through it.
He says, the Holy Son of the Jews is exactly agreeable to the rites of Bacchus,
for which they call the feasts that they celebrate in the midst of vintage,
furnishing their tables with all sorts of fruits.
And they sit under the tabernacle.
Oops, I'm getting ahead of myself.
And then it says that over on the right, he says,
for they have the trumpets and the Grecians use this at their bacchanalia to call upon their gods.
And he's noticing they're doing the same rites as people in the Ellisonian Mysteries.
He's, I'm watching them do the exact same thing.
They're dressed the same.
They have the same priestly garments.
He says that the Levites had this name that looks a lot like a group of priestly class called the Lucius or Aeveus.
Either way, whichever one of the etymology is, it's agreeable to Bacchus.
He's like, he's looking at this and saying, these are the rites.
And the reason for this is if you try to separate Jerusalem as like this branched off force field world where everyone else is separate from them
and they have no influence on the outside.
They don't know anything that's going on anywhere else.
You're going to lose this.
There's a way that priests get ordained in the ancient world.
And it was typical of how they offer incense on certain days.
Certain priests have to do the certain things.
They have a certain way to build their temples with the Holy of Holies in the middle.
You see this in Egypt.
You see this in Judea.
You see this in Syria.
Oh, this is how this was done.
This is a Bronze Age tradition from Medea.
From that time period, passed down everywhere throughout the entire Mediterranean world.
We call it, I'm going to call this the Bacchic Empire.
You start to see this.
There's commonalities amongst these and they overlap each other.
It's no different for the priests of Israel.
And so let's keep continuing on with this slide.
You could see it with the way they dress.
This is a Christian Orthodox priest holding the staff.
On the right, you're probably wondering, what's that on the right?
Is that just another staff?
No, no, no.
That's a Hermes staff found from 500 BCE from Athens.
And that was welded onto a staff where the priests, the Yaobakoi, they're called.
And they held, they had their high priests holding these.
This is a Juan.
This is a Rambos Juan.
It's a magical instrument.
And you see this Orthodox priest is holding it.
Why?
Why do you think they're holding it?
Do you really think this is just cool looking?
No, there's reasons why they held onto these traditions.
This matters.
And you're thinking, what about the Romans?
That's Greek, right?
Well, the Romans have their own way of doing it.
The Romans have their staff that they call Elyseus.
And the Augors in the ancient world held these.
And the Augors did divinary with looking at birds, right?
And it's funny because the word cardinal is a Latin word that comes from these priests.
They named the red bird after the cardinals.
And it's interesting because the Augors used birds in their divination.
So you were like, is there something going on with that?
Maybe I'm just throwing it out there.
I'm just looking at things that I'm noticing.
Now, let's go to the next one.
There's your cardinal right there, that red bird, right?
That's augury stuff.
This is augury.
All right.
Now, Mithras, Lucifer, the invincible sun, the light bearer.
You see the torch bearers, the dataforiae.
There's actually a, if you look at the early Christ association groups, there was a branch.
There was a type of priest in the early Christian groups called the dataforiae.
Same name as the groups of Mithraic priests.
In fact, a lot of these old Mithraic temples were repurposed for Christian churches.
There's churches right now in use, not about old ruins.
People still attend churches today and in their basements are Mithraeums.
They're still there.
They're not getting rid of them.
They just keep them there.
And people will travel to go see these places, go look it up.
This is what they did.
They have a story about St. Demetrius from the fifth century, and he was one of the last
priests of the Ellosinian Mysteries, and the story goes, I don't know how true this is,
the story is that Deminer visited him and dreamed and told him the worship of Jesus.
She said, take all of my rights and put them on Jesus.
So we have like fifth, sixth century texts about co-opting the Ellosinian rights and
bringing it into the fold in Christianity.
We see this with Solendictus as well.
So you start seeing early apologetics going on where they're trying to figure out when Jesus was born.
And the only indication they have is they go up in the Gospel of Luke where it says that
when John was born, his father Zechariah was one of the priests of a sect called the Abijah,
which is the eighth division out of 24 divisions of priests.
His job is to go in just like I just talked about these are ancient rights.
The Orphics would light certain incense for certain gods for certain festivals.
Well, they do this and they do this in Israel.
They have certain priests from certain classes.
In the case of Zechariah, he was part of the Abijah, Abiyah, or how you pronounce it.
And they would twice, two weeks out of the year, it was their job to control the temple like these incense.
And so there's a little bit of indication on what time of the year he could have been there.
But anyways, it ends up being where you can kind of hone it into like a month period.
You could kind of pick.
There's some early accounts that say he might have been born on January 6th, conceived in April 6th or something like that.
And then there's later accounts when they start going, you can start seeing the early apologetics going,
huh, soul is on the rise.
Soul is the head of the pantheon now.
The Severan dynasty came along and they're implementing these ancient Armenian
slash Persian, Black Sea rites of Mithras, Solendictus.
And this is rising as I showed you with the Mithraeum everywhere.
And the Christians are looking at this and this is their main competitor of the time period.
And they're going, well, wouldn't it be better if Jesus wasn't born on January 6th and just made his birth on December 25th?
Ooh, that'll get some pagans to join us, right?
Which is what they did.
So continue with the slides.
And so you start seeing the, these making, you know, Jesus being born on December 25th.
And there's, there on the left, you see Selvanus, right?
That's, look at them.
Look at that image of Selvanus.
Look how Christ-like he looks.
You know what I mean?
You got your Mithraeum Kronos, right?
He's holding the two keys.
You know, the key, like Peter, the keys of the church, right?
There you have your Mithra born from the rock between the deoscharis surrounded by the Mithraic symbols.
