Let's get on it for those of you in the advanced core.
Those of you from the Harvard folks,
I want you to focus on lycophron. Get back there. See what's going on.
Right. We're not talking swashbuckling here.
We're talking good old fashioned child trade.
Yes. And all of the lamenting mothers in lycophron who are lamenting their
daughters having been taken away.
I want to jump.
The first thing we're going to do is we're going to necromancer up an ancient
source that nobody ever looks at. And you guys,
this is why you love this. I know you do.
Nobody, nobody touches this guy, not with a 10 football,
not even the guys who study the field who study the medical side.
Not even they like to touch this guy. I mean,
diascortes is one thing like Galen is one thing. My God.
Are we going to talk?
Are we going to talk about Venoms and antidotes and Theriac?
Yes. Yes, we are. Yes, we are. Go ahead and bring us up.
Bring us up our first passage for the day, please.
I just wanted to, to take you to Lemnos.
I just want to take you to Lemnos. And this was kind of little invitation here.
Yeah. A little Perseus, a little bit of, a little bit of commentary.
We're talking about Lemnos and Lemnian fire, right?
Lemnian fire. What? Lemnian fire. What is it? That's something special.
Lemnian fire. What else is Lemnos known for?
It's known for that Miltus. It's known for that
Curell. It's known for that antidote.
It's known for that antidote, right? Why is that?
Well, maybe, maybe we need to look at the Lemnian fire.
What is the Lemnian fire?
Yeah, it burns when you use it.
But don't worry, as our author tonight will explain to you that,
and there's a whole bunch of sources. This is one guy,
but we don't have a date for, right? We don't have a date for him.
I'm going to keep him kind of shrouded mystery a little bit,
but we don't have a date.
Orabaceus is the one who's recording this and who's Orabaceus.
He's that physician who works with Julian,
who we all know as Julian, the apostate, right?
So these guys are interested that the imperial lines
are all interested in preserving the craft around which they operate.
Right? These mysteries are performed
in places where the emperors are the ones using the drugs.
And how do we know that? We know that from our,
you can just dig up a Roman, a physician, a medicus.
He was called, attached to the Roman army with Claudius.
You just grab this guy, Scribonius.
Just grab Scribonius and you look at him and you say Scribonius.
Tell me about the, tell me about the secret formula
and all the antidotes for them. They're using our rights.
Okay. Tell me about Augustus.
What's Augustus using?
You thought Marx-Ralius was the only opium addict, right?
No, no, no, they all were.
Yeah. And we've got the recipe, right?
That Augustus was fond of and these are not symbols.
These are not symbols.
When the people who were finding the hair, right,
who were out there in the field doing their job,
when they find those chemicals, thank you very much.
That's a service to humanity.
When they find those chemicals in there and they want to know,
what's, you know, what's the biological activities?
Come on, why are these people, why are these people have,
we cannot begin to understand this until we think,
not in one dimension,
but in multi-dimensions.
What are they using these for?
They're using constellations of drugs.
Yes, drugs have constellations.
And for those of you like Rich, who are into such things,
into the physics, the physics behind
the Caldy and Magi, anybody's interested in anything like that
is going to appreciate the level of expertise it takes.
The reason people are surprised about the drugs and the hair
is because, you know, this is not an area that classes have studied.
Yeah, I'm going to go back to a text tonight.
I'm going to bring it to you.
It was edited in the early 20th century.
Right, like 1906, 1907.
Wait a minute, that's the last time anybody has serious.
