If you are going to sit in an ivory tower and talk about the mystery as a secret, those of us who have been to the sources will know that you are making things up from the perspective of the detritus of the last 2,000 years.
You are perpetuating a false world that does not exist. The reality is far more interesting. Salome had John beheaded for a dance.
It was in front of the King's highest generals and some visiting potentates. It doesn't sound like an average party to me. It doesn't sound like an average party to you.
If you believe the Comptek sources, you will know that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was herself a priestess in the temple.
You will know that she was involved with the dancing of the purple. You will know that when the midwife inserted her fingers into her vagina to palpate, to palpate her cervix, she had to remove them because they burned.
Mary is there. Salome is there taking the head of the Baptist.
Yes, and how does she get that head? She gets that head for a dance.
People don't consider Salome's greatest accomplishment was the silencing of a prophet through her dance.
What was she doing there? What was it that Herod had to grant her up to half of his kingdom?
When you swear things like that in public, Herod, Antipas isn't the only one doing this. This is a classical convention.
You see it all over the place, the early literature, the late stuff. When you swear, when you take an oath, and it's public, the ears that hear are witnesses.
And for Herod to swear in front of these assembled important big pants that he was going to give her half the kingdom up to what she wanted.
He had to give her everything, anything she asked for, and she asked for everything.
In order to reestablish the rightful place of her own mother, who this prophet was profaning, Oscar Wilde had ears to hear.
He recognized the sources, and so that's why he can so accurately label Salome the moon of the mystery.
She meets you in the cave while you sleep.
Yes, so next time a Jungian grabs you and takes you behind somewhere dark, in an alley somewhere, doesn't matter under a bush, doesn't matter, wherever this Jungian wants to drag you and take you.
And they have the guts, the temerity, the unmitigated brashness to say, shut up, to say that mystery is a secret.
It shows you they have not yet opened the red book. They do not possess the Libre Novas, right?
They don't know how to wield the serpent wand of the girl who is half virgin, half viper.
The very images that Jung was possessed by when he sealed his Libre Novas.
Don't let them take you behind in the bushes and give you something that's from the last 2,000 years of detritus. It's not reality.
I was talking with someone this week, and I want to jump to our hymn in closing, but I was talking to someone this week about the incident in the garden and setting up the scene of that incident in the garden.
And I just want to, yeah, could you close that? That's a little bit rude. Sorry, I've got a teenager.
That incident in the garden, where we're talking about the setting of that place. Remember, there are three men who are standing in a distance, your detectives, right?
There were three men in a public park at 4 a.m.
And there's one guy, and there's three other guys standing in a distance from him, keeping watch, and their arm.
Because they end up, when the cops end up showing up to make the arrests with their informant.
They've got their informant with them, right? He's going to actually point out the leader of what's going on.
And when they show up and that naked kid runs off and somebody pulls out a sword and starts swinging at somebody.
Yeah, somebody from the temple gets their ear cut off. Yeah, and we have to understand that when the prostitutes show back up at the crucifixion,
when not even the guys who were there, the enforcers would show up and the mob is crying out, kill this guy, kill this guy.
We've got to establish that context to see what he was actually doing there. What is the reality, right?
We will not go back to fairy tale world, right? We will not go back to Charlton Heston, right?
No, we must go forward. And we must know what all of these elements were.
Let's turn to, for the sake of our initiation, let's turn to, in this Bible study today with Salome, let's turn to the Divinity.
Good. Thank you for bringing that up, Chewie.
This is an orphic hymn, and I'm just opening it here myself, and I'm going to read it to you. I'm going to translate it to you from this Greek text.
Yes, Thezmaforon Kaleo Narthakoforon Dionuson.
Yes, I call upon the Thezmafor Dionysus, the Thezmafor, the one who brings Thymus.
By the way, this is a woman's voice. For those of you out here who think a man is saying this, you're wrong.
This is performed during the Thezmaforia, and if we just need to catch up, think Rites of the Korah.
Rites of the Korah, celebrations at Elucis. The Thezmaforia is an event, women only.
