What do you do?
What do you do with that contraption?
Bring a thing back up to the camera, look close and show me how you use it.
Okay.
So this, I use this, this is a central focus of the, this is representative of Shiva and
Shakti United together in one to produce the omrits and this is used as the idle focus.
You're supposed to offer milk to this, you douse this in milk.
This here, this part here is the Rudraksha.
That is literally the eye of Shiva or the Rudraksha bead which you meditate upon.
It's the seed of life.
This is again, very Saturnian Shiva seen as using us as seeds to produce trees and doing
that to us.
And so yeah, this is an idle focus that's supposed to be representative of that myth,
the Samudramantam.
And when we focus on this, we remember this and we're supposed to use this to do this
alchemical process in ourselves.
So the Tantricas also see this as a process that's occurring within yourself.
The spine is Visuki, the snake that's unfolding.
You are have, when you have an orgasm, you are shooting this energy up through your body
that's expounding out through your third eye and this is your enlightenment experience.
This is, it's about, it's, this image is showing you and telling you the myth in symbolic form
and you're supposed to worship and engage with it so that you subconsciously and physically
recreate the mystery and you do this as a discipline daily.
So you can bring that milk with that device.
Let me just throw, just throw in for us on your back wall there.
Just tell us in a couple of sentences, who is that?
Okay.
So on the back wall, that's Kali.
So Kali, she is the Shakti.
She is the divine energy.
She is the fire.
She is the one, she is Shiva in its active force.
So in my conception, this is Lady Babylon, right?
This is that force of destruction of the fire.
So she in that particular painting there is in an action of destroying the universe and
Shiva throws himself at her feet to beg her to stop and they're paused like this and she's
actually crying out in shame because she's like, I'm just about to kill my husband because
I can't calm the F down.
But yeah, she's a powerful, powerful figure.
That is the goddess.
That's the, you know, beautiful.
I wanted, I wanted you to bring that up because I wanted to bring it back to astraya, right?
And I wanted us to see that generation of dawn and what they were doing with the mystery.
Darren and I had a nice discussion today, which came, which came first, who is contributing
what and they'll, they can shoot those arrows as much as they want and try to figure it
out.
Right?
And who knows?
Maybe, maybe they will.
We talked about the founder too.
I want to find out who it was, who perfected it and was able to use their own body.
And of course, everybody in my, in my audience knows that, that I think that the drugs, if
you trace the drugs back, you go right back to Colchis with Medea and she's the one initiating
this burning.
Right?
And, but East and West, oh, it's great.
Look, they're joined like that.
Isn't that gorgeous?
Yeah.
Rob, Rob, comments, final comments, Rob.
Well, that was fantastic.
Thank you very much, Darren.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It really was very descriptive.
I was lost.
I was gone in there.
Thank you.
No final comments from me.
Apart from thank you.
Thank you to all the community and everyone for commenting and putting your posts out there.
The fantastic issue.
We've got a community that's growing and we're going to do, do a lot to try and accommodate
it.
