You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation on this second to last episode.
This will be our official last Satanic Initiation. Wednesday will be our official last Bible studies.
Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for coming.
Before I tell you what we're going to dive into in Omega, I want to tell you tonight we will have Gnostic Informant come in.
And he was unable to make it last time because he wasn't feeling well.
But now he's bouncing back and he's ready to go and he's got the stuff to make everybody hate him.
I also want to say really quick, there is an outstanding up and coming scholar who's going to rip the backside out.
Right out of that Victorian smile.
And he goes by Old Boy, A-U-L-D-B-O-Y.
And he just produced a magnificent, a magnificent video on Etruscan Deity.
Oh, I can't wait until you see her. I can't wait for it. You got to go for it. So that's Old Boy.
Yeah, nice job, Old Boy. Way to strike out, man.
And his Greek, his Greek is getting better and better all the time. All the time. Why?
Because I'm looking for Greek students to pull in.
I'm looking for people who want that skill, who can sharpen it, razor sharp, razor sharp.
These are the people we need and I'm educating them in the dojo.
There's not really any education going on. I'm just teaching them how to use the Greek and they're doing a great job.
So if you get a chance, stop by Old Boy.
Tonight on Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation, we are going to dive into the Omega, into the Omega.
Now, tonight is the most crucial night that everybody out there, everybody joining us.
Put down your popcorn for a minute, put on your ears to hear.
Because I'm going to be saying things tonight that only you will catch, a steady stream.
And I want you to catch everything so that our initiation can be complete.
Tonight, we're going to give you something a little special. This is the last one.
Right, we're just going to have one more Bible study.
So in this Satanic Initiation, I said, look, devil, we've got to bring them something good.
Something none of those other mortals would be able to come up with.
I mean pastors, priests, I mean Bible scholars, I mean all of them. None of them's got it.
Tonight, I'm going to bring you the prophecy.
Prophecy the world hasn't seen in a couple of millennia.
Prophecy about someone special.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
We've got a lot of weight tonight in just a few texts and I want to bring it to you.
I mean, this is crushing weight. This makes the scholars look stupid.
This makes the last 1500 years of history look stupid.
You're going to love this. Oh, God. And all it is is the evidence.
That's what you get. Love that evidence. I love that evidence.
You know what I mean? It's those texts. That's all we need.
Clean this place up and how could we most appropriately purge the temple in our final Satanic initiation?
Only, only one way.
With the great mother of the Roman people.
With Venus herself. It's the only way that we're going to find this temple complete.
In order to bring the Omega. Chewie, hit it.
You saw it. It was hidden. You might see it again. Oh, my God, I want to go right into tonight.
I'm going to bring you a couple of texts. We want the morning star tonight, right?
We want the morning star. We want to bring that purification.
Let's go to her then this bringer of light. Let's go to that Alpha and Omega.
Let's go to the first text. Chewie, hit it.
Boom. Okay.
Oh, and he showed me a river of water. What, what, what kind of water was it?
It was water of life and it was brilliant.
It was brilliant like Krustalon. It was brilliant like crystal and it flowed.
It flowed out of the Thronos. It flowed from a Thronos.
Yes. Look, did Jesus give hand gestures? It flowed from a Throne.
It flowed from a Throne, but it's not just any throne. It's the Throne of God.
Okay, this is the end that I am reading you. The very end in culmination.
Have some respect for the Word of God.
And it comes from the Throne. What is it coming from? It's coming from the Throne.
What Throne? The Throne of God and the Throne of the Arnion.
The Throne of what? Who? The Throne next to the Arnion.
And just tell me, tell me really quick. What is crystal? Krustalos.
What is it? Ice? Ice? Some kind of glass? Looks like glass. They used it as glass.
What is number two? It equals narke. Narke.
A numbness or a torpor. It comes. It comes from this creation of the frozen. Boom.
Narcotize yourself. Narcotize yourself. You're frozen.
Oh, I see. I see. I see the ice. Go back to the frozen, Chewie.
Go back to the frozen, yeah. Who's this? Who's this?
Go ahead. Click it. Click it. Who's this? What's this narke? What's this narke?
Look, it's a numbness. It's a numbness. Look at number two.
What? Yeah, it numbs. You can't believe these people put this thing on their heads.
People got off on electric rays in antiquity. We have descriptions of it, dude.
You don't know. You don't know. You think you've been high? These people.
These people were getting loaded on everything natural, on electricity.
Wow, that's some abusers of electricity, right?
You thought electricity was just for, no, it's for this, too.
I want torpor, people. Thank torpor. What is the state of torpor that's being induced?
Go back down. And what is the arnion? What is the throne? What is the throne?
Who's it belong to? What is it? There's an arnion that it belongs to.
And everybody says, little lamb, little lamb.
Rides, a rain. A little tiny one. Arnion.
That's diminutive suffix. Isn't that nice?
Uh-oh. Wait a minute. Don't think you know everything.
Look at Roman numeral number two. A fleece. A fleece.
Didn't she know there was a throne? Yes, yes, I did.
But did you know that there was a fleece on the throne?
All right, of course there is. What world did you think you came to?
This is history we're talking about. Okay, let's go to the next one.
Boom. 222. Here we go in the middle.
In the middle of the road of this place.
There's a river in this tree of life.
Wait, Zoe's tree is here? Wait, wait. Zoe's tree? Yes.
Zoe's tree. You remember her? She was that woman that was brought to the atom.
She was that woman that was brought to the atom, right?
Jehovah was trying to make things right within the mystery.
Brian, what happened? Devil, devil let her have the drugs next thing, you know?
You know, God's full of it. You know, God's full of it, right?
We know the good and evil. We know it. You've tasted it.
You people have tasted it. I've tasted it.
You can't get away from it. We're witnesses. We know.
We know we've all had it. Let's go.
That water is undeniable, people. It's undeniable.
In the middle of this place, you know, this tree, this tree of Zoe, by the way,
it grows on both sides of the river. Huh?
Hang in there. It has what kind of fruit?
It's got 12. 12 kinds of fruit? Yeah, according to each month.
According to each month. That's a very classical thing.
And they produce, this tree produces fruit.
We want it each time the proper time.
And the leaves, by the way, take it down. Take it down.
The leaves of this tree, people, delete.
Wait, and you say, wait a minute. Did we get out of the ship yet?
Yeah, we got out of the ship. We got out of the ship and paradise again.
How do we get back to here? This is fantastic, right?
The end goes back to the beginning.
I am the Alpha and the Omega.
Yeah. Thank you, Jesus. Morningstar. Thank you.
Let's go. Let's go. Say thank you, Jesus.
No, don't talk to me. Don't talk at all.
Now, I want to, before we, in order to, in order to, you know, kind of lubricate the system here,
in order to kind of get us kind of warmed up.
Here's a little vibration. Here's a little vibration from work.
This is a cult work that hasn't been translated since 1865.
And it's hiding. It's hiding something wonderful.
And I just want you to see it tonight. Mixmer, strong, obsidian, tears distilled from pine.
You like those tears? Remember who loves those tears?
Oh yeah, Mary Magdalene. You want to put her up? Should we put her up there?
You got Mary? Mary Magdalene loves those tears.
There she is. Look at that druggy.
Look at that druggy in a cemetery.
Those druggies entering death and resurrection.
Freaked out of their minds. Love it. Let's go back. Let's go back.
You wanted to see the real history. This is it, people.
Did you think she was normal? Of course she wasn't.
Tears distilled from pine. Oh, yummy.
With flakes of talc that like the silver shine.
This shall reveal whatever men seek to know.
And omens give.
The coming wheel. Whoa.
Yeah. Yeah. This is what we have to look forward to.
What did I bring this to you for?
We've talked about it many times, but people in antiquity are using drugs,
are using drugs both for medical and for psychological,
for spiritual, for religious reasons.
Christ is a medical term.
It's a religious term.
Yeah. It's a pharmaceutical term.
Yeah. You people don't own it and the classes are sitting like this.
Really? Because you don't read those texts. We know you don't.
We know you don't. Corpus Metachorum, Greg Corum.
Look it up sometime, you big boys from Harvard.
Looks like you guys got in trouble recently. That's a shame.
Oh, you're such a, you're such a drag on progress in scholarship.
Oh my God.
Okay, people, that's why I like to teach rogues.
That's why I like to teach Ronan.
Are you Ronan? You come to me.
You want that tool? You want that tool to kill?
I'll take the best. I'll take that best, that tool that cuts the soul.
I'll give you that. I'll give you that.
Okay. Let's go. Let's go back.
I'm sorry. I'm starting to enjoy it too much.
We also want to be intoxicated.
We want to be intoxicated. Look at that.
The second word there, people.
Oh, what do you want? I want to be intoxicated.
But you know how I want to get my intoxication?
I want to get it mastoisin.
I want to get it mastoisin.
Has anybody heard that root must?
Has it mastectomy?
Mind. This is becoming enthusiastic through the breast.
Through the breast.
They were using milk products of humans to get high
and to get into states of altered consciousness.
Yep. Yep, they were.
You just saw it. You just saw it in the Greek.
There's no going back, people.
You think, oh, the initiation, it was going to,
woo, no, you were shown a world.
You can't go back.
You'll always know those of you.
I just want to say this.
We're going to have our jury on Wednesday
and we're going to pronounce the verdict
when it's handed down by you guys, the jury.
And then we're going to have sentencing
if it's a guilty verdict.
But what you don't realize
is that when we all walk away from it,
none of us can escape the reality of what we've seen.
You have seen Jesus Christ in his natural habitat.
You have seen him as he was in history
and you can't turn away.
You were always going to look for that naked boy
that was with him when he was arrested in Gethsemane
at 4 a.m.
You can always look for that naked kid now.
You can't escape.
You who are Christians,
you should be upset with what I've done to you.
That image that you have stayed here so faithfully
and received in your brains,
burned into your minds is your son of God,
sexually abusing children.
Yeah.
Wally's on drugs for cult's sake.
What do you think the Christ was?
Let's go to the next one.
I can't wait for this prophecy that I've got.
It is so hot.
I'm actually bringing you a prophecy.
Prophecy?
I'm saving it for the end.
I'm going to try to get there in 45 by 45 after
because I want Gnostic to jump in.
Okay, let's go.
With its complexion of a lovely boy,
the opal fills the hearts of God with joy.
Thank you, translator John.
Thank you very much for that nice rhyme,
which we know isn't in the original,
but I want you to notice,
we are around pirates.
We expect boys to be in the mix.
We expect the boys to be here.
We're going to the Omega.
You didn't think we'd make it, did you?
But here it is.
Next one, please.
Next one, please.
This is all cult, people.
This is all cult.
A mighty spirit, Phoebe Hath,
inspired within these gyms
by his own radiance, fired.
Okay, so these are from that religious text.
I'm not even going to tell you
what it's called or who wrote it.
They don't know who wrote it.
They don't even know what the date is.
They don't.
They can't date this thing.
And scholars who debate back and forth,
they don't, you know,
you could guess at which one is right
from the evidence that they've got.
You could guess.
That's it.
Let's go to another one.
Let's warm us all up.
Above all gyms, fierce Mars,
the lodestone loves for eagerly
to meet the steel it moves,
as the fond maiden bright
in youthful charm strains the love of youth
within her longing arms.
So tight the lodestone
in its eager grasp holds the love steel
reluctant to unclasp.
Cersei, they say with magic lore and beaut,
armed with this stone,
her potent filters brood.
Tee's daughter loves the lodestone too.
Let's go to the next one.
Take it down.
Why Mars?
Why Mars?
Don't miss that.
Don't miss the powers that are being used.
Don't miss the science that is being
beautifully woven into
this form of worship,
this mystery that was so important
in antiquity, this thing
that went back to the Queen herself,
the Lady Babylon herself,
the biggest enemy of Jesus Christ on the earth,
Lady Babylon.
Yeah, love it.
Let's go back to the text.
Boom.
Soon will we prove the virtues that I teach
when we the altar of thy Savior reach.
So, stop it for a minute.
Everybody, pull out,
pull out your,
I'm going to stand outside myself for a moment
and look at this situation.
That's what we need.
Do that on the throne.
The throne will let you do that, right?
It's a function.
Go, same text.
For yonder slave,
can everybody see that slave?
For yonder slave, companion of my road
on his broad shoulders, bears an ample load.
Who is this guy?
But since undone our journey's greater part,
fear of the monster fills thy beating heart.
Is this you?
Attend whilst I in antidote declare.
Look at them with their drugs.
Constantly,
dote and antidote.
