They had a saying in ancient Greek, it said, the richest of all the bastards is the one
the muse loves.
Oh, God.
I tattooed it on my arm when I read that, I was like, dude, I want this thing permanent.
I want this thing permanent.
Okay, let's go.
Let's keep going to it.
We're almost at the end.
Here we go.
Episkuthiza.
What do I do with Episkuthiza?
I apply you with drink in the Scythian fashion because to be Scythian is to be intoxicated.
Brain bath people, next one, please, next one, please, and second to last, what is somebody
or something that is scuthase, scuthase, rough, man, you're down to earth.
What is rough?
The void is rough people.
The void, the desert, you may translate, the desert, the void is rough.
Do you remember where we were going?
Dionysus said, I remember now, I remember now he said we were going to go on that trip,
that void.
He was going to take us there on the way, right?
We were going to go, oh, God, you mean in that Scythian bent, we are on the way?
Yes, yes.
The reason Jesus, the Christ, is full of drugs in his Christ things is because he must walk
the way.
He must serve scutha.
Oh, God.
You mean Jesus Christ is a servant to the Medwa?
If you want to use the automobile, you got to acknowledge, I want to made it.
Oh, God, God, it's so, I think it's one last one.
This is the last one, people.
Thank you.
I'm going to say a few remarks before I go and I want to look at some comments, but
I wanted to just bring up the man of sorrows one more time.
Here he is.
Do you got anything last to say?
Jesus.
And by the way, people, this is right out of the comments from Danny Jones.
This is right out of the comments, right?
This is from dead guy Euripides, right?
The sentiment, the voice is right out of the comments.
I saw this one.
It's there.
Oh, man.
This guy is trying to trick me.
Did you get the feeling that Dionysus was trying to trick you?
Dionysus, are you trying to trick us?
Dionysus, I say, the low tech nice in mice by means of my skill.
If I want, I can save you.
I can bring you salvation.
Is that what you're looking for?
Yeah.
A crack in your faith is the satanic origin of your religion.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
In the grave of Mars on the east side of the Black Sea, dragon venom from the God with
horns.
I am being Ionic.
Watch the image.
Jude's letters in Greek, cornucopia, aurelboros, Cleo, Medea, and Bacchus.
The dragon venom will knock him back.
Vase, interferometry, traces floating, crazy eyes, drinking purple mead and whiskey with
Lady Medea straight out of Babylon.
Venus with a penis, gold horns of Alexander, hit you with the mandobrot set on the DMT.
Way up the Alameno piece, slang what words will it mean?
Dragon venom of darkest dreams.
