Oracular Saturny and Bronze Age worship. We are bringing Thymus, right?
Only the law on the pagan side is a she, is a she. Remember, we've got to dress up.
You ever see a bucket dressed like a man? No. Buckets dressed like women.
Mean ads are the power. They're the ones, the women. They're the ones who are performing the rites.
All right? You and I, you and I, if we want to see, if we want to get close, you got to dress like women.
You got to dress like women for those of you with ears to hear.
Yes. Where else are we? We're by the, we're by your mother. We're by your mother, Thesma for.
We're by your mother. Who is that? The melanophore, Isis. The melanophore. What is a melanophore?
Remember, this for is a term that's used in drug and cult, right? It's used on the medical side and cult side.
It's a carrier of, who is Lady Babylon? She's a carrier of that war.
She's the one who operates within that realm. Who is, who is Mesa? She is the carrier of the black of the darkness.
She is a carrier of that toward dawn, that which reaches toward dawn.
Remember, these are the dawn bringers that we're talking about. This is a family that predates Genesis upon which Genesis is based.
These are the dawn bringers, those who open the eyes. Isn't that nice? Those who open the eyes, they used to, they used to shout,
Here in this hymn, they shout,
Another name of Dionysus. Yes, another name of Dionysus. This is what they shout.
If you are going to enter in to the unassailable freedom,
If you're going to become the initiate,
If you're going to take that rift of reality and open it up,
Peel it back and walk into it. If you're going to do that,
You'll have to walk the way. You'll have to walk the way and that won't be determined by any person. There's a reason.
Did you ever notice they've got some funny stuff going on in Corinth?
There's some funny kind of incestuous stuff going on. There's some funny sexual stuff going on.
There's a father and his daughter and Paul says,
Give the guy over to Satan. Nobody ever questions.
Wait, wait, what?
Give the guy over to Satan as if it's a direction for them to execute.
He's not just throwing a metaphor.
He's telling them to perform a process to deliver that person.
Over to the devil. For what? Why would you give some of the devil?
For chastisement. For punishment.
Yeah. For purification. You have been handed over to the devil for purification.
Yeah. Yeah.
Do we end up at a dance?
We end up at a dance with Salome. What kind of dance was that?
It was a dance involving the abominations of her cup.
Yes. And the ways of Sodom.
Yes. If you don't know the ways of Sodom, it's because you don't have ears to hear.
But there is a place that you can go and a way that will take you there.
And let's go now. Do we have, I want to take, now we're done.
I just want to take, thank you for your 30 minutes today.
And I'm taking it very seriously, trying to keep us to that, hold us to that.
Please be careful out there. Do not get fingered by an academic.
