Yeah. Tonight on Lady Babylon, let's welcome the Purifier Pan.
Yeah.
Tonight, we welcome the goat, but we do so in a way that will allow us to remain on the stage.
We cover. We cover what is the obscene. This is a goat. This is a goat. Tonight, we welcome the goat.
This sacred goat is chased by Pan. Fantastic. Let's go right into the text, shall we?
Let's get dirty and bring this text in. Come on, people. Give me number one there. People, I want to take you to a special place tonight.
A place of horses. And you say, what? A place of horses. What are horses going to tell me about Jesus and male prostitution and the use of drugs and cult and antiquity?
What's the horses? What do the horses have to do with it? Everything. They have everything to do with it. This is evidence.
You and I have graciously been walking together for quite a while now, six seasons. And we have lived under the umbrella of the evidence.
You and I, we deal with the evidence. This was all about reason. Reason for those who hear. For those who have ears to hear.
Follow the track, speaking on multiple levels. From the shadows comes the support. Right? Here we go. Here we go. Let's bring it up.
Oh, God, this is fantastic. Do you, can I just share this with you? What is this? Take it down to you, just so I can introduce it. Do some imagery.
Befuddled their minds. The horse work, the corpus, hypiatricorum, a gricorum. Now, I know, don't get excited. I know that nobody has ever shared something like that with you.
I know they haven't because I know classicists don't know these texts. Right? They're classical texts, but they don't know them. Right?
This is a work on horse care, horse care and how awesome horses are. Right? And what happened is some Byzantine dude said, hey, we've got all these texts about, you know, from classical antique.
We've got them and let's put them together in one connection. Thankfully, dude put them together and now we have a whole bunch, a whole bunch on horses.
And you say, I can hear it. I can hear it. You say, what do horses have to do with drugs and cult and Medea and Jesus and sons of thunder?
Everything. Without these horses that we're looking at wouldn't be possible. It's 800 pages.
I heard some of you say, oh, sources. He can work with the sources, but he can't read the Bible.
Hey, guess what? Here's 800 pages, you fruit cakes. 800 pages of Greek that I can read that you have not even heard of.
How do you expect to know anything? You know what I'm going to do tonight? I'm going to perform a magic trick.
I'm going to perform a magic trick. I am going to transform a horse into Jesus Christ.
Wait, what? No, hear me out. Hear me out. I know. I know of all the things I could have picked. You know what I mean?
There's things that go with the packs, right? There's things that go with it. You can pick and choose.
Yeah, I chose horse to Jesus, horse to Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ and that boy he was arrested with in a public park at 4am while yelling, I'm not a child trafficker.
Oh, horse. Let's jump into the horse. This tonight, for those of you who love horses, alpha.
Alpha. Remember, we're talking about the seven spheres. The seven spheres. We're about to go through each one. Tonight is alpha.
When we are at Omega, we'll be done. Let me show you alpha. Chewie, first star chart. Hit it. Blow that thing up.
