When the horse Pagus has struck the ground with his hoof. Wait. Okay. All right. Next text. We're right there. We're right there. You're, you're with the correct images people.
When the moose I sang heaven the stars the sea and rivers stood still. You see the power of that voice. That's the creative voice. You thought the creator was a dude.
You thought the creator was a dude. Can I just ask you something? How many dudes ever created a darn thing? I see a lot of war and I see a lot of death. I see a lot of human dudes doing a lot of stupid things.
I have never seen that female creative power come from a man. That's the thing. You got to get in nature. You got to get down there and you know what? You can do it. You can do it through the serpent, through the serpent.
You mean I can take a human being and I can put them on a regimen of natural drugs and I can produce a medusa. I can take you and switch you from male to female and back. How would you like that? How would you like to be changed? How would you like to be half dragon?
It's your children. The laystace is there for your children. He's not there for you and that is the great wave of frustration that is the source of the sisters of frustration. He's not there for you. He's there for your children. Jesus is there for your children.
Let's see some more of the cult. Let's go. Next one. Oh, this is great. This is great. And I'm going way over tonight and I'm sorry for keeping you for so long. I'm sorry, but I want to get all of these in.
Yep. Yep, that's okay. We got that one. I just want to give you a couple of great terms. I'm going to go over them fast, but there is a person, you've been told that Herr Kleid is a great, great mind, great thinker. You've been told that he was the one who covered himself in dung, sat in the sun, and then some dogs came and ate him.
Right? And you've been trying to figure that one out for a long time, right? Just know in the Greek that the stuff that he covered himself with, it's usually translated as dung, is also that product, euphemistically that product of the mollusk that has the purple, that ultimately they process into the burning purple.
Okay. And when you are sitting in Helios, you were doing the same thing that Heracles and Jesus Christ did. The exact. These are sons of God.
Isn't that amazing? You thought your religion was ho, ho, ho. It turns out Santa produces urine that makes you high. Kids, kids, those of you who are waiting for Santa to come down the chimney this year.
He's high. His urine can be drunk by, and it is by Rudolph. Rudolph loves Santa's urine. I'm telling you, this is the history. The fairy tale is what is given to us all in, in order to control and in order to get you to buy some presents for someone.
It's disgusting, but that's the way life is. Welcome, welcome. And you say you want justice. You say you do. I told him, I told him, you really don't.
Go to the next one. This is it. Look at what we're getting at. Oh, God. Yeah, this is fun. I want to go down. I want to end here.
With just the shape of the alpha in the sphere of the alpha. What's going on? Go ahead and take it down. You and I are at a place of mourning. You say, what? That doesn't make sense. You think alpha, the first sphere would, would be a place of, you know, creation and completion.
No, it's a place of death. The invocation, the mourning, the voice of she who gives birth cries Aya. She cries from the alpha.
We hear her cry. Alaladzo. Alaladzo. Not Olo Luzo and not Edeladzo. We hear her cry. Alaladzo. She is Aphrodite. She is the one that you must first come to in order to follow the right.
I have given you the right in outline for you to follow in the subtext of what I am saying. I have given you the instructions. Now take the test.
Next, satanic initiation after the Bible study that we have coming up on Wednesday. And these Bible studies people are going to be loaded with the dirtiest of the dirty. For those of you who have children who don't want your children exposed to the awful, awful reality of what is the Bible, you may want to leave them out of the situation.
But we will continue. Chewie is making an excellent effort. We appreciate the fact that when somebody would attack us and try to get our videos pulled off of YouTube, we understand that that's an attack upon the art.
And it's done by people who are so frustrated because they have no more ground to stand on. They can only resort to destruction. Does this sound familiar? Julian, the great apostate said, the monists, the Galileans, they will bring your end.
They will kill your education and then they will kill your civilization. That's what must be done. You must tear down when you are unable to build, when your foundation is gone.
Those of you who have come with me, whom I have drawn, who have come kicking and screaming and screaming, this is your reality, Hail Satan.
If you just turned it down on a wave, why did you ever change your name? On a wave, why did you ever change your name?
To be continued...
