You know, Eros, you know, you don't accept Eros, you don't accept DK.
How can I trust you?
How can I trust you not to revolt and take over the government, right?
How can we trust you?
If we're in the first century Rome, we know what Nero is using.
You you classes, it's not there.
We have Nero's private stop.
We have his recipe.
You are sitting.
You are sitting on the cure to cancer.
You're sitting. Let me let me say it again, because it sounds like.
It's out there.
You are sitting on the cure to cancer.
You're sitting on the revolution and medicine.
You're sitting on the future of what you'll be doing as soon as I'm telling
as soon as the molecular scientists, right, can model this stuff,
can do the computer modeling for what's going on with all these substances.
Yeah, your time is done.
It's a new world. It's a new world.
The London Times said of my work that it was the last frontier of classics.
And that was after coming to your paper that I gave.
I can tell you for a fact, this will be your doom.
If you do not become guardians of the tax.
Yes, you did not become guardians of the tax.
Let's get a little bit more. I said it's a little too preachy.
I don't mean to be preachy.
Back to Paul's thing here, though.
I just want you to notice the guys that said, hey, he got he got bitten.
And he's not, you know, he's he must be, you know, not a
not on the good side of justice, right?
They said.
We're they're expecting him to him.
Plus they they were expecting him to do this.
They were expecting him.
Yeah, let's bring down that. There we go.
They were expecting him to want to burn up to blow up to distend.
In most translations, you'll see some kind of swelling going on here.
But when you were talking about the use of a venom,
when there is a venom involved, we are now squarely in verb play, though,
which is the root, P row towel.
I know it's a theta, but it's an aspirated theta.
That's the P row towel root.
And just like the sigma towel row root or the S.T.R.
root, that is the central beating heart of the Orphic Colt.
So is the P row towel.
The P row towel plays the same route.
The S.T.R. does, like S.T.R. uses that.
By the way, Sotera is the first, right?
The Sotera is the first.
She who saves comes before he who saves.
Yeah. And how do we know that?
Look into the firmament.
Look into the stair.
Look into the stair.
Look into the stela oma, and you can see the virgin.
Every time, every time, yeah, stela.
Look at it, classicists, my fellow classicists.
Look at these texts.
Look at these texts.
You need to comprehend because people now, I'm going to say this.
This is, are you listening?
I'm going to say this, OK?
Get ready.
Get ready, classicists.
They are using people as manufacturing devices for drugs.
Yes, yes.
And they're doing it the very sophisticated way within colleges.
Wow. So when we find the hair that is painted, that we see those
dimetrient priestesses, yes, when we see that they've got the mealtos,
that they've got the mealtos in their hair.
And why is that?
It is for Erucibe.
It is for her.
It is for Demeter, that gold, those golden grains.
It's waving those fields of golden grains, right?
Yes, that is the lingo of a whole bunch of sophisticated biochem.
It's a whole bunch of sophisticated religion.
It's a whole bunch of cult.
And there's a good reason that they all use that burning purple, right?
As their base.
There's a reason for that.
