Who am I?
I'm yahoo I'm yahoo and you cannot touch my Christ
Yeah, you can't do anything bad to my people who are in prophetic trance
Wait a minute what that is from the Psalms the Psalms kiddies
Psalm is a Greek word
Did you think it was Hebrew music? Isn't that funny? It's not
Look at the courses they even talk about the courses the instruments. They're using and everything
It's all Greek. There is no Hebrew. Oh
My god, let's see. Let's see what happens in translation then because this is going to be funny, right?
We have to if we are third century
If we are third century people trying to
Create a world to describe
Ligious experience and
We're creating these characters like Moses and what it only makes sense that they have very
Bacchic attributes, right that they have the attributes of the culture around them during the time which this is being written
Right, you can't let fashions modern fashions slip into your historical fiction
Right did anybody see in the last episode the bug on the thumbnail, right?
The guy in the corner the prophet had a watch
The fact is you're being given that which is fake
You're being sold that which is fake
It's fake history
It's fake history and how do we know the real history from the text man? Look at the text bring that psalm up again
What does that psalm say?
Bring up the Greek perfect. Yeah, it's talking about protecting my Christ and my prophets
Huh, that's weird now for you evangelical Christians out there. I thought there was only one Christ
Apparently there's not
Apparently there were Christ's in Euripides
politics when
really really horny
Phaedra
Came up and said look I gotta have this young guy. I gotta have this young guy
Right, it's just it's gotta happen. Do you have any drugs and her nurse was like?
Which one do you want? I got a Christ and I got a
potable
Christ or potable which one you you want to rub it into your eyes, Phaedra. You want to rub it into your eyes and other places?
Do you want to drink it? Do you want to put it in there? They also put it in their rectum. There's another way of drug administration
Right point is they're on drugs. Let's watch them on drugs. I'm gonna show you right now Paul
literally
dripping in drugs
Do you know what they drank in antiquity? I'm gonna tell you now and then I'm gonna show you you dirty
dirty dirty people. Do you know what they drank in?
antiquity
They drank Paul's
testicular sweat
Paul's testicular sweat. No wonder that dude got mad and flipped out that dude flipped out during the riot chewy
They were having the riot with Paul and the dude flipped out and he was like no
No, this is not how it's gonna work right now. It was seven other dudes. He already did it with Paul. Oh
It was seven up. Let's bring him up. Let's bring him up this you guys are gonna love this
Are you ready? The people didn't know that Paul was involved Paul's the biggest junkie on the planet
Is that the one we just did? Yeah? Yeah, that's it go to the next one
There's just just for people to see some English, you know translations of it, right? Is it your anointed ones?
Is it your chosen people? You know what I mean? What is it?
What is it? It's not any of that right because it's in the Greek because that is gonna be a translation of the dumb
Down translation that is the Hebrew
Okay, the English is gonna be a translation of that Hebrew not of the Greek original give me that
That's why it's so important for us to get to get it
Yeah, so the kings of the earth. This is another song
Got together the rulers
They got together
to fight against this curious and against his
Christos and against his Christos
You mean this drug guy is all over
the the
Old Testament the Jewish scriptures
So-called you mean this dude is all yeah
There's a whole bunch of them because you see that's a whole part of getting high and seeing visions that is prophetic
It's the whole time people ask me
People ask me dr. Hillman. Why why is this the information you're bringing is compelling
But why is it that nobody else has seen this before?
I'll tell you why I'll tell you why you lazy bastards
It's because nobody was reading any of these documents. Nobody was reading the medical side
Yeah
Yeah, and I'm just fortunate to have stumbled on to it
You know what I mean and that that's metal finding that for me has been metal
It's been better than better than getting blacklisted better than getting kicked out of a university
Better than being involved in legal this and legal that in order to restore
Those rights of free speech
It turns out you can teach the Bible, but you have to teach it like they want you to teach it
Which is funny because here is our conundrum again. Why doesn't Jordan Peterson?
Debate me why doesn't he talk to me about Jesus? He doesn't know we don't have to debate
I hate debate
We just talk about Jesus. We can talk about Christ. We can talk about ancient Greek
We can talk about the Old Testament
Being a document given to us by the tongue ancient Greek
Yes, it's too bad. Don't worry. It wasn't just Hebrew. They stomped. They also stomped all this era mag people like
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah make
Yeah era make was the fly that was going around
God, I can't get it mother. Great was stomping everybody
Everybody she even put Latin
The imperial language she even put Latin in her place
Can you believe that?
God those people were powerful too when you and what's the proof you say?
What's the proof almond? You want the proof go to the library that they just opened up in Herculaneum and scan those
Scan those papyrus rolls the scrolls
Go look at those
Yeah, yeah
You're gonna be surprised
You're gonna be surprised. It's Greek
Overwhelming majority is Greek. Why in Rome, right or in Pompeii Herculaneum really?
Yeah, really
All right, what language books?
Do you purchase in antiquity you purchase Greek books?
You purchase Greek books nobody buys Latin books
All right. Oh, they'll have a few in the library
Overwhelming majority will be Greek. Why because Greek did that to everyone
When you can express
a concept like
Erotic mania that leads to vision
When you can put that into a word
Your language is a monster your language will devour everybody. That's an Amazonian woman. That's who it is. Where is she?
Where she did you have an Amazonian? Let's get back to the
Evidence go ahead. Give back to the evidence people. They're like look give me something impressive. Okay. You want to see something impressive?
Yeah, yeah ex elses a soteria and you see the salvation again
Right
Right, you came for the salvation law of the people soup of your people, right?
To so sigh don't Christ on and to save your
Christ
All right, and everybody says on the Christian side says we
This is one of the mire prophets talking about the Christ look at the reference to the Christ like there was only one
In the ancient world because you listen to that fairy tale garbage too much
And I'm not talking about the Bible. You need to read the Bible. You're listening to the theology and the narrative of control
Yeah, it's exactly what it is. You're listening to that not what the text is saying give me that text back
Give me that text back. Yeah, so it's come for the salvation of the people of your people and for the
saving of
Your Christ now watch this watch what the Hebrew does with this. This is Habakkuk
313
Right you went forth
Okay, for what for the salvation, right, which is laye saw
Okay, tof is that tof or no tof. I don't think it's tof anymore
And for what where's the other salvation the salvation of your people and the salvation of your?
What
It's salvation again
Do you see something strange?
The same word is repeated twice salvation salvation. Why?
Why would you have to use the same word twice now?
If this is the original which they want you to believe and which all of your English translators are stupid enough to believe
You're gonna have a Greek translation that's gonna put the same word twice. Why is it the Greek version doesn't?
use the same word twice and
I'll tell you why
because Greek after reading it for 35 years
Greek is
elegant
Greek is elegant and
Greek wants to present you with a root concept and then show off
How it can flexibly bend it around and it does that in the Greek
It's very natural to the Greek
It uses a form of the noun and the verb
From which this one concept is derived. They do it all the time. I've got another text of it coming up
So for the Hebrew to have to just say twice
Salvation
They're trying to compensate because of course they're not in their language cannot do cannot take be that flexible
Artistically they only have seven thousand words, bro. There's nothing you can do with seven thousand words
Okay, it's I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You can't throw seven thousand words into a blender and have it end up with a
Banana split. It's not gonna happen. You can't do it. Give me the next one
It was a terrible example. I must be hungry
Give me the next one. Oh
Okay
Here's an example of exactly what I was just talking about right cook close on tests a cook close on me
All right now you don't have to have Greek to understand look at the first word and
You'll see
Cook close. Does everybody see cook loss?
Starting from the beginning good and the next word where you get there you get if you don't start with the epsilon on the front
You start with a cap of you get cook close again, and then something added on the end right on on the end of it
What are they doing here?
They're shifting between the main verb and
A participle that is going to be
Circumstantial in other words, they're setting a stage for you
Now every time they do this the Hebrew misses it
It misses it completely and you're gonna end up with something that is is
Nonsensical ride
They surrounded me. Yes, right? Where's the yes come from by the way because the Greek doesn't get there
That's there's not not even a hint of that in the Greek
Where's it come from? Yeah, let me just make sure let me just make sure that is there a hint nope
No, there isn't
No, not at all
So they just use the same verb twice. Why because of the paucity of
Hebrew words now, I know it's typical for world-renowned Hebrew scholars like
Captain Kip. I know it's popular for them
To not know things like Hebrew has vowels by the way Kip
Look at the vows. They represent them as points, right?
Look at the vows, right? So he was trying to I'm sorry, but he was trying to professionally answer
Why it is that?
Greek has such an advantage why it's so much more expressive and has such a verbal capacity that's so far beyond ancient Hebrew and
He says because ancient
Okay people people okay verifiably
Ridiculous things told to you by experts
right
Let him criticize the kitchen
But they they are not artists I
Would not I wouldn't let once somebody told me something like that
I wouldn't listen I wouldn't listen to another word that they said about anything historically Hebrew
Especially and that's how I recognized it was when he stepped up and started talking about Greek
And you can tell when somebody has been in the field you can tell and what their strength is and again people
It's just the reason that classics has traditionally left the Bible alone for the theologians
Do you think of the Bible was studied
By scientists that you would have same output now, of course you wouldn't of course you wouldn't right?
This is our chance right classicists have those tools. It's just linguistic tools. That's all
Evidence that's all baby. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. What's gonna happen? Look at this
This is another verse. It's another Psalm and
the song says
teach me
The things that are most useful
both Pidea and
noses
Pidea and
noses
Okay, do you hear this? This is right out of the third century
There's no way
That this is not from the third or second even late second century
Give me the next one. How what the Hebrew do it the Hebrew says good judgment
Tove like that like that tov right up front bokeh tov, right good judgment
And what knowledge? Well, what kind of what kind of knowledge is that it's kind of you know, again
You're asking a third grader after explaining to him something from the university. You want to be able to strain through
To know knowledge
Okay, knowledge. It's a little bit general skill truth
Yeah, a little bit sir. It's a little bit general. Let's see what the Greek does
Let's see what the Greek actually does
I want you to notice that when they say Pidea you're talking about something that is hugely central to the ancient world
hugely central that it's the result of Greek language and it is
That education is the education of a child
right
Education of a child look look at that anything taught or learned and aren't or a science
Isn't that nice?
learning education
This isn't just knowledge. Do you know knowledge is the refined kind of you know, just generalized
All I have a hamper, you know
Right, it's not
You know, we don't know all the ingredients. We don't know did you get back in whether he's got extra cheese there, buddy
What's going on? Right?
So but remember if you were to whisper these verses from the Greek into the ear of a third grader
This is the exact equivalent that you get out the Hebrew translation. It's a good thing
they have scholars who don't know that Hebrew even has
has
Vowels, are you serious? Are you serious?
Their scholars don't even know that Hebrews ancient Hebrews restricted to a
