I'm going to play that video again and I want you to pick out.
I want you to pick out the message that you work for each of you, right?
What's the message you're getting?
Chewy, could you play that please?
Everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
Women who are easy.
Having a virtuous wife is being like a rich man with big sack of rubies.
Your husband is blessed.
God is favoring him by providing a wife, providing you for this man.
Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy, is the ruler of this world.
These titles and many more signify Satan's capabilities.
We must remember that God has given him domain over unbelievers only.
Believers are no longer under the rule of Satan.
Unbelievers, on the other hand, are caught in the snare of the devil.
Lie in the power of the evil one and are in bondage to Satan.
Satan is the God of this world.
It's not saying that he has ultimate authority.
It is conveying the idea that Satan rules over the unbelieving world in a specific way.
These bad guys at Corinth are satanic.
Self-righteous respectability, that's the beating heart of Satanism.
Abortion, God is forgiving.
Born-sites, God is forgiving.
And we think, oh, you're starting to introduce moral chaos.
No, forgiveness of sin is not moral chaos.
But I believe that God has built men to engage with the world
and God has built women to be domestic.
Between Presbyterians and twerking drag queens is not to display an admirable neutrality.
This only happens when the state has decided to side with the Kinky tribe plus.
And everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
So I'll start with a comment with a 30 second comment.
And what I took from that is I would not have met that man ever teaching my daughter.
Rob, you're up next.
What do you think?
Been on every NLP course you could go on, weird associations.
And they're all dropped in there, all on some sort of scheme or deft way of winning your favor
in some fashion, appealing to some sort of misguided loyalties to the church
or to being domesticated or being misguided, completely misguided.
I've got it from Rob.
Fantastic.
Snappy, you're you're I see weak inept men that are terrified of the power of women
and have to abuse and control them and subjugate them for their own amusement.
It's beyond disgusting.
All right, from Snappy, subjugation.
Excellent.
Chthonius, what's your take?
I see it as them trying to take away the power of the woman.
They want this dominant masculine thing to go on.
And they fear the woman, like Snappy said.
And I also see how the non-believers of that if you don't believe in their God, you're a Satanist.
So they want you to be depended on their God or they're going to label you as evil
and they don't understand even what they believe in or Satan at that.
Yeah, then that's the perfect.
That's the perfect way to end this, because aren't we just just in view of the fact
that we're their natural enemy, right?
Because I'm not going to stand with a group that wants to that wants to take a group,
be it a gender or be it an ethnic group or whatever, people with people with glasses.
I don't care anybody that wants to take a group and either torture or destroy that group.
Those are not defenders of the Virgin.
They do not know the great mother.
So who do we stand against?
I know one thing.
We stand against these guys.
And if we can do anything with our magic, we do it against them.
You know, thank you guys for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Thanks for having me.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
