Here he comes. An image reflected in a mirror. Or in water. You can do it with a silver bowl. Right? They love this.
Oh, God. An image in the mind. An idea. A fancy. Now, I want you to look at the bottom. It's tucked away at the bottom, but I want you to see.
It does indeed pair. This fine wine, this image pairs with Urania. It's Uranian. The image is Uranian. And what is that?
Where is your Uranian image? Okay, so for those of you who are here to see them practicing the mystery, to see the execution of the mystery.
I'm not talking about people with fairy tales. I was listening to something before this. Neil was in the thick of it. He was in the thick of it with some people.
He sounded like the Emperor Julian for a minute, because he's talking with people who are twisting the classical history.
And just to try to control a text, it was those monists again. He's talking to a big group of monists.
Yes, my God. Just ask them, please. Will somebody please ask them why ancient Hebrew only has 8,000 unique words? Please.
By the way, could you get over that 1.5 million for sexy Greek? I don't know. You know they're estimating that, right? Because we can't cover.
Can you believe we cannot delve to the extent of the ancient Greek mind? Doesn't that sound sexy? Go into a date. Go into a date with the object of delving into her mind.
Oh, and you can't reach. You can't get to all the depths. It's just in awe. It's just in awe. Does that turn you on? That turns everybody on.
And when I say that, I'm saying that because it's what makes life. Watch this. Watch this. Give me the next one. Here we go.
Bring in the Bible, please. Where's the thing, right? Who do I dedicate this spanking to? Tonight I dedicate this spanking to everyone, everyone of those seminarians in every classroom across this country, across North America.
Let's just do the whole world. Every seminarian in every place. I dedicate this spanking. Shame on you. Shame on you. Here we go. Let's see the real.
What do they have? What are they doing? They're not turning away from their system of murders. Of murders? Yeah, yeah, murders and drugs, death stuff.
Death stuff and porneia. Porneia. It's too much porneia. What are they doing with the porneia? You see, you have to have the porneia or the mystery doesn't work. Mystery doesn't work.
Yeah, let me give you a couple of these words real quick and then we'll bring in Dionysus, I promise you. One of these things that you just saw were the clema, right? What's the, what's a clema?
And everybody in the translations when they translate this into the horrible Anglo-Saxon garbudge that you call the King James Version and everything after it.
All of that stuff. We use theft, right? Look at number two. Just stuck in there. Look at this. Just I want you to tease the word a stratagem as in war.
Okay. Some kind of fraud. Some kind of fraudulent action perpetuated. Okay. I'm feeling that that theft. I'm getting it. I'm getting it. Look at the bottom.
Look at the bottom. Call in the, call in love, love. Look at the eroticon. Oh, you can have a climate eroticon. You can have an erotic clema.
What's your erotic clema? That's that secret affair. That's that clandestine demure. Oh, love it. Love it. Are you ready? Why did you thank the porneia and the drugs were there?
Why did you think the porneia and the drugs were there? This is that early. This is that early. Hey guys, monists, you realize Judaism and Christianity and Islam are just the monist offshoot of the Saturnian satanic religions of the Bronze Age.
You realize that, right? You realize 1,000 years before there was a Jehovah, 1,700 years before there was an Allah, right? You know what was there before? Do you know what was there before? Satan.
Yeah, satanic origins, baby. What did you think all that porneia was there? Why did you think all that porneia was there? This is going to open our eyes. Are you ready? Let's keep going. Keep going. Yeah, bring it. I love your new background, Chewie. That's fantastic.
By the way, speaking of murders, because when you read this in an English translation to be quite honest, it just reads like a list of, you know, vices or problems. And some of them don't match so much. There are some of them are horrible. And the others are like, what? And the drugs are translated as sorceries.
And that's always funny. What's a phonos? Well, in this case, it can be a special word. Now, this, everybody in satanic congregation, please understand, now we're going to go a level deeper. Your seminarians, shame on their small buttocksies, they did not. They did not get their diving certifications, and they never go this low. This is not a typical phonos.
You'll find this, you know, tucked away way down, way down. What kind is this? It's a murderous. And where do we see this murderous? We see ton. Oh, look at that Dorian. Pindar loves Dorian. God, can you see the columns? Can you see the columns? Did we get any Dorian columns and that stuff tonight? Right.
And remember, the stuff is old, old, old, old. There's no Moses. Doesn't exist. He's a creation, a figment of the third century BC. Right. We're talking actual history. Look, the murderous was that.
Maria. This is from the oracular ode of Pindar. Maria's Oracle. Right. She is that one. Do you know what she is involved in? She is involved in the fire of Machia. She is involved in raising you from the dead.
She's involved in opening your eyes. She is the Ewa. And Bacchus will always lead you right to her. Isn't that gorgeous? Okay. All right. Let's, I think if we ponder this for a minute, ponder this for a minute. All you flame keepers, all you vestals who have kept this knowledge hidden and secret. Bravo.
Bravo. Through the years. Oh God. If we didn't have so many witnesses, nobody would have known. Fantastic. Those witnesses, right? We got to bring them up from the dead. Nobody cares what I think here. Right.
It's not, not a matter of that. Let's go. I want to show you. Are you ready? Okay. The power that I'm talking about, I'm translating to you. The power that I'm talking about is mantic power.
The one who enters into the state of the Bakant, just like the one who is insane, they have a share of the prophetic power, the prophetic mania, so that when the God, are you ready? Are you ready? Hear it. When the God enters the body, the God brings.
The one who is made insane, he brings them the future. Okay. Are you ready? Okay. So let me understand this. When Dionysus comes, right, the Son of God, when he comes, he brings you the ability to speak.
Future. Okay. Fine. Okay. And it's in mania. Does everybody see that? That's what we're, this is that old Saturnian, Satanic, Bronze Age mystery from which Judaism, Christianity and Islam all spring.
Yes. Do you remember what Herodotus says? The Greeks know it too. Herodotus says, in Arabia, you know what they all worship in Arabia? They all worship Dionysus and Aphrodite. Yes. Your ancestors, those of you who are Talibe with the Taliban, who are throwing acid in the faces of girls and killing education and preventing them, I see them over there.
They're getting ready. They're giving some of those people rights. They're giving some of them here. Take it. Fight for it. Yeah. And what happens? You acid face throwing monsters, your Satanic origins become apparent. That's the funny thing.
Satan always has the checkmate on Yahoo on Allah. He's always got the checkmate because Satan knows something. Everybody else doesn't. Yeah. He knows Yahoo was born. Yeah. Yahoo was born. You want to know what was before Yahoo? Do you want to want you want to know what was before Allah? Do you want to know? Here we go.
Dionysus. That's our introduction to Dionysus. Let's bring him out. Is he going to come out here? Is that the first one? Chorus. We're going to have a chorus come in before Dionysus. What does this say? It says Hosea potnathion. Hosea with a capital H, baby. Hosea, she is that queen of the gods.
Oh my God. And she's using. Look at what the chorus is doing. The chorus here. Where are we? Who did we just dredge up here? Oh my God. Who did we just dredge up here? We dredged up Euripides. Who used to write his poetry in caves? His mother, who's the root cutter, would collect all the drugs for the community that they're using within their rights connected to the temples.
Isn't that nice? So here he is and he says, listen up. Listen up through his chorus. They say, Hosea, she is the queen of the gods. Who is Hosea? Give me those. Well, what is that? Who is this? Where did she come from? Hallowed, sanctioned or allowed by the law. And now they put up God. And then when they do, they mean Zeus, because this is long before your time.
This is the mystery. Look who it is. Look through the Christian, the Judeo-Christian lens, the monist lens. Look through it, ladies and burkas. And what do you see? Nature, decay. That word decay is justice. She is a lady.
That isn't the sexiest thing. That isn't the greatest thing in the world. Oh my God. Do you see why the atheists who don't follow decay, don't follow the gods? You see why they're so dangerous?
Monism is a digression from the progression of history. It was when it caught in the Egyptians. You know, the Egyptians got that herpetic virus to start with. That psychic herpes called monism, right, makes monists.
What are monists? Oh, I'm sorry. Did you not know? It turns out there are no lizard people. There are no aliens. It's too far, right? No. It's monists. It's an invasion of them. They're a virus. They're a virus in the progression of human history.
How do I say that? I'll give you the example of the Egyptians, because the Egyptians had that monist herpes to start with, right? And they got it with Akhenat and remember, and it was rebellion against Amon. Who's Amon? He is the leader of the Ate, the Agdoed.
The Agdoed. He is the leader of the Agdoed, right? You cannot follow the monists and reverence sabbat.
Isn't that nice? Okay, keep going. Here it comes. Here it comes. Dionysus, would you mind speaking forth? What's wrong? You say, I can't see him. He's not there. He's not there. Trust me. Trust me. Dionysus, thank you for your entrance. And I'm here to ask you. I'm here to ask you, do you have any wisdom for us? What does Dionysus say? I'm going to translate it.
Someone would seem to be not thanking all that well, trying to say wise things to the unlearned.
Did somebody, wait, did he just insult me? Did you just insult me? I think he did. I think he did. Let's see. Let's see if it carries out.
Okay, so you're not going to be euphronic. Look at those last two words. You're not going to be euphronic, right?
Saying wise things to somebody who is unlearned. Not going to be euphronic. What does that mean, euphronic? This sounds like one of those crazy Greek ideas.
If you look up, frame, frame, you're going to find something like mind. You're going to find something like the power to judge, capacitate.
Oh, God, it's all over the place because there's like 50 words for mind. You don't know which is which. Well, I don't even know what a heart is anymore.
Oh, God, what's my diaphragm? Go to the next one. Look, tucked away in the definition of frame is to be in possession of one's senses, right?
To be in possession of one's senses.
Say it's almost. Look at this language here at the bottom. These are those Brits. Lovely, lovely Victorian Brits. Love them. I would like to line them up and spank them all. I would like to.
They would like it as well. You know that they would. If you don't know that, what are you doing in here? Oh, my God.
To be in possession of your senses, they say it almost equals Zen. To be sensible or to be alive, right?
Za'o is the great concept of having life or being in possession of your senses. Are you alive? Are you in possession of your senses?
Do you know what the Awa was called? She was called Zoe. She was that life.
Imagine this if you're on your date and you're trying to get to the, you're trying to move all through her brain.
And it's just, you just take you with wonderful, different sort of places and you realize this is life. This is life.
That's what she is. The Awa. That's what she is. Oh, God. It's absolutely gorgeous.
Now, didn't somebody say he said I could tell the future, right? I thought he said I could tell the future. Go back to the, let's see where it is.
We don't have that many tonight. So I'm going to hit you with these and I want you to realize while I'm doing it, please understand the images that you're receiving
or the images that you will then use to unlock the mystery. Dionysus, can you tell us what's the function of your Daimon?
The Daimon of your Daimon.
The Daimon itself frees me whenever I want.
