That egg, the one, arose through the power of heat.
Desire came upon that one in the beginning.
That was the first seed of mind.
And I don't think I'm making a big stretch seeing how this is related to the Orphic
cosmogony.
What next occurs is that the egg is existing in sort of this perfect state of eternal bliss.
But tapas is still there, okay?
This drive to self-austerity, to self-attack.
And this desire starts to influence and heat up the egg.
The egg then cracks and from the egg, we are given Lord Projopity.
Lord Projopity, the Lord of all creatures.
This is a bi-gendered God.
This is a multi-faced, multi-armed, multi-faceted God.
The representation of the entirety of all creation, the primordial one.
This is Faunus that we see in the Orphic tradition.
I don't think this is a stretch, okay?
And then when ends up happening with Faunus is again, we have this force, this tapas,
which in my conception I equate with the Ion.
This is our Saturn, right?
This tapas force is interacting with Projopity and it causes him to commit austerity, okay?
So he starts to attack his self.
And from this shedding, from this self-sacrifice, we get the arising of the Gods.
We get the unfolding of creation.
And this brings us to our second myth.
In the Rig Vedas, we also have the same being seen as the Purusha, the cosmic man, okay?
And we know that these beings are equated because the epithets are almost the exact
same and the language is similar.
So while a lot of scholars like to separate Purusha and Projopity, in my conception, they
are one and the same.
They're both interrelated, they're just two separate understandings of the same being
that come to us in the Rig Veda.
So again, within the Rig Veda, we have this Purusha.
This Purusha is suffering tapas.
He is doing tapas to himself.
He sacrifices himself and through that sacrifice, the universe is created.
We are given all of the Gods.
We are given the entirety of all of the planets, of all of creation.
It comes out of this personal sacrifice.
So most people, when they're familiar with what we call the early Hindu tradition, the
central focus is this idea of the sacrifice.
And this Purusha myth is at the heart of this.
The mystery of the Vedic religion is all about recreating this primordial sacrifice of the
cosmic person, dividing them and separating them into us.
So the right takes on two forms.
By engaging in this sacrificial right, we are, in one hand, participating in the act
of creation.
We are perpetuating creation forward.
By sacrificing our horses, by emblazing them in the fire, and by sending them up into Godhead.
We are pushing creation ever forward.
We are making the sun rise, okay?
That is part of it.
But there's also the secondary part, the Soma, the secret mystery, okay?
What is the function of this second sacrifice, of this Soma?
When we ingest this Soma and we go back to this part, we are still reliving the sacrifice,
but this is a sacrifice of return.
This is about going back to the original Prajapati, returning to the cosmic egg, returning
to the Hirangarbha, the golden embryo, back to our primordial state.
And when we go there, we get to exist in the one.
This is that eternal return.
This gives us the overcoming.
This is our savior aspect of it.
This is what connects us again to the Orphic mystery.
Now I just want to take a step further into history.
Now we're going to go deep into the Tantra, and we're going to examine the tantric understanding
of a very common myth, the myth of the Samudramantam.
The Samudramantam occurs in the Mahabharata, and this literally means the churning of the
ocean of its milk, okay?
This is a myth that's all about describing how the gods gain their immortality, how they're
able to create the amrita, the amrit, which gives them, or the ambrosia as we see in the
Orphic myths, that gives them their immortality.
And what happens is basically there's this sage who is shamed by the god Indra by accident.
And the sage in his anger curses the gods and revokes their power from the devas.
And the devas are unable to defend themselves, and they start to lose continuously in wars
to the ashuras.
