Where is that?
But I'm in there with Jesus.
I want to know.
I want to know.
Oh, God, did you summon Satyrs?
You summon Satyrs.
See, we got to break out crosses every time you get Satyrs, Chewy, right?
We got to break them out.
We got to break them out.
Notice the goats.
Have you shown the, have you shown the transformations?
Oh, God, love the transformations.
What do you do?
What do you do, people?
What do you do when you transgress time and space?
Yeah, you live.
You live.
Oh, God, are you alive?
Are you alive?
Have you been born again?
Now, to every, I love to do this.
I love to do this because I know the fear.
This is the fear that every evangelical, every Baptist, every Southern Baptist, every
Presbyterian, while some Presbyterians, I could even put some Methodists on this list,
maybe.
Um, yeah, the Catholics know because they have a hierarchy that tells them that's the
way it is.
But you got to think, you got to think that little tiny crack in your faith, that little
tiny crack in my, in my faith.
Do I believe this?
Do I believe this?
Or is this guy going to get my goat?
I got your goat tonight.
I got your goat tonight covers a multitude of your sin.
Let's go to the next one.
Boom.
Bring it out.
Penelope can stay there for a second.
Right.
What happens, people?
Why is it that we cannot see these rights?
Why is it because they despise, wait, the rights, the mystery rights, they have an identity?
Yeah, they do.
And they cannot.
Oh God, are you serious?
I'm starting to get a headache again.
It's the Greek.
Remember, every day, every day, you're reading these people and you're like, damn, right?
Aristotle.
I still can't read Aristotle with thinking I'm really dumb, I'm really dumb, right?
I'm looking when I'm taking Aristotle at University of Wisconsin with a lady from Scotland
who is, Aristotle was, you know, oh God, she was so, she was so nerdy, smart.
She was like, I was, every time I would my mouth around her, I was like, oh God, you're
going to look dumb.
You're going to look dumb.
And it's because she had been studying Aristotle.
Imagine making one of the sharpest minds of history.
You're a tutor.
You can do that with the Greek.
For those of you who want to join, right, you want to go to Wyzen, you want to start,
right?
This is why you join up.
This is why you enlist.
You have access now.
Think about the people who used this mind drug called ancient Greek.
Think about them.
And you wonder, oh, is that why every third word I use is based on some kind of Greek
root?
Yes.
Yes, people.
