Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Well, you got me to come back, and I appreciate it because here and now on this sabot, we can finally be in a place where we can function freely, and we can find that thing called the unassailable freedom.
My job tonight, since you've given me your time and attention, is to bring you the things that you haven't seen or heard.
My job is to show you how to have ears to hear.
I'm here to profane the mystery that is, I'm here to make it clear to you so that you may enter into contract with Lucifer, the morning star.
That contract is an exchange, esoteric understanding of the universe for your soul. It's very simple. You must be born again.
And it's my job to put you in that time machine, to stuff you in that time machine and to take you back to the place where this was all done.
I need you to be able to taste the dust. I need you to smell the funk.
So I need to be able to take you places that honestly other people don't want to go or can't go.
The first principle I'd like to convey to you, anyone who appears with me will appear with a head shaved in mourning.
We are in mourning who died. What's that I smell? It's the death of Jehovah.
I am going to show you what Otto Kern discovered.
Otto Kern was a German classical philologist in the early 20th century.
And Otto Kern said there is something being used in antiquity.
This cult language will call it the Orphic Vox.
They are hiding the mystery within the Vox.
It's a language within a language. It's what the Pythagoreans called the Upsilon.
The left-handed and the right-handed path. You can read any text.
But if you read a text that is encrypted with the Orphic Vox, you can read a text that is only for those with ears to hear.
That's the expression. For those of you who have ears to hear.
That's my goal tonight is to give you those ears to hear.
I'm going to do that very simply by just transporting us back.
I'm going to show you a never-before-read text. This thing has never been translated into English.
I'll tell you how we found it and I'll translate it for you.
And you will be in a place that only you who are sitting as initiates are able to come to.
Hail Satan!
Before we begin, I'd like to consult with your voice during this process.
I know that you are serious and I know you want, you don't want the theories.
Look, I've been watching you. You don't want the theories.
You don't want the professors and the academics to come out and to tell you their theory that they somehow created in the midst of some cognitive circle jerkery.
You don't want that. You want the actuality.
The historical reality is far more interesting than the drama that you hear and reject instinctively.
You reject it. I know you do.
Children, children need to come as children.
For the first time, we're going to look on this material and it's going to blow some minds of the way that people think.
But I'm going to ground you in a time and a place where you'll never forget it and it'll make its mark on you.
I'm using the images now of the mystery.
Okay, so we're going to learn how to read some Orphic Greek and we're going to break the seal.
We're going to break the seal and just by way to shock somebody into their senses who's going to start watching this and participating.
If you've come to this classroom, realize you don't know anything.
You have not read the Bible.
Don't say that you have.
Don't try to quote it.
You don't know what it is.
You haven't seen it.
You haven't read it.
Okay, that's what I tell all the seminarian students that I have.
Yeah, and they realize that I'm telling them the truth.
You haven't read it.
Don't tell me you have.
Don't tell me you have if you've gone to church.
Don't tell me you have if you know King James and the smell of his underwear.
I don't care.
You haven't read it if you haven't gone in the Greek and I'm not talking about.
I'm not talking about Bible college and I am not talking about seminaries because I mean you need to swim in the depths of the Greek.
And that's what I'm going to do for you tonight.
I'm going to bridge that gap because I can do that.
And here's a wonderful opportunity for instead of me trying to sell you something, by the way, that's the test.
Nobody gets in the door who sells stuff.
Right.
There's no sales here.
You can't profit.
I don't want your super chats.
Okay, I don't want them.
I'm going to keep tabs on what you're saying.
I got a watchdog here who's keeping tabs on what you're saying.
And when you say something relevant, she is going to bark.
Right.
Okay, so I'm excited and I appreciate the fact that you that everybody has been so supportive.
Hail Satan.
You know, on that end, let's just let's just jump in and and see what we can do here.
Do we have anything in the chat?
Let's do it because any comments here that we need to consider.
Once you just go ahead and read it, bark it out.
Go ahead.
We'll get our format down.
Let's get that snake by.
We got snake.
We got John's apocalypse.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
I see where you are.
You hungry.
Feed them.
They're hungry.
I'll feed them.
I apologize.
Let's proceed.
Let's put ourselves in the time machine.
Close door.
