What are these waters?
They're a laoi, an okloi, right, an ethnei, yeah, and glossae.
They're peoples.
They're sects.
They're tongues.
So she is preserved within the water, right?
She sits over it.
She uses that power.
Yeah.
Isn't that lovely?
Reflections.
Yeah.
Reflections in the water.
Yeah.
You got to put yourself on exactly into their little boots, right?
Okay.
You know, anyway, yeah, the Thedeon is there, right?
And there's all sorts of things happening.
And there's gumnae.
Just, I just want you to notice the nakedness and the, all of a sudden, the orgia kick in.
The rites kick in.
And all of a sudden we're sitting at an ancient mystery rite involving the sexual act of ejaculation
of a substance which will bring you through death to life.
Yeah.
And then you'll know and you'll understand.
You'll have ears to hear and you'll know and you'll understand.
And then you can live your life because before you were not plugged in, right?
You were not plugged in.
You have been in death.
It's him again.
It's you.
Shut up, yo.
Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
So, I would like to drop us there, but I want you to be contemplating.
I want you to be contemplating the musterion, yeah, this rite.
This action, yeah, and the prophecy of its completion and return and return.
If that happens, the promise is of a Saturnian return, yeah, a Saturnian return, the golden
age.
Yeah.
And somehow we get to, we have to go through a means of bringing, a quantum means of bringing
in an entity, making them visible.
This is the work of pagan mystery cult.
Yes.
Yes.
Hail Satan.
Rob is going to talk for a couple of minutes here about some questions and we also have
Darren and Darren who did this for me today and I'm very happy.
I hope he does it just the same for you.
He's going to bridge the gap between the East and the West.
He is going to bring the mystery to you through the East.
And I love it.
I love it.
It just, and we're thankful that he can be here to do that.
And you know, it's good on you, Darren, that you bought your bachelor's degree in religious
histories focusing on the East.
Good for you.
Nice.
Now, here it is.
That's all of that degree.
Rob, what do you have on questions and whatnot?
Yeah.
Hi.
Well, tell you what, that's another one we can pause and replay and pause and replay
and write down notes and go to the sources and replay and pause.
So thank you, Armin.
You want a response from Wednesday and from the last week and we wanted a response from
the community.
We asked for a response and we certainly got one, a fantastic response from the community.
You've seen the comments.
You've seen the comments on YouTube.
We've got Carrie Ann Chrysler.
She loves your dedication to revealing the mystery.
