Right?
I was surprised.
14.
Fantastic.
Thanks, Jubit.
But what you have to realize is that if you're an Athenian, you worship a virgin.
You have no problem with that, right?
There is something there that must be honored.
And it's only the atheists that don't honor the virgin.
You'll notice when it where the virgin is kicked around, she is kicked around by atheists.
And now you understand why the earliest Christians were called atheists.
They didn't honor the virgin, yeah, they didn't honor the virgin.
You're right.
What is special about Medea?
Nobody else, the text says, nobody else has more power, in the nocturnal, in the nocturnal
alters.
Okay.
You're way out of your league, right?
You realize that you step out of the time machine, you're looking at this cult and you're
like, oh, wait a minute, what does that mean?
The nocturnal alters.
Remember we're at the opening of the underworld, right?
We're with the guys in the purple, right?
We are seeing and interacting with the great dragon, the symbol of Crimea, right?
The Camarion symbol, my goodness, this is good stuff.
This is a bronze age beauty is what this is.
This is gorgeous.
I love it.
Yeah.
What is everybody so worked up about?
This virgin?
She, right?
Because you haven't heard what the virgin does until now.
Some of you say, oh, I'm Catholic.
We do marry.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah, you do.
Just keep thinking that, right?
What does this virgin do?
What does this virgin do?
This virgin's primitus, the pounding, the vibrating of the chest of this virgin causes
things to happen.
Yeah.
It causes the stars to be fixed in place and to quiver, pawent, they quiver, causes
the sun to be stupefied in its track.
Fantastic.
And how does she do it?
She does it with her sucrose.
She does it with her juices, her death and life bringing juices.
That's what the text says.
It uses the Latin word for juice, sucrose, and it's like from plants, right?
Talk about medical guys, talk about what kind of juices of what plants do what, right?
Now that's usually translated drugs.
It's usually translated drugs, especially because Medea's reputation.
We have texts that say, as a matter of fact, this one does in just a few lines, that Cersei,
who's known everywhere in that little triangle between Libya and Sicily, where she's predominant,
where she's powerful, and you can feel her influence.
She's known to be, nobody knows more about drugs than she does, and she fears the understanding
that Medea has of these juices.
She fears it.
So the most fearful woman, the most powerful woman, is afraid of the power of this virgin.
So what are they doing in antiquity?
The text goes on to talk about what she can do.
She is the master of Orpheus.
She is the one who founded the right.
It's her right.
She is the cup.
She's the one whose body became the processing device for the communion blood, right?
The essence, call it the hyma, right?
That juice, which is the essence, right?
She is the drachyna who is coming after the initiate, the one who is entering into death.
Yeah, great stuff, great stuff.
We can talk about oracular prophecy coming through that great Hera, through the trinity
of the Hera Aphrodite and the virgin.
