want people to see. Yeah. This is the beauty. This is where this, this, um, this great garden,
this great paradise is achieved, this Edin. This is where it is. That thing, yeah. Great.
So, wasn't Alexander the Great's mom Olympias known for sleeping with snakes? Um, specifically,
she was known for sleeping with Amon. I'll have you know. Sleeping with Amon in the form of a serpent.
Yeah. And how did, how did we do this? It wasn't, you know, it, you know, back to the Egyptians,
right? This was an Egyptian thing because he had learned he was a pharaoh. He didn't get to be pharaoh
without, without having some knowledge, some priestly knowledge. And so anyway, it's, he's
casting. It's a magas,
which our text right now, our port, our, our beasts that we're working on, our
theriac that we're working on, it's in there. Yeah. And, um,
yeah. How do you, how do you present, how do you present the cup? That's, uh, I think that's
yeah. Okay. Does anybody want the cup? I'm trying to go back. I don't want to, um, Masonic
Traveler question. Carl Jung, what is magic? Speaks of how magic requires sacrifice. I don't
see it as necromancy. Yeah. So we, we, we want to discuss the necromancy. Yeah. Yeah. Which
I see is research. I see that as research where I, I bring up that person.
The problem is, I'll answer that directly. The problem is that Carl Jung in his, in his
red book, so-called, um, is using necromancy terminology, right? He is using a scheme,
a schema. He's using it, um, of the outline of the universe that was pioneered by necromancers.
I'll have you know. I'll have you know. We're in a truria and we're dealing with an art that
Jung is able to chart out beautifully, beautifully. So is Jung a necromancer?
Why don't you ask his patient? What's your name? She went off to that Russian school that they
shut down because of the pedophilia. Isn't that? It was Russian aristocrats. Um, this week in Bible
study, we talked about Oula and Uliba and we talked about the aristocrats that they taught
using the purple. And, and somebody asked about Mary. And yeah, there's a
Coptic section. I don't do Coptic. I respect those, those of you do. And I leave you to the science.
But there's a text that in translation says that, um, her midwife, Mary's midwife probed her,
she palpated her, you know, insertion of two fingers and, and had to pour her hand out
because it was, uh, felt like it was on fire. Right? It's the, they call it the burning purple
for a reason. What's she doing? She was connected with a temple. Yeah, she was connected with a
temple. And what do you think they're doing? It's exactly what we found in Bible study. Oh,
Jerusalem, right? That's not this temple. But, um, oh, Jerusalem, Samaria, look what you're doing.
So, um, this is a real world. I want, I want, I want people to see the real. If you can start
to taste the real, that's, that's what's important. We've got hyperish as well. There's,
Rook thinks the red boot came out of a drug, drug experience by young.
So, young was dabbling with the dark arts and drugs before he wrote the red book. According to Rook,
I've, I've, I've heard Rook say this, uh, and, and, and then he's followed this line and that, that's
Rook's opinion. Yeah. I mean, I actually heard him say that, is that red book came out of
a shark. And he says it took a few years off. It went kind of reclusive for a period of time.
And during that time, he was, he'd think, and there's no evidence for his disease, dabbling. And
it's not light reading, right? It's not, it's not light reading. And, but I do, I do appreciate
if you, if you, um, if you can appreciate the power of images, which young obviously does.
And, um, like they did in antiquity, because remember the idolatry is just the,
the power of those images, you know, even one that even, even one that doesn't
here, I'm going to, I just want to show you one and give, give you the appreciation.
Um, yeah, here. Oh, look at what, what on earth is going on in this. Wow. Viewers,
do you see that? Do you see that? Now I know, now I know how those unions, they were the first,
they were the original miners, you know, of the mines. They're the ones who creeped in, crept in
there and got done what they needed to get done. Um, ask his patient. Ask his patient. He'll know what
it, he'll know what a dragon is. Don't worry. Um, Petrarch, people, if you're more interested necromantically,
um, if you're more necromantically inclined, uh, go to Petrarch. He wrote a work called a secretum.
I'm giving it all out tonight. He speaks about the code that he uses in it. Okay. You'll notice
I think section three, five, three, five. No, or is it three 50? Uh, I can't remember. Um, anyway,
it's Petrarch and it's called the secret. And in the preface of that, you will see the physics
laid out of how this necromancy works. Petrarch uses necromancy with Augustine. And in order to get
there, he goes through the muse home. He calls. Yeah. Who, who does he call? You read this, didn't you?
Didn't you Rob initiate? You read this, didn't you? Oh, okay. Well, the find, find out. Yeah.
Warytas, right? She's the truth. She is that truth. Right. She is Sophia. For those of you
who don't realize it, we're trying to find Sophia and people were asking, well, what about it's almost
like he's teasing us with both genders. Yeah, I am because you get down there. You get down there
and you find that Aphrodite has a penis. Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm not kidding you. If we have to go back
to the earliest sculptures, we'll find that she's got that penis. And she, she uses it. And why? How is
that part of? I wrote, I wrote a book called Hermaphrodite's Gynomorphs in Jesus. Right. So
yeah, this is good stuff. You people, you people, don't buy it. Pirate it.
Because pirate it. Nobody gets it, but it doesn't pirate it. Yeah, good stuff. Good stuff.
You know, like, Jan, the word that was questioning.
My board, the board is a bloody thing, but no. Yeah. Petrarch the secret. Petrarch the secret.
Byron, if you want to speak to Satan directly, and I know Joe will, right, report back to us and let us
know what Satan told him or does the answer to his question. And Petrarch is working with,
is, is working with Veritas. He's working with the truth. Right. But not just the truth on paper.
He's working with her. So this is a sacred feminine power. We need to, the last thing we do
before we take the redheaded boy's blood that we've been putting over the spit and bleeding.
The last thing we do is that we gather the wolf's testicles. Right. So the dragons and the wolves,
we have a Greek text that tells us these are positions of temples. Right.
Positions at temples. These are guardians. They're guardians. So you can take one of these
wolves. And if you get his testicles, and why would a wolf be giving you his testicles?
Because of what makes Rob so uncomfortable. And that is the pedorasty. Right. It comes back
to the pedorasty. Biochemically, it comes back to the pedorasty. And hence,
if we're going to ever elucidate why that kid was with Jesus in a public park at 4am,
and he was naked, we're going to, you know, and it's got what can be used in antiquities,
a medicated wrap, you know. What are they doing? So we have to dig into that pedorasty.
When they told me, you couldn't, you couldn't say that Romans use drugs. I was like, okay,
it's my mission in life to find the, to find the deepest darkest corners of antiquity and to
dredge it up. And I didn't have to go far. I just had to go to the Garden of Gethsemane.
Yeah, I love it. What, what's, what's with the redhead? What's with the redhead?
What's with the redhead? Rob, Rob's got a theory about what the, what the head thing are. What the
head thing? Rob, where did these redheaded Scots come from? Oh, you, you, you led Saint Andrew.
Saint Andrew brought him over. There's a, there's a legend. There's a legend to that, to that degree
that he, he brought Scythians back with him. There's the Scottish. They've got Scythian heritage
within them. Bought back by Saint Andrew, who's, he was the patron saint. And as a genetic quality
that runs through him. So that's like, I was, we were, we were laughing with me yesterday because
I said to you, yeah, that's kind of a stereotypical Scottish guy who you're talking about with
the redhead, pale skin and pimples. So now I'm like seeing, yeah, you can see a Scottish guy,
and that's stereotyping, which is something I shouldn't do. But it is a stereotype.
There is that stereotype. It makes me wonder, is there some genetic, is there some genetic
thing going on? Is there something involved here that we have to have that arian?
That black sea, late bronze age gene in order, I mean, in the, in the Crimea, right?
Where all the, where all the interest is now, they're, they still have women who are performing
death rights, right? They're performing sacrifices and using dotes and antidotes, poisons to do it.
And, yeah, what's, what, is that the source? Is that the origin? People are,
I think you can... You say, ginger's have no souls. Ginger's have souls. Of course that ginger's have
souls. You say, ginger's have no souls. Yellow shark is asking who bought them over, and it's
Saint Andrew. That's the legend. It's Saint Andrew. So it's something about their genetics,
right? It's some way that they process on the chemical. And it's obviously, they're taking it.
Look, they're taking a kid. They're saying you can't sexually satisfy him. He has to remain in this
agitated state before, while you're collecting his blood. And so you take a kid, obviously going
through puberty with his pimples. And by the way, they're, you know, there are female performers,
right? In sheer outfits, right? Oiling themselves and dancing. So is this doing something
for the redhead? You know, is it somehow when you put him into that death state and then
presumably bringing back because you're performing these death and resurrection rights?
Is there something about his state of mind? They're a peculiar combination. This is what brings
us the orgy, right? A peculiar combination of fear or panic and sexual intensity puts you into
a place where you can chemically produce a substance that can, that was used in this
initiation. I mean, it's great. And what do you have to do with the wolf? You have to get
his testicles. You get his testicles straight up. And, and so somebody can figure out, put all
this biochemistry together and figure out what's going on. But genetically, there's a link there.
We can't, we can't escape that, that history. You need that. You need those sons of God.
Yeah, to produce that substance. They say that, they say that ambrosia flows in the veins of the gods.
You know, Rob, you were talking about horsemen. You were talking about Mongolian horsemen drinking
their own horses blood in a kind of a vampiric way to stay alive, to stay alive. That symbiosis.
Yeah. We've got yellow shark. Can we talk about the astrological aspects of Lady Babylon?
Is the water's the elliptical flame? Is the beast hydro? It's a question.
Yeah. The astrological aspects of Lady Babylon. Sure. I'll just mention a few things. I'll just
throw a few things out, right? She's that, she's that queen with the stars. And she's presented
on the Greek side is having a black cloak, a black peplos. It's actually a peplos covered with stars,
