They eat in her keelio.
She spends her money in a colo.
And a colo worn by horses.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
What's the secret you can say?
Yeah, what is it?
Yeah, so what is, okay, so here's, here,
we need to take the next step as philologists.
See where it tries to derive the word
and it gives you the Sanskrit that it's related to.
It's a Latin that says we get Gemma.
Right, so, so wait a minute.
Monilie and Gemma,
where these things have to do with each other.
Bring up Gemma.
There we go.
Gemma, right?
Look at the top here from Gemma.
There's where your Greek is.
Is, at its essential, a swelling.
Yeah, a swelling.
And what is a swelling?
An antiquity, a precious stone,
or a bud, right?
Mm, nice, nice.
Yeah, but if you, if you read on the top
and you just go ahead and you click on Gemma
and you keep tracing, you keep following the word back,
you get that swelling is ultimately a pregnancy.
Yeah, so when you reach inside the dragon's head,
you pull out that stone.
And this is for those of you with ears to hear.
And I'm jumping ahead, Rob.
We're getting to the, we're getting to the redhead, right?
We're getting to the redheaded boy.
Okay, so I got a few comments on redhead.
I feel you're answering Duncan G.
He's on four.
What's that?
I'm loving the comments.
Okay, tell us about some of the good comments.
Thank you everybody for joining in on the comments.
Loving it, thank you.
What kind of things are being discussed in the comments, Rob?
Oh, it's kind of getting current with what you're saying.
So then comments with the redhead and the pale skin,
with a few comments back.
But he's on the right.
He's hitting the mark, hitting the redhead's pale skin.
And I'm thinking what's coming.
So jump ahead, jump ahead.
Carry on with the redhead.
So let's jump ahead.
Let's jump back in the timeship.
I know I'm a terrible, I'm a terrible date.
But from here, let's blow this joint for now.
And let's go.
We're still, we're still maintaining that.
We're finding that dark harbor.
Right.
And let's jump ahead in time to the 12th century.
We've got this thing called the Codex Wallewani.
Yeah, and the Codex Wallewani is this terrible.
The Latin is awful.
It's a murder.
I'd rather go outside and fight with the coyotes and the dingos.
I'm completely serious in our range war that's going on here.
I would much rather do that than work with this Latin.
It's awful.
It's no one of the guys in the Renaissance turned around and they're like,
they were like, you know, this language thing is awful.
We have to go back to what Cicero was doing.
And you read guys like Petrarch.
Oh, you would love Petrarch's secret.
Oh, and I almost forgot to tell you.
I was, I started to, let me mention it now, now that I remember.
For those of you who want the extra challenge,
and you want to get in.
You're interested in the necromancy side of this satanic initiation.
Go talk to Lord Byron.
Lord Byron, follow the way of Cain.
The mystery, the way of Cain.
Lord Byron.
And when you get there, you'll find the devil.
And the devil will speak to you directly.
And you will speak back directly.
For those of you who have ears to hear,
you know and respect this process.
So again, it's necromancy,
but you've got to call up the dead to do that, right?
Go get Byron the way of Cain and working.
Rob, do you have anything to say about the way of Cain?
Yeah, I do about the way of Cain.
We've got to learn now how to get older the way of Cain.
It's a play, it's a play by Lord Byron.
It's worth a read.
It's worth getting older of it if you can.
Give it a read, and as you read through it,
you'll understand what Armand's on about.
You'll understand you'll get the idea behind the way of Cain.
It's a very good read.
I really enjoyed it myself.
Did you enjoy your conversation with Lucifer as much as I did?
Yeah, I did.
It's getting around about to that reason.
The reason behind.
It kind of gets into morals and reasoning.
How does the devil strike you?
Reasonable.
That's the way it goes, isn't it?
It's reasonable.
It's written by Lord Byron.
He's a clever guy.
He's a clever guy while educating an individual
who's formulated this narrative
to take you on a journey that initiates you.
The initiation for me is a change of perception.
It's a new part of knowledge coming into you
that you can use yourself.
You can use that knowledge yourself then.
I'm thinking a little bit more.
If you're reading from these guys who have tried to blame things down
for that purpose,
