whose influence became a profound impact. So you've been reading the fairy tale. Now we've
landed in the history and you can see, oh, wait a minute, the dude who beheaded the other dude,
what are the drugs that he was into? Right? What are the drugs? What's going on? Right?
Why is he all the way back in Rome? This is fantastic. Yeah, so you prepare that cup for the one
overcome, right? You set out that chylix, you set out that cup, you prepare it for the one
dom nom nois. That comes from Demazo or Demao or Domno, that one too. They're all from the same
root. It's the delta mu and it means to be subdued by something, to be overcome when you're in that
potion. You are overcome by that force. And do you know who you use in that place? You use
Dom Nomenaeus. Yes, Dom Nomenaeus. Oh, who is he? Right? Remember, we're plugged in with the
analog type. Who is Dom Nomenaeus? He's the one who emerged when Rhea, the flow, the pair of Kronos,
when Rhea reached into the earth as she was giving birth and clenched the ground in her hands.
Dom Nomenaeus came forward. Okay, that's nice. That's nice. I'll show you the magic words at the end,
but I will not give you their meaning. Yes, you have to derive that on your own,
which you will. Let's do that though. Let's go forward. So I wanted you to see that passage
of what is, and by the way, they're leading them to the bed, right? They're leading
the initiate to the bed. And there's a lot about chafing. Earlier on, there's a section about chafing
and about penile problems and about, it's all very Osirian. If you listen to it, it's like being,
I'll describe it this way as I'm sitting there reading it. And having said that, guys, we're going
to step back for a second and say, this document that Nero has managed to get, his grubby hands on,
this document preserves a very, very, very beautiful art. It is using expressions
that are also used, technical terms, that are used by the famous priest Necander, even Cicero,
had read Necander, right? Necander is a priest of Apollo. You like this? Clarion Apollo,
the God of the Oracle. This is who he is. And he's writing to a friend of his and one of his works,
who happens to be the priest of Rhea, civilly, performing the rites of Addis. And he's composed
a song. Necander's composed a song for this guy. And it has to do with, guess what, the drugs,
the drugs within the rite and the poisons and everything immaculate. It's gorgeous. Let's go
to a little Necander. Let's bring him up, shall we? Some Necander. Give me that Necander text.
Yeah. Oh, look at this. Look at this. This is, yeah, this is Necander. I just want you to read
from Haate at the end of the line, Haate Baachai. Like when the Baachans boson shout, shout out, shout out
what, the ox and mouse, that song that they have, that song that they have. Bring it back up, please. Good,
and they are what? Look at the last word in that line, oestroy. What are they under the influence?
They're under the influence of that, that oestress that holds its head back.
Isn't that descriptive? Oh, he's the one who said, Necander said, you've got to watch
the fire of Medea. That stuff will kill you. Yeah. Anyway, good stuff. I love it. I love it.
There's one more, Necander. Can we go to the next passage, maybe? Yes, yes. Here, I put the,
this is the great translation for anybody who doesn't have it. Necander is Gow and Shofield did a
fantastic, leave it up, did a fantastic translation to the best of their ability. Look
along the plants and stuff. Not so good, right? Because it's vague, right? And they're using a priestly
language. So it's a little bit, you know, on times of borders and kind of insanity. What did he say
that? Anyway, um, look at this. Let not the evil ferment of the soul injure a man. It will often
swell up in his chest at other times it will choke him when it is fostered over the vipers coil
deep in its layer, sucking up the monster's venom and the noxious breath from its mouth.
This is the evil ferment, which they call fungi in general, for two different kinds, different
names have been assigned. So you know what that mushroom is? You know that that mushroom
