is to prevent, to prevent any sort of activity, quantum activity, if you will, that would be
an attack upon oneself. It's a defensive measure. Report, supposedly, you know, there are people,
famous people from Antiquity who would use them, right? Marcus Reilly is being one of them, but whatever.
Yeah. So what do they have to do? What do they have to do? Let's see what people have traditionally
made of and pull that up. Yes. Aschion. And they say, perhaps has something or ancient sources
that say something to do with shade, perhaps. Please leave that up. Thank you. And lyx. Yeah,
what is the lyx? If you look this one up in Hesechius, you can find out what it means.
And it'll be part of a piece of the puzzle for you to put together. He'll tell you about the
Plagios, right? Anyway, Tetrax, Tetrax, right? Is that the four cornering? Is that the four seasons?
Are we getting into the Ori? Well, what about the next name? Dom Naminnaeus? Yeah, right? Dom
Naminnaeus. Now the Icyon and Icya, right? He's the power, by the way. The Dom Naminnaeus is the one
who is performing the initiation. He's the one who's going through the actual
right, right? It's the diamond in the individual becoming one, right? It's an act of possession.
It's an act of possession. But if you look at Icyon, right, and Icya, right? And you'll notice that
we have, for the first time, a very good example of insertion with C, as in Sibule,
right in the middle of the word to interrupt the flow. And this is something you're going to catch
over and over again in the PGM that they're doing. They play with syllables. They reverse them. They turn
them around. They'll take half of one and make an insertion like we just saw. And those are the
operating. Those words that they're doing that with are the operators. Look through the PGM, the
spells, and you'll see that there are specific operating words. So that is an incantation
that was popular in antiquity. If you could perform it properly, if you could perform it properly,
and it had to be repeated in a very specific way so that the voice could access that
invisible dimension around. It's like using that voice creates visibility.
Yeah. Fantastic. The sex part, you promised the sex, right?
You'd notice that they were leading the gentleman to the bed, to the bed, and the
person who is being initiated engages in a sexual activity at a specific time
under the influence of specific drugs. So, as detectives, we're one step closer.
If we just step back and look at the crime scene, the mob is there. They're all yelling out,
kill him. You've got a whole group of people just pissed saying kill him. He's arrested
in a public park at 4 a.m. with, in the company, of a naked boy. And the naked boy has what is
arguably a medicated bandage used in right involving the making of a cup.
Yeah. Yeah. And the consumption. So we have to stand back when I say, okay, I know that within
these rights, we have other examples of people who were engaged. The Greek word there was coitus.
You know, we get coitus from it. So we now have your honor. We now have a motive here. We have
other contemporary cults that are doing the same acts that are involved in drug-induced ritual
that is sexual in nature. So this is where, now you see why the London Times said this area
is the last wild frontier of classics, right? It's truly an open field. The fact that nobody
is working on this is only a cause by our own society's
laziness. You know, people don't want to study these texts because it's hard. It's hard. You give
that sheet to any professor, any professor who claims to be, especially one of these religious
historians, give them that and say, okay, Smartie, who says they translate this. Yeah, you watch what
happens because some of the words are rooted in traditions that they don't follow. If you want
to know the good stuff, you got to drink the fire. You know what I mean? You got to go deep and you
got to see what's going on. Okay, thank you very much. Now we're going to turn to Rob who is going
