You know, it's all coming through the birthing, the midwifery. It's all coming through that. Excellent. Let's go to the, we'll get a chance here. Let's flip. Do we have crosses covering everybody up? Excellent. Go to the next one.
I just want to read you this, people. At first, a wretched man. What happens to Heracles? Danira, take it down. Danira, Danira gives him a poison garment. It's got the burning purple in it. So he freaks out and it kills him. It ends up killing him.
And in the process of being killed, he goes through this very culty kind of initiation. Because remember, we're killing the Son of God. What? Yeah, we're killing the Son of God.
Why would we be killing the Son of God a thousand years before the Son of God was arrested in a public park with a naked boy? For the same reason that we're talking about the first Son of God who's way back there, who is with his boy,
Highless. It's all, it's all the same thing, right? Okay, cult is cult, you know what I mean? Just follow the drugs. Let's go back to the text. I want to give you, read this to you. This is Heracles, right? He says at first, oh wretched man, he prayed in calm of mind, rejoicing in his lovely garment.
He didn't know this stuff was poison. But when the gory flame began to blaze up from the offerings on the sappy pine, uh oh, uh oh, we all know what happens when you put this stuff in, you know, it's combustible.
Quack covered all his body in the robe, clung to his sides as it glued by a craftsman to every joint and from his very bones, shot up spasmodic stinging pains. The poison, like some detested bloody snakes devoured him.
Yes, you remember that Aristolokia that I just showed you for the snake bite cure? Yeah, they already know this and they've been using that very species for the sake of alleviating the symptoms that are induced when you use the venom in religious ritual.
Okay, I want you to know that. Cicero, if you've got no respect, for me, at least have some respect for Cicero, right? Who says, you know, in divination, we're using the Aristolokia.
And we know that it's the buffer, the antidote for the, for the viper venom, right? For the, for the snake venom. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Look, people, it's going to get kind of hairy now.
What does Heraklis start screaming out? I'm bringing you the alpha. Are you ready? Oh, nox. Oh, nox. You're going to get a little bit of that. Digama. Oh, nox. I, de, dex, I, m, odiosac despison.
You know what he's doing? Well, he's tripping on his jacket full of, full of the burning purple, full of this poison. And by the way, you can match up the vocab. It's, it's used heavily in archery.
Right? So it's kind of nice that it kind of all adds up. You can see the cultural group that it's coming from. Who is the, who is she that we're looking for tonight? Who is alpha?
Dude, dude, she is a six foot six. Sivian mixed Amazonian background, who is an ex, she can gallop a horse and she can shoot. I'm telling you this, she can shoot backwards while the horse is galloping away.
You got no chance against her? She's the one. That's who we're looking for tonight. And so as Heracles is sitting there, as Adamas is sitting there and he is having an assistance from his side, he is having that power through a wa.
He is worshiping a wasp because we're all going back Judaism, Christianity, Islam. They all go back to an earlier mystery cult that was popular in the Bronze Age, right? And became especially influential at the end of it.
If you were to write a history of the world's religions, you'd have to say that this Bronze Age religion was kind of the precursor of everything you've got now. So the terms that you've got like Christ, those are coming from that.
Those are coming from that religion. Christianity kids, when you go to your church, it's a new thing. It's a new thing, building upon old things, old things. And there's a lot of dope kids. There's a lot of dope. They're pushing a lot of dope. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, let's go to the, let's go to the next one. Boom. I want to take you now to Revelation.
Ago, Amy, toe, Alpha, Kai, toe, Omega.
Wait, I'm the olive and the what? No, you're not the olive. You're talking about the bull's head, baby. You're talking about the alpha. We can talk to Ezekius. I don't care what your theories are. Ezekius trumps you every time. Yeah. This is serious now.
All right. Okay, let's read it. I am the alpha and the Omega says Curio Sotheos, right? Oh, on the one who is Kai Hoh and the one who was Kai Hoh and Hominos, the one who will be who am I? I'm the Panto Carter.
And you say, wait a minute, sir. Sir, that means I'm Hermes. That's how we refer to Hermes. Oh, watch this. I'm going to pull Christ out of a boy, right? Right? I'm going to pull Christ out of a boy.
Well, I thought you were going to turn a horse into a Christ. Yes. Let's go. It's coming together, people. You're going to love this. This is what, you know, we needed to kick it out. Here's Mark 4-2 and he taught them.
He taught them in Parabolis. He taught them in parables. He taught them a lot of things in parables and he said to them, right, in his teaching. Keep going.
Keep going. Next, please. Yeah. And he called them all together. Yeah, into parables. And he spoke to them in parables. Excuse me. Paul Stunata. How he says in a parable, in a parable, in a parable.
Why is this man this late stays with his 12 children? Because remember, the apostles are all teenagers. They're Mothetai. They're Mothetai. And nobody. Oh my God, no. Peter's not a teenager. Is Peter a teenager when Jesus is with him naked in the upper room? Yeah.
Yeah. Mothetai. Students. They're just students, just like Socrates, man. Get used to it. It's ancient high school. You didn't know Jesus was an ancient high school cult leader? Yeah, he was. He was. He liked the orphans. Yes.
