What century is it, right?
What age is it?
Where are we?
We're in the late Bronze Age and we are worshiping a virgin.
Yes, we're worshiping a virgin and that virgin was a sacrifice.
But when that sacrifice was meant to take place, Diana provided a substitute and took
the sacrifice.
And she installed that sacrifice in what we call today the Crimea.
But in antiquity, they called it the land of the Talrians.
Yeah, sometimes we say that the very, you know, we talk about the Yuxi, the Icenaus,
they called it.
Originally the sea, the black sea, and there is the Crimea and there it's from there that
our virgin and all of her worship comes from.
She's installed there.
And what is her job?
Her job is to take captured Greeks and execute them very specifically.
And why would she do that?
Because she's the virgin.
She is the Diwanisah.
She is the Diana who was sacrificed.
And for that reason, because of what Grace did to its own daughter, they all die.
Doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter.
They all die.
They're all sacrificed.
She's the one that does it.
She's the virgin who does that sacrifice.
So she says in this text, if I possessed the Logos of Orpheus
to persuade with song so that even the rocks would work in unison with me, homontaine is
a great, great verb.
It means to, it means to, for two separate entities to work, to be bound in a relationship,
to where they're coming together is the production of the work.
Yeah, yeah.
So that I could enter into a sympathy with the very elements.
Kailene.
Kailene.
What does Kailene mean?
Show us here.
If I could charm.
Now again, this is thanks to the Victorians shout out to England and the, uh, yeah, and
the scholars 150 years ago.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I don't know what that says about modern scholarship, but the good stuff comes out of the 1850s
in England.
And that's where we're getting this charm thing.
This charm thing.
It's a call by an incantation.
It's a call.
If I possess the logos of Orpheus, I can do this to whomever I want.
Yeah.
If I had it, I would use it.
She says, if I had it, I would use it.
I want you to remember one thing.
Is it talking about the power of Orpheus?
And this is part of the, the background of the cult.
All of this, you think that this is, or people talk about Orpheus, Orpheus, Orpheus, right?
How important Orpheus is, is Christianity the product of Orphism?
Of course.
Right.
Of course it is.
Right.
This mystery that we're talking about, it is the original mystery.
It's the oldest that we have for creating that a regular response, whether it's the Jews
who were doing it from a box in a tent full of smoke, or whether it's the Greeks who were
doing it over a tripod.
It's the original mystery.
And what's funny is we always attribute, we always talk about Orpheus, Orpheus, Orpheus.
Orpheus was the student of Medea.
Yeah.
As usual, I'm sorry, but as usual, there is a brilliant woman behind the Orpheus.
The origin that nobody discusses.
Yeah.
It's a shame.
It's a shame.
