By this Jewish person or people who had an education in Greek and had been raised in Greek
They began to be able to express
that cultural
literate spirit
And when they did they had to borrow heavily now the passage I want to remind you
The passage that I just showed you
That had the two words that were based on the same roots that the Hebrew broke down into four
I want you to understand
Scientifically
that what
The rabbis and orthodox and fundamentalists want you
Whether they have a cross or not
want you
to believe
That those Greek words
Pops into the mind
72 dudes
Who segregated themselves into different cells?
and when they
received
power of god
They were able to transmit one translation now strangely enough in that passage
The Greeks were able to take four Hebrew words and say hmm
Look, let's just make two words. We can use the same roots
It'll be gorgeous
That's what they want you to think
It popped into the heads of these people. It's a fairy tale
The original must be the document that is more highly technical
If it's highly technical, it's got linguistic radiation
That the Hebrew cannot express
That's the Greek. Oh god, I love it. Okay. So what is this monstrous thing? Everybody just looked and you're like what eyes?
scary, right
The right they're doing the best they can come on man. They don't read the originals, right?
So what do they know? I'm here just to reassure you
And to announce publicly tonight people at Harvard and Yale
Yes, if I could stay on youtube and do certain things I would do them
Listen to me listen to me. Are you ready? Here it is
Wheels wheels what are wheels?
Let's look at it
Kai in toy poor a always thought so. Oh, by the way
In this translation of this thing is absolutely hysterical
It's hysterical to read because you can't make it's nonsensical
What the Hebrew did in the Masoretic text to this
passage is hilarious
Right, it's hilarious. You can't you cannot make this stuff up
So, um, what is it actually saying? It's saying the trochoi
these
Trochoi
What is a trochos? Please can we go to what is trochos? It's the big definition. Look, this is the word just go here
Just go here. This is the word that I want you focusing on. Are you ready? Just one great word
This is what they're calling the wheels, right? And
Of course, it has to be through the Hebrew
It's got to be a friggin wagon cartwheel right now. No watch the sophisticated language
The whole more technical language. Watch how it dealt with it. Where's our definition then?
Is it no? Yep. Here take down the
Yeah, there we go. No the one before it the one before it. That's the one we need first
Look at this people. Look at this for a trochos
What are some of the definitions of trochos?
right
They are those turning things
Yeah, yeah, they are they are what else are they they're cakes
They're cakes. They're little round cakes that we use in sacrifice
All right, little round cakes and when I say sacrifice, you probably don't understand what I mean, but I don't care
Let's you can eat them. You can burn them. Oh god
God, I can smell it in the air. Can you smell it? I had to fumigate the place before so jovo could show up
Let's do this. Let's do this. Get me to the next that one now. What else are there?
um
They're drugs. They're medicines, but I want you to see that the diminutive is used all the time
It's a standard for these medicines, right? Because they're small
Little wheels
They are small round pebbles
And what do these medicines do? How do you make them? I'm going to show you he describes
What the makeup of these medicines are and in the process of describing it
Due to translation you think it's too giant
What with eyes and what who?
Right. Okay. No people, right. This is reality
The fantasy world is over
Satan told me no more. It's too much fantasy. We need more reality. We need more reality
Please bring us some reality. Are you ready? I'm going to show for those of you who can't appreciate
The magnitude of what I'm telling you
Christians have labored
Jews
Have labored not the ones they knew in Israel. They didn't give them
They didn't give a rat's backside about the bible
Right. They were more interested in democracy. So, okay, that's cool
Right, but the religious side that they always talked about derogatorily and it was terrible
But they always talked about because they were dragging their country. Oh, well, it doesn't matter
That's a different discussion. That's a different discussion. Israel
Israel, let's get back to Ezekiel. Shall we shall we get back to Ezekiel? Let's go
Bring it up the next one. Yeah, we're somewhere in that there. Yeah, not too many people's no no strange speeds
Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Look at this people. Why are we doing all this because inside of these pills?
Right the trojizkos
is a pill
That you make
one of these pills do
They contain the plenomat zoace
The plenoma
zoace
If you don't know what this is, it's because you've never been there. You've never had the hand of god
If you had had the hand of god now, do you see what all the christians
Do you realize they've been fighting for centuries to figure out what these things are?
What are these wheels?
What are these wheels? Do you know why you couldn't figure it out? Let me just say this to christianity tonight
I want to say it
to all the divinity students out there to to
everybody everybody who was preaching and teaching and all the
sophisticated from the lowest pastor
to the most highfalutin
trained
Retirition who's got his 20,000 followers putting in cash in a bowl
Putting in cash in a bowl. By the way, you notice there's still no commercials
Right. It's part of the reason i'm staying low on the algorithm is because I don't
I don't hook
I'm not gonna hook
Yeah, yeah, so for anybody who's been asking me
to be involved
in the exchange of dough
Forget about it, right the power's gone people everybody here knows that and satanic initiation
I saw the letters you wrote to me. I saw the email
Yeah, the stuff was fantastic. I saw the notes the stuff people left comments
From last season. I saw it. I loved it
I loved it and it really means something to me
It really means something because people are saying look you're opening up things that I've never I'm free
I've never been it. Yes
Yeah, hell. Yeah, that's where we go. That's where we go
If we can do it from the throne
Right
Oh, where's my tea?
Right people who are asking by the way, it's just tea
Fantastic, let's keep going hit the next one chewy. Look people are gonna love this
So we didn't know for centuries. We didn't know and so now
Let's look and see what the drugs they're talking about are
Right, let's see what they are. Let's go to the spirit. What happens?
Ezekiel you junkie after he gags you. Did you see God right before you guys got here?
God was
Sitting here and took Ezekiel's head
Right took Ezekiel's head and he shoved this book in his mouth
And what is that's what it's sound like? Uh
Sound like a gag a little bit
Right
And what happened bring back that greek this is because that's what happened in the greek
whoo
whoo what happened the spirit
the spirit
Came and ripped him off the ground
Yeah
Jerked him up
Jerked him up the spirit did took him in a place
In a place. Oh god. Are you ready? What else Ezekiel you dirty drug user?
What else are you doing? You thought this was fairytale, didn't you? No, you didn't satanic congregation. I'm talking to the guys at harvard
yeah
guys and
You know, whatever and the spirit yet next one, please chew he hit the next one and what happened
You know, it's that hand of god thing. He says it several times. Well, guess what?
People think it's tinkerbell's
Dust right it's not tinkerbell's dust
Right, it's not it doesn't say it's tinkerbell's dust anymore because Ezekiel
Also out of his dirty mouth
Comes the hand of man
The hand of man
You know what what makes?
