Right. But I want you to know this. Right. She, under the influence of the God on Sabbath, is able to ejaculate your hyma of communion.
Yeah. Yeah. And that is part of a process that contains her embryo and the drugs that either killed that embryo and flushed it into your communion or allowed her to produce the son of God.
Right. If that child lived, bathe that thing in the viper venom. And what do you get? You get two out of three dead babies is what you get. Right. But that third, that third is a giant, a giant.
Yeah. They, they say you burn off their mortality. Does anybody want to know how to burn off your mortality? I would like to know that. I would like to know.
It's women. It's women who have given us this. Right. And this is, this is before proto Hebrew. Right. This is, this is before anything that you think is even remotely what you call Christian.
It's the foundation for Christianity made by women. Right. The first example we have of a savior is a sautera, a female savior who is the great midwife.
That's right. Many of you out there don't know your own mother. Right. But she stands at the gate. This midwife stands at the gateway, the entrance when I was kicked out of St Mary's University and charged with demon possession and portal opening.
Right. You don't get portal opening without her. For those of you who want the quantum physics, I don't care. Figure it out. Become geniuses. It's not my bag. The point is that the first savior is a woman.
The first savior is a woman. There is a good reason that Jesus is arrested in a pre-dawn raid of a public park with a naked boy. The only thing they got off of him was the medicated bandage that was on his privates.
You know what you can do. Bring us the Spanish fly. Can you bring us this? Yes. Now that's not the Spanish fly. That's the result of too much of the Spanish fly. Where's the, there is a Spanish fly. Right.
This little guy has a tendency. He's got a stuff under his wings. He's got this ooze. You can take that stuff. It is incredible Viagra. It is a vasodilator. The Romans swore by it, by its proper, by its proper preparation. You could take somebody who's impotent and give him a sustainable erection.
And put them into what they called priapismos, priapism. Don't you love it? That guy's worshiping priapus, the God of the erection.
And what comes from priapus. What comes from priapus is the communion. You didn't think you'd get out of the devil's party without an awakening, did you? You get the seed, the hyma, the essence. That's what you get in the dirty, dirty, dirty book of Ezekiel in the Bible.
Hold that thought. The demons below want me to... Yeah. Very nice. I like that. Very nice. Yeah. So let's get started, shall we, in the incantation. I want to bring you, speaking of Amazons.
Amazonian, Black Sea tribes, Late Bronze Age. I want to show you a modern Joan of Arc. And I know some of you want to see this. I'm bringing you this clip from Newsy.
And thank you to the Intrapid Newsy reporter who went out to find Joan of Arc in the midst of the war and was bold enough to have some questions, some great, some not so great. But in order for us to find Joan, here she is, Joan of Arc. Go ahead and play, Joan of Arc.
Incoming artillery. Spot the target, dial it in and fire. It's a tactic she knows well, because Emerald is a sniper. We met Emerald in a fully blacked out part of the capital, Kyve, far from the trenches she lived in for months.
It's a very important scene.
Coming back to her home in Kyve with no electricity feels oddly normal. And so now does being a woman fighting with an otherwise all-male squad.
Just me. Just you. And a lot of men.
And were they always respectful to you?
Yes, they really respect me and they said that I'm a war genius.
They said you're a war genius. Did you have a nickname?
Yes.
What?
Ukrainian Joan of Arc.
That title and her bright eyes and flaming red hair, the army emblazoned on a patch they made for her.
So you have to be pretty special to get to that point when your country calls upon you to go do this. And that's what they did. They looked her up because they knew how good she was in her own field.
Now any man out there who thinks that a woman shouldn't be in the military, yeah, Joan proves you to be the mind controlled fool that you are.
Yeah.
How do you break out of that ceiling? You know, there's a ceiling there that says certain things have to be certain ways.
The Satanic Prime Directive is to follow reason, not faith.
You see this in the medieval trials of the Satanists that they refuse doctrine or dogma.
They insist upon reason that reason is the reason is the gift of the one who doesn't lie.
You follow.
It turns out Satan is called the liar, but the very first liar in the book of Genesis, the very first liar is God.
God says we don't want to eat that tree because their eyes will be open and they'll be like us.
He doesn't want them to have that knowledge, right?
And he says when this happens, this will happen.
The devil says who's the guardian, right?
Who's this devil dragon guy guarding the fruit, right?
If you know the cult, the Bronze Age cult, you'll know what that dragon is.
The dragon, the Greek said this, dragons are temple guardians, right?
They're usually guarding relics.
They have something to do with relics.
And you usually have Medusae as a kind of class of dragon, right?
They've got that poison.
They put it in their hair that puts you down immediately.
It's a neurotoxin.
They just got to nick you with that stuff, right?
It turns you to stone.
So Lucifer is there with the tree, right?
And the fruit.
And he's like, no, he doesn't want you to do that because your eyes will be open.
Well, what happened?
Their eyes were open, right?
So this is where the Nag Hammadi comes in and kicks us all on the undercarriage, pointing out that God Jehovah
has no foresight.
Isn't that a simple principle?
The great mother just told you something about the father of God.
He's got no foresight.
He can't see the future.
If he could, he wouldn't have put him in the garden in the first place.
He wouldn't have had to kick anybody out.
He's a failure.
And it turns out she's the ruler here.
Now, and so what was the dragon doing?
The dragon was guarding the fruit of Ewa, right?
What happens to me in Greek, the shot of the Bakken.
The shot of the Bakken.
So, okay, where are we?
Where are we?
We know.
I just wanted to take a little perspective here.
I need you to see that when Jesus is arrested in a public park at 4am with an achid boy and a medicated wrap.
I need you to see that there is something going on here.
He has the boys' hyma on his face.
He asked not to take the cup.
Something in the cup is bothering.
By the way, what's the cup?
We'll see if we continue reading, translating this text to Nero.
We'll see this theriac.
We'll see that the cup is the savior.
They provide you with the communion.
They are the cup.
And that colpost or that vagina was that original cup.
They looked at the uterus as the chamber of death.
And it's from that death, through the savior, she who guards the doorway.
That phrase, I stand at the doorway.
Guess what?
Just like money is the root of all evil, that is not new to the first century.
It's not new.
