You can drink.
Now why did they say that?
That's a direct quote.
You can drink out of the buttocks of Ganymede.
Zeus's cup bear.
Where do you think that nectar comes from, Jesus?
There's a reason, the bandage that was on the naked kid that was with Jesus when he
was arrested in the public park of for him.
There's a reason the bandage is over his private parts.
Yeah.
Are we getting closer?
Are we getting the bucket gear on, right?
Can we get the image?
Can someone please out there?
Please, use your AI, plug in with something.
Bring me the image of Jesus and the boy with the bandage private parts.
Please, please.
It's a religious icon preserving Mark 1451 and 52.
I commission you in the name of the most excellent Christ, Wanak's, arrested, crucified for you.
Crucified.
I almost had you there and I felt somebody out there I could feel.
I had a little bit of sweep of the convincing, yes.
It turns out because it's all real.
It's always, isn't that funny?
The reality is always a slap in the face.
Yeah, let's go to one more source and then we're going to excuse people tonight because
I thank you.
I'm cognizant of your time.
Let's get something valuable.
Look at this one.
Yeah, he's the one who's doing, I just wanted to show you, he's the one who's doing the
purifications.
Yeah, and he's adding, what's this great guy going to do?
He's going to be adding this pneumatic, you know, just keep going.
This is just, you know, it's all infused within the nature, baby.
It's all, we got to do all of this just to put the stuff in the sarks, right?
All in that nature of man, ride, ride, and by man, I mean people, humans, right?
It didn't mean to sound funny there, anyway.
Yeah, although it is typically, it is a male there in the text, but we don't ask people
in general.
There's no reason you ladies can't be possessed.
It's ridiculous.
Kind of discriminatory.
Next text.
When you think about it, the woman is giving the communion, right?
So, you know, Eve was there for a good reason.
And when it came down to the drugs, the devil was straight up with her.
She's going to get naked and you're going to open your eyes.
Why do you think the devil?
I forgot.
I'm glad I just recalled this to mine because I promised the devil I would mention it.
Remember, he's really handsome.
All right, come on, give him a break.
He wasn't going to lie to her, right?
He wasn't going to lie to Eve.
He, that Zoe, you can't be disingenuous with life.
You can't.
You can be disingenuous with yourself, but you can't with Zoe.
And the devil knew that.
And he knew Jehovah just lost a couple of ranks.
He just fell.
He's going to lie in order to cover up something that this woman is looking for.
Give it to her.
Give her the truth.
That's what Zoe is worth.
That's what she's worth.
She's worth the truth.
And if you're not willing to be true, you can just end up serving a misogynist.
I can't imagine anybody.
You know, I'm sitting with the watchers and I just, I get what they're saying.
You cannot imagine a sentient being who wants to bow down for an eternity to a misogynist,
a lying misogynist.
Who wants that?
Who wants that?
Yeah.
Let it be known that 30% of all angelic beings said Lucifer is right.
Jehovah has got that lack, that lack of unique words.
Eight thousand.
Eight thousand.
Yahoo.
Zeus.
Zeus comparatively.
Zeus.
It is a fact.
