So that's kind of what I contained myself to, but you had a good point.
Communion was semen.
Remember, we have the sources that tell us about the semen communion.
We know they have a semen communion.
Some people don't like it.
They're trying to tell other people to stop.
Nicholas is using his wife, just like Simon, and he's got the whole thing set up where the woman is the center of the mystery.
Right?
That's original stuff, bro.
That goes back to Medea.
Right?
That goes back to her.
And so, yeah, it's original.
The savior is a woman.
Right?
She's supposed to be a woman.
And why is that?
Why is that?
Because only her body can make the communion.
So are these communions, sacs communions?
Yeah, and it's pissing off certain people.
Don't say it's angering the Christians.
Right?
It's angering some of the Christians.
Right?
The ones, you know, what about the ones that are in the underground?
You know, you know, all those Romans, they're always arresting people because it's turning out somebody's taking somebody's kids.
Off the street and abusing them.
Sexually abusing them.
And then you get into the, you get into.
Okay, here you want to go somewhere safe.
I'll take you somewhere safe.
I have seen a priest become possessed with the devil to sodomize a boy who had been starved for weeks.
Strip naked.
Oiled from the bottom of his feet to the top of his head.
That's a religious, that's a religious phrase used in cult.
Right?
And then sodomize.
Now the boys task is to scream out the refutation.
Right?
This is the early church.
This is what some of the things the Romans were were were bringing him up on charges for.
Especially in Alexandria.
Alexandria is a hotbed for this.
You want to be involved with your boys?
You go to Alexandria.
It's no reason that Clement of Alexandria and Pseudoclement, you know, talks about Jesus performing the mystery on the boys.
Right?
It's no wonder he talks about that.
A lot of the stuff is coming out of the area.
Maybe it's cultural there.
Maybe it's, I don't know, you have to, but it's tolerated.
And anyway, the Romans get involved because then you can't, you know, law is law, bro.
Right?
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what do you do with these priests anyway?
What the goal of that?
You got to get this though.
This is the.
This is the.
When you put that boy into that state.
What's your doing?
You've drugged him.
Right?
And what you're doing is you're causing him to enter the ecstatic release.
Or gay or orgasm, as you, as you and I would call it.
Right?
And his ways in that state, he's supposed to renounce at that climax.
He's supposed to shout out and renounce the devil who has possessed the priests who is sodomizing him following the way of Cain.
Right?
He's administering that drug anally on his own medicated.
Odi par.
Yeah.
And that kid is supposed to shout out.
He's supposed to say no.
And if he does, then he's saved forever.
All right.
And we're told by the author of this.
That the catacumin or the kid that's involved sometimes can be emotionally distraught.
You got to give him a bat.
You got to baptize match this, right?
Wash them off.
And sometimes they're distraught for weeks.
Right?
Afterwards, you have to talk to them and they'll ask you.
So they'll ask you questions.
What?
Why the nakedness?
Why did I have to be naked during this whole process?
Because Jesus was naked on the cross.
