So, he goes out to them and he's looking for this mealtose.
He's looking for it.
He wants to know about the fire.
He wants to know about the blood and he asked him about the blood of the goat.
And they laugh at him, right?
The locals do, because he didn't know what he's doing, right?
This is Galen and these are the locals on Limnos.
Yeah, laughing at him.
Good. Good.
Does everybody see what direction we're going?
Let's go back to here.
Let's go to this one, Chewie.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I just want you to see at the end of his preface, right?
He comes to the end of his preference, his preface there.
And he gives thanks to all those great people that, you know, helped him out
and humanitarian, you know, people.
Who's in the project of helping him in this?
You know, good for them.
Yeah, the ones who helped him with this addition.
Look at the names there.
OK, so these are deals, right?
Villamovitz. Yeah.
OK, so I thought that was nice.
Thank you, Mox, for giving us this text.
Let's look at a little bit of philuminous here.
I want to see, give me that nice title page again.
Well, that's OK here.
Let's show the folks this.
This is a list of the chapters, right?
And this is the later chapters.
I think I gave you, I just want you to see here.
You can just run down this list.
Aspidon, Ejis, Kerasdes, Presteres, Dipsas, Saimurus, those are all snakes.
Yeah, those are all snakes.
Saps, Hudros, Druinoi.
Do we know the species of these snakes?
We have to go to people like this guy in order to identify them.
Look under the lambda, right?
Dracon. Well, how does a dracon differ from a Dipsas?
Right? And the Presteres.
And you're not now as a classicist, you have to kind of step
into a more scientific world.
You know that.
And that's why you guys avoid these texts.
I mean, am I wrong?
No, no, I'm not wrong.
And now that you know that people were using drugs and antiquity,
maybe, maybe all that flak that you gave everybody who said that they were,
maybe you should shut up.
Yeah, I just told Harvard and Yale and not Princeton
because they cut their own head off and killed their Greek program.
You bozos, you incredible, incredible bozos.
Flash something up here.
Scary. Is there anything we can put up here?
Put a bit of that face again.
Give us a face.
This is what, yeah, this is what you people deserve.
Just flash something.
Yeah, come on, Chewie.
There we go.
Well, I'm saying my little thing, leave it up there.
This is for the people at Princeton who have just decided, believe it or not,
this is incredible, not just now, but months ago, maybe a year.
They decided to kill their Greek program.
They decided to kill it.
Why? Because it's the language of the oppressor.
You know why those people are committing suicide and doing you a disservice?
Because they're taking these texts away from you and doing so.
They're doing it because they're insane.
Right? They're insane.
This is an insanity.
This is an insanity.
You are not there.
You people at Princeton, you are not there to do anything but guard the text.
You are not there to do anything.
But keep that museum open and the only way to do that is through the Greek.
If you can't do it because it's too hard, you should admit it and you should say,
we're just going to study this in translation and have ancient Mediterranean
civilization courses.
