Right.
Right.
Put Caesar's name.
What is this?
It's couplets couplets of verse.
Right.
The Theriac.
That which is called Galene or she who is called Galene.
Galene means.
The calm.
The calm.
And this author who is writing this is using a formula.
That appears to date back to the late bronze age.
Heavily my city and influence.
You know, they've got all the poppy kind of the poppy trade going on.
You know, the Cypriots and the, the temples of Aphrodite.
Or heavily, heavy, heavy, heavy on the opiots.
And they're in the formula, which we'll read to you.
We'll read.
It's, it's, it's in the formula.
But the world is not the place that you think it is.
Yeah.
Unless you've been there, unless your feet have gotten dirty, you're not going to know who
the beast is unless your feet have walked in that soil and you can't do it.
You can't do it.
I've watched you guys go on your shows.
I've watched you guys sit and listen to each other, seeing how you work.
Yeah.
You can't use those texts that you use.
Right.
We don't even, you're shut off.
The only way there is the muse.
That's the only way you have to find that pure stream.
They called it in antiquity.
And the ancient Greek preserves it.
The ancient Greek.
Let me just tell you something to tell you something about me and about our satanic cult.
And you're really dipping into such depth with the Greek and people say, well, what do
you mean?
Well, um, your English, your English skills.
Your English skills are presumably from maybe most of you.
Your English skills will be a reflection of the last 800 years.
When you're dealing with a Greek text, you're dealing with several thousand years distilled into
these language, into this language.
And so the expressions that you get.
Now I could show you one word logos, for example, you try to define it as word.
And, and when I show you what the definition of logos is and how it's about eight pages
long and hundreds of examples of different forms of the word, you would be amazed.
You would realize, oh, I'm swimming in a deep gulf.
That's where I have to get you.
And that's where we're going to go with this text because I'm going to use that to hypnotize
you.
Yes, somebody asked how do you, how do you find the muse?
That's a good question.
That's something worth answering.
Yeah.
Remember in the center, the autotone, they call it, of the temple.
It's the part that carries the image.
The adolon in the central point of the temple of the muse is a phallus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So how do you find the muse?
I would look for beauty and I would look for a phallic center.
Yeah.
You can't get away from that arrow.
As we're learning magic because I'll show you a couple of magic texts and you'll, I mean, the bad stuff too.
By the way, I thought I should probably say in all fairness, we need to, I need to issue a warning.
The material that I work with, the educational material that I want to expose you to, it tends to be difficult to digest.
Not because the concepts are hard to understand, but they are so shocking to our Victorian senses that I'm typically required to maintain a very family-friendly scientific terminology for these body parts and the processes they go through and the things that they produce in the communion.
And when it comes down to it, when people find out that the communions for the ancient mysteries were body fluids, sexual fluids, you know, and you're reading Galen and you're like, oh my goodness, how long is this description of the, the serious component of pre-puberty male ejaculate?
Yeah, it becomes, you know, you realize what they're, and what they're doing and kind of the depths to which they go.
I swore when I was a grad student and I was pulled into my committee for, it was overseeing my dissertation, when they told me, the head of the department got me by myself and they said, you'll get your dissertation.
As long as you take out the chapter on recreational drugs, it was, it was pharmacy in Rome.
They said, take out the chapter on recreational drugs so to get your PhD and I said, why?
And they said, the head of the department said, the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
I almost laughed, I almost laughed, I had to stop and I vowed at that time to always dig as deeply as I could possibly go to see the real.
And I've seen some, for example, Smyrna. This is, this is the perfect time for us to mention Smyrna.
You know, the time ship is cooling. We're going to step outside and walk around, but as it's cooling, you know, we have this thing called Smyrna.
You can get Smyrna from the priestesses on Cyprus.
Yeah, the priestesses of Aphrodite, and it's an oil. It's an oil compounded of a toxin that is used in arrows in Cythia, by Cythian archers.
And these are, you know, these are real Amazonian, Black Sea, Bronze Age types.
I've got an actual video of one of these that the Ukrainian Joan of Arc that I want to show you in just a minute so that we can have a living image of the Virgin Mother.
Yeah, Joan of Arc. Another comment here, it looks like, yeah.
Yeah, what incense are we using? Lord Sobek, it's always with the incense. I hereby charge you with the keeping of the Templam, and you must always assign us an incense.
Right, we're here in mourning. Keep it to the books, Sobek. We're here in mourning, so mourning the death of Jehovah.
So, yeah, tell me about the Smyrna. Oh, it's this gorgeous stuff that you, it's got a beautiful, any perfumers in the group, and I'm not, all I do is read about what they did in antiquity.
You probably love this. They're oil based, and they use myrrh, things like myrrh and frankincense as the bases for the oil, for the Smyrna.
And they use nard. They use something called Syrian Nard, and tracking down these drugs is no fun.
It's no fun because they're hard to identify. But most of them, you know, thanks to the medievalists, we kept a pretty good track of which plants and which.
So, yeah, anyway, some Syrian Nard. And, you know, you've got your opium and you've got your purple.
And that's that stuff you get from the smallest that lives at the, you know, the Mediterranean.
Pull that thing out. It's why the Phoenicians are the Phoenicians. You know why they call them Phoenicians, don't you?
