There are only women saying these hymns, so when you shave your head, don't be surprised that I don't tell you you need to shave your beard.
Because if you're a woman in antiquity, you don't have to worry about that.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, don't get me wrong.
The doctors have all sorts of plasters and stuff to take care of, you know, little hairs.
But we're not shaving our beards. We're shaving our heads because we are women.
So hold that in mind. This may surprise you. I want to take you to the hymn of Misa.
I call upon the Thezmafor, the Narthex bearer.
What's the Narthex? That's that empty, hollowed out cane.
That's that instrument that carries the fire of Prometheus.
Yeah. It's a reed, right? It's a reed. Good. And it's carried by Dionysus.
Yes. You may also know Prometheus. He hid the fire of Zeus.
For those of you who have ears to hear, you'll know that he hid the fire of Zeus in the Narthex.
That's what he brings.
Sperma polo menesto in second line polo onamon elvulos.
Seed that is most remembered. Seed, I remember that we're thinking like Bronze Age Greeks.
We're thinking like farmers. We're talking about Ceres, the golden fields we're about to come across.
We're about to come across Isis in Egypt and the banks of the Nile.
This is where we are, right? We're not writing this from Mars. Good.
What is her name? Holy Mesa. Wait a minute. Eubulius. Who is Eubulius?
Eubulius is that dude, that mortal that witnesses the abduction of the Korah.
He's the only mortal and he brings that. He brings that wisdom.
And so is therefore involved. Eubulius is in the rites. Eubulius is Dionysus.
Yes, it's an epithet used for Dionysus. Wait a minute. Dionysus is a person? Yeah.
Yep. Right. Now you understand why they talk about possession so much.
Good. What is this Dionysus? This Dionysus is Mesa and the translators, at least Athanasakis.
I don't remember tailors, but Athanasakis is translation of this, which is generally good.
Here you have to make a decision because the text all of a sudden switches from masculine to feminine,
starts describing a female goddess saying she is holy. Yeah.
And she is unspoken, the areaton, the unspoken, the unspeakable, the ineffable,
anasa, using the old Mycenaean wanasa. The word for that princess.
Remember the Scythian princess that they found? The river of Wanda crown. That's a wanasa.
That's a Bronze Age queen right there. Mary. Hello, Mary Beard. Yes.
We're talking about women only cults. We're talking about women's performances.
We're talking about queens. Mary, you need to wake up, Mary. Wake up, Mary.
Devil calling Mary Beard. Wake up.
Yeah. So, and here, I just want to, because we're wrapped for time here, the windows closing,
I just want to finish our hymn here. Yeah. He talks about being an elusus at their rites and how nice that is.
And he talks about Cyprus, right? Being on Cyprus with the beautiful crown, Kithareia, right?
Right? Urania. We're talking about the worship of Urania here.
You mean that's the same as the elusus? Yes. Yes, right? This is the, this is the Thymus bringer, right?
This is the Thesma for. This is the one who brings us the law. This is, oh, did you feel that shiver?
Wait a minute. What was that? Yeah, it's, that's the components of the mystery religion. The Oracle.
You mean Judaism and Christianity or offshoots of Saturny and Bronze Age worship? Yeah, they are.
