Yeah, it is.
The dude's name was Max Velman.
Yeah. And anyway, there's a whole corpus
that the German classical scholars of the early 20th put together.
And we have all of these documents.
I'm going to be showing you and be showing you one of in these.
We can look at the constellations of drugs that are being used.
This hair is much more than we think it is.
This hair is much more than we think it is.
It will tell us what they are using.
It will tell us what rights are being propagated.
It will tell us people said, where's this?
It's a shaman.
Put that smelly shaman back in the closet.
We're talking colleges of Bronze Age priestesses called a Hidnai.
They have a word for these people, right?
They have a word, the Ioboloi.
They called their God the cat, the poor of the Eos, right?
The one who has that, the one who has that Eos.
These are the people saying Olo Luzo or Alaladzo.
Yeah, these are the Bacchans, these are the Minads.
These are the ones with stained hands, the purple.
Those who are in service to Iternitas, Iternitas.
She who governs the Ions, she who governs the Ions, right?
And who does she have with her?
She has that youth and she has virtue and nature, nature steps up.
Yeah, this is fantastic.
We're going into the rights, right?
OK, now pull up philumines.
Get him, get him.
Where are you going here?
I don't want to see that text.
Wait, bring this back up to you.
Hang on a second here.
I want I want people to see that in this order.
Look at this, people, Corpus Metachorum, Greg Corum.
Here it is. This is all online.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
This is all stuff that comes out of Leipzig, right?
And here's a little bit of the introduction.
Prifatio, look, they wrote it in Latin.
Isn't that nice?
That way we don't have to know any German.
Anyway, Max came across this Vatican copy of pseudodiascordies.
And he was so happy to get his hands on it, you know what I mean?
It purports to be a philuminous, right?
Philuminous, a little book.
And the title is, and that's where you can see the Greek there,
Periton Iogloon Zon.
Oh, isn't that nice?
Kaiton in Aotois Boethematon.
All right.
These are the works about those
iobolic, iobolic living creatures.
Yes. And they're Boethematon, right?
The powers, the things that they have.
You can say it's curative, right?
So look where you are.
I just want to stand back.
Now, for the people, for the kids, from the Ivy League,
right, remember that we're dealing with a little more sophisticated.
We're dealing with very well-established shipping of these ingredients, right?
You can find this stuff all over the Mediterranean.
Don't think that you have to look for local plants, right?
From any analysis you get of what chemicals were there,
don't immediately say, oh, if it's not growing here.
No, no, no, that's not.
You're going to find that hair dye that you found, that red ochre.
You're going to find that Lemnian Earth, that Lemnian Earth.
You know what Lemnian Earth is?
You can buy them in little what you and I would call pills or suppositories
or or lozenges.
Yeah, you dissolve these things in wine.
You can put them in your rectum.
It's the way people take medicine and antiquity.
And, you know, it's down to a pretty exact science.
You've got these things stamped, you know, with the physician of who's peddling them, right?
So, you know, anyway, Galen's out dealing drugs, right?
He's out buying drugs on Limnos.
He's like, dude, these guys have what it takes.
They've got the crank, right?
