We're in the Renaissance.
We're going to discover this.
We're going to find this cup.
Then we're going to want to use it.
We're going to want to bring her back.
The evangelicals know this.
They know it's a part of the plan.
That's why we are who we are.
Hale Satan.
Hale Satan.
Sorry.
I'm trying to catch up with the chat.
I'm trying to listen.
I'm going to listen back to this.
I know what's been said.
Because I've been trying to concentrate.
I'm reading at this.
Somebody asked me about the painting
of the background.
That painting was done at the state
clot of the university.
While I was contracted to bring
the historical reality to the
a leida MRF Socied M repeatedly, cazgliad gwiaith a'r gwneud i'r drw pekeroedd universulau.
Al lit ich erbyn ein brydawn hynny neu fynd yn dwyn i'r proses nad yw'na yn ho doen meddw i fynd.
Rhywod blaid yn berydd ar riskogesig rydymangingol Аg 근데b h vec yn ym mwyled.
Fle would be moim ond.
Mae hyfyrlus yn fynd fear hwn.
Mae hi i ddweud yn d enseyn a gwybod..
Mae hwn dylai.
Rwyf, diem fried, gyda ph Maurice deiernerau?
I Black Out Leaves.
Rwyf Pork Nrw sydd yn fy nhw o'n tokensau.
Rwyf when weionedd cwkhwr nid credu.
While she was across the campus, I gave a talk on the image that you see painted in the painting,
which happened at her, it was a free painting day, and she said she just felt like this image was
coming to her. And so, you know, it's part of the magic. It's who is the image. She's bleeding
and she's standing in a pool of blood. And it almost looks like she's in the water
and you are upside down. Who's this woman if you were John and you were, you know,
you knew that you could get bitten by an asp or by a viper and it wouldn't it wouldn't hurt you.
Right? And you knew how the water works. You know why Lady Babylon sits on the waters,
right? Everybody knows that, right? It's part of the physics that are involved in the magic.
Yeah, it's, yeah, so necromancy and alchemy. These are all coming back. There's a renaissance
as my new student physicist would be able to tell you. Look, people, we're in an area where this
thing is, this thing is a mystery, right? And it's gorgeous. There's something in the cup
that's provided and that's what we're almost there to find out is what's in that cup.
I am it? Yeah. Who and what is Satan?
Yeah. I want to know. Yeah. Who and what is Satan? And who asked that? Joe Jones.
Joe Jones. Here's what I'm going to ask. Sorry, Joe Jones. Sorry, Joe Jones. I must remember him,
shall we? Yeah. Who and what is Satan? Yeah. Here's what I'd like you to do. I'd like you to
take that question to Byron. Okay. When you, it's a necromancy lesson. When you engage in necromancy,
you are involving a process that you can inhibit yourself and the way to uninhibit it
is to randomize it. And so when you come to Byron, you ask him a question and through the muse,
he can answer you back. So here's what I want you to do. Go to Lord Byron. This is right if
if you wanted a necromancy assignment. Here it is. Go to Lord Byron, Joe Jones,
and ask the devil himself. Ask the devil himself. And if you do that, I want you to come back next
sabah. And I want you to tell us what the devil said to you. Joe Jones, that is your
mission should you choose to accept it. Your satanic engagement. Yes. Hail Satan. Fantastic.
We are the yellow shark. How does that have to do with Byron? Good question because
also yellow shark, can we get a link? Can I get a link to your discord? I
tried searching for it and failed. Useless. Fail. So I appreciate a link. We have been through why
it has anything to do with Byron. But I'm going to try and get a link up. I'm going to try and get a link
and put it in the comments when this is over because I'm going to have to go and find the link
and put it up there. I haven't got it yet. I haven't got it. I wish I could. I've got the documents
and I've read it myself, but I'm going to have to... I need help. Help. And Jack, please. See if
you can get the link for it. We need titles to search the links. So what I'll do is get titles
up because I've got them. Apologies. Yeah. And we appreciate the art. We appreciate the art.
You'll notice these reels. Agent Ferrari and they're fantastic. Love them. That's Agent Ferrari's
work. Good. Shout out. Shout out to him and shout out to Chewie for keeping us flying. I appreciate
that. I really do. That's my daughter, by the way. It was an apple scout
what I wanted to get off. You don't have to see it for it. I'll come back to you.
Yeah. Um, yeah. What's that? Yeah, fantastic. Discord. You should create it. Now, what is that?
Yeah. And what does that have to do with Byron? Yeah. No, I'm giving you instructions.
Go, right? Go. Um, you know, Rob told me this week he said he shaved his head, right? And because
anybody that appears has to appear in mourning, right? Because we recognize the death of Jehovah.
Okay. And if you, you cannot be born again without that state, you must be in the state
of recognizing the death and mourning, actively mourning the death of Jehovah.
So, um, he shaved his head and he, and he went, um, that's scary. He shaved his head. Rob shaved
his head and he told people around why he was because he was entering satanic initiation.
So, um, that courage, that courage, we should take, we should take note of that. Those of us
on this side of the pond should take note and honor, and honor that. And Rob, don't you just
want to say it? I simply don't care to be honest. I simply don't care. It's my hair. It's my hair.
I'll do what I want with this. Uncommerable freedom. That's what that represents for me.
Yeah. If I want to. I'll do what I want. That's satanic. I'm sorry.
Yeah. Yeah. Amen. Amen. Right. I am the amen. Um, for, for those of you who are interested on the
necromantic side as well, it was a specialty of mine. The necromantic thing really turns me on.
So for those of you who are interested, there is a seal. There is a seal on Jung's, um,
Libair Novos, right? And what, what I mean, there's a seal. I mean, Jung said there's a seal on
it, right? On the work. It was split up in the three notebooks at the time. They combined it
in the one, right? But he says there's a seal on the work. Um, and if you can break that seal,
um, you, um, you can talk directly to Amon.
So if you want, if, if Byron is not your thing, go to the red book with Jung and dig around, sniff
around for the magician. And once you find that, then, uh, and I can hear him as I'm standing here
talking to you, I can hear Jung complaining, right? He's ball gag, so he can't, can't do much. You
can only mumble. But, um, I've got his black, um, rod, um, the serpent rod. I've got it for you.
And I want to give it to you. I want to make it, um, common. I want to profane it so that you can
use it as a key. So if you're interested in the necromancy side, Jung, uh, the section on the
magician. Yeah. The section on the magician and look for Amon. Look for Amon. And when you find Amon,
then present your question, right? What is Historia? Historia is originally a question.
It means inquiry, right? In Greek, but it's a question. Originally it's a question that you
propose to an oracle. And the oracle
is able to unite herself with the divinity, right? Who is then able to work through you
and tell you, because it's past, present, and future, and tell you how it's going to work.
Yeah. It's, it's gorgeous stuff. You don't pay her, right? And people say, oh, they got
treasuries and they got this and they got that. And they also know that there's a lethality involved,
that there's a lethality involved. Um, and we know that the price of taking cash in the
in the Saturnian religion, if you want to call it that, in the Saturnian practice,
the price of taking any sort of compensation is immediate ejection.
Yeah. So you can't worship God and Amon, right? Amon. I am the great Amen.
And you thought it was Hebrid, didn't you? It's not.
Very slips. Yeah.
Yeah. That's why it's very slips, necessary.
Look at the, look at the, look at the, go ahead and put up harmonia. This is what we're trying
to achieve, right? This is harmonia. And harmonia was transformed into a snake.
Yeah. And why was she that way? Because a snake was her mate.
Yeah. Cadmus. The one who preserved the burning purple and restored the lightning
so you're like, what? Right? Um, dark, dark harbor, right? We're taught, I'm teaching you as
we're working together. I'm teaching you the Orphic Vox. I taught you the harbor and somebody
asked, well, are we done? Um, is the, is the, is it the vagina? Yes, it is, but it's more than
just a vagina. It's the cyanic harbor where if you have ears to hear, you'll know what is there.
Rob's people are doing this. They're entering that island, right? They're entering that island
where that haze is lifted up, right? Which is funny because the Greeks talk about the passages
the same way. There is a haze, a fog. Yeah. It's just, uh, it's coming out of, look, here's
where it's coming from. Put that, show us Georgia. Go through some pictures of Georgia here. I just
