Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
We have a great, great appearance tonight from somebody who's going to help us bridge
the east and the west so that we can see the big picture of the Bronze Age right.
And we are going to talk about the reason that we've come, Lady Babylon.
Here are the caskets in that child cherishing maiden chamber in which was the son of earth,
in which the girl nursed yourself begotten offspring with her manly breast.
Lift up your axe that played the midwife to save the people of your Athena with your
delivering hatchet.
We've come tonight to a place that we're going to look at something that was proposed
to Macmillan Press as the follow up.
What I did was we all know about the Ionian and the Attic and the Koine and the Doric.
We know about these different dialects of Greek.
But I found that Orphic Greek, in the existence of the thing called Orphic Greek, I want to
show you tonight a translation of chapter 17 of John's Apocalypse using the Orphic
box.
So this is the language applied to the chapter to give you a seat in the place of those with
ears to hear.
I want to read you this little introduction that I wrote for this book.
Cracking the first code in the early 19th century, Otto Kern, an exceptionally nerdy German scholar
of classical Greek, discovered a hidden language buried in the writings of ancient cultists.
He called this language the Vox Orphica, an arrogantly erudite Latin phrase, meaning
the Orphic voice, because it was originally created by the cult followers of the famous
Thracian poet Orpheus.
The voice is older than democracy itself.
It predates Jesus and his apostles by almost a millennium.
And it possesses its own uniquely compelling linguistic structure.
Within its complex web of intentional concealment, the voice communicates a clandestine system
of rituals and compound drug recipes that form the foundation of the world's very first
mystery cult.
The voice was the linguistic scaffolding upon which the apostle John knowingly constructed
his apocalypse.
I'm going to read you the Orphic Vox over Revelation 17.
We can look, if we have any time, we can look at the Greek at the end, but I want to give
you now the seat.
So now what we've done is it's very simple.
We've just taken the terms that are used by the Orphic Vox and we're translating them
for you and anything that has an association with that word, bringing it out.
It's true translation so that you can hear what the actual text is saying.
Yeah, we are breaking those seals, which the Trohiscoi are little pills, suppositories,
the seals that you put rectally, you apply rectally, so that you may enter the wilderness.
Okay.
All right.
Are you with me?
Okay.
So, yeah.
Here we go.
Here's the translation.
Yes, warning to the reader.
I'm sorry.
I had to officially do that.
Here we go.
One of the seven trans-dimensional messengers spoke to me.
One of the seven guardians who possesses the seven alchemical distillation devices, pay
attention, I will show you the condemnation of the great whore who manipulates the powers
of the dimensional waves with whom the terrestrial rulers have had intercourse.
These earth rulers, inebriated by consuming her own sexual fluids, have filled the terrestrial
dimension with her demonic inspiration.
With that, the messenger transported me by means of possession to the place of vision,
where I comprehended a woman under the influence of a scarlet-colored potion, which provided
her with future sources of blasphemy.
The potion was compounded of seven venoms and 10 botanicals.
By means of her burning purple, this scarlet potion enabled her to carry the purity of
the stream of the muses, the precious voices of the oracular priestesses, and the jewels
of their pronouncements.
By means of her oracular voice, she dispensed to the terrestrial world in her fluids from
her vagina.
This prostitute commanded the accursed powers fated to overthrow God.
She stored the power in the form of a highly visible magic name, mystery.
She was the Persian queen, great leader of the magi, mother of sexual communion, possessor
of abominable, God-killing power that resides in earth-born elements.
She was made invulnerable by the famous drugs called the blood of the holy and the blood
of the one who screams Jesus.
I was awestruck by this great woman when the messenger, the one of seven, said, Why are
you so impressed with the woman in the vision?
