This is our heritage.
Come on.
This is gorgeous.
This is gorgeous.
This is human heritage.
Love it.
We got a couple more here.
I'm going to bring one.
We got to bring back Dionysus, right?
This is just, it hates the rights.
They hate us, they hate it, the inability to recognize and to give honor to decay.
They hate it.
They hate it.
The rights.
Those who have that, those who reject Amon, remember those Cretans, they're always liars.
They're always liars.
Oh, God, they're always liars.
It's the contest.
It's the contest and the transformation.
They made it.
You know, it's just like, I hate to, I hate to tell people this.
I really hate to tell people this.
Yeah.
That transformation, Chewie.
I really hate to tell people this, but that power predates, yeah, that power predates.
You wondered.
You wondered about the goat.
You wondered, hmm, let's go to the next one.
Boom.
We're almost in there.
Are you ready?
I want to now bring you, now that I've given you the chance to hear the Daimon of the initiation.
What we've done is we've taken that right out of Euripides and we've taken that, that
initiation power and applied it, applied it via the Greek.
Are you ready?
This is where you are.
You are scuthizo.
You are scuthizo.
Where is this stuff coming from?
Remember, he said he's lent some Lydian dude, some Lydian dude that should have cued it
in your head.
You should have seen them.
Those tribes, oh, yes, yes.
I know where it's coming comes coming from a place where I can scuthizo and where the
queen is scutha.
I'm very, people shave your heads.
Shave your heads is what it means.
What is this person who does this?
The person who does this is the intoxicated.
What?
Are they on drugs?
Absolutely not.
Right?
Unless your soap is a drug because they're on soaps.
They're on brain soaps, yeah, twice a day, take a bath.
Take a bath in the fumigation of the brain soap.
You wash your hidden parts.
You wash your sweaty things.
Even some people will pick around in their nose and kind of clean it up, right?
Some people, I don't know, you clean your mouth, you clean everything.
Why wouldn't you clean your brain?
These are purgations, the clema.
Yeah, it's a purgation.
That's what we're here for.
When you have been born again, you use the purgation to maintain your existence, your
brain.
It keeps you alive.
Where do you think that inspiration comes from?
I was trying to convince people recently with an object lesson of who the muse is by the
fact that the muse does not surround us all.
