Monast bent right like judeism and christianity islam are not the only manifestations
of
Monast religions. They're not and
We know that when you know, when you have this phenomenon take place that you have immediately
Look at where your creative stuff goes
Right. Look at where the what you and I would call freedom and the culture goes all of a sudden you've got groups that can be persecuted
Right. All of that that is a monast
tendency
And if you read the history going on around you, you can take the temperature
Of the patient and say, oh, look what you know what?
I think we're going to have
Persecutions now and we'll say it'll begin this way. You can just replay that record of history. You were doing some work with dark ages
Stuff tell me tell me. Did you ever get off and debate on the dark ages?
So I thought he was bailing out which I thought I didn't know if he was going to actually do it
We had a set up. I was going to debate someone
an actual christian
Very prominent conservative christian
On the topic of was the dark ages actually dark
Of course, I'm taking the opinion taking the side of yes
This person's giving getting the side of no and which they actually have scholarship on their side
So that I thought I'm giving you an easy
position to to fight me on
He bailed out. However before before you
Talk crap about him. He does he did agree to reschedule it to the 22nd
So let's hold off on see if he actually shows up or not
My guess he won't but hey, I might be wrong
I hope I hope um that he will
Because uh, this is a problem that I've been having is nobody wants to step into the ring
Right. I think it's I think it's
Cowardly, I think it's really cowardly if you're willing to go there on youtube
And and say anything about these texts and these religions
Why why won't you talk to somebody?
who's got
maybe
Some evidence
That you should look at right
They want the easy slam dunks they go on to tiktok and they find that one moron
Who wants to do like to make the dumbest claims in the world?
And then like slam dunk on this person the easiest low-hanging fruit in the world
And then get all this praise for being this great public-facing scholar
That's refuting misinformation out there that nobody actually believes anyway
So you're not it's like what do we do? You're just what what's going? This is this is what phd's are doing in this day and age
What what's going on?
Yeah, exactly. And so their response to you. I think I predict is going to be silence
Yeah
That's another thing. You want to actually engage in a real discussion
Bring with somebody who's actually serious about this who's actually going to the primary sources
Who's actually trying to be careful? Nope
Don't want to talk to you
I can't it's like that's like the most mind-blowing thing in the world
It's supposed to be a public-facing scholar
And you actually have somebody with real criticisms of some of this stuff and here's your here's your opportunity to be here to be the expert
Prove me wrong
Nope, don't want to do it
What does that tell you it's some there's some bullshit going on here. It's a fake shit going on with the scholars
Yeah, yeah, it makes me think that spreading the sources like you're doing is way more important
Historically right now. Isn't that what a scholar supposed to do? Yeah. Yeah
Like a hundred years ago before the internet or even 50 years ago, let's say
The scholar was the the place you had to go to to find out about the ancient sources
You couldn't there was no internet and you're not printing out books like they do today
There's no amazon
You had to go to a library or you had to go to a university and learn from an expert
Now now with the internet scholars are almost being replaced because they're just off in their own little world
writing academic papers for a few people
not the general public's not reading these really
um
Specific topics of discussion and they're very politicized. It's very politically driven. You can tell
Very politically driven. There's no more. No, it's it's not the same as it used to be
And i'm only saying this as somebody who's who reads modern scholarship and reads older scholars
I read both I read james frazier and you're like, oh my god the wealth of knowledge this guy has
Where he's like an encyclopedia of the ancient world
Just going into syria going into finicia going into egypt and writing about all these different gods and their in their cults
And then today it's like every scholar you talk to is sort of relegated into this one little specific area
And there's not a lot of big anthropologic anthropology
Driven
um
I mean
Books, I guess, I don't know. There are some i'm not saying there isn't like, you know, obviously there's there's some really good
textbooks out there, but i'm just saying for the most part. That's what it seems to be
The the mania is bad enough in modern academia
And I can only speak for classics, but the mania is bad enough
um
That they aren't doing their job
They're not really guarding the reason you're guarding those sources is forced the bigger
Uh benefit to society
Right, that's what you they're not just nerds who are sitting around looking at books
They're supposed to be nerds who are making sure the public has access
To this information so that we can maintain without filtering it without filtering it
Through their own biases, but that doesn't make careers
You got to go through the biases you got to go through the silly articles
You got to go and i'm telling you from experience in the hundreds
Hundreds of meetings through my 20 years
Uh of educational loan. I can tell you
Right, I can tell you that this process is meant to prop people up and it does and you have to become political
And you have to say x y z and if you say the wrong thing you can get fired
And i'm the perfect example of that right and once you're out you're out
So all of the academics neal that you will encounter
At heart are scared
Right, they're scared of losing their jobs or notice. That's what I've noticed
Yeah, so if they can't come out and say such
You know, um such stuff
You know, uh, I was I wanted to ask you
As you open up this gateway because what it is is a gateway to the
To the past that we haven't been privy to up to this point
As you open up this gateway, are you in uh, and are you finding like an even more interesting history?
Isn't it cool when you look back at what the people are actually doing and you're like, wow
That's you know, it's way more interesting than this
Monist fairy tale I got growing up, you know in america
Yeah, like I said before I'll say it again
The world before the church was colorful and three-dimensional
And and then all of a sudden they just became dark and two-dimensional
That's what I think it's the best way to describe it
And then people want to talk about oh the dark ages wasn't really so dark
You know the austere gods were actually pretty cool. They built these great churches. They and they they struck
Look at this golden monument. They built. I don't care about none of that
I don't even care if the economy was great, which it wasn't by the way. I'm finding that out right now
It actually wasn't that great
It was only good if you were like living in the top 1% and you were like a royal whatever
But anyways, let's not even talk about the economy or whatever. I'm talking about text
Talking about literature talking about things that make the world fun
Things that make you want to get up in the in the morning
architect or yeah architecture being one
uh theater
play writers
poetry
books about history
Where what happened to all that shit?
It goes away. It it gets killed
Because everything's directed at this one purpose the church the trinity
Mother Mary
And that's the world you're forced into
The the fact that people are studying this stuff and still want to slap that label on themselves
Is mind-blowing it speaks volumes about a person that you know this history and you still want to slap that label on you
that you're and then and then like
Try to act like some sort of
Progressive version of that. No, no, no. There's some fake shit going on there. I could see right through it
Fake I'm gonna I'm gonna quote you on that somebody. There's some fake shit going on there
right
All right, it was um the more you peel back the more you look at those sources
Isn't it amazing how the stuff just
Kind of fills in and you begin to see this picture when you've read
so
Of these voices of antiquity you start to get a real kind of
Authentic feel every once in a while just to inspire my
audience who is going through the process of learning these sources
Neil tell us
It gets to a point where you
You can see it so well that it kind of makes you high doesn't
Yeah
You're right. There's a buzz that you get from digging into these texts
and uh
and trying to understand what was the mindset like of people in those days compared to
Recently or in the middle ages or something like that and you're right. There's a buzz that you get from reading these people
It's a different world totally totally different world back then
Yeah, and you can bring that to people you can bring that to them through the language and through the sources
So I think we're doing essentially what the modern what the ancient museum would be doing
Right, you're you're like a librarian if you're living in alexandra, you'd be working for the library. You know what I mean?
Catalogging or something getting that's preserving that stuff. I love it. I love it
You know, it's a man's preservation real quick. Let's want to see someone on that
It's amazing how many texts
That are cited and quoted by ancient ancients like plutarch or
diodorus or or whatever
apolaus
Uh lucian cites all these texts and they're all citing the same sources
Like lucian knows a lot of the same sources that plutarch knows
Uh, pausanius knows a lot of the same sources
Hecateus of ebder is one of them, right? They're all talking about this hecateus of ebder guy
But then all of a sudden they lose all these texts
after the fourth century
It almost makes you wonder like what what how do you how do they just
lose the
What was going on in these libraries that they lost all these precious materials?
That we now don't even know what they said. We have to go through through. Um, we have to go through
Fragments of others texts to find these find these texts. It's it's it's terrible. It's almost like the history was as almost lost
we're lucky
Galen was complaining about christians burning down libraries
So I think it's I think it was intentional
I think that loss of information was monks who were using classical texts to wipe their backsides with
um, and you can see
Only the most famous survived
And it's it's just
Byzantine scholars, you know for everything that we say
those Byzantine scholars
Oh god, the commentators like tzitzis. Oh god, michael cellis those guys
They really did fight to preserve that
They saved humanity. They saved humanity. They really did and the um
Yeah, like you said like you got to think hack a taste of ebder
What did he say?
because
We're talking about the oldest person to ever talk about moses and abraham
And and I know he was well known because he cited so often by plutarch by lucian by
Whoever pausanias mentions him
So he's obviously well known
He wasn't like some rare text. They obviously could have preserved him. He was obviously that volumist at the time
What did he say that the church didn't want to preserve? What was he saying?
I bet you there's some shit in there that they didn't want to keep
And not only do they do they do they get or do they lose text that they didn't want to preserve?
They messed with text that they wanted to change like josephus
Interpolating josephus to put jesus in there
Like that's they fucked with our history
And what people just people just think it's okay
Yeah, it's not normal because for us you couldn't do that for us today. You can't fake those
I mean no like like, you know fake did you lose your career? You're done
That would be that's horrible to do that
but
um
We have all of those sources
All we need to do all we need to do is go back to those sources and when you start reading that stuff
You're done it and i'm telling you it's a drug. It's a complete drug when they we talked about inspiration tonight
um
Those forms of inspiration or mania the doctors on the side of gaylin were talking
About those types of mania and how they can be controlled with drugs
Part of your psychological well-being is your balancing
And that balancing comes through drugs
As if the you know humanity was meant to have a constant supply of this natural stuff
Um and it's all in gaylin
So when we talk about madness and the madness of the poet and all that kind of stuff
That gift
That gift is just an adjustment of your interaction with nature, right? They can breathe those mephitic vapors
They can chew those leaves. They can have those snakes that they're milking. They can use all of these chemicals
But it comes down to a process a very physical, you know
Real process and that process was called the mystery
And that's all we're doing is showing using these sources to show you I thought what you did tonight, you know with yaho
I thought that was gorgeous. Thank you for bringing in the little the manuscript that had the little yaho
And it's like dude seriously look at there it is
You cannot deny that
Right, there's no miracle there. You're just working with evidence hardcore evidence
So I love that and I hope that it doesn't cause you problems to be associated with
What did you think about the osiris thing?
No, I think it's yeah, I think it's the name the name ocea o o ocea in greek is holy one
And then sphazias has the same name in fridgen
There's even there's even a goddess called osiris
And she ultimately it comes into greek ultimately as aisa
They do something with the vowels
So, yeah, it is this holy divinity and what I like about aisa is that she is
