Now, what is this?
What light does the shed on Jesus and that naked kid?
Because that's what it's all about.
You didn't come here.
You didn't come here to talk to Philemonus and find out how do you treat your
how do you treat your your body who is now under the influence of too much
Spanish fly, right, and is having a problem?
What do you do to bring that down?
What do you do to bring down the level of mania?
All right.
And somebody's somebody's mental state.
How do you cause you guys from you guys from the Ivy League?
Did you know you didn't?
Did you know that women were able to control these these women
that Cambridge says are from Athens and sat around in their homes and did nothing,
right, regardless of the great Athena?
Hmm.
We find out that those women were able to modulate their level of bleeding
during menstruation.
Yeah, that's sophisticated.
It sounds like something you would want to be able to do.
Well, it turns out they're on the religious side.
They're doing the very same thing.
Remember, these are all the oyster mania is brought about by a cult
that is treating birth, right?
That is heralding in birth.
They're the ones who are that you call on, right?
You can get their drugs to induce birth to induce birth act like oxytocin
injection gives somebody a bolus of oxytocin, right?
Get the contractions going.
They know it too.
They're doing the same work in the same pathways, right?
But it's this group of highly skilled women that develops these rights.
So when we see that the glimny and earth, that fire that balances that serpent,
that venom, yeah, and we see the bronze foot.
Yeah, and we see her with her lingerie on bringing in the apocalypse.
That morning star.
Yeah, we've got to start thinking bronze age, we've got to start looking.
One of the things that I noticed, I had the distinct pleasure in in my
education of working, of working on linear B. Yeah, with none other than Emmett Bennett,
who, you know, was involved in cracking it.
And I thought it was hilarious that the, the more I looked, the less I could find
that didn't have something to do with drugs.
Yeah, the shipment of the ordering of the storing of different drugs.
So that when I came to people and said they were using drugs and antiquity and
they said, Mr Hillman, the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
That's the ignorance kiddies from the ivory tower that you have been subjected to.
Now it's time to pull your heads out.
It's time to look at these texts and to see the sophistication for what it is.
And when you see the multi dimensional polypharmaceutical approach,
you might understand something about those Medusai.
You might understand something about all that poison culture.
You might understand something about urinating, ejaculating, drinking the sweat.
Yes, yes, you might see Eve even, you might even see Eve and understand.
You guys know that's not written in Hebrew.
You know that text is written in Greek.
Otherwise you wouldn't get centaurs that are pulled out by the Mazarets.
You guys know that, right?
We have to be careful with these texts.
The fact that classes are surrendered, the biblical texts is why we today have to ask
the question, what was Jesus doing in public park at four a.m.
with a naked boy screaming at the Roman squad that had showed up to arrest him,
saying, I am not a child trafficker.
Yeah, yeah, you will be surprised when you enter into the mystery.
You will be surprised.
Yeah, I love this.
I love this.
Thank you guys for coming tonight.
I've taken more time from the devil than I should have.
Now I'm going to have to pay for it.
I encourage everybody with an earshot who wants to elucidate that mystery.
I encourage you to get access to these materials.
I encourage you to pull them out.
I will keep bringing you the mysteries and people have requested that I show the imperial side,
that we look at some of the cult use of drugs among Imperials.
This is fantastic from stuff that you will not have access to.
Nobody, nobody tries to get access to these materials.
From stuff that you will not have access to.
Nobody, nobody translates this stuff.
Remember Max Wellman, right?
He's, he's a Vatican archive.
