Oh, and you got to make a plaster because when you bleed your horse, they can get an infection. It's just an inflammation. And so you've got to, you don't bleed your horse. Let's wait.
I know she's out there. You bleed your horse. I'm looking for you. This is the first of seven, right? Go. Okay. And what else besides the cannabis?
You know, just your standard list of drugs, heliotropic. Yeah, no, it's all Tithamalan, Nitron. Yeah, these are all good standard drugs. What's interesting about it is that they're drugs that they're using on humans as well, drugs that they're using in ritual.
So in antiquity, they're using with their horses the same drugs that they're using. Remember, if you're a civilian, you don't bathe. You don't bathe in water. You bathe in the fumes of cannabis.
That's how you take a bath. You fumigate in cannabis. So it kind of makes sense that all these people who are getting up in the morning and fumigating themselves with cannabis, they're also giving cannabis to their horses.
It kind of makes sense. Maybe it's a connection thing. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe horses get stressed. Horse PTSD. They're going to have, they're going to get PTSD just like the rest of us, right?
Maybe they need it. Okay, let's go to the next one. He's going to pull it right out of the horse, right? Okay, are you ready? They got asbestos here. I just wanted you to see that.
There's the risk to Loki again. There's more, there's more cannabis. Yeah, these are all for different. We're just going through different affections, right? Different sorts of problems, health problems, and we're coming up with a whole bunch of curatives.
Keep going. Excellent. Right. Oh, God, look at this one. I just want you to look at the first line. This is the on the making, the Hippocrates on the making of the Troi-Hiskus.
The, the lozenges, right? The trokisk, the little, it's a little pill that you can put into a glass of wine and dissolve it. And then you can take that wine, you can flush it into your rectum. That's a direct infusion, they call it, right?
And what are these used for? These are used prospas and malin. Now, I can throw this text in front of any classicist or in front of any Bible scholar, and they won't be able to read the terms here, because this is highly technical.
What is malice, right? What is malice? It's horse distemper, horse distemper. And if you've had a horse, you know what horse distemper is. You know how highly infectious it is, how you got to isolate your horse, right?
Well, here's the treatment for it. And he's got a whole prescription for the trokisk for the little pill that you make, right? Now, you and I, with our horses, because we're not that smart, we would have gone out to the marketplace.
And we would have talked to the hippie atroi. We said, hey, what do I give to, you know, I got distemper going on, got big swollen glands.
Here, here's what you take these pills, dissolve them in wine, put them into infusion. Great. Doc, Doc, before you go, can I eat that brown brick that comes out of a mare as she is giving birth?
Can I eat that thing? No, no, no, no, don't eat it. Go have it prepared. You go to the midwives, they'll prepare it for you. They'll probably take a, you know, a portion of it is, you know, cost.
Good, good, good. You see how we are with our horses? When you're in a society that is horse driven, and you have a horse god. Wait, horse god? Yes. Horse god, horse god. Now you know. Now you know why.
Bring us the horse god. Next one, please. Boom. Okay. Yep, yep, yep. No, this is just, it's more treatment. I want to hustle ahead.
I want to hustle ahead. Look at known as here, people. Perseus shore off the snakey swath of one Medusa. While her womb was still burdened and swollen with young, still in full of Pegasus, right?
Medusa is a priestess. What? She's a priestess of the Virgin. She's a priestess of the Virgin. And what does she have inside of her? She has Pegasus. She has a flying horse. She has a flying horse. Okay, hang in there with me.
Those of you, those of you who are understanding, follow it all the way till the end. She has a horse inside of her. And this horse is the one who struck the ground and out came the fountain of the muse, the hippocrine, the fountain of the muse.
This is all through Medusa. All through Medusa. Okay. Are you with me? Let's keep going. Excellent. We're almost there. And play the part of childbirth and the fruit. Yeah, great. Let's go to the next one, please. And here's Pausanias. Thank you, Pausanias.
And here's Pausanias. Among the means of cleansing. Okay, let's get into some dirty religion. Among the means of cleansing by ritual purification. What do you need to be richly purified for? I wonder. Which they say the people of Troisan, right, used to cleanse arrestees, right? This is how they cleansed. Why did arrestees need cleansing?
Because he killed someone. He killed someone. And that someone happened to be his mother. Seriously? There's a point to the mania. You know what they called his mother? They called her the dracina. The dracina. You know what that is translated as? This is the sexiest Greek on the planet. You're never going to get better Greek than this. Are you ready? Dracina.
Dragon queen. Dragon queen. I want to know what the dragon queen did. I want to know. But that kid arrestees was so shocked into mania. He was wandering around talking to the furies. You know, when the furies start talking to you, you're in trouble.
Can anybody feel the temperature rising? I feel those furies coming out. I feel them talking. Talking right. Right into your brain. The furies. Yeah. Yeah. There's a cure. You have to be purged. You have to be purged.
The first step is alpha. You have to be purged. How? How am I going to be purged? Go, go, go back to that text. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. Right?
For the Troisans to have a fountain called the horses and the legend about it does not differ from the one which prevails in Beosia for they too say that the earth sent up the water when the horse Pagus has struck the ground with his hoof.
