You enter into the vision. It's the only way that we're all going to get it
Do you think these people sat around and creatively made this stuff up?
Seriously
Yeah
Or you can follow the fairy tale and watch your
Watch your charlton heston part the waters
Yeah, you can
But you've been misreading the text and I love to do it every christian out there. I can feel you
I can feel you right now. I can feel you
I've got my arms around you every christian out there. I can feel you
This is the reality
This is the reality
They're receiving visions from drugs
Yeah
profits speak
from drugs
and drug use
So I got news for harvard. It's not just that they've got this in the ancillary in the air flying through the air in antiquity
It's not that it's not that it's that it's central. You don't have the mysteries without this
You don't have it
What do you think they're doing in those tents?
Fantastic go to the next one go to the next one. I want to finish up here. Look and what happens this thing
Functions on the basis of your hormone if you read this in king james, you're gonna laugh your
bottom off
Right you're gonna laugh
Um, but what happens, you know these drugs function they use it like go around
They they can't they they can't translate at a competent level. So they drag it down
Um, it's garbage. It's absolute garbage
And because it had to be filtered through that masoretic he grew it lost everything
So, you know, we have though we have it sitting right here. What does it say? Right this drug functions within
the movement or the impulse
Right of that spirit
Yeah, yeah
It combines
It combines with
That panelma
Do you feel it on that inhalation? Do you feel it?
That is the panelma
That is kicking you
into
the vision
Yeah, now it was rough. It was none of this stuff is ever easy, right? And I was like, uh, it was like falling down
I'm hitting the ground right rolling right get up, right
Right, Jesus is all like. Oh my goodness. His face is all covered with claudy gross stuff
Right, what's the stuff on this? Look you can take it and you can like do like that with gross man. It's just gross
It's on your faith bra
If I were the cop that arrested him with that naked kid
I would be like dude. I'm not wiping his face, right? You're gonna you're gonna clean out my car
Shout out to those roman cops
All right, so what oh that felt good for some reason. I don't know why it gives me pleasure
Let's go to the next one. What happens?
Hmm. Look people look people. Oh my god the form of these drugs
What what did they have they were they were liquid courage, baby
They were pill courage
These are courage pills and what do they have they have this reflection
In each of their four basic parts, right? There's a compound drug made of four different drugs
Now take this down. I'm going to describe to the people exactly what's going on. It's the first time this has ever been exposed
I want you to think about it. This is how they make the drugs
You make them as stones. They call them lethal
pebbles
right pebbles
Because you're going to be putting this into your rectum
right, so
You don't want a boulder, right? So they're gonna. Hey, I know chewy. No, right
um
Right sometimes they tie you up. So does it matter? I don't know. Um, but you take the this is how they're preparing the medicines
So you make the compound and then you harden the compound into a ball
And then you take that ball, which is perfectly round and has no back and that's why it's very funny
When it talks about the eyes
Okay, they're they're totally misrepresenting the text all the christians every english translation of it
sucks
sucks because they went from the masoretic hebra text
From the 11th century
We're out 10th century 11th century somewhere there, right? It was developed over time
so
Yeah, we're obscured
We can't see what's actually going on
So you take this little pill and then you recode it you make more drugs and you put another coating on it
You make more drugs let it dry put another coating on it finally
You've got your four and why do you need four?
because
dummy
The universe is divided
by quarters
Don't you know that?
Haven't you been paying attention?
Hmm. Okay. Good
Fantastic. All right. So now we've got our
Trojisco's or our trojoi in the plural. We've got our trojoi here just like galen
They're gonna have seals on them. They're gonna have some kind of stamp. That's what they did with these
Um, you go when you purchase them
Um, it's gotta have a stamp so that you know this is provided by this doctor or that doctor
You got to know who's responsible for it when galen goes to north africa
To purchase it's like 12,000. I forget how many tablets he buys
but he buys these
And they of course they have to have the seal the limnion seal on them, right to show that they're up to
Standard it's like stamping it so that you can know. Well, that's in this too, but the problem is
We don't understand it
because we're working with a
bastardized text if you just look at the greek
And you've read any medical text in antiquity
All of a sudden it makes sense
I I didn't get the other read of it when I actually looked at the text. I thought oh well
Where they're using the drugs see they're using the drugs. I jumped up and down
It was happy
Right, and then I had to look up which passage it was
To find out. Oh, this is the wheels. Oh god
Oh god, keep going with the text people keep going. Let me just show you a couple more things in here
Right, this thing is divided into four sections, right? It's really four coats
Right and its parts will work together in conjunction. They don't
Stop or inhibit the action of the drug
That's what it says
Now you read this in english
everybody go to king james tonight and
Look up ezekiel chapter one and read it
And you will get then why people are so confused one more time
And then we'll take on to see that video again. Um, yeah, and they're hoop sauce, right?
These pills they're hoop sauce and they translate. This is where they translate as high
Right, these are from the these are from the height. No, it's not who sees us, right?
It's just hoop sauce and what is the hoop sauce?
These things are the acme of the punch the pharmaceutical punch
Right, this is not the stuff you go get because your elbows get sore at night because you're getting older and it's cold
Right and your elbows get sore. So you go get some pills for that, right?
Um, this isn't that your kid has an earache crying maybe teething, right? Go get him some opium
Right, go go get him. This is not that either
This is one that is it the acme of your mental transformation
Right, this stuff will knock you off your feet
That's why the prophets use it you think the drugs you use your sophisticated modern world
You haven't seen anything
Let's go for it. It's no wonder we have no profits
Right, why do we have no profits anymore?
Because it's not about the individual drugs, right? It's about the craft of how to use the fire
Fantastic. Let's look at um the very bottom, uh, the very bottom line
Those eyes, right? So as he's examining the pills
He's noticing that all four sections have this modeled appearance of eyes
right, so
What essentially
Is Ezekiel doing?
He's just giving you a description of the drugs
This was not something that anybody who was contemporary in reading would have scratched their head and said
Oh my god, you mean he's building giant rings
um that there's a legion of fiery angels and there's
Some kind of ring thing and there's eyes coming out of it and uh
Don't be gullible play the video one more time. I want I want people to see it. This is what they make of it go
The wheels did not turn about as the creatures went
Their rims were high and awesome
And all four rims were full of eyes
All around when the living creatures moved the wheels beside them moved and when the living creatures rose from the ground
The wheels also rose
Whatever the spirit would go they would go
And the wheels would rise along with them because the spirit of the living creatures
Was in the wheels
I think this means that god sees and cares about what takes place upon the earth
Though events seem out of control. We know that not only is god in control
But also we should be comforted by the fact that he sees and knows what takes place on the earth
I don't even know what that means in movies very famous movies. This is a movie from 1997
This is the movie contact
And in the movie aliens had sent through radio transmission
A little schematics to make this machine. You're seeing this wheel within the wheel that's spinning
Here is something I photoshopped to give you a better, you know
Crude idea of what maybe Ezekiel was seeing was additional
