To the work that this dude did on mithras
And and not not only mithras, but like Dionysus and
The the what he basically his whole his whole research area is the last generation of paganism
Like what were the romans doing right before christianity take over?
Well, what was that religion like we don't know a lot about it
I mean because all the sources are from like the classical world
So we all we know about is like what euripides what homers says what but there's really don't we don't have a lot of text
Of like mythology, but we have ovid and virgil. That's first century stuff. What i'm getting at is
It's a mystery to know what exactly was going on in these later
Uh fourth fourth and fifth century pagans, but I think i'm starting to get a clear picture as I as I go along
So i'll go back to the slides again
If you can see on the bottom it says namas evasio
And then there's deosola and victi mithrae the the invincible sun god mithra
And he's slaying the bull
with the name of sabazios on it
what
sabazios
But what but wait a minute if we go to who's sabazios if we go to i don't know herodotus or
diodorus or sissily or or even
Cicero any of those sources they all will say
sabazius is a
Is an is the asian dianysus
That the name of dianysus in turkey modern-day turkey
which we called it asia back then
or uh
Anatolia, which is anatole means east
But uh anyways east asia
The name of the name of bakis in asia was sabazios
So wait a minute. Is he slaying sabazius? Well, it turns out that sub sabazius
Is the bull is a bull horn god?
He's called the horn son of amon
Amon is a ram god
So it's confusing. Is he a is he a son of a ram?
Which would make him a lamb by the way the lamb of god?
Whoa, that's kind of weird
But it does call him the horn god
And some tax. He's a bull horn and some tax. He's ram horn
so
So there is the animal thing going on there
But I think if we go deeper we go to the next one. So clementive alexander says something really interesting around 200 ad
He says that god in the bosom. He's talking about the gospel of john
Is a counter sign of the mysteries of sabazius to the adepts
This is a dragon passed through the bosom of the initiates
And this is like he just kind of drops this in the middle of his precepticus text
Without giving any context like maybe if you were reading this in 200 ad
He would know what he meant and i'm thinking because that's when these religions were were all current
So a current up-to-date
Theologian of the time period would read this and go. Oh, yeah, he's talking about some bit
But like most people who read this passage are like what the hell is clement even talking about
So i'm thinking to myself
Sabazius is considered to be a two-fold god son and father and one
A trinity if you will he's sabazius, which is sabazus
So he's Zeus, but he's also
Dionysus
rolled into one godhead
with and then if you if you
extrapolate from that with a spirit that connects the two just like a trinity would
But it's interesting because god he's saying god in the bosom
Is a counter sign he's saying that this sabazius
Is a counter or an antichrist or whatever you want however you want to
Whatever linguistics want to use but he's saying it's like an opposite of our god in the bosom
Of jesus being in the bosom of the father. He's saying sabazius is the is the opposite
He's the god of the he's like this
Luciferian godhead basically so
We'll go back to the slides again
Now that's that to me. That's interesting. I'm still parsing that out. I'm still digging through that
But I noticed that there's always it is usually a snake
present
And all of these iconographies of mithra slaying the bull
You see the snake there too, so I wonder if that has something to do with the the dragon passing through the initiates
I mean, there's so much imagery and symbolism going on
that it's it's just so
It's such a rabbit hole to dig into all this stuff, but
But here's what I wanted to show. This is not new either. This isn't a new thing. This is
Hercules
taming the bull and like five. This is this is a coin from like 500 bc
And then you have the vic victory or Nike
Slaying the bull like this was a common
symbol
For over for victory or the son of god conquering the elements because her Hercules is the original son of god
We're talking when we talk about the origins of Hercules
who the hell knows when Hercules was first worship because
It goes as soon as sources pop up. There's Hercules. There is no like first
Oh, Hercules shows up in 500. No as soon as we have text we have Hercules
So Hercules is probably a stone age god for all we know. That's all I'm just putting the stone that out there
Who knows how old Hercules is the Hercules is the original son of god
He's the original archetype of like the son of god the hero the
you know the the
And so the the the people of asia minor
Actually named their dynasty after him the Heracles day Heracles day their sons of Heracles
and so
um
Let's see now. I want to what I want to do now is I want to go
I want to go back to something real quick actually go back to my slides
Okay, here we go. This is crazy. This is so wild. This is from sythia
this is a image of
probably
Zelmoxis
slaying the bull
And this is a sythian. I didn't know what this was at first
But do you know how the pope has that hat that he wears?
This is the same. This is basically the same thing. This is a priest garment
This is this was a hat for this was a helmet that only a high priest was allowed to wear
for the sythian religion
They're docky and sythian religion and so
This they would wear this helmet and they would offer their sacrifices
And that's kind of crazy like that like look at it. It looks like the pope's hat almost but I'm just I don't know
I'm just saying like
The it's just the shape of it that really got me
Um, but there you have the bull slaying bull slaying image right there
Bacchus in the form of an edible grape
And then you have the serpent but next to him you have like uh, uh some sort of dog or cat
Trying to eat him or something
But like the idea of eating my flesh or being the sacrifice for the world
so the idea of
The idea of sebaceous being slaughtered as the bull by mithras
And then the idea of the sacrifice being the sacrifice for salvation
This is from 79. All right, so this image right here is from is from pompeh, and it can't be older than 79 ad
So we're talking like the idea of bacchus being the sacrifice to be eaten
For salvation by the way, the elusinian mysteries color ruck does a lot of work in in this area of the eucharist
And there's no doubt about it that the eucharist was a magical
Was a magical right you're taking the gods in
Demeter being in the grain the bread and bacchus being the wine the blood
There was the idea of these two gods entering you when you became
um, you became
Sanctified through this right. There was a baptism involved. There was a eucharist involved
There was salvation. There was it was about promising eternal life. That was the whole purpose of the mysteries
So uh that so that's that's you have to we're starting with
The idea that idea has to start we have to start off with that off the rip like we're already talking about salvation
We're already talking about sacrifice
We're talking about like flesh eating all these elements that are that are that are there that are just so obviously in your face
Let's see. Let's see what the next one is
Okay, so this is from one of the mithraeums in italy
um, and so what I what I noticed is
The mithraeums were connected to all the old temples of magna mater
So what you have is you had this late roman imperial cult priesthood
and what I'm what i'm noticing is
for example
The elezinian mystery has got shut down in like four or three 75 ad when theodosius was emperor
but we we know from records that the last
Elezinian hero font which is like the pope of the elezinian mystery
He's the high priest of the hell at elezinian mysteries was actually also initiated
As a level seven potter, which is level seven called saturn
Of the mithraic mysteries
What the hell so he's in two religions
Well, apparently this religion that julien was trying to create julien the apostate was this unified
pagan church
Where all the all the mystery cults were starting to come together as one to oppose christianity
And so you had the elezinian hero font was also a level seven initiate the mithraic mysteries
And all the mithraeums throughout the whole roman empire were connected to
um, the temples of magna mater. So you have the great mother and the great father
Saturn
Which saturnalia is the big the big uh, holy time of the year
The so the birthday of the sun december 25th. All of it sort of comes it comes together, right?
Um, if you go back to that image that I had on the slide, this is sylvanas
So this is now with it where the room this was found in
um, this is dated to the reign of of of uh,
pious um
160 i think it was 160
Which is he reigned right he reigned with uh, marcus aurelius
all right before marcus aurelius and um
