Two more.
Give me another one.
Yeah.
Look, if you can't control yourself, says Paul, go ahead and make, make like you're entering
a gamos, a union, right?
Yeah.
Why?
Because are you ready for this?
This is an attempt to assassinate a divinity and that divinity is Aphrodite.
Paul is shooting directly at her.
Are you ready?
He says it is better to gamo than to burn.
Wait, wait, what, what?
It's better to enter into intercourse than to burn.
What are you recognizing, Paul?
Sounds to me like a statement of defeat.
Sounds to me like the side of Christianity that you push forward, couldn't figure out
a way to defeat the poor Naya.
You mean you didn't find it?
You know the feelings.
You know the feelings.
All we have to do is give you that image of that beauty and you're a slave.
You call yourself a Christian, which you can't stand against that power.
You know you can't.
It's within you.
It's within you.
You won't be able to go to sleep unless you can come to that place, unless you can be
there with her.
We all know what the mysteries are about.
It's about bringing Eve.
We know.
It's about bringing Eve.
Devil was supposed to guard.
All right.
Ultimately he did.
He kept the way open to the tree.
Yeah.
Last, let's go to last Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't be slave.
No, that's yeah.
Look, he's telling him, you people, what does Paul tell his own frigging people?
He says, you've been bought out of the slave market, right?
It makes sense.
It makes sense that the dude who's perpetuating something that was the idea of the grand lace
stays and now has full funding, Peter, James, and John are collecting.
The business is going.
It makes perfect sense that he's telling the followers, hey, you've been bought out of
a marketplace, brah, don't be slaves of mortals, don't be slaves of people.
You're purchased.
We got you.
What does that have to do with any, you keep going, last one?
Yeah.
What do we do then?
Is these purchased slaves?
Paul, tell us, because the temple of Aphrodite is right next door, and to be honest, I can't
take your BS anymore.
I'm about to go over there and have my brain cleansed from your misogynistic garbage.
Tell me, Paul, tell me, please, give me the advice.
What does Christianity have to do with Aphrodite?
If you are bound to a woman, don't try to be unbound.
If you are not, if you are freed from woman, don't look for one.
And that is how a God becomes a victim of assassination, and you and I sit.
You and I sit underneath this aggravated battery, where's my charge?
Aggravated battery, this is where you and I sit underneath the aggravated battery, and
we absorb our concepts of the world around us, our concepts of love, our concepts of
sex.
We absorb via your battery, your misogyny.
We absorb it.
And we too want to hate her, the great queen, but you, my friend, you, my friend, have come
up against the wrong woman.
Let's go to the, I just want to remind us of the charges.
Tonight we talk, we're going to mention it tonight.
I just want the press cycle to enter in, oh, look, the grand jury brought forth indictments.
We are charging with transdimensional criminal conspiracy, and I will strive to show over
the next three sessions exactly that, that they have indeed formed a conspiracy.
And with criminal intent, and that this next, this involves racketeering, specifically necromantic
racketeering of a resurrection and death sort, using profit, profit-motivated practices, profit-motivated
practices.
Now, our standards will be different, right?
This is not typically what you would have in a human court.
Our standards go to the core of the person, right?
If we're going to serve DK, we have to go to the core.
We have to go to that reality.
Good.
And apocalyptic assault, we'll talk about, we'll talk about what kind of, what kind of
assault is apocalyptic.
It's a specific form.
It's a specific form.
And it is setting, it is setting what you would call your mind in a state of expectation
of apocalypse.
It's something that people do to psychically kidnap you.
Yes, love it, which brings us, before the obstruction, go to the final, to the false
imprisonment, the false imprisonment.
And we'll show how this false ionic imprisonment ultimately, ultimately obstructs justice.
And you think, what?
The obstruction of justice, that's just a minor.
That's something you get Lion Orange on, right?
That's something you just, it's a minor, no, it turns out in the cosmic court, obstruction
of justice is everything, is everything.
So behind all of your crimes, petty, right?
Or not petty, behind all of your crimes is a form of the obstruction of justice.
That is the true dark matter that must be purged.
In this case, against Jesus Christ that we take up for the next three sessions, I will
show you that Jesus Christ was guilty of multiple, multiple statutes, laws, common sense that
Jesus Christ is not himself a victim, but a perpetrator that he portrays himself through
his criminal conspiracy with the brand of a victim while being a perpetrator.
We will show in court that Jesus Christ, the lace-dace, was in fact purposefully and intentionally
plotting to obtain the most extra-terrestrial power since Adolf Hitler, yeah, yeah, yeah.
We will show that what you deem to be the innocent is that unjust and crooked.
And how are we going to do this?
And who, what, you're crazy, right, it's crazy.
It is, but we can do it, and the exciting way we can do it is through the necromancy
of bringing back Jesus.
I will bring Jesus back to answer questions directly, directly.
You will hear from his voice, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you will hear from his voice.
And from this, I hope that you are able to come to a verdict of guilty.
Thank you.
We will see you with the opening arguments on Wednesday.
I'm going to be private and hang out by myself for the rest of the night.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I appreciate your time.
Hail Satan.
He never cared for his payment for June, a worldly renown, on the day that it came
in again, he just turned it down.
All the way, why did you ever change your name?
