things, those beasts, go ahead and take it down.
She brings, she brings that to all of them.
To all of them, when you're thinking, okay, where's Jesus?
I'm feeling, I'm feeling like I need Jesus in the room.
Mommy, where's Jesus?
Boom, yup, that was to the muse, right?
This is so gorgeous too at the time, look at this, moussa, right, moe inepi.
Tell me, oh muse, of the works, of what is she?
She's poluhrusu, she's poluhrusu, that golden, that resplendent, much golden.
It's not just little golden, aphrodite.
This is much golden, aphrodite, radiant aphrodite.
That's who we're focusing on is radiant aphrodite.
Okay, next text, back to, you know, I'm going to drag somebody into it, I've got a malicious
desire to drag somebody into this, but before I can, I've got Paul, right, I've got Saint
Paul.
You guys know it, you love it, don't you?
You love it, I'm going to whip him.
Are you ready?
We're going to show you the Bible, I'm going to whip him.
Are you ready?
But look what's going on, look at that, just that middle, what kind of form does aphrodite
have, by the way?
What kind of form does she have?
Her ados?
What is it?
What is it?
It's like, well, first of all, it's great.
It's great, but it's great in its unbroken virginity, in its indomitable virginity.
You cannot touch this virginity, they, wait, what?
This is aphrodite that we're describing?
Yes.
You see what Christianity has done to your perception of antiquity?
Not Bible times, because those don't exist, but antiquity.
You see what it's done to your perception?
You didn't know.
Aphrodite was, she was described in the same terms as you describe Artemis.
Artemis, the virgin, huntress, right?
You cannot dominate her.
You cannot dominate her.
She is the Adamus.
She is the Adam.
She is the Adam.
Do you see what Jehovah was trying to do?
Do you see what he was trying to do?
Yeah, trying to bring his boy.
Yeah.
Oh, Satan.
Satan, Satan, Satan.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's go back to the, back to the evidence.
This is lovely.
Let's bring her.
She's right in the middle and she's got that form, right?
And it's parthenic.
It's parthenic.
You're not going to be able to violate her.
As a matter of fact, she's going to violate you because of decay.
Decay protects them.
This is the Oma from the throne.
And it protects them.
I don't care if you want to throw out Aphrodite because she's God.
I don't care because you're a monist.
I don't care.
You cannot throw out justice and continue in a society.
You have liars who drag us all to the depths and we'll just, we'll just end up finishing
it.
Apocalypse style, justice.
We serve justice always.
Let's go to the next one.
This is, I was a little preachy.
I'm sorry.
Everybody's waiting for me to beat up Paul, the apostle.
Okay.
Yeah.
Which is a privilege.
Yeah.
Right.
They, what is she doing?
What is happening?
Cosmically.
I just wanted you to see this.
That sweet desire, that sweet desire is being placed in your breast, right?
It's being placed in your breast.
It is a force that is outside of you.
It is a diamond, the winged diamond who has the golden wings from the house of dawn.
He is called Eros.
He is that archer.
Do you have your bow?
Jesus, the morning star has a bow.
Check it out and ask yourself, I didn't know Jesus was walking around with a bow.
The only thing I ever saw Jesus walking around with was little kids and, and gets involved
with some crosses, got images with him across his lot and sometimes on a boat.
Yeah.
These are the images that I've got of Jesus, right?
I don't have one of these, one of these images of him.
What does he got here?
Go back to the text.
They were just, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's got something in his chest, right?
He's got some kind of desire.
Go to the next one.
Bring him in.
Bring him in.
Bring in Paul.
I'm flustered.
Did you hear that?
I skipped that.
I think I jumped off the train.
Did somebody catch my brain if you're, if you're able to?
Here it is.
Here it is, Paul.
Here it is.
Excuse me.
People who are not accepting of such, you know, ungentlemanly, hey, Paul, Paul the Apostle,
tell me, I want you to give all of us tonight as a witness, Paul, as a witness.
Don't look at me like that.
Don't look at me like that, Paul.
I want you to give me tonight as a witness your impression of Aphrodite, your impression
of this coupling, Paul, I want you to give me what, what, what about the temples, Paul?
Tell me, tell me, what is it?
What is your mystery going to bring the world in place of Aphrodite?
What are you going to substitute her with, Paul?
Are you ready?
You Christians, look at what you've made.
Look at it, what you're supporting.
Bring it up.
Bring up that Paul the Apostle.
This is the letter to the Corinthians.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Everything things which you, you know, wrote about, it's good for a man not to engage
a woman.
It's a good thing, wait, wait, wait, wait, take it down, wait.
