Fruitful acts are you involved Paul?
Tell me here's the answer bring it up to show me answer what Paul says. This is from Paul people say show it to me
Let's read to him. Oh
La
La
La
What did he say? What did he say? He said look
We have to turn away from and renounce
Those hidden rights that were so
shameful
Take it down you didn't know when you came in I the Paul the Apostle had already confessed
To being involved in these rights. You didn't know it
Right, you just read this stuff. We've got to take the Bible back
We've got to take it back people
We've got to go into those schools and we've got to teach the Bible to people
Wouldn't that be lovely devil would love that
Devil would love that. He's like, you know what? You know what the fall of humanity is?
It's smoking their own crap
Yeah, yeah, that's what we got to make them do
Make them sit in their own feces
Isn't that smart? I was like, that's nice. Give me the next one hit it chewy. Watch this people
What what are these shameful things that they're talking about people doing? Remember last week?
We saw Jesus Christ
With Mary Magdalene and he was like, come on. Let's go up into them
You know, let's go somewhere where we can't be seen basically and he took around up into his hills and
Next thing, you know, he's he's self-pleasuring in front of her and then telling her quick
We got to eat this both or we're not gonna live
Those are the acts of the right and
Look what we've got here my nod on ice
Krugian, what is the ice Krugian my great students now? It is self-pleasuring and
Who's doing this to mean ads?
You mean those crazy women those slaves that just drop their
They drop their junk and walk off into the mountains next next thing, you know, you're hearing drums and stuff a lot of shouting
You mean there too and this of course they are it's the bucket, right?
I'm gonna show you a world where that is not accepted. Give me the next one
Paul says we got a we got a stem at Paul was deep man. He was deep because he knew what the group did
Yeah, lots of people did there's lots of these next week, we're gonna talk about
Apollonius, Diana, and I know a lot of people have been throwing Apollonius at me. Oh, don't worry
Philosophers weights us wonderful Greek sources. Have you ever heard of these with respect to the mystery? No
Because you people
Let the theologians
Come to the fore you let them take over
What happened not satanic congregation can't come here Paul tell me something else what is Paul you want to hear the grossest thing I've ever heard
This is truly the grossest
Greek
Out there what does Paul say that we got to do we got to take Jesus's necrosis
Into our body
It's in his body the life
The life is in the body we got to take it do you understand the rights now if Jesus Christ
We're standing in front of you children
You would have to consider
eating his body
That is the necrosis that is in us. That's what Paul says
Are you Jesus Christ Jesus Christ?
what
Can you taste that communion from last week? It's got
When you look at your actual past
It becomes a lot more human
When you take the theologians out of the history
Yeah, yeah, by the way, we're gonna abolish the education department
Nice job. That's what future scientists tell me they were like, how come you did that? I was like, I don't know they're idiots
Okay, right abolish education. That's a great idea. Let's get rid of it all burn all those books
Let's go back to square one
boom
Uncivilized people these are the people who got you uncivilized
Yes, the unclassical sources here 2nd Corinthians 4-8 Dane
Oh God, okay. Now listen, he's gonna go on now. Paul. Tell us tell us since you we know you're involved in these sick rights
Right. I mean come on dude. I am not gonna do that
I don't care if Jesus Christ himself
Appears to me and says you want some communion and then he starts as starts the show
I don't care what he's got in his hand. Would you would you let me just ask you you Christians
Who have been going to the communion for so long?
Aren't you gonna feel silly?
When you get there for the big communion and he pulls it out
Aren't you gonna feel silly?
I'll tell you I'm gonna be that one guy that stands up. I'm like, all right
You know, okay. I get it. I
Get it. I'll just be going
Yes, yes
The joke it ends up is apocalyptically on the monists
The monists bring the fire of destruction to themselves
This is the Bacchic initiation
This is why they don't want it. They don't want to see who they are
So they run around and they consider that everybody else around them has a delusional
Syndrome in their brain and that's why their craziness is actually
normalcy
