We have a statue here of a woman
A statue of a woman
They call her lady liberty and it says on that statue we welcome
The downtrodden
We welcome them
Do you know why we do that?
Because of this classical tradition
The tyrant is the enemy of everything that is our tradition
Yeah
Yeah
Do you feel odysseus? Do you understand his perspective now? Do you feel that you're in the cave?
That you're in the cave with the cyclops the only way to end it is to put out his eye
It's the only way
Freedom is what odysseus bought
All the while his little brain
Following his muse
Yeah
Fantastic hit me with the next one chew hit me with the next one. This is good
Material is fucking gorgeous. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I say that? Oh, I'm sorry satanic congregation shame on me
That requires a spanking. Come here almond. Come here almond. Put your note. Pull those down. There you go. There you go
No, just relax relax
Potty mouth
Children
my children
Don't don't be have such dirty speech elevate your speech
Silenus then says hey, um now listen. This is what the follower
Of the tyrant says and does are you ready? This is Silenus. He says hey, um, do you want to buy some merchandise?
How much gold do you want to buy it for because he's got food?
Right. It's like, hey, I could sell you something
I could sell you something. Do you know who follows around the tyrant a circus of sellers?
a circus of
Merchandisers from the top most investors to the bottom most t-shirt hawk and merchandisers
That's who follows tyranny
Isn't that easy? Didn't you wonder?
Didn't you wonder what that was a sign of? Have you noticed that there is no politics at all?
In searching out greed
There's no politics in that
That's
justice
That's justice somebody somebody proffered
Somebody proffered some kind of impeachment on the grounds. Did you see it this week impeachment on the grounds?
Of greed
That is pure pure ethereal
classical civilization
Somebody give that woman
Some kind of peplos and some kind of laurel wreath
Yeah, somebody give it to her
Love it. I love it. That is gorgeous. Oh god. I said it. I said it
Somebody
Give me the next one. Give the next one. What is this? I saw this crowd, right?
Right. Look, what's this crowd of people?
Says the cyclops when he finally catches up because salinas tries to sell him out, right?
Odysseus says no
Right, he's not here for that. He's got he's got wine and he's thinking I'm gonna poison
I'm gonna poison these people right because remember all the stuff he learned was Cersei
Right, that's the environment. He's living in and what does he say here?
What is polyphemus is polyphemus? He comes out mr. Fame comes out. He says, what are these pirates doing?
here
what are these pirates
Lace die any contrasting he says are they pirates or are there some kind of thieves?
All right, because they're different
So when you say Jesus was hung between thieves on the cross you are incorrect
He was hung between
traffickers
That's why they came out with the big weapons and that's why we have this this verse
Right, it's history people. It's not it's not
Magic go
Go are you ready?
um
Jesus right at that time Jesus said
to the people right
Why have you come out?
Against me like a lace stays with your big weapons your big clubs
Big swords how come you've come out against me like i'm a lace stays
All right, um, you don't do that to a thief
So the lie that has been perpetuated to you the narrative about Jesus. He was crucified
between two
Traffickers of humans
And in the middle sitting right there in the middle he was saying
I'm not one of these traffickers
And it's only because that naked kid it makes you wonder if that naked kid hadn't been there with jesus in the garden of guest 70
If the naked kid wasn't there with him
Would he have had to have died?
Would that crowd have been so angry?
Wouldn't it isn't it going to be surprising when you find out jesus christ was crucified because he was a pervert
Who was selling children?
