That will bring you life
Zoe isn't a nice a wadzo a wadzo, right?
Where's Eve?
They say that they you know what Jesus said
Or you know the text says about Jesus. I should say the text says about Jesus that when he was getting ready to pleasure himself
He took her out of his side
He took her out of his side. Do you know that's an expression?
That's an expression for the performance of the right. You want your a what?
Didn't you know this is a sexual
Natural drug-filled frenzied, right? Didn't you know that watch out end up dead?
Yeah
Fantastic, you know the people of antiquity who were pushing the drugs all those late Bronze Age
witches
Right right up to the Queen herself
Right because we don't have King. We don't need a King
This is Lady Babylon
right Paul
understands the rights and is involved and at one point in his life has to
renounce them
You know when Jesus Christ was arrested with a naked boy in a public park
Screamin a lot of trafficker
Right, it's not because he was denying that he was the only trafficker
Okay
Watch the chemicals. Do we have a doctor in this place? Give me the next one. Give me the next one
You know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna bring up a doctor here just because you guys said that this is actually from exodus
And yeah, what did the sons of Israel see?
Well, they didn't see the prosopone
Of god, but they did see the prosopone of mose sales
But we who mose sales that sounds like museus it does and it is
from museus or moses
Right, they did see his face
and he was
Glorified
Show it to me give the next one. He was glorified. What are you telling me? Did I take it out? Oh, I did I took it out
Damn it. Go to the sorry go to the go to the last one. He was glorified. No this one
Oh one more
Zonk. Yep. There we go. No problem
Uh, what happens what happens the sons of Israel saw the face of moses that he was glorified, baby
He had that whim
on his face
And what happened he put a veil on
He put a covering on some kind of hood something you couldn't see his face to cover his face, right?
until
He came into that dude who was in the
tent
That dude who was up on the mountain
That dude who was around that bush that burned
that voice
until he was around him
and
Why did he do that because they were having a
Syllogy
Now again, this is the mist. This is the mastery of ancient Greek. He was having a syllogy. What's the syllogy?
You know what that means when you and your beloved exchange those words
When you exchange those words
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. We'll get back to that one
Um, and what happens what happens?
Um, the this dude who ends up with moses in these various circumstances is called the kurios
And he's the one who talks to people and he's like
net
We really screwed it up now. It's
Uh, we got to throw him out of the garden, right because they're like us
They're like us
Yes, okay. This is him kurios. This is the lord and how does he come to moses?
He comes to him in the clouds
He comes to him in the clouds. Do you understand?
He comes to them in the clouds and he says what does he say?
He calls upon his name. That's what you can hear coming out of the smoke
He goes the dude
covers his face
goes into the
Goes into the enclosure goes up on the mountain to his private spot
You see the smoke
And the next thing you know, he's screaming
He's screaming
He's talking to him
That's what he's doing. He's talking to him. Do you hear that that boy had to be with jesus in that park
And I had to these are the rites that they're performing all of the fairy tale history that you thought was history
all of the
All of the theological hu ha it just took you completely off track
Right, they don't even know that hebrew has vowels
series, who are these people?
Oh my god sloppy and unprofessional
Give me the next give me the next one. Um, let's call in a here's a oh here's a good one
Okay, people listen. What's gonna happen between moses and god?
Right, eventually. So here we are in their little time moses has his fail off
