I'm not dancing with those white-footed
Bakken maidens
Oh
beloved lord
Bacchus
Where are you bra?
Where are you bra? I'm the one who worships with you
And um
You know what I got no more I got none of your filia
I got none of your love, baby
I got only the dry static air of tyrannical power
Let's watch what Odysseus does the chorus sings everybody knows
The chorus and that tragedy is the is the bridge between the performers and the audience
Right, they pick up the voice they resonate with the voice of the audience
You can feel the chorus as if you were one of them
That's why they're always like citizens of souls, you know some city
You know, it's always like the women who have been through blah blah blah
Right of the old men, right? It's always a
link
To you and I sitting in the audience, right? Maybe they got a next week
They got a bald chorus bunch of tattooed head freaks, right? Love it. Love it. Oh, I love it
Give me the give me the next one. I need to fly in
Go, okay, uh
Here we go people. Are you ready? Watch this? Oh god
Oh, yeah, okay, um
You poor people right now. What happens Odysseus and his some dudes that he's with
In a ship get stranded on this island like they do there's a storm, you know, this is not a good place
Right and they're they're here and they're looking for food. They run into polyfamous, but he's not there
The cyclops is not there. There's a dude there and the dude is Silenus
The dude is assisting
The cyclops who is the person who assists the cyclops
Ultimately the one who's looking to be eaten last
The one who's looking to be eaten last, but don't be fooled you will be
Do you serve?
Do you serve the servant of greed?
You'll be eaten last
Yeah, what's
Let's go. Let's go back to that quote. There's a couple of things I got to pick up there
Yeah, oh god, what kind of dude is polyfamous the name polyfamous by the way the name of cyclops
The name of the tyrant
Is the name of much fame
The name of much fame
And what does the name of much fame do? Look at that last line. He's an Andro Brota
He is a person eater a people eater
He's got a jaw that opens up in his gullet swallows people
Oh
He of much fame
He of much fame. It's what you wanted, isn't it? It's what you want in that tyrant
You resonate with that strength
You feel it
And the cruelty is just the edge. It's just the spice
It's just the spice
Let's go. Let's go. Oh my god. Give me the next one
So, um, what is the what is the now just so you you know check this to make sure it's correct
This tyrant
What is the tyrant who sees in that kook loss? What is that tyrant?
They are
inhospitable to people
Who are
unfortunate
They are inhospitable to those who come to their land
To those who have been shipwrecked in life
to the immigrant
That's literally what this says
oxenos
Xenos is that immigrant
All right now odysseus with his athena
He's gonna tell you there's laws that we follow. Give me the next one
Give me the next one anti immigrant guy
Right, so odysseus and sylinus start having a discussion
Right and odysseus says, hey, do you have the drink of bromious around here?
You know the flowing of the vine wine any sylinus is no way
No way we're we're gonna have wine around around the cyclops, right? Why because this place
This land that we have made great says sylinus
This land is achoron
This maga land is achoron. Yes, it is without song
It is without the chorus
Do you understand? Why do we have need of the ecstatic formula? We're not going to start a chorus
This is the place of the one power who will devour everyone. Give me the next one
Give me the next one. Oh god. I love this. Look at how the muse does this
Hey
Are these people odysseus and says well, are your people lovers of immigrants strangers?
Right. Are they the ones who are going to be supporting them?
Right and sylinus says, uh, not really. He says, you know what they say here
They say the flesh of those immigrants is the sweetest thing
It's so sweet to consume the flesh of those people who come to you for sanctuary
