You can move one of them up. The biggest enemy of the tyrant
Is the virgin do you want to know why we walk with the virgin?
Why when we look upon that hill in Athens that great acropolis?
Do you know why it is that we see the temple of the virgin?
Because she
above all else
hates
tyrants
sick
Semper Taranis
Yeah, this is what every tyrant deserves
says
The great Minerva
This is what every tyrant deserves. You know what every tyrant deserves that she's talking about the tip of her spear
Do you see why in democratic Athens?
Why it is those of us who created democracy worship the way that we do
Fantastic. Give me a couple more and we're done. We're done. Whatever is next. Just go ahead and hit it. Oh
Yeah, here we go. Here we go. Do you want to see the mark of the cyclops?
They had a word for it in antiquity. Kerdos. Look at number two
The desire of gain anytime that you're looking
Anytime that you're looking for advantage. You're following the spirit of the cyclops
Now do you understand why the cyclops becomes so popular?
The cyclops attracts those who
Desire gain
I have your ultimate gain people. I've got ionic life
I've got eternal life
I've got land. I've got real estate and I've got power
I've got the ultimate gifts for you
And do you know where they go? They go to the tyrant because the tyrant is their pathway there
Yeah, give me the next one. Give me the next one. Look, I want to end with this
The cyclops says
Odysseus
What did you do? Who are you?
An Odysseus in the play says one of those people
It's coming back from the war and what is the cyclops? How does the cyclops respond the cyclops responds the exact same way
The exact same way as your tyrant
What a stupid waste
What a stupid waste
Americans who died in war are losers
and suckers
Now I know of one american who didn't die in a war. I know of one american who didn't die in a war
Yeah, sorry that one
And what did he do?
He sat in a prison camp for years while he was tortured even though he could leave because he was the son of an admiral
He stayed there
I met this man. I shook his hand
I talked to him we gabbed
The tyrant has no respect
For anything but acquisition
They have no respect for you who have shed your blood
My ancestors shed their blood
For this liberty that you and I enjoy
Give me the next one that one that we skipped
There we go
The cyclops wants to gain they want to gain something
But they don't want to sacrifice
They want to gain without sacrifice
You know finally let's end on the words of the let's end on the words of the cyclops, right?
What does the cyclops say in his defense?
They just don't know how great I am
They just don't know I am a god
They just don't know
For those of you
Who are sitting in your modest?
Trumpery
For those of you who have been sucked in
And who are sitting there looking at everybody on the outside thinking they are the deranged ones
Look into the mirror
You're about to eat flesh and drink blood
Thank you for coming tonight
Please
consider
Consider the cyclops
Hail Satan
Me or you
I never cease never cease to praise him
I'll shine on it to let it to roll
Oh, he touched me
Oh
He touched me
And why
This was my soul
Something happened
And now I know
He touched me and made me whole
Oh
