They've got the good stuff.
We found that library games over people.
All the book burners, big middle finger,
all the book burners.
Yeah, you lose.
You thought you could do something, but you lose.
We found it.
Victory, victory.
In our theosos, we celebrate the victory, right?
And that's why we're given the library.
Yeah, yeah.
She told him, she told him, he buried him.
Why did he bury him?
People are like, why did Neuma bury that stuff?
We're about to find out that he was involved
in a construction of past, present, and future
out of the mouth of a singer.
Profites, Vestal, who carried the flame.
Oh, Jesus Christ, what happened?
What happened when you drank that cup?
Do you remember, I wanna make this appeal to you tonight
because the devil told me, look,
you haven't really told them what the cup is.
They have to know, you know, he's like, they gotta know.
That cup that Jesus said, I don't want to drink from it.
He's like, yeah, he's like, I don't want to.
And he's stumbling, right?
He's stumbling in his three stoned disciples,
Peter, James, and John are off there falling asleep.
You can only take so much opium, right?
Before it knocks you out.
And they're knocking and he keeps trying to wake him up
and go back to his naked kid
who's in the middle of the garden with him, right?
And he's like, on his way back to the trudging,
he's like, oh God, I can't take it.
I can't take it anymore.
Please don't let me have to do this.
Do you know why he was saying that?
The devil wants you to know why he was saying that.
Yeah, Christians, close your ears,
because this is bad.
Yeah, yeah.
The cup is the person, in this case, the child.
Using these drugs, the body will then produce products.
And these products are central
to the functioning of the lace days and the mystery.
You can't be a Christ without drinking from that cup.
And that cup is a boy.
It's a naked boy.
It's a naked boy.
How do I know that?
Because I've seen the cup of Zeus.
They call him Ganymede.
You mean, wait a minute, you mean he drinks?
I mean, this is right.
He drinks from the boy.
Yes, he drinks from the boy.
Now, they used to make fun of this in the Pripyat poems.
Yeah, they used to make fun of it, right?
Drinking from Ganymede, you know what that means?
That's, in case you're not getting
the exact scientific historic picture
of Jesus and his boy cup,
he's drinking from his privates.
Yeah, yeah.
One author talks about the springs that are in the nether.
Yes, I don't know how to describe this
in the most scientific way possible
so that you can understand the Bible.
But these texts indicate the anus.
Colon was a place for the storing and processing of goods
that could be put to use in rites
with people who were interested in drinking
from the anus of a child.
When Jesus Christ, I know, I hate this part,
but you have to look at the reality,
no matter how painful it is.
When Jesus Christ with that naked kid
is drinking of his cup, it included anal consumption.
Yeah, yeah.
Now you know why those crusaders do,
they have that purple cross on their little underwear.
Yeah, don't, did you know that too?
You didn't know?
Oh, everybody knows it.
It was in the trials of the Templars.
Yeah, the Templars, they had little purple crosses
because it was the way that their anus
that had been coated with these Christing drugs.
I mean, you don't know people until you stood there
as a Templar, as this Christian order
and you get your newbies in,
and what do you do with your newbies?
You say, you can have one of two locations
from which my drug comes.
Yeah, that's just, that's how it works, man.
That's how it works.
Did you think that was odd?
Well, the Pope did and ended up smashing those people.
Right, he was like, no.
It was money.
There was money behind it, you know what I mean?
You know, it's the way it is.
The apostles were the boys from Galilee.
The boys from Galilee, yeah, is that a good one?
You people, exactly, who is this?
Merc, this is exactly, exactly what my comment is.
Merc, I'm with you, buddy.
You people are just sick, dirty, dirty, dirty sick people.
Now stop reading the Bible.
Put that thing down.
Step away, step away from the King James.
They're gonna burn him now, wouldn't that be funny?
You get a mob of Christians holding signs that say,
spare the children while they pay to have children killed.
Isn't that neat?
And by not helping children not get killed,
you're essentially endorsing the killing of them.
Right, so, wake up.
Wake up, you're in the hot seat.
Everybody's watching in the underworld.
Doesn't look good for you people.
Oh my God, dirty, you dirty, dirty Satanists.
Let's go on with the Bible.
Don't let them deter you.
Don't let them stop you.
We need this for the freedom.
Look at this.
Okay, yeah, okay, okay.
Now that this is the spirit of God, right?
Right, it's in the substance and the spirit.
Yeah, the spirit which agrees,
which endorses that Christ.
Yeah, where are they in the flesh?
Wait, what?
Oh, remember, our substances are coming from Him.
It's His blood and His flesh.
Did nobody see that when you were going to church?
Did nobody see that?
Yeah, didn't you think it was a little bit weird?
I mean, if you're gonna redeem a group of people,
do you think you're gonna go
through that whole eat my blood thing?
Yeah, eat my flesh, baby.
If I said to you, look,
