I've seen a lot, man.
If you could know what these eyes have seen
from the ancient world, right?
Oh my God, the AI that they just put in prison
for being, for rendering images and decent.
She knows, what are these instructions,
these creepy instructions for?
He says, look, you gotta maintain that charisma, right?
You gotta remain in that state.
And when you are, nobody can instruct you.
There's no need, you won't need to be instructed.
Yeah, why?
Right, because the charisma is the thing
that is gonna lead you into all things.
That's how you will know.
That's how you will have no sis,
is you know the truth and the false.
Your eyes will be opened.
You say, wait a minute, am I living in a universe
where Yahoo is actually the bad guy?
Wouldn't it be funny?
Wouldn't it be funny?
That's what they're all doing in the underworld, right?
That's what they're all doing.
They're like, first issue is the child sacrifice.
Did anybody notice how high it's getting?
Did anybody notice?
Oh God, Yahoo is saying, yummy, yummy, yummy.
I love those babies.
Oh God, people asked me, is your name really almond?
Yes, my middle name.
My second middle name is almond.
Yeah, and my first name is David.
And why do I never, ever, ever use David?
Because David wiped out entire cities
of women and children.
Yeah, why?
To please Yahoo.
Yahoo's into the whole sacrifice.
Go get Isaac.
You know what I would say to Yahoo
if he told me go get my child to sacrifice them.
Yeah, yeah.
You don't see what's coming for Yahoo.
Yeah, we mourn Yahoo.
Yeah, we do.
I love it.
I love this, I love this.
Thank you so much.
Bring me those creepy instructions again.
I want people to be sure what they're supposed to do.
You gotta remain, you gotta remain in that state
that our drugs take you to
in order to know all things,
in order for your eyes to be opened.
You're not gonna be Adam, right?
We've got Ewa for you
and you're not gonna be Adam
if you don't have that fruit.
Love it.
Now you know why he said when he kicked Ewa
out of the garden, he said,
you're gonna have to have painful birth
for the rest of your life.
He's like a petulant little kid.
Yeah, you're gonna have, you go,
yeah, you're gonna have painful birth now.
Why?
Because he just kicked her out of the place
where they take the drugs
that allow you to induce painless birth.
Puts you into a semi-comatose state.
Still having those smooth muscle contractions.
Well, they can do that?
Yeah, they can do it with the drugs.
Isn't that amazing?
The first sciences were women's sciences.
Yeah, I told you guys, the X, Y thing, right?
The little Y chromosome is a little busted up.
Did you know we start as a girl?
Isn't that something?
I love that, I love that.
Yeah, the degeneration of the feminine is the masculine.
You know what?
Feed that in to some of the propaganda that comes out today.
Feed that in.
We are a degenerate form of an ideal woman.
We are degenerate forms of ideal women.
Do you wonder why we worship the mother?
Do you wonder?
Yeah, guess what?
Yahoo is gonna fill up the child's sacrifice, right?
Whether, it doesn't matter where it is
and what country's doing it.
Doesn't matter who's flagged their waving, right?
The ones that are killing children,
that echoes, that echoes through the quantum.
Yeah.
Okay, and that's how things change.
That's how catalysts reach that point
where they can boom, start working, convert everything.
Oh, love it, love it, hit it.
Hit the next one, bring up the sources.
These people, show me those Jesus pictures too, I love it.
This is what we need people
because this is going to be what takes you to that place.
Okay, this is how your eyes are opened.
This is how your eyes are opened.
People have been asking me,
does the Pope have this?
And I'm like, unless he's got a cup, he don't.
Yeah, yeah, they don't have, see,
they didn't cultivate, they didn't cultivate the vestals.
Didn't you ever wonder
whether Romans were so big on the vestals?
If you don't have vestals, you got nothing.
Your society's doomed to break down, right?
And who are those vestals?
Those are the keepers of the flame.
Those are the priestesses who set us on the right path.
Do you think those priestesses,
do you think you could get a teenage priestess
who's been trained in dance and song
and been fumigated and giving chemicals over time, right?
Oh, God, do you think that they care for anything,
but what is not in our societies?
You know, the things that drive our societies,
they're not interested in those things.
They're interested in justice, straight up,
straight up hardcore justice.
You hypocrites, you know,
spots hypocrites quicker than these highly educated,
protected, vestal priestesses.
Oh, God, they could teach you language,
you hot dwelling Roman, right?
Long tradition.
Would you be surprised?
Who's gonna be surprised to find out
when we find a library?
Wait, did that happen?
I think that happened already.
When we find a library and it's got her songs in it,
oh, just wait, just wait,
the Vatican's gonna crack in two, right?
Vatican, crack in two.
They have the real history now.
