they found me before they crucified me
in a public park with a naked kid
and I want you to eat my flesh.
Seriously, seriously?
Jesus loves you, almond.
I know He does.
That's the problem.
That's the problem, you know?
The dude gets arrested with a naked kid.
Does nobody care?
Oh my God, hit the next one.
Oh, who is this?
Am I going to hell?
No, the past for a better future.
That's nice.
That sounds like a six this.
Six this five.
Yeah, I think it's good.
Yeah, no, it's okay, you can be both.
Listen, yeah, I think that's something we'd see
in the state broadcast, the PBS thing, you know what I mean?
That's like a public announcement, yeah.
You should, right?
That's why this library that's been discovered
in 1770 or whenever it was, that's why it's so important.
Now we can read it, woo!
Yeah, we're going to burn up the world, baby.
It's lovely.
Couple more here, people, just hang in there with me.
Look, whoever doesn't agree about this whole Christing thing,
this is the Antichristu, yeah, the Antichristu here.
Yeah, oh, that's nice, that's nice.
So again, you have a Christing and an Antichristing.
And you know what happens when you get Antichristed?
The effects of the poison of the Christ
are reduced to nothing.
It's like a cure, right?
It's like a cure, fantastic.
Wait, what is that?
Amen is too old for Jesus.
What, I'm not quite sure what that means.
Chew is that, shake your head, does that make sense?
I don't know, I don't know.
But thanks, thanks for the comment.
Okay, let's go to the next one.
Oh, I love the input, by the way.
And you, you, my little kitties, right?
Nobody's going to be able to overcome you.
And he's talking to his children again, right?
This is one person, this is John.
It's one person who has been groomed within the right,
within the mystery, who is now doing the grooming.
This is the advancement of the generation
that is originally abused.
And people will say, oh, how dare you say that
about Jesus and those boys that he was around,
sleeping on the boat with, always naked around,
taking his clothes off to dry their little feetsies
that he'd been washing.
Where's that?
Do you have any of those kids in the boat with Jesus?
Bring them up, please Chewie.
Look, world, take this, take this.
Wait a minute, is that, yeah, there he is.
There he is, right?
Who's that grown man with those children in the boat?
It's Jesus the Christ.
It's Jesus the Christ, it is, look, there he is.
Does it look like him?
Okay, do you have another one?
Oh, here they are again.
Look, we got all sorts of pictures of these people.
Look, what are you doing, Jesus?
What are you doing with the kids in the boat?
Looks like a nasty seat.
Do you see a galley, really that bad?
Yeah, I guess it can be, it can be.
When you take your young kids out on the lake,
you sickos, as Merck would say,
when you take your little children with Jesus
out on the lake and they're waking up naked,
remember Peter wakes up naked and has to put his clothes on
in order to go talk to Jesus who was offshore
in his vampire form, I know that's complex,
but that's exactly what happens,
this is what the text says, man.
We don't have arguments, we have texts, love it.
Give me a couple more and we're gonna,
Mosey, because I wanna give you,
oh, I can see these big bold letters
and that makes me so, so fancy happy.
And what is this?
Yeah, yeah, we don't care.
Look at the second line, we're witnessing people buck up.
Look at the second line, word right in the middle.
Sotera, that's what this is all about.
Bring me up Sotera, bring me up Sotera.
Our chrisma allows us to testify
as to our Sotera, our salvation.
You know what the gospel is?
It's the salvation the drug gives you.
The gospel is the salvation the drug gives you.
You wanna know what they call him, the savior, right?
You wanna know why it's the gospel?
You wanna know why he's the Christos?
Okay, join the cult people, hit the next one.
Ooh, it's good, it's good, I can feel it coming.
This one's gonna really, ooh, and yeah, and then why?
And then someone, someone may be in the situation,
the right circumstances to say, look, here is,
oh, Christos, but don't listen to him.
Don't listen to him, why?
You mean there's wandering around Christoses?
Those are Christoi, if you want the ancients.
These Christoses, these Christs, they're walking around.
Yeah, did you know that that Christ is just the person
who's had that drug applied?
So their eyes are open, their prophets, physicians, healers.
You think he was the first on the scene?
No, he was just one of them that got caught with those.
With that naked boy and ended up getting crucified.
Yeah, next to another, and another next to him.
Yeah, fantastic, what is the Nancy?
I will never be able to think about hot cross buns
without gagging in my mouth, hot cross buns.
Yes, hot cross, Templar buns, throw that in,
call them Templar, we'll sell those at the store, right?
You can make a little cross, right?
A little purple cross right there.
No, but you had a choice Nancy, come on,
these are Templars, you had a choice between
whether it was the one that was on the taint
or the one that was on the head of the penis, right?
At least they're gonna give you that, you know what I mean?
I mean, because that's where the medicine goes,
it's where it dribbles, right?
If you knew somebody that was walking around
that had magic driblings from their anus,
you might be tempted to go to the places that, you know,
people go, yes, this is history, welcome,
nobody's gonna teach you this,
because nobody has the guts,
nobody has the guts to teach you.
This is a theosos that we've got.
We don't like the guts here, hit us with another one,
hit us with another one.
