How do we, how do we somehow fail just with the original texts?
And I'm telling you, this failure is perpetuated century by century by century.
Every time control goes to the church and they are able to manipulate the information,
we get a fairy tale.
Enlightenment and going to those texts ourselves and reaching into those texts brings back
this right.
And this is fearful.
This is a fearful place for the church.
This involves the abuse of children.
Jesus Christ himself comes from an abusive performance, comes from a performance of a
mystery that is centered around child abuse.
You and I would call child abuse.
So either we get into, I mean, when you, come on, let's get into the tough part.
When you're in the temple and they've got you tied up and that priestess has applied that
medicine to your bottom and has put you into a state where you are approaching that sexual
climax and she ejaculates drugs mixed, made by her own body into your mouth and then proceeds
to give you the cure that'll bring you back.
And remember, you're in a psychotic state.
You're in a psychotic state.
You're in that demonic influence, right?
You're under that influence.
At that point, you die and come back sometime thereafter, thankfully, because of it.
If this priestess is one of the dancers at Delos, right, she is very much underage.
She is very much underage and this makes everybody uncomfortable to which I say Athena, you should be
uncomfortable.
Athena, that virgin that you protect is that same age group.
There's one phrase in the hymn tonight.
The most important that I didn't, I didn't read to you.
Let me just read to you now.
She is the Medua.
She is the Medusa in the ether, in the water, yeah, everywhere.
She is that force.
So again, you would get there to that spring, to that great pure spring.
You would get there under these circumstances so much so that in this initiation, you only
have to do it once on a person, once on a person.
Once you've had that world open and your eyes are open and you come back from it through
resurrection, you never go back.
You can't.
You've been born again.
You've been born again.
So I don't know, your thoughts, observations on the right.
Apolaus relates this when he says that when he got initiated into Isis and Osiris, he was
dipped in the water seven times because of the Pythagorean method.
That's what he says.
He specifically says in the Pythagorean sense, dipped seven times.
And so you had this idea and also in the text in the baptism scene where when he comes out
of the water, the heavens open up.
Now, you might, someone might say, well, that's because he's the son of God, but the text to
me is relating a more of a initiation message.
This was an initiation that this person had an experience.
The heavens opened up.
So it makes sense on a different level than what most people are reading when they're
just reading it.
Who don't have ears to hear if that makes sense.
The initiated ear reads this passage and goes, I know what they're doing.
He got initiated all right.
He took the right.
He drank the milk.
He took the soma.
So you get what I was getting at.
Bacchus entered, this entered him at that state.
That's what that initiation is.
Back to Apileus dipping his head seven times and coming up out of the water.
And that's, that's that experience.
That's that awakening.
That's the, those with ears to hear.
That's, that's the initiation process.
And correct me if I'm wrong, Neil, but in Apileus there, that whole process only came about
because she was able to transform him from an ass and back into a human form through
the rose, right?
Isis does it through the rose.
If you're there in the right and you are entering the orgasmos and you fall into death and are
brought back with her image.
You can't, you can't ever become an ass again because you know, right?
Imagine if you were able, just for a second, if we were able to do something quantum, right?
Put you in some kind of state so that you could see the dimension that is beyond the
black holes that are in our universe.
And you could see that we are a reflection of that.
Imagine if you could make that bridge and then come back.
You would never, you'd never be the same.
You'd never, right?
Ovid writes about this, but he gives you the opposite.
The opposite of that coin is this.
King Midas, who doesn't have ears to hear, wants to be initiated.
He's granted the golden touch, right?
Bacchus gives him what he wants, but he doesn't, he can't handle it.
He wants to be saved from his weaknesses, from his spiritual weaknesses, right?
He doesn't want this golden touch anymore.
So what is he?
He's told to go and dip yourself into the Hebrews, the same river where Orpheus just
died a couple of chapters before where he bled to death in this water.
Here goes King Midas, dips into the water and he's walking back.
He cured him, cured his golden touch.
Okay, cool.
But as he's walking back, he sees Pan and Apollo, and they're having a violin
competition who sounds better than the violin.
And they say, hey, hey, King Midas, come here.
Let's let you be the judge.
And he had a terrible, he didn't have ears to hear.
Let's just say that.
He didn't know how to judge this competition.
