I never meant anything I said Just spittin' on everything I've been fittin'
Keepin' from eatin' away at me Never said anything I meant
I never said the letters that I should've said But so it's askin' too much for you all to believe
But when I say, never meant nobody knows When I say, never was a cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Welcome back to Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation
We have a treat tonight. We're gonna do the show with a split personality.
It's gonna be Gnostic Informant right here with us to punch us with all those sources to dig deep.
It's a pleasure and honor to work with a servant of the muse.
Tonight we're going to dig into the apocalypse.
We're gonna open up the very opening and we're gonna show all of us
Who is this guy named Jesus? Yeah, who is she? Fantastic.
Great show. Hit it, Chewie.
So we're gonna bring him on, but before we do, I want to say a couple of words really quick.
We're gonna bring in this champion who has been searching the sources and plummeting the depths and is outgunning the big guns.
I'm very, very proud to work with the Gnostic Informant who has achieved gnosis.
Yeah, love it. Love it. A little bit of music for you to introduce us.
We're gonna sum it up, ACDC tonight.
Neal, and I want us in their spirit as if they were chorus.
I'm gonna play them a few times as if they were chorus here to our work.
How are you doing? Absolutely doing good.
The mania is flowing. I've got the spirit.
I'm ready to go. I'm ready to follow your lead in this and digging into these sources.
I'm gonna resurrect some of these ancient, ancient Greco-Roman thinkers of these pre-Christian times so we can have a post-Christian time.
I can smell the corpses. I can smell them.
I want to reach in like that witch did in Luke, and I want to reach open that mouth, put my teeth against his teeth, and just suck out that voice.
Love it. Tonight we're gonna go to two sources or two wells, and I'm gonna bring everybody, and I want us to just blow this thing up.
Look at it. I'm gonna bring everybody a new orific source. Some of you have heard of it. Some of you haven't.
None of you have read it. I know because if you have seen any of it, you've seen it in translation.
And there is a power to the language that is here that I think you'll see tonight.
It's just astounding. And I think we're gonna open up. The view is right. Open up. We're gonna keep opening up that reality to see what's going on.
I want to hit us right in the beginning of the apocalypse. Let's take the ship there. Let's set it. Let's go in and let's see what they're saying.
Chewie, give us the apocalypse. Apocalypse Jesus Christ. Yeah, this is the apocalypse, right? Of Jesus Christ, right?
Which God gave, right? To all His servants, right? Oh, this is wonderful stuff. We've seen all of this, right?
Oh, my God. Blessed. Look at verse three.
Makaeros. Makaerios. Excuse me.
That person is blessed. You could say blessed, fortunate, who is recognizing or bringing back the knowledge, right?
Tonight it's Anakignosko, right? People don't realize this. This is a cult term. If you were to take all of just a purple highlighter and to run through anything it had to do with the cult, the mystery, the performance of the mystery,
this would be part of it, right? So, okay, first thing we're looking at tonight is bringing back up that knowledge, bringing it up.
We're going to end up in the lap of the priestess. But right now, we're there in the initiation and the opening up. Good. Hit the text again.
Yeah. Very fortunate it's the one who brings all this stuff up, right? You know, the words of the prophecy, right? And guards them.
This dude is, you know, honored because it's time. It's time. We've got to guard those things written. Okay. Those things written. Yeah.
Okay. All right. So put yourself in that apocalyptic mindset. Hit us with the next text. Here we come in. Oh, yeah. No, this is just yet to the churches in Asia.
It's a greeting, right? He's the first thing he opens up with is peace and, you know, charity, grace, you know, good favor from the one who own, look at that second line.
On the one who is being and the one who was the one at Hominos, the one who's coming, right? And look at that very next line.
From those seven spirits, those seven spirits, right? He's charging up here. He's charging up. We know the Greeks used the concept of charging things up, sigils and whatnot, charging them.
He's charging the right. He's getting it ready. Hit us with the next text.
Next text. Yeah. Go back to that one. Yeah.
Look at verse number five.
Look at that. What is that? What is that? It's the first talk. Bring us up to the next slide. Look at Alice. Alice, please tell us what is this?
Hmm. Bearing or having born her firstborn. Look at this. Where it's used. It's used with mother having to do a heifer, right? As far back as the Iliad bra.
Look, it's dealing with an ikes, a goat, entheocrates, a hoose, a pig, a pig. Yeah. You like that?
Does that say nymph or orphic?
Cool. Yes, it does. Neil, what's your question? Say it again.
Does that say nymph for the orphic?
It does. It says nymph. Let's go there. Why don't we go there to the nymph and see how she is the first bearing, right? The first bearing.
Remember, when you're translating this, you're not looking through a Christian lens. You're not looking through a Jewish lens. You're not looking through an atheist lens or anybody modern.
You're looking in that ancient pool. Good. Let's go to that next text here because Neil brought it up.
Neil, this is the text that we're talking about there. Yeah.
Yeah.
That word opaso is used on the medical side a lot and it's an app. It's a word for applying, right? I'm applying this, this assistant stone, right?
To the, to the person who is in this place of need and it's any platon. Look at that second line. It's full of what says Pessioio Galactos.
It's full of this says Pessio. This or oracle bringing milk, oracle bringing milk.
Aote, just as the Mazdan, just as the breast Prototokununfe of the, the first bearing nymph.
Okay. So as everybody knows, just nature, she's had her child and now she starts lactating, right? This epithet that is used to describe Jesus is a cult epithet.
That was a cult work, right? The stones, the lethal.
It's a cult work and within that context, it has to do with the application of a drug of a drug.
So we're starting to get a right, a picture of a right where the milk provides the antidote.
And that's exactly what they're doing. Remember, we talked about creating the body through which the communion can come.
So I want to, this is going to the first topic I want to approach with Neil.
Neil, so you've got, give me that polished stone dildo that works as a medical applicator.
Give it to me covered in the burning purple.
Yeah. Yeah. Apply it as they would rectally, rectally.
Right. This is the right. We're walking through the right.
And this induces a state of mania that we can only describe as psychosis.
And we have the descriptions of how the people react when they're in this state.
The priestess that I'm about to show you, after whom Jesus is mimicking, after whose rights Jesus is performing a mimicry, right?
He is taking her titles. He is taking the nymphs titles.
And when she applies, so I've got the medicine on board, right?
And when she applies her, when I go to the dark harbor, she applies what's in her vagina through orgasm to my mouth.
In that combination, I'm going to die with that combination. I'm going to die.
But if in the process, she has rendered me her breast milk and this isn't any.
And if, by the way, we're talking about rights people that are drug activated and sex activated.
So they're combining. That's why the word for fornication is also the word for just to practice idolatry, right?
So, okay. So at this point, at this point in the right, if I have taken of that breast milk of hers, which our texts say is only from the on Fox, only from the grape breast, the grape like breast of that woman that we have engineered,
that we have engineered that Medusa. And I'm going to show you in a hymn in just a second that Medusa that has the titles that Jesus is stepping into.
So, okay, if I've had that galani, they call it, if I've had her breast milk, it will keep me alive.
I may be in a state of death for three days.
But if I have that galani in me, I can come out of it.
I can resurrect.
So, okay, let's stop there for now.
And I'm going to throw in some more sources.
Neil, where's your mind on this?
So I'm thinking about how in the depiction of in these Gospels, there's, there's, you have the, the, the three day motif.
You have the idea of him being thirsty on the cross.
Specifically, why would the author write that in there?
What does that have to do with anything?
You have these hymn chanting, cathonic, cathonic father.
And, you know, these are supposedly from the Psalms, which is fine because that's what Orpheus would be doing if he's dying too.
A lot of this stuff lines up with the rites being applied to the story.
And I think we lose the context.
