And Apollo looks at him and goes, you don't know what the hell you're talking about.
So as soon as he's told that he doesn't have ears to hear, he gets ass ears,
grow out of his head.
Ass ears.
It's the opposite of Apolaus.
Instead of becoming human from becoming an ass and getting salvation through ISIS,
it's the opposite effect.
He starts to grow ass ears because he doesn't have ears to hear and it backfires on him.
Which makes me wonder why Jesus has that ass head in his earliest crucifixion depiction, right?
They show him on the cross.
You're so right.
He's the ass.
Yeah.
The only reason I recognize that symbol is because the guys like Nicander, who is this pharmacologist,
preacher, not preacher, prophet, priest at an oracle who does this.
I mean, he's actually one of these guys who does this and writes about it.
So, yeah, how can we possibly deny the context of what's going on?
There's a guy that ejaculates on Crete.
He ejaculates scorpion and snake venom.
He ejaculates it.
You can get it out of him.
Yeah.
And nobody stops and says, wait a minute.
What?
And which scorpions are they talking about?
Why is he doing this?
Right?
People miss the context.
That asses ears, by the way.
Nicander, this crazy prophet, priest, pharmacologist, says that he takes his own name and he puts
his name in each letter in the first word of the line and spells out Nicander.
Right?
And in these verses, he talks about the ass that is given the burden of the deep cess,
the snake that brings that thirst.
When Jesus says he has the seven stars in his hand, one of those stars, because he tells you,
right, they give it away in the text.
He says, those are the Angeloid.
Right?
Those are the Angeloid.
So right away you say, oh, wait a minute.
These are the ones that are standing in front of that throne.
Right?
And what do they do in front of that throne?
They cast that image.
They bring that image.
And the dipsass is one of them.
It takes all seven in order to induce the death state.
It takes all seven.
Isn't that how the hell did they figure out that you could combine seven different native
venoms?
You could put them on in a solution and expose them to the blood vessels of your colon and
rectum and induce this mental state that if you combine it with the orgasm,
ends up kicking you into zone that everybody else comes back from and says their life has
been changed, that they've seen their eyes are open.
There's a reason when the devil offered it.
Right?
Because he's guarding it.
He's guarding that tree.
There's a reason when he offered it, he's like, no, no, he's full of it.
God's full of it.
He just doesn't want you to open your eyes and to be like he is.
Right?
And then what happens?
They get naked.
There's no preacher on the planet that can explain why Eve is getting naked.
And their attempts to do so are so lame and pathetic.
They're so lame and pathetic.
What's happening?
When her eyes are open, she realizes, oh, no.
Here comes Jehovah and I'm totally nude with ooze all over me.
And I've been places that nobody's gone before.
That explosive orgasm, that explosive orgasm is the rife.
That's where you go when you die.
Right?
And that putting that onto somebody, casting that mystery changes everything around you.
It changes your perception.
The experience of the initiates of the Ellisonian mysteries.
They held those when they held that ceremony.
Anybody who took part in the mysteries, if you can find me a source that says the opposite
of what I'm about to say, I'll give you a million dollars because it doesn't exist.
There is not one source that ever said somebody came out of this unsatisfied or their life
didn't change.
But specifically, it's really strange.
Specifically, it's about losing the fear of death.
For whatever reason, the initiates, they go through the mysteries in Ellusis.
They come out no more for your death.
Very strange.
I'll give you an example.
There were some servants that were sent over by the King of India to meet and delegate with Augustus.
Augustus was just so powerful that the world was all bowing to him.
Parthia gave him all the standards back that they took from Crassus.
He was the man.
He was the King.
He was the August one.
Never been done before.
He surpassed Alexander.
So King Porus, ironically, the same name as the King that Alexander meant.
Different King Porus.
He sends him a bunch of delegates.
And out of the seven that he sends, three of them make it.
The rest of them die on the way there.
