We're going deep right now.
Yeah.
The next one will show you that the tear sonoi are the ones who carry that thing around.
Right.
It's called the, it's called the Truscan of the tyronian horn.
Yeah.
So isn't that cool?
It's a divination instrument as well.
It's what all the augers are using.
So when you walk up to the Pope.
Nicely.
And you're like, Hey, I like your stick.
And it's based upon it.
It's got, it looks like a conch shell kind of thing.
Guess why that is.
It's the augers.
The augers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's brilliant.
Next text.
I want, I want Neil.
Look at this.
Harold, give the signal and restrain the crowd and let the piercing tyronian trumpet filled
with human breasts and forth.
It's shrill.
Blair to the people.
Who is this?
And what's the context?
It's Athena.
She's setting up the law court and she's using the tyronian trumpet to do it.
She's using that tyronian tool.
She's that polytechnic God.
Yeah.
Good Neil.
Comment.
What do you think?
Athena holds the demiurgic power of, of, of victory in creation equal to Zeus.
There's no one else besides Athena who holds it.
That's why you see Zeus holding Nike in his hand or Athena holding Nike in her hand.
That's it.
There's only, only two.
And Zeus, by the way, in the Durveni papyrus is called the first and the last.
And it's almost like, is this what Jesus is trying to become?
He's trying to do these Orphic rites so he can be like Zeus and be the son of Saturn.
I'm just saying a lot of this stuff is lining up pretty, pretty, pretty nicely for me.
Yeah.
And it makes you wonder, you know, why does a man want to take on these titles?
If all of these titles are working within the cult and the mystery and he's using that
thing and operation, he's actually performing it.
It puts him into a light that we don't normally get through the Judeo-Christian tradition,
right?
We don't, we just don't see that.
We don't see the right for what it is.
Let's go.
Give me another text.
I got a couple more texts here.
I just want to take a look at it quick.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All things.
Here it is.
Because all things, you know, were made by him in Uranus.
Yeah.
Kind of epitesque.
In Uranus and on the gaze.
Yeah.
The things orata.
The things seen and the things not seen.
Even if they're thrones, right?
We know where those are, right?
Our audience knows what those thrones are.
Or the kuriotetes, the powers.
Yeah.
The archonships, right?
The authorities, all these things, right, are done through him and to him, right?
It's a manifestation into him.
Fusus, that line is exactly what we see in the Orphic hymn to Fusus, to nature.
That Urania.
It's the exact same implication.
Paul is taking very cultic material and is adapting it to his, as if Jesus had stepped
into the place of the one who's, who's in Oystrus.
Yeah.
Speaking of using this, this cultic language and revelation, the sea, Thosala and Hades
and Thanatos, those are three different Orphic deities that you offer hymns in, in the Orphic,
in the Orphic hymns.
And these are, they're giving up their dead and then being cast into the lake of fire
as if they are deities or figures.
And people just read this in church and have no idea what it means.
Right.
So how can they possibly, when they come up with their dominionists and all their theologians,
how can they possibly even begin to decipher this stuff if they don't know the actual context?
I mean, you've been interviewing a ton of experts, right?
And they're all examining if, how important is it that you know where that dirt is,
that you're in that dust?
I mean, what have you seen now?
Cause you know, you can go completely different sides of the argument.
You can just, you can do a lot, a lot of circle jokers, right?
I've seen one translation that says death gave up its dead and death gave up its dead twice.
Like what is, they're just going to ignore that there's two different, the Greek has two different words here.
And they just translate Hades as death and then, and then death as death as well.
