Bring an argument.
Dan didn't bring shit.
All Dan did is say, no, no, no, here's five books
that no one's gonna read.
All right.
Anyways, let's put that aside for now.
Okay, let me say something, let me say something.
I just want you to know that in that second clip
that you showed him where he was babbling on
about religion, I swear that is a hypnotic drug
that religion departments have developed over time.
It's a logos that they use to low,
well, it lulls me into like, you know,
first it creates and then it makes me sleepy.
I don't know why.
But you have to understand too
that there is a lot, there is a lot of bad work.
There is a lot, you don't understand it.
If you don't understand the lingo,
you don't understand that when one scientist
has really gone wrong and the others
are all trying to correct them,
that's the problem with the theology people
is that they have to prop up that theology.
Can you just tell me, Neil, really quick,
SBC is what, explain that to me again?
SBC?
Yeah, yeah, what is SBC?
SBL, you mean?
Whatever, it dance associated with it.
Oh, SBC is one of his prestigious groups.
One of his prestigious groups.
They suck.
The whole point of them is just to,
I mean, they'll, if the facts are brute,
they have to, like their whole thing is like,
what can we get away with?
How early can we date the text?
Let's see, how early?
Let's try to get it to the Iron Age.
Let's try to get it there.
That's what they're doing.
You could just, so obvious,
they're trying to please all the Christians
and they're trying to sell Christianity
to liberal audiences.
But the Bible really isn't that anti-gay, guys.
It's really not.
It's really actually really progressive.
No, it's not, fuck that, it's fucking sucks.
And it's dated to the Hellenistic period
as you're going to find out.
But when I drop my video with Gad Barnea,
we blow it out the water for two and a half hours.
Anyways, pull up my screen, please.
So, okay, so the reason why I wanted to show you that
is little, I, how dare you question my Greek skills?
Because right here, there's a word in Greek.
You see that word?
Let me see if I can zoom in a little bit
so everybody can see it.
You see it?
Thresgeia.
What is that?
It looks like Thresgeia,
but I don't know, I'm not really sure.
And then I'm thinking to myself,
maybe it's a Koine version of some word.
Maybe it's a different version of the word Thresgeia
that I'm thinking of,
because that's a word for religion, right?
And I asked my friend who knows modern Greek.
Is this how you spell it in modern Greek?
He said, no.
Check this out, ready?
I'm gonna come back to this
and I gotta go back to,
I gotta go back to my other folder.
Just give me a second.
All right, so back to this folder, right?
Look, if you put that word into the any lexicon,
this is Perseus Tufts.
This has, Perseus Tufts has all the lexicons rolled into one.
That's why we call it Alice, baby.
No information found.
That's not a fucking word, dude.
He spelled it wrong.
How dare you question my Greek?
Bro, you spelled Thresgeia wrong.
It's not a word.
You don't know fucking Greek.
Spelled it wrong, dude.
Here's how you really spell it within Heita, all right?
So what does it mean?
It means religious worship.
Now, isn't that funny?
Isn't that funny that this word means religious worship?
That's how it's used in Greek.
You see, you got Herodotus, twice.
What is this?
You got the book of Acts uses it.
Ephesians uses it.
So Christians are using this shit out of this word.
Huh, why wouldn't we talk about this word?
All right, let's just put this aside for now.
Let's go back to the article, if you don't mind.
All right, getting all fired up over here.
So back to the article.
This is what he's saying here.
He says this, you spelled the word wrong,
but he's saying all those words, Elsebia,
which is another word we use that can translate
to religious or pious or, yeah, religious, all right?
He says, this is what he says.
He just fucking says, for example, all of these words
that we use for, all of these words that I just named
that form the basis of the meaning
of the English word religion, just ignore all that shit
because I am just gonna focus on this one Latin word,
religio, right?
So he's only gonna focus on this word, religio,
but not only that, this is what he does.
This is why he's a hypocrite for calling you out.
He decides to use three examples
of the word religio used by Plotus,
he uses the word Plotus, Julius Caesar, and Cicero,
while Lucretius prajoratively described it as a synonym.
Okay, so maybe four, but mostly three.
He's saying, okay, Cicero, you,
religio is a virtue that was contrasted with superstitio.
For Caesar, it's an obligation of an oath, right?
Okay, Plotus uses this word.
He calls me back directly and invites me to dinner.
Yeah, I had scruples, religio, and I could not decline.
So like oaths and obligations, right?
And then Cicero, okay, he uses these three.
Why are you cherry picking those three
when you just criticize Amon, ready for this?
Here is the Perseus Tufts.
So we're using Lewis and Short, lexicon.
Here's the word religio, and look how many times
it's used for reverence for the gods.
Look at this.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19.
Why didn't you talk about any of those usage of the word?
Why did you just pick three, cherry pick three
random usages of the word?
Now, I get what you're trying to do.
You're trying to show, look, the word religio
was used in different contexts during the ancient world.
We don't use the word religion the same way they do.
That's because religion is English and religio is Latin.
And the reason why this is a stupid argument
is because you wouldn't do the same thing for scientia,
scientia.
The word science comes from the Latin word scientia,
which means knowing or being skilled in anything,
knowledge, right?
Here's a cicero, right?
Cicero, let's go with cicero.
You want us to talk about cicero,
let's talk about cicero, right?
Cicero uses the word right here.
He says,
ought scutere is theorem, where I suck at Latin.
Nehil ought etiamici maximae siemias, all right?
Now, if you check this with this,
you know, I'm being honest, I'm not a Latin guy,
but I know what this translates to.
I can look it up because other people have done it before me.
It says either we know nothing about such things
or even if we know them thoroughly,
we cannot be better or happier because of that knowledge.
Basically, scientias is the Latin version
of the Greek word gnosis, it means knowledge.
That's it.
We use the word science way different
than the Latin uses the word scientias, right?
But where's Dan at trying to tell everybody
we shouldn't use the word science anymore
because it doesn't mean what it used to mean, right?
Because that's not a worthy dissertation
because it doesn't do anything,
because nobody would care.
Everyone would just ignore it.
But the fact of the matter is
this is stupid dissertation anyways
because this is actually a funny thing that happened.
It's very comedic, it's very,
what happened with this is actually very hilarious.
So there was actually a time where Dan tried to police
the usage of this word on the internet.
So let me share my screen one more time.
I have another screenshot, this happened a while ago.
There was a debate between a Christian
and David McDonald's, pretty good debate.
And I was in the chat and I decided, I said, look,
from once I agree with the Christian here,
I said, religion has the public service of giving people
an outlet to grieve loved ones who pass away.
This is something that I don't think anyone can disagree with.
And then this is, that's, wait a minute.
He just used the word religion
in a context that I don't agree with.
I got to police the internet now.
He says, religion doesn't exist outside of discourse.
So it's not doing anything at all.
And then the funny part about this is, wrong way.
The funny part about this is two seconds later,
other people in the chat are using the word religion.
Religion isn't a direct correlation to a lower aggression.
We don't see higher aggression.
And then Ember disagreed with me politely.
I don't think religion, let alone any specific religion,
should get credit for human grief.
That's part of human being.
Now listen, we all know what they mean by that.
None of us are thinking in ourselves,
well, Cicero would have used the word religion difference.
So Ember, you shouldn't have said it that way.
You should change whatever you said
to worship of the gods or something.
No, because that's incoherent.
And that's not how language works.
People, we decide how we determine what words mean.
And words change over time.
Right now, when I say the word religion,
people know what I mean by it.
They don't think that I'm talking about an obligation
for like a Caesar used it.
They think I'm talking about worship of certain gods,
attending a certain church or a synagogue or a Buddhist temple.
People know what religion means,
because that's how we use it.
Now, I have one more thing that I want to present.
Oh, a couple of things actually.
Beautiful, beautiful text from my boy here.
Speaking of the Renaissance,
because I think this word is very well defined in my opinion,
and I disagree with what Dan's trying to do with this word.
I think his dissertation sucks.
I think the way he tries to redefine words
by going back to the ancient past
and trying to bring the context
of what they talked about in the ancient past
into today's world is dumb.
I don't know what, it doesn't have any,
it just doesn't seem useful at all.
People, when we say monotheism, we know what that means.
We know there is no pure monotheism anywhere.
Even Islam isn't really purely monotheistic.
There's gin, there's spirits, there's the devil,
Hashatan, all that stuff.
We know there's no pure monotheism,
but we know when you say monotheism,
you know what it means.
We know it means that there's one eternal creator
who's perfect and infallible,
and all the spirits are, that's what monotheism means.
Let's not play, and I'm gonna get back to that in a second.
My boys, Brumie and Flavio,
from the 14th and 15th century,
along with Machiavelli and Petrarch.
This is who I've been reading in the last couple days,
or last couple of weeks.
Right now, I'm into Flavio.
Beyondo Flavio, I'm reading him right now,
because I'm working on a video,
and I'm actually glad that this all happened
between Amon and Dan, because I was originally making
a video dealing with some of the stuff
that I disagree with Dan on, but I'd rather do it here,
because this video's turning into
a really deep anthropology video that I'm working on.
It's gonna be a big documentary about what is religion.
And I found the most beautiful, beautiful definition
of religion from a Renaissance writer who used,
by the way, Petrarch, Flavio, and Brumie and Machiavelli,
they all used the term dark ages to refer to
the period between 500 AD and 1000 AD.
And the reason why the scholars today hate that shit,
I think Dan's one of those people who fight against that,
and they're, no, that's incorrect, dark ages,
it wasn't really that dark, it was actually pretty bright.
No, fuck that, I agree with the Renaissance people.
I agreed that it was dark ages,
and there's only one reason why.
I don't care about technology, I don't care about logistics,
I don't care about how cool their churches looked,
I don't give a shit about how beautiful
they'd have a crucifixes and all that stuff.
There was no fucking text, no classical literature
between 500 and 1000, zero.
You cannot compare Cicero, you cannot compare,
you cannot compare Ovid and Virgil and Homer and Plato
and Socrates and Hypatia and Sappho,
you can't compare them.
There's no comparison to all of those amazing,
brilliant thinkers and writers of the classical antiquity,
compare it to anyone between 500 and 1000 AD.
Fucking dark ages, bro, period, facts.
And so this dude says this so well, he says what he says.
Religio, Nonius Marcellus writes,
is the worship of the gods.
According to Plutarch, in the life of Emilius Paulus,
the philosophers and all other ancestors
defined it as knowledge of divine matters.
