So, so much, so much to God. Love this cosmos, baby. He loved the way it turned. He tried to
make that second Adam, so that what? He gave his monogany, right? He gave his monogany. You know
who this one is? This is the only born. This is the only born. Oh, the only born. He's going to bring
that Ionian life. He's going to bring it. Take it down. You know what that only born has to be,
Damater? That only born has to be that one who is both, who sits next to Bromius. You know what
Bromius is? Bromius is the sounder. The sounder. Are you ready? Let's hear Bromius. Next one. Here
comes people. Polupotnia. Come on in, Bromius. What are you? What are you, my queen? You're the
polupotnia. And what is a polupotnia? That polu is just much in Greek. It's just like an amplifier.
Like it's intense, the intense of whatever's going to follow. A mistress or a queen. I want you to
see this. What kind of queens do we talk about? Look at that force lying down, Greek students.
Polupotnia Theodon. That's the mistress of the beast, right? That's Artemis, right? Artemis. She's
the huntress too. She's that queen Polupotnia. She's that Polupotnia. Look at Aphrodite. Who's
the queen of those loves? Who's the queen of those loves? That's Aphrodite. That's Aphrodite. Look at
the amenities here. Uh-oh. You mean the furies. The furies? They represent that Polupotnia? Yes,
they do. Yes, they do. And if you look at the rest of the definition here, next one down, Chewie.
Boom. What else is that polupotnia? Look, she is revered, right? She is August. She is August. Who
is Earth? Who is Earth now? The evangelicals can scoff that you could possibly, you could possibly
venerate the Earth, but the people who created democracy did so. Okay, so cool, cool, cool.
And she's your fate, by the way, too. She's your fate. So all of this feeding into the
dab matir, to that savior, to that one that you have with you in the interior, in that very heart
of the worship. This is she, or if you want, he. Yeah, let's go, let's go. Does everybody see it?
Has anybody, look, has the skirt come up yet on Jesus? Has that, have we seen what's there?
Are people looking, right? People, focus, right? We're about to get back on the ship,
head back to base, and this is our last field trip. I want you to look between
the space that you should look on Jesus. I want you to look at it. Give me the next one.
Boom. Who are we in the presence of? We're in the presence of the thesmaphore. Who's gonna bring
that law? Who's gonna bring that cosmos? Is it Moses? Is it Jesus? Where does all that come from?
It comes from the thesmaphore. It comes from da matir. When there was no Jesus, when there was no
Moses, there was a da matir. Next. Watch what happens, people. Are you ready? How are we gonna
cause this? Are you looking at the male or are you looking at the female? Yes, the answer is yes.
Who is Mises or Misa? Who is this? I don't know, but quick. This is our last little chance. Let's
burn some incense. Look what it says at the top, thumiam asturaka. Guess what? This is the same
cronian incense. It is the same Saturnian incense. And what's it gonna bring to us? It's gonna bring
us the thesmaphore, right? The one who carries the narthex. You see Dionysus at the end of the line?
He's that much venerated seed. He is that sperma. He is Eubuleus. Who is Jesus working through?
She's sitting right in front of you. She's sitting right in front of you. Jesus was a vessel.
And this is who she brought. Are you ready? Look at the bottom. She's the areton anasa.
That word anasa is a thousand years, a thousand years older than any, any of your traditions.
Yeah. Your religions, any of them, it's a thousand years older. You monest, you have no hope. You have
no hope. Your movements have no hope. Areton anasa. This is who we're talking about,
mise. And just look at the top line here, people. Arsena caithelun. Arsena caithelun.
Male and female. Two-natured. This is who we're talking about. We're talking
about the one who frees us. And who is the one who frees us in the next one, two, three, four,
five lines? The Phrygian mother. Aphrodite on Cyprus. And who else? Isis. Isis in the land of Egypt.
Who is the da mater? Who is the one who comes to us to bring us that ionic life?
Who is that one? Before Jesus was doing it, it was that precious form, that masculine and feminine
form together in one. Now, they can't produce the blood unless you castrate them in order to get
the cosmos. The kingdom of heaven. The organization of heaven. You have to cut off Jesus's testicles.
That feminine form that he is, that guinomorph that sits in Dionysus, that form, that form must be
recalled. What do you think those magi were doing? Did you think it was a game? He was a specific
person who was coming via the star, via the star. What do you think they gave him? They gave him
these ingredients they're using right now in these rites. They gave him the same ingredients that he's
using right now in the rites. Go to the next one. Go to the next one. Bring in peace. Bring in peace
and you know me. You know me. What's you know me? What's this thing so lovely? This you know me?
Yeah, look people. These, this is where we want to come. This is the place that you wanted to come
under Moses. This is the place that you wanted to come under Jesus, but because those are atheistic
religions, you couldn't. You couldn't bring the you know me. It has to come through Sophia. You failed.
You failed.
Take a look people. Take a look on the second line at the word in blue. Where are we going to find
you know me? We're going to find it with the scutha. With the scutha. Who is scutha? Scutha is the name
of Medea. The Scythians are so well known for establishing you know me. You can walk up with
a purse of coin, throw it on the ground, walk away from it, come back a week and a half later.
It'll be sitting in the same place unopened. They were known for their eunomia. They were
known for what Moses, Moses tried to produce. They were known for what the Jesus tried to produce.
The scutha. And what does that scutha mean in the Greek? You know what it means to
Scythian in the Greek? It means to shave your head and enter a state of intoxication under the
control of the star. We are children of dawn. We are children of dawn. We sit on our throne
