take your clothes off in the last episode. You knew that I would do this. Let's go. Let's go.
Resume. Yeah, I want to give you a little bit more. I want to give you a little bit more of the drugs.
And I just want to set up our skeiné a little bit. And this is from the ion. Look, the youth
reverently built the brown tent on pillars. Okay, he's setting up our skeiné without walls. Look,
we're all like kind of voyeurs watching him from a distance. What's he going to do? What's this guy
going to do? He's taking good care of the rays of the sun, setting it neither towards the middle
beams of heat, nor in turn towards the any. Okay, he's just get through your tent making.
He measured the length of 100 feet. Seriously, having the whole area of tent down. Oh, God,
what did he do? He sent out people to Delphi. You know, from the treasuries, he took sacred
tapestries. Okay, now we're getting this is kind of cool watch and shadowed over the tent of wonder
for men to see. First, overhead, he spread out wings of cloth, a dedication of the sun of Zeus,
which Heracles brought from the Amazons, the spoils. All right. Oh, you mean this dude is out
raiding the Amazonian tribes? Yeah, he is. He is. He ends up a sex slave of one of their queens.
He thought he was better than he was. And he ends up a sex slave. You know what happens to sex slaves?
Yeah, it's a form of punishment. But he ends up with quite a fondness for the lingerie.
Quite a fondness for the lingerie. So you got to give it to him there. He's got a he's got a sense
of where he's going. You know what I mean? And he says here, these pictures were woven in it. Are
you ready? Heaven gathering the stars in the circle of sky. Does that sound like a Bronze Age thing?
It should. This is Saturnalia. What do we worship? Worship the sun. The sun. This is us. This is us.
These pictures. What's there? The sun was driving his horses to the last flare drawing on the lights
of evening. Dark robes night was shaking her two horse chariot by means of the
yoke pair and stars. Tended her. Played hasten through the middle sky with the Rhine. Okay.
Can you see what she's bringing? You see Kuryanukta. You see that form of her. Look at that black
night. I just want to remind people. You can take that down to you. I just want to remind people
that in the course of this experience that we've had, we determined. We cracked. We cracked the
code. Yeah. We cracked the code. And for a brief moment, we saw Pseudo Nix, right? The she who was
foretold would come. She. She. Wait a minute. What is this before? Well, we're talking with
Euripides. This is, you know, hundreds of years before Jesus and the boys from Galilee picked up
and took the reins, took the reins of the mystery, right? These are their predecessors. Let's go back.
Let's go back to that same, that next. Yep. I just want to make sure I missed at the bottom.
Yeah. Oh, look at the bottom. There's some snaky coils. What's involved in our tent? You're always
seeing serpents. Get used to it. Get used to seeing serpents. If you're not seeing serpents,
you're not in a healing cult. You're not in a healing cult. Why is that? It's because the drugs
people. I'm going to show you the text so you know. Let's see him, Jesus. I want to see everything.
I want to see everything that you've got. Chewie, we're going to have to go quick because we've got
a lot to cover. And I mean, we're almost done covering, but we've got a lot to do tonight because
I want to speak to the jury. And we've got to get there. Yeah. Okay. So what else is, what else
does iron do? Iron sets up golden mixing bowls in the middle of the banquet. Oh, we're having a party.
I forgot. The Herald, with quick steps, was inviting any native of Delphi who wished to come to the
feast. When the tent was filled, they crowned themselves with garlands and ate the rich food,
satiety, when they had let go of this pleasure. An old man came by, oh, this is going to get good,
and stood in the midst of us. And what did he say? He raised a great laugh among the guests by
his zealous actions. Oh, he's going to get goofy. For he brought water for washing hands from the
pitchers and burned the myrtle incense and ruled over the golden cups, assigning this duty to himself.
Do you know who just walked in the door? Do you know who this sader is who is giving us from these
golden cups, this ambrosia? Do you know where we are? We're in the tent. We're in the tent. This is
where we all come from. The Judaism and Christianity that create that modest shell. Those are figments
of the human imagination. This is where we come from. This is us naked. You thought you're going
to be looking at Jesus naked, didn't you? Tonight you're looking at yourself. You're
looking at yourself. And some of you are going to look into that mirror and you're going to have
loathing. Some of you are going to see something that isn't there. It's to those. It's to the
delusional that we dedicate this wrap up. Go. Let's hit it. Oh, God. Oh, God. What's going to happen?
Are you ready? Isaiah, pull out your prophecy. Stone prophet running. Are you ready? There's
going to be this Pideon born to us. He's going to, wait, what? What? Pideon. Remember Jesus,
his little kiddies? The Pidea. Okay. Well, one of them is going to be born. A son's going to be given
to us. And the rulership of this cosmos is going to be on his shoulders. Yeah. And you know what
he's going to be called? His name is going to be messenger. Messenger of the great news. Messenger.
He's going to be an amazing, a thalmasto, Zumbalos. He's going to be a Zumbalos. Yeah,
he's going to be Zumbalos. He's going to be in Yischuros theos. And what else is he going to do?
He's going to bring Ere Nei. Ere Nei. Do you know what Damater brings? Do you know what the
Savior brings? She brings peace. And he is the Father. He is the Father of Ion. The Father of Ion.
I, I'm going to give you this peace. I'm going to give it to you. I'm going to give it to you.
In his agony, he struggles. He struggles with the drugs. He struggles with the temptation. He
struggles with the naked boy and all of it. He comes up. How does he come up? The soonestius
bromioio. What is the soonestius? That's the one who sits, co-enthroned. And who is there sitting
with this one in the garden of Gethsemane? Bromius. Bromius. This is the companion
of Bromius. We had to have this people. We had to have this. This is the curotrofe. Cura.
