Paulus Galeus says that Marcus Cicero
in a speech on the appointing of a prosecutor
maintains that shrines full of majesty and awe
are called religiosa.
And Sabinus thinks that religiosis is what,
which because of some quality of holiness
has been removed instead of part from us.
The term being derived from leaving behind relinquir.
Sulpish, or Servius Sulpishus thought that religiosis
is that which, because of some quality of holiness,
has derived its name from to remove.
And Pompeius Festus says,
religiosi are those who distinguish
between the things that are to be done
and the things that are to be avoided.
Now that is a good etymology dig for religion.
Done a, how many years before Dan did it?
800 years before Dan did it.
And it's not enlightenment.
And this is before the fucking Protestant Reformation.
So this is already, these ideas are already way
before the Protestant Reformation.
There's nothing to do with that.
And by the way, all, and Dan is actually,
Dan is making this weird argument
that this term religion only somehow helps
Protestant Christians in the modern age.
And he says in his article,
it says only for like white males specifically,
which is weird.
It's in the article, you'll see that.
But the term for religion in Arabic is widely used
in the same context that we use.
It's called Dean, D-I-I-N or however it's spelled
in Arabic, Dean.
And that's the term that we would translate
into English as religion.
And it's used in the exact same context.
So you're actually, what you're doing is
you're taking the context away from the whole world,
basically, and just saying, and just trying to hone in
on these was one little group of people
as if it only helps them.
I think you're putting your politics
into this shit too much, dude.
I don't find that a fair argument.
Okay, I'm gonna bust in
because I wanna make a comment.
And I need to say that Chewie is very quick on the trigger
and was trying to shoot somebody in the chat
and missed and hit somebody else.
And for that person who was hit,
oh, it's Dave Hawthorne.
Dave, I'm so sorry, Chewie blasted you,
but you got a big laser hole right in your chest, buddy.
If we can bring you back from the dead, we will.
But we weren't shooting, Chewie wasn't shooting for you.
Keep the chat in a place that is appropriate
for the slawn, baby, right?
Or Chewie is armed and ready.
You see that bow thing?
Woo!
All right, sorry.
I wanna say about what you were just doing, Neil.
First of all, it was a little hard to watch.
It was a little hard to watch.
I gotta admit, I mean, I took my turn.
You took your turn.
And boy, by the end of it, it must be sore.
It must really be sore.
What I saw you do was what a good dissertation committee
will do, right?
You have to get that dissertation
to the raw point of perfection.
And somebody who's gonna step up,
put some Greek up there and misspell it.
That's, you know, come on, man.
Especially when you get that offended
about how great your Greek is.
Are you?
For 10 years, for 10 years.
Yeah.
Did I tell you about the back and forth that I had
when I, with him on X on Twitter?
No, tell me about the back and forth.
Can I just throw a couple more screenshots?
Oh yeah, no, I'm out.
I just wanted to pop in for a second.
This is funny.
People are gonna like this.
Because I brought some shit to him on Twitter
that he just had to stop listening.
He had to stop replying because he knew, he tapped out.
It was game over for this dude.
So I, you know, I followed Dan.
I actually learned a lot from Dan McClellan,
believe it or not.
Especially on the Hebrew, Old Testament stuff.
I wanna know, I'm trying to learn
as much as I can from everybody.
But I noticed something.
Oh, this is the wrong slide.
Oh, here it is.
Dan McClellan, there was a post where he,
I have a screenshot of it here somewhere.
Sorry about that.
Let me just, did I really not save it?
Oh, here we go.
Okay, I got it now.
So Dan McClellan was refuting a Christian.
And the Christian made this point.
And I thought this was kind of dumb at first.
I just didn't know, understand what the argument was.
Some Christian named Chris Cougler said
that Paul didn't believe in only,
of course Paul didn't believe in only one God.
But he did believe in a cosmogonical first principle
that was distinct from all other reality,
not in degree, but in kind.
No.
Bravo to you, Chris, because you read the sources.
And maybe he doesn't.
Maybe he just got lucky, I don't know.
But if you read the sources,
you would know that that was the dominant philosophy
in the first century under the middle Platonism of the day.
Middle Platonism, for those who don't know,
was the leading philosophical dominance of thought.
All over the Mediterranean,
which combines Plato's philosophy of the Demiurge,
the perfect God, you created everything.
Mixed with the Stoic logos,
who's also a monistic, maybe even,
yeah, monistic God.
Sometimes they call the noose, the mind,
or the archaic, the first.
It comes from the pre-Socratics.
Comes from Afton's baby.
Now, if you don't read fucking the classical sources,
you wouldn't know this.
And I said, this is Dan showing off
that he doesn't know classical sources.
Because this is, I'm telling you,
I wish I can describe this better, if you know, you know.
But you never heard someone try to just explain,
I don't know, Star Wars or something.
And they pretend to be an expert in Star Wars.
But then they say like Jabba the Hoot,
or they say like some name wrong or something.
Or they get something wrong
that's so like, so sophomoric.
It's like, wait, did you even watch that movie?
How did you not even know this?
That's what Dan's doing right here.
This is on full display.
Because anyone who reads the fucking text
from the first century, or the first century BC,
or the second century BC, or the third century BC,
even in the fourth century BC,
you will find in theologians and philosophers,
there's an idea of an archaic, the first, the one.
The monad, as he's described in the Chaldean oracles,
the monad, who splits his dyad into two, becomes a triad.
And this is influencing Trinitarian theology.
Now, am I just connecting the two?
Because I feel like it, no, we have Christian sources
called the Valentinians, who are prominent
in the first half of the second century,
who believe that Christ and Zoe, Logos and Zoe,
as in John 1 describes, if you read it in the Greek,
Dan should know this, if you read the John 1 in the Greek,
you get, Theos creates the world through a Logos
who splits off a dyad as Zoe, life,
that's translated into life.
The Valentinians argue that that's a triad
in the Pythagorean sense.
And he was charged by Hippolytus in the late second century
with plagiarizing Pythagoras.
This is how we know this is our Greek ideas.
Anyways, so Dan comes along and thinks,
this is a retrogration of later philosophical frameworks
onto Paul's writings.
For instance, it presupposes creation ex nihilo, huh?
Which is an ideology that wouldn't be created
until over a century after Paul's death.
People need to think more critically
about what monotheism is.
Now, this is strange because the guy didn't even say anything
about monotheism, and he didn't even say anything
about creation from nothing,
which is what creation ex nihilo is.
Which is technically is a doctrine
from a theophilus of Antioch in the late second century,
which is what Dan probably read somewhere
and just asserted that that's gotta be
the only time it just invented from thin air.
Like there's no ideas that preceded.
Just this guy was a genius.
He just out of thin air invented this new doctrine,
but it's such a weird thing to say to this guy.
So, okay, so I have my things backwards.
You just gotta, here we go.
So I come in and somebody asked Dan McClellan,
they go, hey, Dan, isn't it possible
that creation ex nihilo was,
I think they said something along the lines
of like not necessary for Paul,
or there could be similar ideas to this?
He said something like that.
I didn't have that part screen check.
I don't really care what the person said,
but Dan's response was anything is possible.
But the overwhelming consensus,
I hate when he says that,
the overwhelming consensus is not an argument, by the way.
It's an assertion.
But the overwhelming consensus is that the Christians
developed it in the late second century
during debates with Gnostics and other Greek thinkers.
Whoa, that's a really sophomoric phrase right there.
Debates with Gnostics, what?
What did I just say?
What the fuck do you not know Christian history?
Not debates with Gnostics.
What is this like 1940 scholarship right here?
I thought we were way past the Gnostic thing.
Because that's a, first of all,
that happened in the early second century,
not the late second century.
And they're not Gnostics, they're just fucking Christians.
We call them Gnostics.
They call them Gnostics later.
So there's so much wrong in what you just said there.
So much wrong when you just said there.
So I come in, this is what I said.
Anything's possible.
How about maybe read the primary sources and check?
This is laughably wrong.
In order to be this off,
one must have gone their whole PhD career
without reading any primary sources
of the theologians and philosophers of the time of Paul.
Just because Theophilus of Antioch
was the first to articulate this as Caratio ex nihilo
in the 160s, does not mean that he just invented it
from thin air.
This is typical of Middle Potonic theology,
a combination of the Stoic logos with Plato's Demiurge.
Easily found, easily found.
You could just find sources all over.
El Canus is a big source, Plutarch talks about.
Anyway, I'll just keep reading.
And even in some degree, going back,
easily found in the writings of Philo,
his first century BC writer and first century CE writer.
He's at the turn of the century.
Writings of Philo and other middle Platonists.
And even in some degree, going back to Plato's Timaeus.
Everyone, by the way, if you haven't read Plato's Timaeus,
don't call yourself a scholar of religion.
Don't call yourself a theology major.
Stop.
Call yourself something else.
Because if you don't know Plato's Timaeus,
then you don't know the whole roots of Western theology.
You don't know the roots of monotheism at all.
You need to just stop.
You need to go back to school.
And let me finish this off before you say something
on that, all right?
As the idea develops over the course of many centuries,
just looking up, when was Curatio ex nihilo a Christian
doctrine, doesn't explain where this idea comes from.
And Paul's theology was certainly
influenced by middle Platonism.
By the way, you could tell, not just by how the way,
you could tell by the way Paul's ideas and Paul's aesthetic,
Paul's morals, all middle Platonists, all of it.
Also debates with Gnostics, that happened
in the early second century, not late second century.
And nobody called themselves Gnostics.
They were just Christians with various beliefs,
some emphasis on Gnosis and some of the groups.
This whole post sounds uninformed in many ways.
Now, before you say something, if I
was to make a list of all the major Gnostic thinkers,
all of them are dead by 160, Marcian, Valentinus,
the Carpocrates, Basilides.
Most of them are dead before the second century
even started, Saturnius, Simon Megas.
Most of them are dead.
Most of them didn't even make it to the second century.
The roots of it is first century.
They're all dead by the year 150, 144, 160.
So it's like, wait a minute.
How many of these people came back from the dead, Dan,
to debate creation ex nihilo?
You don't know what you're talking about.
All right, did you want to say something?
I just wanted to say congratulations
for towing the line.
It's not over yet, of course.
You know what I mean?
No, but I think it's important to realize, look what you're doing.
You're taking a critical look at the work,
and you're dealing it from the perspective of those sources.
I just want you to know I'm digging your work.
This is where the gaslighting comes in.
