at characters like Dan.
And we can say, what are they doing?
I'm going to follow.
I'm going to believe.
I'm going to commit to you my faith.
And I'm going to believe that the Romans just
wouldn't do such a thing as drugs.
And I'm going to believe in the fairy tale of Jesus Christ,
who is not the guy who was arrested in a public park
at Foreham with a naked boy.
I'm going to believe in a reality that is not the real.
And you and I know we can't do that.
That's why you're here is because you want the reality.
You value history.
You worship history and you don't want the lie.
Please, please understand.
I am not the only one in this arena.
We're about to bring in Gnostic Informant, who
is just renamed Gnostic Warrior by someone.
But we'll bring him in.
We'll bring him in.
OK, make sure that we got.
I want to just end off with a couple of quotes here, people.
And I always do this, and people know it.
Oh, yeah.
Here's your thought of Semos.
What's Jesus giving to his people?
He's giving these death-inducing drugs.
People, if you want to tell grandma what Jesus Christ was,
tell her he was a guy who was arrested in a public park
with a naked kid and was handing out at some time
death-inducers.
Oh, God, you haven't been there until you've been here.
I guarantee it.
I know there's a few people out here who are like, yeah, I hear them.
Right?
Give me the next one.
Here we go.
The curative property claimed by we're going back to the gospel.
That's OK.
We're going back to the gospel.
And you'll notice that there's an attachment.
There's a connection between the gospel and drugs, right?
Because what is it, people?
That salvation is health.
And in antiquity, at different times,
it changes, and the drugs change.
Different regions change.
Depends on what markets you can get.
But there's a long tradition and antiquity
of the drugs being the source of health, right?
It's one of the major.
Galen says it's kind of the foundational branch of medicine,
is that drug work.
Love, love, oh, God, that stuff's gorgeous.
Give me, we're almost done.
Hang in there, Gnostic.
We're almost there.
Who are the Soterias?
Sorry, what's that?
OK, who are the Soterias?
They're the worshipers of Artemis, Sotera.
Did you know there was a Savior before Jesus?
Yeah, there is.
The first Savior was the first Christ.
And they called her Diana.
They called her Diana Medwa.
Oh, my God.
You mean our route from medicine comes from her name?
Yeah, I'm talking history.
History's genius, the Medea.
Yeah, she's the one who started all this.
So fantastic.
But she didn't get, unlike Jesus,
she didn't get arrested while engaging the rights
in a public park with a naked kid.
Yeah, love it.
Let's go to the next one.
Finally, I wanted to put up a couple of quotes here
for people who were emailing and telling me
all of these most excellent accounts of your awakening,
of your inspiration, of your drive,
and those who want the Greek, too.
They want to eat that real stuff straight on up.
OK, right?
We've got to stay together.
We've got to move forward.
Watch this, people.
Tales from the spectrum.
By the way, I'm not monetizing.
Devil wanted me to say that.
Damn, I forgot about that in the beginning.
Devil said, hey, you've got to tell him.
We respect the people who are saying, we respect you
for not taking paola, right?
So you'll notice that our members have gone up,
our subscribers have gone up, right?
So we've got to let people know that the only way this magic
works is if there's not a friggin' diamond vault.
Yeah, you guys.
God, can you smell it?
I think it's someone's backside.
Hit the next one.
Hit the next one.
Who is this?
Oh, God, this guy gives me the creeps, too.
OK, give me the quote.
I believe this is from Tales from the Spectrum.
Thank you.
Thank you, Tales from the Spectrum.
I believe I've identified the Antichrist.
Fantastic.
Let me know.
He's here now?
Fantastic.
He said verbatim what the Bible says he would.
I think he's talking about the interview.
I think this is about the interview.
Fantastic.
Was he there, too?
I don't know.
The camera catch that?
It's only what you can see in reflection, right?
Give me the next one.
More Ronan scholars, please.
Oh, this one.
This one made me so happy.
God, I love the spirit in this one.
Yeah.
See, here's the problem.
Institutions.
Institutions pump out people.
And it doesn't matter if their training is good or bad,
as long as they're getting paid.
That's what institutions do.
But they're artists.
And there's discipline in that artistic community.
And it's those people who end up bringing you the frontier.
It's those people.
Upholding the orthodoxy is just not
on our list of things to do.
Love it.
So you've seen Dan tonight.
You've seen the incristations and epichristations
and christians and antichristations.
And you've seen that they are drugs, Dan.
They are drugs.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I know it's just because you haven't read these sources.
I get it.
I get it.
Totally get it.
Dan, thank you for coming tonight.
Let's let us switch now.
Here's what's going to.
Here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to step outside because that was it.
I'm going to step outside for a minute.
And I'm going to summon some wind.
Oh, yeah.
No, I'm going to reach out there and just suck in some fresh air.
I love it.
And I'm going to give Neil time, uninterrupted,
to bring us his delightful presentation.
Hit it, Chewie.
Bring in Neil.
How are you doing?
How are you doing, Gnostic warrior?
What up?
What up?
What up?
Thanks for coming back again.
I'm crazy mystic.
Amateur mystic.
Thanks for coming back.
I'm going to be quiet now.
And I'm because you have been pumping me with stuff
that is just fantastic.
You're getting great sources.
And I asked you to please find some naked boys
in some magic text.
And you're going to do that, too.
So let's see what happens.
Yeah, when you come back, you come back,
we'll go to that stuff.
Excellent.
While you're gone, I want to give my my my thoughts
on the whole Dan McClellan situation,
Kip Davis, all that stuff.
Good, good.
But I think I feel like it's fair that we do it separately
because we don't what you say isn't necessarily
I isn't my own opinion.
What I say isn't necessarily your opinion.
We have our own thoughts.
Yeah, no, I'm yielding to you the the platform.
Now you can it's your space and people should have that.
Oh, yeah, it feels like a salon.
And now number two is up.
OK, I'm going to shut up and bounce out.
Go ahead, Joey.
All right.
So first of all, to get to get the booze out of the way,
because I'm going to I have some some things, some thoughts
that I know that I'll get some booze for and some thoughts
that I know I'll get some cheers and laughs from.
So look at the booze out of the way.
Let's get that out of the way.
The booze that you guys are all you guys
all throw your tomatoes at me for this one.
But I thought Kip Davis did a diligent and good job today
at sticking to the text and looking at the evidence
and coming up with some good arguments.
I was especially happy to see him acknowledge
that scholarship is going into a direction.
He mentioned Jonathan Adler.
He mentioned Gad Barnea.
He mentioned Russell Gilmurkin as in bringing out new peer
reviewed material and new ideas about how late are these texts
or how early are these texts?
The Hebrew Bible, the Torah, Genesis.
And he is acknowledging that it looks more and more likely
that these are Hellenistic and the least in the form
that we have it today.
Hellenistic with roots that probably go back for however
far we who knows anything's possible in that sense.
I mean, for example, we talked about this on this channel
before.
We have, for example, before I even get into I just
want to finish off the Kip thing before I get to Dan.
And we have in our possession what
is called Nestor's Cup.
So let me share my screen real quick if you don't mind.
It is this page, Wikipedia page.
Now, this is Nestor's Cup, right?
This is the Cup of Nestor.
And what is that?
All right, this is an 8th century BC Greek alphabet cup.
And what is on it is the name of a character
from Homer's Iliad, all right?
So you can't find anything like this.
There's no cup with Moses' name on it or Abraham's name on it.
You get stuff about the kings and the princes
and all that stuff that nobody denies
is legitimate historical.
But as far as anything from like Genesis or the Exodus
or the flood of Noah, there's nothing like this.
There is no cup that you could find.
Look at this.
This is what it says in Greek.
In the cup of Nestor, good for drinking.
Whoever drinks from this cup, desire
beauty for the crown, appetite, evil season.
We have this dating.
So Homer's Iliad, we date it to when
we find evidence of the text, right?
Does that make sense?
If Homer was saying, I'm a guy living in 14,000 years ago,
we wouldn't just say, oh, it's dating to that time.
For some reason with the Hebrew Bible,
that seems to be where everyone tries to go.
They're trying to find out how far back can we go,
instead of actually just dating the text to where it goes,
letting the evidence fall where it falls.
Finally, it seems like the tides are changing
and people are.
Because I've been asking this question for at least two
years now.
Yeah, I would say for about two years now,
I've been asking the question, who is citing Genesis
before 300 BC?
Can someone just show me anybody?
Mentioning, citing it, quoting from it, anything like that.
The prophets don't.
The prophets never do, ever.
So I don't know how you, I don't know why it's
taken so long for people to come around that.
But Kipp Davis came along and he gave his,
I thought he did good.
So there's, all right, throw your vegetables at me
and all that stuff, get that out the way.
But I got some stuff for Dan, though,
that it's not, it's not looking good for Dan.
All right, I got a video on the bottom.
Let's play it and we'll talk about it.
Hey everybody, something to keep in mind the next time
you see people talking about what religion does
and what problems it causes and what religion is,
is that religion does not exist outside of our discourse
about it.
It is a conceptual category that we created.
It is a map and it is not the territory.
The creation of this category really began
with medieval Islam and was taken up
within the Renaissance, the Reformation, and the Enlightenment.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
What you just heard, what just happened there?
You just, I don't know if you noticed that,
but that was, you just, that was a thousand years
you just skirted past like it was one year.
This is something that was taken up
in the early medieval Islam and then the Renaissance
and the Enlightenment.
Whoa, what the hell, was it, you have a time machine?
You just went from the 7th century
all the way to the 13th, 14th century,
that all the way to the 7th, 16th, and,
