Children. Children, come with me. Come with me, children. Now, let's look at something funny.
We've brought you today. Go to that last one. Yeah. And here he's calling him Pideah again,
because he's a pervert. Right? Either that or he's weird. Jesus is totally weird
that he's calling middle-aged men, children all the time. It's really weird. Let me wash your feet,
kids. All right? Did you ever have somebody say that to you? Let me wash your feet.
Okay, let's go to the next one. Let's put, you know, it was the thing. It's the way they did it.
I want you to look at this article. This is just a randomly plucked article from the
bin of historic crappery. How old were Christ's disciples? Here they are. Otis and Frank are
going to figure it out for us. I don't know what they, I don't know who they are. I don't know
if they're husband or wife. But I do know this. I do know this. They wrote about the age of the
disciples, and they have a real problem. Take it down. They have a real problem, because it looks
like they're so young. And every time they're getting in a circumstance, it looks like it's
little kids reacting. And we know, as Frank and Otis know, we know the mathetes was a student.
It was a teenager, yeah, from primary to secondary. Somebody all the way from about nine,
all the way up to about 18, 19, about there. Yeah. So Otis knows it. Otis knows it. They're
trying to write an article to figure it out. Let's follow them. Look at how fun this is. This is
glorious. I love this kind of stuff. He took the children in his arms. He placed a child before
those who asked him to be greatest in the coming kingdom. He welcomed the praise of children in
the temple. Remember when they all ran to the temple and Jesus kicking shit over and he's like,
and the kids are like, and they're screaming. This is what he's talking about. He's always,
he's kind of, he's got a herd of children, a herd of children. Who's this man with it? Did
nobody thank for a minute? Hmm. Okay. He loved the rich young man. Yeah, he did love that rich
young man. I remember that. I don't want to be that rich young man in the after because who
wants to be known for that and egalitarian heaven? Certainly not me. He's that rich SOB.
You know what I mean? Do we not find another marked instance in his friendship for the family in
Bethany? If Lazarus were married, it's strange that his wife does not appear in the narrative.
And we get the impression that the sisters had no husbands. It would, however, be unusual for so
many in one household to remain single after reaching the usual age for marriage, which we have
seen to be 17 or 18 years in the case of men. That varies. That age varies according to region.
There's no blanket like this guy believes in Bible times. And in Bible times, there are absolutes,
right? You can throw a rock from one village to another where the customs are totally different.
So, okay, in general, are these the ages? No, no, they're not.
They hit the women's age, though. They're in the neighborhood because women are married off
as nymphs because they are in a biological state where they can produce children most efficiently.
Okay, they're farmers, people. Remember, these are farmers, herdsmen, right?
What? Right? Okay, so that's what he's getting into. It's really strange that Mary and Martha
and Lazarus, what are they doing? They seem like children. They're perfectly set in an environment.
They're children. Jesus has more kids that he's walking around with. Let's see what he finishes.
Let's finish up that section. If Lazarus were married, it's strange his wife does not appear in
the narrative. Should we jump down? Should we not think of the sisters as girls under 15 years of age?
A young girl would be more likely than an adult male such as to make such a complaint to a visitor
as Martha did about her sister. When we read that Jesus loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus,
we see another example of the affection. The affectionate delight, ew. The affectionate delight
that he took in the young. Okay, Jesus took affectionate from the mouth of Christians themselves.
Jesus took delight in the youth. Let's bring that next one. Okay, look at this, people. The
important point, however, in connection with our present subject is that as Jesus was so attracted
toward the young, oh, I know that sounds bad. I know it sounds bad. They must have been strongly
attracted to him. Oh, God, that sounds worse. That sounds worse. Can these two people
make this any worse? And it would have been strange if among those most earnest to receive
his teaching, there were not some as young as those who in modern mission fields are likely
to be among the earliest to become his followers. Okay. Did you, did you smell that?
Wow. Wow. Can you believe that? Does that, okay, people, you can't blame them. They're Christians
and they're trying to answer the question of why is Jesus associated with a group of 12 boys?
And why is, why is he in the company always of other young people everywhere he goes into
tombs and he's got boys in tombs. He's even dead and his body's gone and all of a sudden there's a
kid. What's going on with this guy with all these children? And he's yelling at me. I'm not a child
trafficker. I'm not. I promise. Okay, let's go. Let's keep rolling. Is there one more? We will
not press the point. Oh, I just want to bring this. This is for the British audience. Just
we will not press the point that it was very boylike to forget to take bread when going out on
the lake. Right? You see what the apostles are doing? They're screwing up like children. He says,
this is an angry, angry British man, I think, and that young people would be more likely than older
ones to have an open coral overseas to the table. Remember the whole question about who's going to
sit where? Right? You think a bunch of 35 year old men would be doing that? You think a 35 year old
man would be happy if his mother came in to Jesus and said, let me ask you a favor. Can my
kid sit on your right hand? Seriously, people? And you thought these were, oh my God. Oh my God,
they're children people. Perhaps we should not make much of their fright, he says, when the
squall burst on their boat as they crossed the Sea of Galilee. Remember I told you we looked at that?
And the kids, they all get crazy. They're like, and he's like, maybe we shouldn't make much of that.
Why? Look, Dr. George Matheson, this guy has hoo-ha up his, up his, you know what? Dr. George
Matheson marveling at their abject trepidation. Big word says, listen to this quote, listen to this
