well aware. Mediterranean society, take it down, is very well aware of exactly what these plants
can do, right? And the knowledge is incredible. We have lost this knowledge in the last thousand
years of Christianity. We have lost this knowledge. Soon as Julian gave up the ghost,
right? Soon as he finished his quest, everything went to the Christians. And just like he said,
as soon as they start teaching, they will warp. I saw somebody right in. I didn't get this comment,
but I saw somebody right in last week, or maybe it was the week before, and say something about
knownness and say, this is a text that is outside the Bible, the sacred nature of the Bible. It's
not that inspired. We're just not going to accept it. We're going to cut the authority. You know
how the Christians set their canon by cutting out the things that scared them, right? And the
things they didn't want to teach, they cut all those things out. As a classicist, you're trained.
You can't take a body of literature and treat it any different from any other body of literature.
They are still human texts. And we're not there to establish a doctrine. I'm sorry, ladies of
frustration, but we are not there to establish a doctrine. We are there as scientists with words.
We are philologists. Yeah. And that's why you always come up with a fairy tale.
And you give it to the people. And those people suck it up. And I know you do because you bring
it on to this channel. You bring your narrative on to this channel. Remember what Celsus said?
They're idiots. They're illiterate. If you consider yourself an intelligent,
well educated, literate. When I say literate, what do I mean by literate? I mean, you know letters
and you read. I don't mean you recognize the stop sign. I mean literate.
And the early Christians weren't. And Celsus was pointing it out. He was pointing it out to them,
right? Notice what the Christians do. They pick on those who don't have access.
Yeah. Yeah. An educated Christian.
Yeah. Doesn't exist in the world of the second century. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that interesting?
Isn't that interesting? Let's go on to the next source. This is bubbling hot. And we still want
to see Jesus getting high. Yep. Some people say he's a prophet, et cetera, et cetera. Keep going.
Who are these idiots? Look at the second line, people. Look at the second line. The second to
last word. Idiotai. So Peter and John. Peter and John are going around. And the people who are
watching them do their thing, they can't believe their parecian, right? They're struck by their
free speech. They're struck by their boldness to speak. And okay. And unfortunately,
they grasp, they hold on to, they finally comprehend, they realize. They realize what?
Yeah. That these people are idiotai. That Peter and John, that they're idiots, and they're
agramatoi. That's just the alpha privative, ah, plus the gram root from graph to write.
They literally, they cannot read. They're illiterate. It doesn't say uneducated. If you read a
translation, it says uneducated, it doesn't. It doesn't. It says they don't read. Was it on the
skills test? Jesus, when you obviously weren't using Roman state standards because your disciples
can't friggin read, thought they were your students. Let's go into it. Jesus, let's, let's, let's ask
about your students. Where's the next slide? What did people say about you? Oh, here it is. What was
our question here? Jesus is saying, anybody who receives a prophet, write a name of a prophet,
he gets the reward of a prophet, he gets the wages of a prophet, right? He receives justice in the
name of justice. This dude gets a reward too. Keep going. And whoever would, whoever would what?
Whoever would water one of my micron, one of my little kitties with a glass of cold water,
right? Whoever give them this, whoever give them that cup, the name of that student.
I'm saying to you, amen. I'm saying to you, he's not going to lose his reward.
He's not going to lose his reward. The one who rewards the prophet. You know what Jesus was
making? He was making profits. And you say, well, that kind of makes sense that he was doing. It
kind of, you can feel the magic pass along, even though you have these Renaissance paintings or
you have these old, older Christian Byzantine skinified things of all the 12 apostles and they
look like horrendous. Let's go. Sorry. But you know, when you've seen classical art, the stuff,
the stuff that is following is garbage, garbage. You can't say that. You can't say, I have nobody
to fear. So I can say exactly what I want to say. And it's garbage. Look, it's a Byzantine knife.
Oh my God. Are they all sick? Do they have the plague, chewy? I think they all have the plague
again. Look at them. They're all like super, super emaciated. Don't look at their bodies. Cover up.
Do you have the portrayal of breasts and Byzantine Christian art?
You be hard pressed. Start looking now. Okay, let's go. Mark 941. So whoever gives,
this is just a restatement, whoever gives that cup of water, right? My name, right? Why? He says,
because you are of Christ. That's all I wanted you to see here. You belong, he says, kiddies.
You belong to Christ. You belong to the one Christ did. That's how the cult works. That's
how the mystery works. Right? That's why it's always described as a wedding. Don't be surprised
if the imagery in your mystery cult has poles in a wedding. Don't be surprised. It's how it's
at the core of everything. Right? Who's Mars, Mary? Oh, who do you think? Right? Fantastic. Let's go
to the next one. Oh, yeah, whoever is going to, whoever is going to scandalize one of my
micron, one of my little boys. It's starting to get disgusting, Jesus. It really is. Whoever's
going to scandalize one of my little boys, one of the little boys that puts all his trust in me,
right? It's better. It's better that he ends up getting thrown into a river with something
hung around his neck from the mill. Right? Oh, right. Thanks. Okay, keep going.
Tell me, this micro, who is, who is this? You know, these disciples of Jesus,
they're wee lads. They're wee lads. Jesus, tell me, quick, Jesus, tell me.
What are they called? What are your disciples, your apostles called? What are the 12 Jesus?
What are the 12 called? Technia. Technia. What are Technia? Technion is a small child.
Yeah. It's a small child.
