Fantastic. Put your glasses on, stupid. Okay. Look, ton profeton. Who is this? This is Galen,
baby. You just sit back and love it. Oh, yeah. Look at this. I can hear it. Oh, here it is. Here
it is. Look at this. Oh, oh, look at this. Look at the publication date on that, people. I got it.
1829. 1829. Are you ready? Are you ready for this? Here it is. Ton profeton, de auton,
die nechventon, alelois. Et mezon, et min apuria, genetai dois me profetais. Look, there it is.
There it is on that second line down, kind of in the middle, profetais, profetais. Wait,
what is Galen doing talking? I thought this was second century. What is he doing talking about?
He's a died and the wolf physician, Hippocratic loving guy. He is way into the anatomy. He's
into going into Rome and giving exhibitions. There's a famous one that he gave, if you don't
mind me telling you. Let's shut up, Jesus. There's something. There's something wonderful that
Galen did. He went into Rome and he was like, I'm going to show the peeps at the exhibition
where all the smarty smarts get together and look at things like anatomy. He's like,
watch this, and he takes in and he ligates the recurrent pharyngeal nerve and gets a pig
to stop squealing and then releases the ligation and the pig starts screaming again. He says,
he didn't say that because he wasn't French. But Eureka, and there it was. There it was. Now you
know the origin of the voice. We know that somehow it's connected from here and it's acting here.
Fantastic. Yeah, I bet you couldn't prove something like that. Don't give me that.
He should have had his own cult. So what is he saying here? Blow it up. What is he saying here?
He says, look, the prophets, they aren't in agreement concerning the drug that he's talking
about in this section. And he says, look, the confusion is even greater with those of us who
are not prophets, right? So this is one of the drugs that he's talking about that's being used
by the prophets. And you say to me, oh, do you mean the prophets were using drugs?
Yeah. Yeah. Prophets use drugs. This is a medical text. Prophets use drugs. Fantastic. Next one.
What about diascortes? Let's get another physician in here. Let's get another physician. What is,
oh, asaron. Asaron. What is asaron? Asaron. Well, some people call asaron, I need to see it.
Some people call asaron nardos. It's an agria. It's a wild form of the nard. It's a wild form of
nard. Thanks. You mean the stuff that Jesus is carrying around is this drug? Yeah. And, okay,
it's a prophet's drug, right? Let's see what, let's see what, oh, look at the next word,
profeta, the prophets, the prophets, prophets. What do the prophets call it? Haim arreos,
the blood of Aries. Oh my God. Have you had the blood of Aries? Have you had the blood of Aries?
This is my blood. This is my blood. These priesthoods, these priesthoods, blood and flesh, blood and
flesh, Hail Satan, blood and flesh. Let's keep going. It's baked in. It's baked. No, I need to go back
to the one that it was. Boom. Yep. Okay. And now you're right. Let's keep going.
No, actually, let's go back. I see why. Sorry, Chewie. Stop turning this ship around. So,
the prophets, the prophets call it the blood of Aries. Ostanis, who if you know who Ostanis is,
who is Ostanis? Who, pray tell Jesus Christ is Ostanis?
He's a what? He's a what? A magus. He's a magus. He's a famous magus. And what does he call it?
He calls it Thesson. Thesson. And what do the Aeguptioi call it? The Egyptians, they call it
Ker Eera. And what are the Romeoi? What do the Romans call it? Per Presum. Per Presum.
And when some people call it Bakar. Yeah. And what do the Thuskui call it? What do they call it?
They call it Sukinum. Sukinum. Really? Okay. All right. Some people call it Nard, right?
What do those Gauls call it? What are those Gaulic people call it? Right? We know they're in
Turkey, right? We know these are the ones in Turkey. What do they call it? Bakar. That makes
sense. Bakar. And it's a great smelling plant, by the way. But let's go to the next one. What does
he say? What happens to this plant? Oh, he's, no. Look at the bottom. Second line. Second line
from the bottom says Thebiodectois. Start from the beginning of that line. Agedekayemina.
It causes the menstruation to flow, right? People did not take it down for a minute.
I forgot to tell the audience. I forgot to tell them. I should have told you a long time ago.
There are ways of drawing down menstruation. There are ways of working in concert with your
cycle using plants and animals, right? Substances mixed together that for you can cause you a catharsis,
can cause you a cleansing or purging. Now, you can sit there and you can let your body do it
itself or you can put your body back in touch with Gaia and let Gaia make you the most healthy.
That's what this doctor is talking about. This is one of the drugs that causes us to menstruate.
Wow. Talk about control. Talk about control, controlling the flow. When I started reading it,
I was like, oh, on the drug side, I was like, whoa, whoa. Because if you think about it, that's also
a form of contraception, a form of contraception. Where is Mike Johnson when you need him?
Let's go. Next one. It's good for, it works not only to bring down menstruation, but it also is
useful when you drink it, he says, when you give it with wine. It's useful for those who are involved
with the Thadia. Those who are either struck or who are intentionally involved, take it down,
involved with drinking or administering or pushing or snorting. How many ways did we miss
anal suppository, right? These do pestering. If anybody knows what pestery is, look it up.
Look it up. It's too delicate for my ears tonight. Yeah, pestery. Let's go to the last one.
What else about this plant that the Magi are using? What else about it? Well, he tells you what it does
and what, you know, you can take it with mellocrat too, which is like honey, honey water.
But I want you to notice on line nine, the third line from the bottom in the middle,
it says, magnetai decai murois. Yeah, it's going to be mixed with that muroin. It's going to be
mixed with it. So those sex drugs that the people on the island of Cyprus are using and
celebration of their mystery, those are here. And they're used with the very same drugs that
Jesus Christ was given. And where do these things come from? They come from Pontus,
they come from Phrygia, they're Illyrian, they come from Italy too. All right, so they're very
