learn about ancient women.
And go to Mary and Mary can tell her, don't worry about that.
They all stayed in their homes and it feels so much better for
us to righteously stand up and say, oh, look, how bad these
people were, these oppressors, to create this fairy tale.
But the actual truth of the matter, the reality is always
more interesting.
I'd love to see a book written on the root cutters.
I know Mary's not going to write a book on the root cutters,
right?
But she's into drama and we know that Sophocles has a play
called The Root Cutters.
So maybe she'll get on it.
I don't know.
Probably not.
I'm being, I'm being.
It's too busy writing books about how much of a productive,
successful mother she is carrying to, you know, look at me.
It's too much of that rather than look at where we've, look at
our roots, look at where we've come from and where we can ascribe
power to, about our importance in society.
Now it's like, look at me.
I can carry around a couple of children and do a degree.
You know, how many honoree degree, what's an honoree degree?
Yeah.
How many honoree degrees she's got from different universities?
Scary.
What is an honoree degree?
Well, she's just done nothing and they just give you the paper
work and say, yeah, you've got a degree in this university now.
Loads of universities have given her an honorary degree.
I wonder what the, what do you think the cost of an honorary
degree is?
There's something transferring there.
There's some kind of, yeah.
How many do you possibly need?
Cause it's a list.
You know, it's just go on a Wikipedia.
It's very simple.
It might be a bunch of lies, but it's doubted, but it's a bunch of,
it's a big list.
And she's a Dame, she's a Dame as well.
So that's that.
That's pretty much an OBE.
That's, that's an order of the British Empire.
That's equivalent to being a knight.
That is, that's a knighthood, essentially.
Good.
I'm glad, I'm glad I said that.
I'm glad I said that.
Knighthood.
That's the best that the British have to offer the world.
Is it not?
The knighthood.
Yeah.
I think there's one above that, you know, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know all the, I know it happens twice a year.
There's a list that gets constructed twice a year.
And the undotes, these OBEs and honors to all sorts of people.
The wheel, David.
Yeah.
And that's why we should believe Mary and not the guy,
not the guy with the shaved head, right?
With, in the satanic initiation.
Don't, right?
She has the accolades.
She has everything there.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
I got accolades too, bro.
But, but they're, but they're not, they don't stand up to the
official steel seal.
And with such misinformation, with such a rate of history,
because that's what she's doing in those two comments.
That's what she's doing.
She's raping history.
Right.
She's creating something that's not, she's forcing something on
history that is not there.
Yeah.
It's not qualification shouldn't carry that information should
is, shouldn't carry that information and bolster it and
support it with, oh, and I'm this, by the way, you can't,
you don't contend what I'm saying because I'm a dame.
I've achieved these awards and gone through these certain,
and it's just like, yeah, well, why?
Why can't we just look at the sources?
Why can't you be just equal to the next person?
And then we can evaluate the sources as equals and get
your own impressions from it.
That's what you'd try to facilitate, isn't it?
Yeah.
Tell the audience, tell the audience this, Rob.
Tell me if you think this is correct or way off.
It's not the people that have the accolades who carry the reality.
It's the people that they burn first and then set up to set
statues monuments up to later, right?
Yeah, I think, I think that's very accurate.
Yeah.
We'll end on that high note.
Rob, thank you for coming and representing the island.
Thank you.
Your people, your people are geniuses and I want,
I want you to maintain those traditions so that we can be
proud.
We can be proud.
Thank you, Rob.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for the comments, everybody.
And good night.
Good night.
Hail Satan, guys.
