Okay.
That's important.
It's given him a label.
It does this with the drugs.
The Greek does this with the drugs as well.
When we saw the death, bringing drugs.
Right.
The early death, bringing drugs here.
It's the same thing.
His, his arrows are labeled as the ones that bring you the divine.
The ones that bring you the divine.
Yes.
And he's, he's got these that he keeps and on them are written in gold letters.
Written in gold letters.
These oyster bring us up the oyster.
What are oyster?
An arrow.
Look what the derivation uncertain.
Now, for those of you who have been here a while, you know that oyster is just lacking
that row there.
I told you about the row that disappears like the diagram.
Yes.
So there's again, an association, you know, we're building on a people and a culture
and that culture was poison using arrow wielding peoples with Queens, with Queens.
Yes.
And anyway, arrows goes on with these arrows describing a list of the 12 stars.
Those 12 burning arrows.
We're, we're in magic now in case you don't realize we crossed over.
Uh-oh.
We got to recognize what's going on here.
Where are we?
Necromancers.
So you've got the 12 arrows and he starts out of course with IO.
IO, right?
IO.
And we moved from IO to Europa.
Yeah.
And then you realize, oh, wait a minute.
He's composing a list of these women just like Herodotus did.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What?
Herodotus made a list of women who were being abducted.
They were being taken away from their homes and established elsewhere as oracles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
As IO is literally in the oistress, right?
That's who she is.
So by the time that we have this list and it begins, it begins with IO and Europa.
And by the way, Medea is one of those mentioned in Herodotus, right?
He's one of, she's one of those.
Yeah.
Right up front.
And these are causing wars and whatnot.
These situations are causing war.
Apparently these women are so important not to be emulated.
Mary Beard says, but apparently in antiquity, they're so important that people are starting
wars over what they can do over their capacity.
Hmm.
Fantastic.
Maybe it's worth taking off your lens and looking at it from their point of view instead of
yours from the last 2000 years forward.
Right?
Yeah.
So here they are.
Here they are.
And the last of the women on these lists, this list is Olympus, right?
Olympus.
Who's Olympus the mother of Alexander, right?
Who under the possession of the burning purple communes with Zeus himself in the form of
Amon as a serpent.
Right?
So what do we have going on?
You have two very conflicting images of antiquity.
One of them is real, just based in sources.
Just read the sources to yourself.
Don't.
Everything that I told you tonight is just directly stolen wholeheartedly from the sources.
Read those sources.
If you read the modern, you're going to get a version that might not stand up to what the
sources say.
And to be honest, modern scholars have so let down women's studies.
They have completely dropped the ball completely.
If you knew half of what was being investigated by just the witches, pharmacologists, sorceresses,
Magi, cults, the Orphics, if you knew just a half of what they were working with, what
they were experimenting with, you would be shocked and you'd understand what the mystery
was all about.
You'd understand, oh, this is the performance of the mystery.
This is the performance of the mystery.
Yes.
So my question to you tonight that I want to leave you with because we're approaching
touchdown is what reality are you following?
Whose reality is it?
If it has anything to do with any dead people, you're going to get lured into a corner.
Controlling the information that you are given about your reality has been happening as long
as we have recorded written history.
It's been happening.
That's why we follow Pythagoras.
We form that museum.
If we're going to set down a colony, if we're going to raise a colony, if we're going to
bring civilization, we have to raise that temple to the muse.
Without that temple to the muse, we have nothing.
Right here, right now, we have access to everything.
These documents are all there.
We have access to them.
Cambridge, Oxford, they don't have it wrapped up in a cabinet.
No.
No, we have access to it now.
So I would love an army.
I would love an army of women to start writing women's history.
I would love it.
I would love it.
And that way you don't have to have me teach your daughter.
You can teach yourself confidently knowing it's from the source, but, but, and I think
