the eye that's tough, that breeds all of those such intelligent creatures comes this voice,
this irraculate voice of Mary Beard.
And Mary Beard tells us something about women.
And now I don't know whether to believe it.
Now I don't know.
Are these people not to be?
Were they intentionally written as not to be admired?
That's what she's saying.
It's odd.
And okay, let's just get in our spaceship and let's go back in time.
Let's go to Italy.
Let's go to the Marcy, the culture that develops near the temple of Angitia.
And who is the temple?
Who is Angitia?
This is Angitia.
And who is Angitia?
She is the one who brings the healing to us.
She is the one who brings the healing.
She is the one who cures us of the snake bites.
She is the one who knows all of the pharmacology.
Who is this person that showed up in Italy and gets worshiped as a woman?
Forget about what did you say?
Property or political rights?
When people are building temples to you, this is a kind of power.
That has nothing to do with your estimation, your modern anachronistic estimation of feminine power.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Feminine power.
That's Angitia.
And who do our sources tell us that Angitia is?
You know it.
It's Medea.
It says her son ruled there.
He ruled there.
Yes.
She visited coming from her union with the Greek prince.
Yes.
They set up a society.
They set up authority.
Yes.
And this is before an entire group, an ethnic group, living around the Black Sea, decided to call itself after its queen.
The 13 year old city and queen in full armor is a beautiful.
They just, they just dug up is a beautiful, beautiful refutation of everything that Mary Beard said.
Yes.
Beautiful refutation.
The chief, the most powerful, the greatest.
Yes.
Full armor.
Arrows.
Probably poison.
Nice.
Nice.
And where are they perfecting all these poisons?
Insidia, right?
With the, with the mobile tribes of horsemen.
Yeah.
And their royal lines.
Yes.
Fantastic.
Greek influence.
African influence.
Gorgeous.
It's Edim.
It's Eden.
Nice.
Let's go ahead, put flash Mary Beard's picture up there because we don't, we want to give her credit.
Right.
That's Mary Beard.
You can find her work on online.
Yes.
Now, whether or not the person is going to, let's leave and get to you up there, whether or not the person is going to allow me to teach a history of women based upon the physicians and midwives.
And there is a difference.
The Eaterina is the female and it may actually be the oldest word for doctor.
Okay.
So is it probably coming from the midwifery?
Yeah.
Right.
And we know that the, all the old drugs are old abortion drugs.
What are we going to do about this abortion business?
Right.
If you're going to talk about women, you better talk about abortion.
It's a huge issue.
Maybe more so than you think because one out of three women dies in childbirth.
Yeah.
So family planning is serious.
It's life and death.
Yeah.
So whether or not we're going to get these images brought to you will be determined by whoever wants to know the sources.
Or the modern lattice of scholarship that clouds over those sources.
Right.
This puts an interpretation on something that gives it a, an agenda, a movement.
This is meant to cause this and people, these guys that will come behind that will get you and take you behind the building.
They are from Princeton and they are from Harvard.
They're from Oxford.
They're from Cambridge.
Wow.
How did this happen?
The, you know what's funny?
Um, Princeton's program is imploding, right?
They just, they announced it.
Well, it was six months ago.
Maybe that they're cutting their Greek program because he's the language of the oppressor.
Yeah.
That's what they came up with.
You know, it's their ideas and they're throwing them around in a hundred years from now nobody will care.
But we may have forgotten the text.
And we may not have people trained to bring that out of the ground.
Yeah.
To bring it to.
You know, you're not being taken behind the building if I'm giving you or anybody is giving you the actual sources.
If you are working with the evidence at the crime scene, that's what, that's what matters.
And otherwise you should say, I don't care.
And here's that I don't care moment.
Thanks to Zane Campbell.
