She's won a Princess of Asturias Award.
And I just got, you know, I'm looking out for the ST
Sigma Tower route.
I am in that.
And do you, do you get any sort of impression from that, that
that Prince of the Princess of Asturias Award?
No, no, that doesn't do it.
That doesn't, again, Rob, it doesn't do anything for me.
Once you've shown me, yeah, that she can read satanist.
That's great.
Once you've shown me that you're going to talk about an area
that you know nothing about, right, that you're not bringing
the medicine into, that you're not talking about women who are
in these positions, and then you have the effrontery to bring
up Medea and say that she is represented as somebody that
you would not, you would not want to be.
I cannot, I don't care if she's from the Royal Society of
the Throne of Satan.
I don't care if she's got burning purple on her coat of arms
anymore.
We've now violated the muse, right?
She's not going to those sources.
She's supposed to be a classicist.
She's supposed to do this, to make a statement like a flashed
up there, right?
It's unforgivable.
It's in the world of the real, it's unforgivable.
I mean, she'll go on with a career and a problem, and
everything's fine, and people will read it and they'll think,
yes, and maybe some of them will think, oh my God, she's part
of the society, society of Astaria, and none of it will
matter, because we'll miss the frigging sources, Rob.
We'll miss the sources.
And that's, that's, that's what needs to be pounded, right?
Why are we not doing that?
We have the opportunity to do that.
What other accolades do we, do you want to talk about?
I have a suspicion though, is they don't, you say they
don't read the sources, but they must be aware of the
sources, and ignore the sources, and not include the
sources for, for a reason.
There's a reason there, why, like in, in Professor Rock's
situation, you know, you pay a price for revealing some of
the sources at times, don't you?
Yeah, you do, and, and there are things that people don't
want to talk about.
Nobody wants to talk about magic, right?
It's, maybe in the last few years has started to become
more popular.
But when I was doing my degree program, you know, there was
one or two people in the country working on it in the
U.S.
That's it.
Which is funny, because, because you have far more magic
than you have just about every other genre.
So, so why aren't people studying it?
Well, it's because we've lived through 2,000 years of
Christianity and its anti-sorcerer, anti-Satanist,
you know, power, power, and yet still 330,000 people
getting abused, right?
We need the facts.
We need the facts.
I don't think she's, I don't think anything.
My difficulty is not with Mary Beard.
My difficulty is with separating our sacred, our sacred
duty to the sources and our desire to be looked upon
and loved and cherished as a genius.
And here's the documentary on blah.
You know, I, I did a documentary too that based on
my book, right?
And it's a, it's a, a, a sinkhole.
It's a sinkhole of meism, right?
It's a sinkhole of meism.
That documentary should be there, not for the glory
of the individual, right?
Or for the professorship or for the seated chair of
so-and-so or the distinguished visiting scholar of so-and-so.
It should be access in the museum.
It should be what you see when you walk up in the museum.
You see access to the sources right away.
That's what we're supposed to do with classics.
That's what Tom Jefferson did, right?
And that's not what has come out of classics.
If there's a, if we're fighting tyrants, it's probably
a good reason that there's probably a correlation with
Princeton just decapitating its own Greek program, right?
Yeah.
Guess what?
That's, that's what happens when you let that information
go.
Yeah.
I know it was, I know it will sound like I'm being
awfully hard, awfully hard.
Do I sound hard to you, Ryan?
No, and I'm coming from a kind of sarcastic point of view.
It's like sarcasm because, because there's a, where's
that one going?
Confronting the classics.
Confronting the classics.
Traditions, adventures and innovations.
You know, is she confronting the classics?
I don't think there's any confrontation in that,
is there?
Personally.
And what you need to do is confront the classics where
there's information that you have and that Professor
Rook has given us.
Amongst others who wouldn't dare, wouldn't dare step,
step foot into these realms where it's basically you get
your, you get your wrist slaps and step back, don't you?
Is that, is that this situation?
I really want to know what the situation is.
The situation?
In this academic circle where, where basic sources,
