this is why London Times said what I at the conference that I was at presenting, they said
this work that I was doing was the last frontier of classics.
Yeah, it's not just that it's the last frontier.
It's that it's what we have entirely missed that has skewed our understanding of history.
So I would encourage you tonight.
I would encourage you tonight to realize that what you may be perceiving may be a mechanism of control.
A mechanism of control.
Right.
Go back to the muse, go to your sources, work with the sources.
And if you want, if you want the to get down to the very dirt, go to the instrument itself.
Do not trust somebody because they have a name or a reputation or a badge from an association.
Trust them if they're dead.
Trust them if they're dead.
Yes.
If you drag up an ancient Roman, bring them in, pull up somebody from, I mean, the mind.
Can you imagine the affrontery, the bold brashness of saying that this woman who was hailed as an Oracle, who has had temples built to her, who raised and lowered entire kingdoms.
Wow.
To present you with an image of the world.
I think it's, I think it's really why Jehovah lies in the very beginning.
Remember Joe for Jehovah.
He tells them right off the bat.
This is no good.
If they eat it, they're going to have their eyes open and they're going to be like us knowing good and evil.
Yeah, they shouldn't be like that.
Right.
No.
Right.
Tell them it's going to kill them.
You're just going to have your eyes open.
And then what does the text say?
They had their eyes open.
It follows along.
The text follows along with the, with the proposition that the lie is coming from Jehovah trying to stop them.
Right.
Just no good.
No good.
He's been a liar from the beginning, from the very beginning.
And I think that's what I think that's what the problem is.
When you fight for Jehovah, when you fight for that thing that you, they have identified as modern scholars have identified as such a terrible patriarchal source.
Yeah.
You're going to come up against that lie.
Yeah.
The fruit was good.
Guess what?
She ate it and she was smart.
And she did a lot of good things.
And we made statues to her.
And no, we aren't misogynists.
Yes.
We are worshipers of the Virgin.
Yeah.
Magna Mater.
You know, there's a connection.
I'll get, I'll finish with this.
Angizia there that I showed you and her worship in Italy.
Yes.
Yes.
I'll get started with Bonadia.
And all of a sudden, when you say Bonadia, you say, oh my God, that's central Roman religion, right?
And the rights of Bonadia with, um, what are they doing with the one, the alabaster that they're using and their women's only rights.
Yes.
Yes.
Medical, medical, think medical, religious.
Yes.
These are the things this is the, this is the environment that we need to come to now in order to see.
In order to see, um, the reality and get back on our ship when we come back home.
And now if you want to believe what Mary beard has given you, at least you have some ancient sources to contradict what the modern scholars are saying.
Right.
Never trust the secondary work.
Never.
It's just somebody's opinion.
It's just somebody's opinion.
Never trust the primaries.
Rule with the primaries, promote the primaries.
And I guess now I see that Rob has come.
Rob, please tell us for the great island upon which you sit, your impression of, you know, the dangers.
Is this a good time to have a public safety announcement about the dangers of these ox fortians and gringians of coming into our society and taking out our
children, taking them into back alleys and doing things to them that are unacceptable.
What is with the islands now?
Is this, is this me or is my indignation righteous?
Oh, you're going to love it.
You get season two and you can't do without me.
Can you?
Um, is that the same shades?
Is that a new shades?
That's, that's because I was thinking, is he going to wear the same shades season two?
Yeah.
No, no, Rob, this is, you'll always see me.
Is there a problem with my shirt, Rob?
This shirt is important.
Same shades, same shades.
So we're talking about a local girl.
She's from Shrewsbury.
There's Mary and I'm willing to bet it's bad.
I do, I do like beard.
But I'm willing to bet it's Mary bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's a local girl.
And if I would collapse on me at the minute, that's the right time.
But, um, do you think she might be an Oracle by any chance?
Um, yeah.
And excuse me, Miss Baird, however you pronounce it.
Um, we'll, uh, um, excuse me if I've mispronounced your name.
But, um, do I think that she's an Oracle?
What are you, what are you smoking?
Are you here for the last 20 minutes?
Well, well, you know what?
Usher, come get this man.
Do you know what she's wrote?
In 1989, she wrote, the good working mother's guide did Mary Baird.
That's it.
Like, so is an Oracle a good working mother, would you think?
Um, yeah.
