I thought women didn't have any power.
Didn't have any place.
Didn't have any socioeconomic.
Why are Paul's supporters all women?
Wealthy women.
Wait a minute, Mary.
I thought in the great world of antiquity, no women had
disability.
They were all oppressed.
Do you hear what's happening?
This is how stuff like fascism comes to rise, right?
Once you control that information of history, you control
everything.
And I'm not saying, I'm not saying, Rob, and I'll get off my
podium now, but I'm not saying you need, I'm not saying that
you, you need to buy what I'm selling.
Never would.
You don't need to buy me or Karl Rock.
You don't need to.
You need those sources.
You need to look at them yourself and figure out what they
are, you know, figure out what those people were saying.
We just dug up that.
We just dug up that 13 year old queen, a sitting queen.
Go to her as a source.
Right.
That's a source.
Here she is.
Preserved bones and armor.
Yeah.
Thought it was a boy, didn't they?
Thought it was a man for years, didn't they?
They genetically proved it was a girl.
Yeah.
But for years, they just assumed, didn't they?
They just assumed as it was a male, you know, from the report,
yeah?
And then they were sanctioned to do the DNA analysis.
And that's come through, which was quite a surprise to them.
Why do you think they assumed it was a male?
I don't know.
They're probably the size or the, because it's the armor, the
arrows, you'd assume it's a masculine trait, wouldn't you?
The hunter, traditional hunter, I'm guessing.
I think she's got one bone, bone-headed arrow in the
rest of the bronze, bronze-tipped arrows.
Very interesting.
Very interesting.
I wish there was a better means of getting to that source,
because you're like on ancient origins and different various
websites that are just giving you like a rundown.
There's nothing.
I'd appreciate something like you can get into it, into the
details, what the analysis is.
I've seen some things like that where they've said, and she
had blue eyes and red hair, and I'm thinking, how do you know
that?
How do you figure that out?
I've no idea how they go about figuring something like that out.
No idea.
That's what they come out with.
We still don't know yet.
There's still a lot of analysis that can be done on arrow
heads.
You know, George won't get in there.
Can I have the test done on arrow heads for this
chemical, this compound, and see what we can get out of it,
because I do it once.
Wouldn't that be like the sinker?
Okay.
Right.
That's apparently how rock was vindicated was from those
containers of the communion, of the cacan, right?
Yeah.
Fantastic.
It would be nice to get that vindication and get that
conclusive proof.
Yeah, they were using arrow poisons.
I mean, you've got it documented.
It's quite clear.
It's quite clear.
It's quite clear from listening to that documentary from
Mary Baird that there's marketplaces selling poisons and
venoms, and it's quite clear.
That is, it's so accessible and people are using it left,
right, and center.
Then it isn't some black market thing, is it?
You're going down the market and buying these things, and
you're getting these things made by various ingredients put
together, and that takes a skill.
That isn't a skill in emperor.
That isn't a skill anybody around him has.
That's a skill that's developed over time, I guess, isn't
it?
Yes, and that's one of the things.
That's one of the groups that Mary missed.
She missed the root cutters.
And those are women, you know, described as sorceresses, right,
who are involved in the drugs.
They're called polypharmacone, right?
They have much drug knowledge.
Those root cutters are women.
Euripides mother was a root cutter, right?
Not her.
Wait a minute.
I thought Euripides mother stayed in her house all the time.
Right?
No, she was a root cutter, right?
Well, what's a root cutter?
And then all of a sudden you have a conversation for a
sophomore in high school, right?
A girl in high school.
She should hear this.
She should know what root cutters are if she wants to
