No, I still, I'm sorry.
But the whole insult to Medea, no, the whole insult to Medea, she
could have written, she could have written everything, everything in the
world.
Um, if, uh, for that premise to be so off, uh, about women and antiquity,
it takes, it's like, uh, I can't, um, you know, John Scarborough,
John Scarborough, the well-known John Scarborough told me, he said,
don't, don't you, you, that secondary literature is going to mess with
your mind.
It's going to mess with your mind.
I want the sources.
I want the sources.
Mary Baird is another, is another secondary source.
And it's, no, I can't Oracle.
Now, now my mind is blown.
Let me, let me take you to another book.
That was, I mean, that's 1989.
So we've got, we've got another book, which is, um, pagan priests.
Religion and power in the ancient world.
Now what's missing?
What's missing from that title?
Pagan priests, religion and power in the ancient world.
I suppose women is missing.
Maybe, maybe, maybe there's some, maybe there's some women there.
So yeah, you, you, you're quite correct.
She, uh, and she, she, because I knew she was coming up.
So I took the liberty of watching, watching a documentary on
Caligula.
You know, so, uh, what, what took from that is she knows about
poisons.
She, she mentions as emperors bumped off with poison mushrooms.
And which I was surprised as she mentioned the mushrooms,
actually.
But she, so, uh, all the people dropping dead with poison,
and it seems I want, I wonder where the poisons made.
I wonder if she's considered.
Where's that poison made?
Where's it coming from?
Uh, where, where's the root of that poison coming through?
Cause do you think she might know?
Seriously.
Do you think she knows?
Intentionally.
No, she knows.
She knows.
She knows.
That's where she gets that reference.
Yeah.
Right.
And he knows, he, he'll talk about poison that, but she doesn't
know the medical sources.
She doesn't know.
I guarantee she doesn't know.
She doesn't know.
Diascorties.
She doesn't know.
Scrobonius Largus.
Right.
She may have heard.
Diascorties, but she doesn't read Scrobonius Largus.
Right.
And so how, how can we talk about cult drugs?
If she doesn't read the people that we're talking about cult drugs.
This is, this is a fact.
Modern day classicists do not study the medical side because it
demands too much crossover.
So it's their loss.
It's their loss.
Sorry.
Where do you suppose she's getting that information from, for
the distinction as the poison's coming from mushrooms rather
than any other source?
Cause she's got that distinction there with the mushrooms.
Yeah.
That's, that's quite, that's quite interesting.
And also I was interested in the time.
Yeah.
The time.
She's talking about.
Tell us mushrooms.
Cause, cause this was written hundreds of years after apparently
and it's, this, this story is of Caligula has written
100 years after by the, by the source, isn't it?
And I'm wondering about the timeframe.
Have we got St. John drinking poison at the same time?
You know, John.
St. John.
St. John.
I don't know of a source that talks about St.
John drinking poison, but it doesn't mean it's not after.
He was offered poison in a, in a chalice, won't he?
And there's, there's images of him out there and he's holding
a chalice with a snake in a cup and a chalice.
And, and as the story goes, as he drinks the whole, the whole
measure and it doesn't affect him in the slightest.
Is this, is this later medieval?
Is it Byzantine?
Do you remember what this is?
I never heard that one.
But there's a lot of the, a lot of the Gnostic and a lot of the
Coptic stuff out there, the Gospels that, that, yeah.
When you go through images and you get John up on images,
you'll, you'll find one with it and like, it just adds to the
snakes everywhere, snakes everywhere.
You go into research is snakes, serpents everywhere, littered,
littered with these things all around.
So she knows, she knows, she knows about the poisons in my
opinion.
It was Mary bad.
So do you want to listen to her honors list?
I mean, this honors list is you talk, you talk about credentials
and have you got any credentials?
And you know what I'm like, I go through these credentials and
I noticed this Princess of Asturias Award.
