And what we are doing is we are hymning the antichrist. We are hymning the concoction
that we will consume. Yeah, or that will be administered to us. I should say is technically
because sometimes they're putting it in the eyes. Right. So that's not consumption. And certainly
of the rectum is not consumption. But this is that compound derived from the cup.
They have this special word for those of you who didn't pick it up. There's a special word in
ancient Greek that you saw from my translation that is the drug that causes the death state.
So they actually think about that for a minute. They actually are sitting around
and have developed a drug compound that they can administer and put somebody into a death state.
Yeah. Yeah. So a couple of things I want to point out. We're talking about that antichrist and her
name is given in three different ways. Hilaria. Yeah. Hilaria. Galenae. Yes. Good goddess.
Hilaria. Galenae. Good goddess. And those of you who know about Roman Greek religion will
talk about the Hilaria and what it is. Yeah. So these are not these these are native Greek terms.
This is strongly ethnically Greek. This is as Greek call for a core center.
The language makes that clear. These little couplets that are the poetry are written in a way
that betrays a familiarity with the form of hymns produced in what we call the Orphic hymns.
So yes. Yes. Yes. And it will have more Hapox Legomina words that are only found in one place
than any other text besides Hesechius in order to understand the vocabulary of this very special hymn
that we're reading this antichrist in order to understand it. We have to go to the ancient
lexicographers like the Victorians did. And we have to say what does Hesechius say about this
really really rare word. Right. Because you know we can't define it if we see it just once. You
really you can't. The only way is to go back and say well what are the ancient lexicographers
saying. Hopefully they said something about it and about its roots. And and yes. Guess what they do.
So a lot of this is there in this text. You are getting the most rare file
of ancient mystery cult. You're getting the rarefied air of it with these. I mean you are hearing the hymn.
You're listening to the invocations. You are feeling the formula as it's coming out. So I
just want to make a couple of comments about that may stand out. This potion of Medea this communion
of Medea that we talk about this Medic communion
is from a vessel as sure as being from a vessel. All right. So from a the
Medea or the Medua or the Medea is that cup. She is the one who brings that communion to you.
Now if you are in a mystery right if you're one of the initiated you have shaved your head.
You have entered into the morning
