Your story is super fascinating.
The title of the DEA Sting they had on you was Operation Cyberjuice.
What a great fucking name.
It has a nice ring to it.
So for me and for the people listening, give me just a brief background on how you got
into this whole world of testosterone and growth hormone and all this stuff.
It started when when I was younger, probably about 13, I used to I was underdeveloped.
I was skinny, small, I used to get and I started to get picked on for being so skinny and small.
So at that point I hit the gym and I never look back.
But I was still behind all my peers.
No matter how much work I did, it seemed like I had to put in twice the amount of work to
where my peers were and if my peers did any kind of work that would surpass me.
So at 23, I did my first testosterone cycle, I actually did.
So I'm one milliliter of sustenance a week for anybody who knows what that is.
It's like a testosterone blend and 10 milligrams of D-Ball a day, which is a very moderate
blend now, you know, at the time it was, you know, all I could take or afford, but it's
a very moderate blend and I hyper responded, which means it just absolutely dramatically
changed the quality of my life.
I put on 30 pounds of muscle.
I put 100 pounds on my bench in five weeks.
I just absolutely transformed into a different person.
Wow.
And so this led to a lot of other changes, the way people treated me, the way people
saw me.
All of a sudden I was getting respect.
Suddenly, you know, I was this big, very impressive-looking person who everybody wanted to be friend.
And so like, for instance, like I would, you know, now I would walk into a bar and everybody's
head would turn and they would part in front, like the crowd would part in front of me and
let me just, you know, to let me pass.
I had a, well, I was in college, I was a plumber and I hated this job.
I was terrible at it, but as soon as I started taking steroids, my boss just because of my
impressive stature would, he gave me a raise for no reason, absolutely no reason, like
the world around me just changed.
Everybody treated me.
I was suddenly respected in the world after testosterone and its derivatives was vastly
better than the world before.
So that's what led to the passion.
I've always thought, my personal, I've never had, I've never tried any of this stuff, but
my personal experience of it was that when you were too, if you do it too young, it kind
of like stunts you for the rest of your life or it kind of fucks up the biochemistry of
your body and the development of your body and the natural testosterone that your body
produces.
You know, that's interesting and the popular thing is to, is to, you know, say that and
regurgitate those facts that you've read.
Now, if people started too young, like, you know, before maturity, like, you know, in
their teens, like, you know, 13 or something, you know, that's a different, that's different
than using it after maturity, such as, you know, in your early 20s, it's, for me, for
many people, especially it's getting more and more understood that there's a lot of
people who have lower hormones even in their 20s, and that has the same effect that it
did for me, just absolutely dramatically improving your quality of life.
So to answer your question, when you take exogenous testosterone, and that's testosterone from
the outside, it does shut off your natural production, but that natural production can
be brought back to baseline if, and there's plenty of anecdotal and empirical evidence
that shows that, you know, after about a year, if you take it for, you know, about a year
and this is all just approximate, just because there's a lot of different, you know, a lot
of evidence and a lot of different conjectures, but, you know, around a year, you can go out
then go on a protocol that will to jumpstart your HBTA, which is your hypothyroid, pituitary,
testicular access, and bring your levels back to baseline, back to whatever they were before
you started. So the whole idea is of, and a lot of people just preach this, but it's
really we're just regurgitation of antiquated notions and dogma. And I'll say that a lot
because there's a lot of integrated notions and dogma from the endocrine society, which
has been widely debunked, and we're still debunking to these to this day. But,
you know, only long term abusive use, long term use or abusive use will, you know, has been proven to
to permanently affect your natural testosterone production.
The other reason that I never really like another one of those kind of like negative
effects that I've always been aware of is like that gut that people get, like the steroid gut,
like one of the people that is most widely known for is Joe Rogan. I mean, he talks
wide, you know, openly about taking TRT and growth hormone since he was, you know, for years,
since he was probably in his 30s, and he has that like crazy like bold gut.
And a lot of people talk about that. Yeah. How, how real is that? And is that what his gut is from
the testosterone and the testosterone replacement therapy? Yeah. So that's an interesting question.
And, and when you do research on that, nobody knows exactly the real, the real reason that
happens is there's a lot of different conjectures. All the bodybuilders too. Like they'll seem out
there, they'll have a big bubble gut. Yeah. And you do notice it. And, but if you notice when the
bodybuilders go on stage, it's gone. Right. So, so when it's time for a show, so is it a function of
the calorie intake that they have to have in order to put on all the muscle mass and then,
you know, by showtime, they can reduce that. Is it a function of a lot of people say, oh,
yeah, stuff makes your organs grow. Wow. That's not, that's not necessarily accurate.
Yeah, it doesn't make your heart grow. Like in large heart. I have a friend who does it,
who's been doing it for years too. And he says, he has to always go get his heart x-rayed to make
sure his heart's not super enlarged. Abusive levels can cause ventricular hypertrophy,
which means an enlarged heart. Okay. It can't. Abusive levels. But, but if you keep it to
moderate levels that, you know, that is within the realm of what your body would naturally produce,
then, then it doesn't cause, you know, these issues. So there's a, there's a complete, and,
and that's where, you know, among the, among the naysayers of, you know,
testosterone are the people who try to, try to, I don't know, say that it's more dangerous than
it actually is. There's not a distinction between abusive, use of testosterone or its derivatives
and safe moderate use. Anything taken in high doses is bad for you. You can, you can dive from
water. If you drink too much water, you will die. That's a fact. But, and that distinction isn't made.
You know, through a lot of, a lot of people speak out against, you know, against the use of
testosterone and especially, especially younger people. I'm talking about people in their 20s.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible
supplement that I've been using for over a year now after it was recommended to me by nutritional
scientist Dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast. I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything
related to nutrition, diet and longevity because as we get older, these things become more and more
important. That is why I started using Verso. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating
scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase longevity. I take Cell
Being, this one right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide or NMN based supplement,
paired with naturally derived, micronized, trans-resveratrol and TMG. These two chemicals are
actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide, iodine, dinonucleotide, which is commonly known
as NAD. And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy, cell repair and longevity. If you've ever
tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten that feeling of super high energy
or mental clarity is because your body is activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually
longevity genes. The downside is as we age, NAD declines. When I found out I could naturally
increase my body's activation of sirtuins and naturally activate my body's production of NAD,
I was sold. And it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips. Head on over to ver.so and use
the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15% on your entire order. That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at
checkout and get 15% off your entire order or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
It's linked below back to the show. Why? Why would people speak out against it? Like I don't
understand why would people, I mean, I understand like people like myself, I'm kind of like scared
to try it. I don't know what's going to fuck my body up, but like people, why would people be so
anti? And it comes down to a very, it took a very similar path to marijuana, right? So if we look
at the history of marijuana, there was in the 50s, there was a, there was something called
reefer madness now. You and I don't remember this. I learned about it, but older people will
actually remember reefer madness where that led to all the laws against marijuana that led to the
its classification as a narcotic. But reefer madness came out and actually taught people
that if you smoked marijuana, you would go crazy. You would end up in an insane asylum and it was
it was almost certain death. Right. It took, how long? Let's see, just now like maybe 40 years
since the 50s, four decades for over four decades to finally debunk those myths, which are just,
you know, just now coming into light that why this actually isn't very dangerous. It's, it's,
it's actually very helpful in a lot of instances and it has, it has a medical use and therapeutic
use. It's the same thing with testosterone. So it's, it was, especially when the war on drugs
was going on. So testosterone became, became classified as a controlled substance, a schedule
three controlled substance in 1993, the steroid control act. And it happened at a time when
the platform that every president was running on was say no to drugs, war on drugs. Right. This was,
this was just the platform they used to get elected. Right. It's a political thing. It's a
political thing. And, and it just got lumped into these drugs that are dangerous. All drugs are
dangerous, meek and illegal. And so just a stigma started and part of the reason why the medical
community and the endocrinology, the endocrine society, which has notoriously poor protocols
and an understanding of, of these hormones. You know, that's, that's when it was just kind of
for optics reasons, they just stayed away from it, shied away from it, tried to, you know,
everything, you know, poor information came out about it, that led to a negative light.
And it just was stigmatized. So now we have dogma and antiquated notions that stigmatize
something. And it's testosterone is being realized for the beneficial, beneficial drug that it is,
but it's taking a long time, just like it did with marijuana. It's following the same exact path.
So how did you transition from, you know, using it personally, seeing how it changed your life
and the way you're changing your relationships and everything else? How did you eventually get into
selling this stuff and like having your own online business?
So you are, I mean, you pitched it to Shark Tank too. Is that right?
Shark Tank, yeah, there, there was an article that came out about myself, Shark Tank and steroids,
which was, which was just incorrect. It had incorrect information. I did almost get on
Shark Tank, but it was for my supplement company. I had a supplement company too,
you know, which was called my custom protein. And it, I customized protein blends for each
person, depending on what they needed to yield the best results for them. And that almost made
it to Shark Tank. It was very close. But, okay, so, so back to, you know, how I, how I got into
this. So at the time, when I was 23, when I was taking this, I was in college for biochemistry.
And this passion, this new passion that I developed for this led me to tailor my degree. I started
taking all the courses to learn specifically about hormones. And, and then I did my own research,
just, I voraciously just studied in research every day. It just, it was just fascinating to me. So
when, when I eventually learned a lot, and I was learning in school as well, other people saw my
transition and they wanted to know how I did it, you know, logically. And so when I started showing
people exactly like, okay, this is how we do it, you know, this is, this is where we can get it.
And, you know, this is what you should do. Here's the science behind it. And I started
transforming other people's lives the same way I did mine. And when, when people, what drives
passion is this, is when you have the sense that you're a part of something bigger than yourself,
right? And I'm going to refer to this a lot in, in this interview. So I might as well start
this explanation now is, is I also studied while I was in prison, I studied neurobiology quite a
bit. So it just led to a complete understanding of human behavior. And it's much more pervasive
than people think. So it led to an understanding of human behavior and why people do the things
they do and what drives things like passion and motivation and people to do things. So it's
called the dose response dopamine, oxytocin, serotonin and endorphins, the dose response. So
when you, when you connect with people and help people and you're a part of something
bigger than yourself, that elicits a dose response, mostly dopamine, which is another word for what
we call passion or ambition or motivation. That's just a release of dopamine. So when I was able to
start helping people transition their bodies and they showed me respect and admiration and
appreciation, it elicited a dope dopamine response in me, which drove me to keep going,
to keep doing that. Right. You're getting rewarded for the hard work that you're doing.
Precisely. Yeah. Precisely. Yes. And you're going to school for biochemistry?
Yeah. Okay. So, so now, when I start developing a passion now for helping other people do this,
not only myself, because I'm being rewarded through these dopamine responses and people are
really, I start becoming like a name in my local city for, if you want to, if you want to look good
and, you know, beat your own personal records and, and really change your life, then you come
to this guy. So, so then I started, you know, I've, well, I got to monetize this. So I started,
you know, developing sources to be able to get it myself and then just sell it to people. It was
just a local thing at first. And, and it was still the, you know, more people came, more people came
and then, and then pretty soon I was like, so I also became very adept at my social chameleon.
I became very adept at, at finding, sourcing all these products and, and, you know, befriending
the people who, you know, had, you know, were able to get what I needed. And then I was always able
to just figure out their supply chain, come up with something better, find a way to bring it to
more people. So I found a Chinese source that had unheard of low prices. And I was able to,
to, you know, wrangle that and develop that into, you know, one of the best sources and it turned
out to be as we're, as we'll find out, one of the best sources in the world for most quality
products and cheapest prices. Really? Even quality in China? Yeah. Yeah. So, so one of the, you know,
one, another one of the myths about China is it's, it's a, you know, it's still a business
structure, even though, even though they're a communist country, like there's still a capitalist
quality to the, to the concept that whoever has the best quality products at the best prices
will prevail, especially when they deal with Americans. So the Chinese, the Chinese come to
Americans. So like when I, you know, I'll get into this later too, but when I finally started,
became, to become big, all the Chinese powder sources were coming to me and trying, and trying
to outcompete the others. And it, but it leads, you know, it led to now I have this, I can pick
from the sea of different suppliers and find the best ones. And, and find the best ones with
the best quality really test, I did a lot of testing and, and eventually I can have some of
the best quality of any, anyone in the world, among the top quality in the world.
Other than yourself at the time, where would the average Joe get their hands on this kind of stuff?
Was it, I mean, could they get, could you get it from your doctor at the time?
Or? Yeah, no. And that's, you know, that's part of the, part of the problem which pushes people
into the black market is that the, the medical community is, you know, does not treat low
testosterone conditions. Right. So most primary care physicians, just most of them, almost,
you know, 95% of them will not prescribe testosterone to somebody, unless they meet
certain very, very specific, very low testosterone, you know, if you have medically low testosterone,
which could present a problem your testosterone is so low, then sometimes they will prescribe it,
but it's the protocols are terrible and it doesn't, it usually doesn't work. So that's why,
you know, people now go to TRT clinics, these are, these are testosterone replacement therapy
clinics that specialize in these hormones and, you know, have a better understanding.
And when did TRT clinics first come on the scene?
Probably that I don't exactly know. They weren't around when you were doing it.
When I was doing it, they probably existed, but I didn't, I didn't know that. And they certainly,
at the time, wouldn't have served anybody that was my age because the understanding is getting
better today, but at the time it was, oh, you have to be over 40. You have to have a certain
low testosterone level. And, and it was a very specific criteria to, to get, to get.
Which pushed everybody online into these black market forms.
So pushes people into the black market. That's right. To do this un, unhealthily. So, I mean,
little, little does the, the, the steroid control act, the political figures at the time realize
is they, they're creating this underground market. They're, they're creating a market.
Silk Road, that kind of stuff. Right. Yeah. To push people into, because
there's no healthy way to do it. There's no other way to do it. And when, when you stigmatize and,
and create laws against something and the people want it, a market's going to develop for it.
And the fact that it's illegal, it just makes it more lucrative.
Right. Yeah. And it just incites more crime and puts more people in prisons too.
Precisely. Correct. When, when if you de-stigmatize the, legalize it, warn people of the, of the
problems, then there would be no need for a black market. It would be safer. It generates
tons of tax money, just like marijuana is today. The tax revenue, it's the same thing happened with
alcohol during prohibition. Right. It's the same story over and over again. Little, you know,
what people don't understand is that this has been played out before a few times. And, and we're
seeing that, you know, that just legalizing these things, but keeping educating, education is key.
Not, you know, make something illegal, you educate about it. And, you know,
it now alcohol drives tons of tax revenue, billions and billions of dollars of tax revenue.
People don't go to prison like they did in the 20s during prohibition.
And the same thing with marijuana, driving tons of tax revenue that the prisons are,
you know, nobody's going to prison for it anymore. So it's just, it's such a better,
I mean, nothing's going to bring perfect. Like, you know, abuse of these things,
abuse of anything is bad. But the answer is education, not making it illegal.
Right. Right. So obviously, you were getting tons of education, studying yourself. You were
getting into pursuing a degree in biochemistry. And people started just coming to you to find
out what the best stuff was, even though you weren't, you weren't actually making it yourself.
You were just finding sources for it from in China. Yes. And you were just being like a middleman,
just selling it to people like how it was working. Yeah. So there's a major market just for A,
doing the work to find the source yourself and then just having it on hand.
You know, your local gym goers just, they want to be able to go give you money for something
and get it right away. And so that's what I provided along with the education that I have,
the knowledge of, well, you know, you're looking to do this, this is what you want to do.
You know, this is how you want to do it. This is what you want to take.
And so that, I mean, that developed into a business. Now, I live in a small city, so
it wasn't making a lot of money. I guess it still wasn't making enough to support myself on it.
But it was, you know, enough to, I don't know, just provide a little bit of extra revenue.
You had another job at the time?
When I was in college, I just had jobs in the summer and then I was just a bouncer when I was
in college. And then, so then, then I actually went to prison for this before this last time.
Oh, you went to prison twice for it?
I did. So I had, I had already been to prison once for this, but the first time was just very
minor. It was just like a, you know, I was just a local dealer. I didn't have a lot. So it wasn't,
it wasn't a huge bust and I didn't go, I only went for a total of like six months.
And it was just a local state, state bid. So, you know, so then when I got out,
I mean, there was the problem with, I had a felony on my record now. I made you feel they had been
in prison and I couldn't find a job. You know, everything was pretty tough. So I eventually,
I just slowly got back into what I knew, the only thing I knew, the way I knew how to do it.
And then this time I did it on a much bigger, grander scale.
How did you do on a bigger scale?
Well, the second time is when I developed the online portion, you know, when I came back,
when I came out of prison the first time.
So you were doing this, you created your own website where there are specific like
online bodybuilding forms you were plugged into. How did people know about you? How did you build
sort of like an online presence that people could trust?
Yeah, so I guess that, yeah, I can, so I can start here about this is how it started.
When I went to prison the first time, I had this Chinese source that was fantastic, right?
And you met him how?
That's a good question. I was just, it was serendipitous. I was just one of my friends who,
you know, I was getting, getting stuff from various sources, local sources and, you know,
finally kind of working through a supply chain. And I had a friend who came,
who came and just said, hey, you know, he actually went to, he went to Cornell and he said that,
you know, my friend Cornell gave me this and this, you know, I've ordered from here before
and the stuff comes, it's incredibly cheap and it's really good. So he just gave me this,
this guy's email address and said, just email this guy and talk to him. So I did
and ordered a few things and sure enough, like, you know, everything came and it was fantastic.
And this, this started that, the relationship with that source. And that was, that was pretty
early, like in 2003 or something, 2002. This is when, when it was hard to get, but it's not hard
to get anymore. Right. And part of what, part of what, well, but we'll go into exactly what
led to, led to me becoming so big in the creation of that empire. Yeah. So that all happened after
you got out of prison the first time, right? So you got out and you immediately went right back
into doing that? Well, not exactly. Like I had, you know, I didn't want to at first. I didn't want
to go back down that road. So you were still taking it, right? For yourself? Yeah, when I got
out, yeah, it was, you know, I started to, I felt terrible, you know, it's just my life is so much
better when I, when I'm on it, just to improve quality of life. Is it like a big come down when
you have to stop? Because obviously when you went to prison, you can't take it anymore. So like what,
what are the negative effects? What happens when you have to stop like that and completely be cut
off from it? So you suffer what's called the symptoms of hypogonadism, which is low testosterone,
another word for low testosterone. So lack of motivation, fatigue, lethargy,
libido just goes, you know, just goes way down. Fuck, that sounds terrible. Well, not fuck.
Yeah. Depression. Your body just doesn't form, right? So, so the,
the hormone testosterone is responsible for anabolism. So, and also it's a large part of metabolism,
too. So your metabolism just changes. When you're, when you have, when your body isn't in an anabolic
mode, it goes through a state called catabolism, which means that you burn your own muscle mass
before you burn fat. So now you're just for energy. So now you're just burning muscle mass,
you're maintaining fat. So you just get fat, your stomach gets fat, you,
and your muscles underdevelop and you just, you just look terrible. You look like an old person.
Like that's, that's what happens when people age is they, there's one of the reasons that
old people, I mean, there's many reasons, but one of them, the reason they start to form the
way they do is because they're testosterone traps. Really? I had no idea that body starts burning
muscle and leaving the fat on you. Right. It's called gluconeogenesis when you're about to use
your muscle instead of, instead of fat, instead of your fat stores or the glucose in your blood.
So usually, usually people operate under the glucose in your blood. When that runs out,
you're, depending on your anabolic state, your body will go right to muscle mass for your next
source of energy. Are there certain things you can do with diet to sort of mimic the benefits of
testosterone replacement or any of these types of treatments? What's like the closest type of
diet you can, you can use to replicate it, or is there anything that'll even come close?
There's nothing that will come close, but there are, yeah, there are certain things,
like if certainly eating healthier, getting enough protein, and there's, there's a concept of,
there's a concept of getting, getting enough glucose, like right after a workout, which will
spike your insulin, which will lead to anabolism. So, so essentially, like when you're done working out,
you're in, if you're still, your body is still under,
using its own fat stores as a part, there's a certain time when you're working out, when your
body is using your fat stores, depending on your metabolic state and your, your hormone levels
and everything. So when your body is, and you switch from using the glucose in your blood
probably because you ran out of it, and you start burning fat, your body goes through, it's,
it's ketosis, ketosis, you start using fat. And when you're using ketosis, your body won't,
your body, your body won't push, store it, glucose is fat at that point when you're going
through ketosis, right? So there's a point right after your workout when if you actually slam some
sugar, you don't want to still want to take too much, but you slam some sugar, it, it releases
insulin and insulin will, because it can't push those glucose molecules as fat, which it would
normally do because they're, because you're using fat, right? When you're in the state of burning
your own fat, your body won't store fat. So it just pushes it right into your muscles, which is why
insulin can be very anabolic as well. Okay. So after a workout, it's good to have the insulin
right, the insulin production can make, make all that glucose store into your muscles.
Oh, but there's a window, right? There's a window of opportunity. And that's just one of the tricks
of, of using your own insulin production as an anabolic force. That's like a,
yeah, I've had guy, I've had one guy on here who he all he dedicated his, his life to studying
ketosis and the benefits of ketosis, like on the brain and studying things like neurotoxic toxicity
seizures. And he is a fucking beast. Like he, he said he would fast for seven days straight and
then deadlift like an ungodly amounts of weight. And he, he maintained this incredible physique.
And he is a hundred percent keto, which is, is, seems like it's crazy. It's very rare. It seems
to be able to be keto and maintain that kind of physique. You're absolutely correct. And,
and, you know, the keto diets, it works for some people. I think it doesn't work for more.
But there's people who are passionate about it. Why? Because it works for them. It's the same
thing that drives all passion, right? It's, it works for them. They have, they have helped
other people in that manner that has become passionate. It helps me think clear more clearly.
Yeah. Yeah, there's, there, there are benefits to, to fasting. There certainly are.
And I think, I think those benefits are only, you know, relegated to specific
specific people and specific conditions. It depends on what you're trying to do to whether
or not fasting would be ideal for you. Have you ever messed around with like keto or different
types of diets and see how they affect you? Or does the testosterone and the, and the steroid
stuff basically completely blow that shit out of the water? It does. I have messed around with
different diets and nothing works like actually just having the correct amount of hormones in
your body. Nothing works. Interesting. Interesting. So when did this business start blowing up for
you? Like big time? Yeah. So sorry, we keep getting sidetracked. That's okay. So, okay. So
when I went to prison the first time, I had this source. I knew there was something here. I also
knew that I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. You know, I didn't want to put myself in a position
to go in prison again. But I, so what I did is I handed this source off to a friend to one of my
clients at that time. And I said, here, take this source, keep it, keep the relationship with this
guy going. When I get out, I don't know what I'm going to do. But if I come back to you and you
build something, I want to be a part of it because I gave you the source, right? It was just kind of,
I don't know, just like an insurance thing for the future. So I went and I just did a short bed.
And I got out and it was, I mean, it was tough. So now I got, you know, this family, I just got
out of prison. I have an employment gap. There's nothing I could do. So at this time, I moved in
with my grandmother. I couldn't get a job. I applied to several different places. I couldn't get a
job. I, you know, I was, so I just had this, you know, this time of depression and, you know, lack
of lethargy fatigue. I ended up going back on, back on testosterone myself, because in that, you
know, that had really improved a lot of things. And at this time, I actually had nothing else to
do except work out because I couldn't get a job. So I actually got into really good shape. And I
was working out, I was doing two sessions a day. And again, it kind of did the same thing. Like,
so now people start coming back, back to me, like, Hey, help me out. Look at you. Help me out. So
eventually, like, I couldn't afford anything. I couldn't, I couldn't do anything. I had no money,
had no anything. So, so, you know, it just kind of rationalized in my own head that I would,
I would just kind of start very small, just to be able to support myself doing some things again,
here and there. And so then one day, it just kind of got bigger and bigger, kept driving
passion. So now I'm just like, I don't know, I'm kind of into it as much as I was before. And
now, one of my customers told me about this online forum, that it was a source forum. And he said
that, you know, essentially, they have all these sources from, you know, these internet sources
from all the United States. And you go on here and, and you can look through all the sources,
you look at all these reviews that people have written on them. It's kind of like a silk road
type of deal, except it's just for, just for steroids. And it's, it wasn't on the,
it wasn't in the, I'm having a brain fire. What's it, what's the silk road called?
Silk Road, what, we mean, what, what was it? It's just like a black hat marketplace, right?
Yeah, it was. I mean, the, the dark net. That's dark net. Yeah. That's a good one. So it wasn't
on the dark net. It's on, you know, so people weren't buying it with like crypto or is this
before crypto? This is before crypto. Okay. Yeah. I mean, crypto existed, but it wasn't
anything that anybody really knew about. So, uh, so, you know, I just kind of off ended
it was like, okay, I'll go check it out or whatever. I didn't think much of it. But so I went on this
thing and now I see that he's right. Like, holy cow, look at all these sources and you can see
all these people commenting and I'm, you know, my business mind just kind of starts going like,
holy cow. So I did some research and I see that, oh my God, like I can compete with these prices
that these guys are, are putting out here and I can still generate, I can still have a decent
profit margin because my source is really good. Um, so I start, you know, I'm just starting
looking into this like, oh, this is, this is doable. Like I can do this. I can compete with
all these guys on here with their prices and, um, and, you know, it just, it looked very doable.
So I started, you know, really, really started researching it and looking into it. Now I had
a plan like, okay, I'm going to try this. I'm just going to try it. Um, that is about when
the friend that I left my source with came back into my life. It was, it was kind of,
coincidental that right when I was already about to do this, he comes back.
He comes back into my life. So one day he just calls up and he's like, hey, how's everything
going? I'm like, oh, like I haven't seen this as before. I went to prison. Like, you know, how,
how are you doing? I'm doing great. I'm almost near your house. Can I stop by? I'm just like,
okay, yeah, sure. I was, um, you know, it was, it was a little strange, but, uh, but sure it was
going to be good to see him. So he pulls up in this brand new Hummer, this freaking really decked
out Hummer and he gets out and he's just got this big, big smile on his face. And, um, it's like,
what the heck? You know, this guy wasn't, he wasn't a wealthy guy. Like he wasn't college educated.
No, there was nothing. And I was just like, and he comes out and he grabs this bag out of the back
and he goes, it gives me a hug. And he's like, how's it going? Okay. So we go into my house and, um,
and he's got, so he's like, opens this bag and it's full of steroids and money.
And he must have $30,000. This guy, he's just got like, wrapped hundreds. And I'm just like,
Jesus, what the hell is going on? Why are you carrying around 30 grand in a bag full of steroids?
He's like, I turned that source into a freaking gold mine. Oh my God. Here's your cut. Well,
so he did, it's not like he just gave me any money. I didn't even ask for it. But what this did
was make me realize that this is possible, right? That, um, that this can drive a lot of money. So,
you know, he goes on to explain, he made $900,000 last year that, uh, that he's just got this
massive operation where, you know, at the time he was selling all, all different kinds of drugs,
but the steroid one was really driving most of his revenue. And, um,
What other kinds of drugs was he selling? Oh, anything. Just like Coke and like,
anything you wanted. Yeah. Wow. He had a huge black market operation. And I don't, and I didn't
ask him exactly what he was doing, but he gave me enough hints to, to set the seed
for how I could do it. Right. And, um, I intentionally didn't want to bring other
drugs into this just because, uh, you know, I, I don't know, I was, I was more passionate about
the steroids at the time with those good about helping people. I said, actually, like, um,
you know, passionate about helping. Yeah. How can make your life better? Yeah. Yeah. So,
but, but he set the seed, the A that this was possible. And he gave me enough information
to understand a structure to put in place, to be able to do this on a massive scale.
And, and he was there for me. Like, so when I started, I didn't even tell him what I was doing.
He didn't tell me exactly what he was doing, but he, but every time I would call him to ask him
how he took care of this problem, he would tell me, he was like, well, oh, I ran into this,
this is how I, this is how I solved that problem. And he just gave me enough hints
to where I could set up a bigger, bigger structure and, and just start, you know,
expanding and, and scaling and scaling this operation. Um,
so did you guys partner up or no, he just showed you how to do it on your own. Yeah.
With your source. Yeah. With my own source. He took it and, um,
um, so, so let me, let me go back again now. So, so I met him and, and he set the seed,
as I said, so, so now I'm like, okay, now I'm definitely going to do this. Like I see it can
work. And I, and so I get all, I get all ready and I do everything I set up and I bought an extra,
from the source, I bought like an extra, uh, uh, you know, an extra order, a larger order than
normal, just to get ready for, in case, you know, in case like a bunch of people bought
and I had just my laptop. So I had a duffel bag full of steroids and a laptop and I was going to,
I was going to start this online venture. And, um, so the first thing I did is I went online
and I just, I just, I just posted. I just, I created this list of all these products I had
and, and everything. And I just posted on, on this online forum. Um, that's what everybody
else was doing at the time, or just before this, you just go on and you just post a list and, and
and people can order like a menu. Yeah. Kind of like a menu. And, um, and people could order if
they want, but, uh, um, anyways, uh, when I, when I, let me start with this first and I'll go back
to that. But, uh, so when I posted this list, uh, well, yeah, it's time to explain. So the,
the zeitgeist at the time, right? The ethos of, of the, the black market steroid world was
it steeped in, um, in distrust. Um, there was a lot of fake stuff that was going around in the 90s
and in the early 2000s. And this was because testosterone and its derivatives steroids were
very hard to get and they were very expensive. And therefore that, uh, a fake fraudulent market
also established where people would just sell fake stuff. And, oh, so people were terrified of
getting, getting fakes or getting frauds, right? So if you weren't branded, if you didn't, a sell
brand name stuff, and at the time there was only like five or six brands that were ever accepted
throughout the entire bodybuilding community or the black market steroid community.
And if you didn't have one of those brands, or if you were even a person that know, that had no
name, like at the time I didn't, then people would absolutely not only laugh at you, but come at you
with, um, antipathy and, and, um, hatred and anger. It almost made them angry that somebody would
dare try to, somebody with no name would dare try to sell steroids. So when I posted this list,
I was laughed at and braided and, uh, the mods took my post down. Uh, it was only up for like an hour
on this forum. So anyways, but this forum, as it turned out, was the largest antibiotic
steroid source forum in the world. It had like a million e-kits a month, but it was worldwide.
What was it called? Can I say the name of it? I don't know. It's like promoting a source.
Oh, okay. You don't have to. Well, I mean, it just might be against
the rules of YouTube. No, it's not against your rules of YouTube. I don't, I don't think so.
We'll be fine. Okay. But if you don't want to, if you don't want to mention it, you don't have to
say it. I guess I don't really care, but it was E-Royds. It was called E-Royds. You probably just
made a lot of people happy. Um, yeah, the largest, and I, it still is as far as, as far as I know,
so it's the largest source forum in the world, but it's worldwide, right? So,
so there's, I mean, there's just, like I said, the million e-kits a month, there's just a ton,
the traffic on this is unbelievable. So, but they took your post down because you weren't like a
reputable person. Well, and it wasn't, it wasn't only that because that's what people were doing
when I was researching and literally in the last few weeks before I posted, they came up with new
rules for sources and one of those, and it was very simple at the time. And I still got lucky
because it was still pretty simple to be a source. It's much more difficult nowadays, probably.
But the, I just had to have a website, right? So, and to them at the time, because one of the
reasons was, is people were posting, because it was so simple, you just make a post a menu and,
and there was some fraudulent, you know, people were just taking people's money and running.
Yeah, it makes sense. If you're running a board like that, or you're running any kind of website
like that, you got to regulate the scam and the bullshit. So, it makes sense if it's your first
time that you got to bet you and, you know. Yeah. But they weren't before that is what I'm saying.
And the last two weeks since I posted, it was when they established the first rule. And this was
just the first level. They're saying, no, you have to have a website because we feel if you go
through the pain, because at the time, websites weren't as easy to make as they were, at least
not for me. I didn't, I had no idea about it. What year was this? 2011. Okay. So, I mean,
people could make websites as an example, but, but it wasn't as prevalent as it is now. And,
at least I didn't know anything about it. So, to me, that was almost like prohibitive, like,
oh, I can't do this now. I don't know how to make a website. I don't know how to do that. So,
but they were just saying you just need a website. And that shows us that you're serious enough,
if you go through the difficulty of the process of creating a website that shows us you're serious
enough to at least there's a good chance that you're for real, that you're legitimate.
So, I didn't know how to do that. And so, this is the first employee that I had as one of my
friends did. I actually just kind of, I thought that was it. But I was like, okay, well, I can't
do this. That's it. Then, like, I got thinking, like, oh, I have this friend of mine. And he was
one of my customers. So, he knows, he knows about how to make websites. He's really good with this.
So, I just broached it with him. He's like, yeah, I can make a website.
So, let me go on that later. But let me tell you what happened with the post that I made. So,
this is where it started. The post that got taken down? The post that got taken down,
it was only up for an hour. Well, I got three emails from that of three guys who were said,
hey, I saw your post for that hour. I'm interested, but we can't risk the fraud,
the potential fraud. And two of these guys were, so this forum has, they give people a
point scale, right? And if you amass these points or aggregate, accrue these points,
it means that you're more respected in the society. You know, for giving good information,
you get points, you're more trustworthy. So, a couple of these guys were very respected
members of this online community. And people just listened to them. And they just, you know,
they spend a lot of time on there. They have a lot of trust. And two of these guys had a lot of that.
So, they were like, but we can't do this. Why don't you just send us something?
And, you know, and then we'll post about it. You know, if everything's real and everything
goes well, you know, we'll post about it. And at the time in retrospect, I shouldn't have been so
reticent to do this, because it's what ended up working. But I was just like, really, I don't want
to give something away for free. You know, and that's the mentality that, you know,
people in business shouldn't do. If you have a good product, you should just get it out there.
Be worried about getting it. Yeah, yeah. Not about, it's not about profit in the beginning.
Long term goals should be, should be profit, but that's only after you've established a brand
and established. And that's what I needed to do. And, and I was reticent to do that. So,
I just asked all these guys to, okay, when you receive it, once you see everything's good,
then will you pay me? And they're like, yeah, yeah, sure, we'll do it.
So I sent these three, three ambassadors, I call them, the original ambassadors,
they're the orders that they want. And these guys like post pictures of themselves to make them
like the people like just respect them, not only because they've been on the form for a long time,
but because they like see pictures of them, they go, I want to look like that guy.
That's part of it. That's, that is a part of it. But it's more about,
it's more about they just create value on the, on the community, on the forum,
information and, you know, they've led people to good sources before. So everybody knows,
if you go to this guy, you're going to get the latest, greatest information on all the best
sources because they do things like they did with me, they go check out all the sources and then,
and then kind of update everybody on who's, who's doing the best job right now.
So, so I remember,
yeah, so these ambassadors went at the, so at the time I was able to get a job finally at an
emergency room, an emergency room. So I did work at the hospital. I just got in a job at the hospital
and I said, I remember it. And I, you know, at first I would check these emails, this business
email from the hospital. I worked a lot. So I just kind of checked from the hospital and,
and I remember also one day I was in the hospital, I checked out and these guys,
I saw, I went to my, to this store, this forum where I was a member and all of a sudden I had a
bunch of private messages and, and that never happened. I didn't know what was going on. So
also I went and I checked his messages and, and hey, it was this guy's name was, he called
himself SICO on there. It was like CYCO. That was his handle. And he said,
SICO sent me, he said, you have some good stuff. Hey, give me your list. I want to order. And I
had like five, six, and then just kept going messages. Like, holy cow. So, and then I went,
what is this coming from? Like, what happened? I saw that he did, he posted it. He posted a picture
of my gear, said that he started taking it, said that he started feeling it. And so did the other
guy. So now all of a sudden there's people just coming to my PM. These guys sent them and,
and this is when it started. And this was just from an hour post,
a one hour post that was, that was set up, you know, days ago. And I'm still working on the website
to actually become a legitimate source. I'm not even a legitimate source, but this should have been
an omen to come of what was to come. Because with a one hour post, now I'm getting, I have five,
10 clients already. What was the bet? What was so good about you? Was it the quality of your
product? Was it the price? Was it both? What made your product so much better than everything
else that was out there? Yeah. Yeah. So, so I'm definitely going to get into that. And that's,
um, yeah. So that, yeah. So that's what, that's what comes up next is,
um, I started, I started the business off just on these ambassadors, right? And I'm just,
I'm sending the product. So, so they going online, they're talking about it. So yeah. So now all the,
the new guys I'm sending are also going online and say in saying the same things like posting
pics. Hey, I got this. So, so yeah. So now it's a good time to go into what, what, uh,
what established me? What was the distinction between me and the rest of the guys on the site?
And, and the answer to that is, um, in the beginning, at this time,
steroid dealers were not known as masters of business administration, right? They didn't,
they didn't, they didn't have good business practices. They didn't understand things like,
you know, customer service, uh, um, you know, just, just putting in pretty simple good business
practices. So when I came in and I started establishing some good business practices,
simple things that none of them were doing at the time, such as, uh, priority shipping.
So you get your, you get your order in two or three days for everybody else,
even domestic suppliers, it was taken two weeks at the time, uh, two weeks to get their products.
It's just because it was just not foresight. They were just not spending the extra money for
fast shipping and just sending a snail mail and it would take two weeks to get there.
Um, uh, you know, quality products is one thing that we did have and then, and then just price,
right? So I just, I just undercut everybody else by, by a little bit and I could do that.
I had the source. So, and, and it was also customer service. So talking to all my customers,
being very friendly, um, you know, so another thing, so back in the more neuro, more neuro
chemistry. So what happens with suppliers is when you have, um, when you, when you have a good
product and you start amassing a bunch of, uh, a big client base, people are starting to respect
and admire you and show you, show you appreciation. This, this initiates a large dose response,
right? Or dopamine. And this can make, it makes most sources manic. You go to this state of what's
called mania where you have too high a level of, of indoor, of this dose, dopamine, oxytocin,
serotonin, endorphins. And when you're manic, you start to think, you start to become a megalomaniac.
You start to think you're almost God like, and that's when all these things hit it.
Well, all these chemicals hit at once. Yeah. And it sends you too high. You go into a state of
mania. So if you're, if you're familiar with a manic depressive or a bipolar disorder, yeah,
that's when, when your body doesn't control your, your endorphin or your dose response
into this even level and you become manic, which means you're too high and you start getting too
wired to, um, you know, almost over motivated, over ambitious and, and your brain just kind
of starts going crazy. And then also when you drop down into the depression mode, so bipolar
people, which is also called manic depressive order, right? They're, they're endorphin or dose
response is too high or too low and, and your, their body isn't regulating it. They're having
problems regulating. So they go up and down dramatically. Yes. That's exactly correct. So
that's the same thing as bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder. It's also called manic
depressive. Wow. Interesting. Okay. So that's what happens with, with that disorder. And, and the
key is to get people into that regulated area. Um, so you're not too high. You want to be even
keel. You want to be riding, have a smooth ride, not a roller coaster. That's right. And then,
and there's things you can do within society to raise your own, and this is what makes you feel
good. That's how pervasive these chemicals are. They, they control human behavior and, and it's,
that's not known enough. Like, um, so I had such a benefit to study neurobiology, to understand
these things. Cause you can control, you can do things to control your own, uh, dose response.
Natural things? Yeah. And it's not even natural. It's just, um, yeah. I, I wanted to do whole
sections on this too. Um, but what can you do? Like, even if you are, even if you're not manic
depressive, if you experience, people can understand what you're saying and experience what you're
talking about, like highs and lows, how can people regulate this kind of thing and how can people
control it themselves? So you have to understand what elicits these dose responses. Right. And
there's, there's very simple things that, um, behaviors we evolved to elicit these, this response
to, to control our behavior or to, uh, to, uh, um, make us want to do things, right? To
for art, the survival or the survival of our species. Those are the two things. Anything you
do to help your survival or the survivor of your species will elicit a dose response. And that's
as a reward chemical to keep doing those things. We evolve this to allow the human, human species
to survive. Right. These are things like eating, right? That helps you survive. So that's why people,
people with eating disorders, just eat and eat and eat because they're feel and make some feel
good. Right. This is sex. When you have sex, you're a prolonging human species. So you produce
a massive dose response. Um, there are forms of exercise can do that. Yeah. And money money. So
money is a, it's a, um, I'll go into money later when we, when we talk about, when we talk about
money, I'm going to go into the whole dose response over money, but it's, it's a little different
because it's representative of our value to society. Right. So, so now I have to go over the
another thing that probably the major and best way to increase your own dose response is,
is human connection through helping people. So we evolved to be a social, to be social creatures,
right? Because when we help each other survive, our species as a whole survives,
survives better. Right. That was an evolutionary process. So now when we help people, it emits a
massive dose response. So creating value for yourself, just being helpful, will massively
increase your doses, your dose, your dose response. So understanding this, there's times when I felt
myself going into a, to a depression. This is mainly when I was in prison because I read about
this. I was, I used the prison time to read voraciously. And I read so many helpful books that
really put into place exactly how, you know, the economy, biology, the society, like how all this
stuff works. And everything became very clear at a moment of clarity after I read all this.
But, um, so there's times when I felt myself going into depression and the answer was to,
okay, how can I just help everybody around me? Well, what can I do? And, you know, when I was
in prison, it was everybody needed legal help. So I just studied the law voraciously. I became a
legal expert and I was able to help hundreds and hundreds of people around me file habeas corpus
petitions or motions to the court or defend them if they got some sort of a discipline within prison.
Yeah, it's not, that's, that's not only a way to help people, but having that kind of specialty
or expertise or knowledge also helps your survival rate in prison. I've heard that from many people.
Yeah. But, but, but creating value for yourself. So now everybody knew, like, if you have a problem,
you go, you go to Ryan and Ryan will take care of you and help you. And it got me massive respect
from everybody, even people I wasn't helping because they've seen, they watch, watch me help
other people, right? So now I'm what's called a jailhouse lawyer. And, and, you know, I'm doing
a good job. So, but that helping people forms a connection with that person. And then they show
me respected admiration and it elicits a massive dose response to me. So my depression could go
away like that when I would figure out how I can help people around me. It's interesting. It's like
being in prison, you can almost test all these things in a vacuum. So that's another, that's
another thing. So it's a, you're absolutely correct. It's a great social experiment. Right.
And you can, and there's so many people around you to run all these little experience and I,
this is precisely what I did. And it was very interesting, you know, it's fascinating. It was
fascinating. So, so to answer your question, so if you go online, right, you look, okay, how can I
increase my serotonin? How can I increase my whatever it like all the information gives you,
okay, eat these foods. And eating is one of the ways to get, to elicit a dose response,
but that's not the real answer. The real answer is forming, forming connections
elicits a dose response and, and, and help it. And the best way to form connections is by helping
people because it's a reinforcing circle. You help somebody which, which increases your relationship
with that person, which another dose response, which reinforces,
which also reinforces the, the potential that they'll want to help you in the future,
which forms another connection. So the more people you help, the more opportunity you have
for other people to want to help you back. Right. So you're putting yourself in a position to
succeed just by, just by doing this. Yes. It's in the more people you help, the more of a position
you're putting yourself in the position. So the answer was to just help everybody around me.
So were there study, like, were there actual scientific studies done that proved that
making these kinds of human connections and somehow increased like oxytocin levels, serotonin
levels in the brain? Absolutely. There's studies out there. I don't have any to,
to give you verbatim right now, but that's, yeah, that is evident in all the research.
But what hasn't been put together, logically and coherently enough is,
is, is just like what I just did here is explain that to people and say,
if you're feeling depressed, if some, you know, something's just not quite right
to raise these dose, you know, this dose response, here's some things you can do,
just help people. And that reinforces the entire circle of, of events of, of all dose,
dose eliciting experiences reinforces, like I said before, reinforces relationships,
because now people, people, you gain these dose responses off of reactions to people
and your body can pick up on when somebody respects you, when somebody admires you, when
somebody's showing you, right, appreciation and that elicits a dose response within yourself.
So when you're helping people, and even when other people hear that you help somebody else,
the same type of, of their visual cues that, that they respect and admire you will also
raise your dose, give you a dose response. Wow, that's fascinating. It is fascinating.
And it's weird. Another thing is like, I know, I don't, I've never dealt with depression on my
own, but I've, I've heard a lot of people explain it. And it seems like the way,
you know, people that are depressed, it seems like it's more of like an egocentric
type of problem where it's not like, what you're saying is be selfless and help people.
And that will get you out of a depression. But from what I understand about depression is it
seems like it's more of a, an egocentric black hole you're in. And it's hard to understand
or get yourself out of that because you don't, you can't see the forest through the trees.
You're stuck in a black hole. Yes. Yes. Yes. And you're correct. And, and it's usually,
I think you use the correct terminology too. It's more of a self-centric type of
type of concept where I'm just depressed. It's all me. What can, you know,
why don't other people help me not be depressed? You know, what, when, when it's,
it's the actions that you have to take to elicit the, the neurochemistry to bring you out of this
depression. Right. And, and I don't think it's the people's fault. This just isn't understood well
enough. Like the, the pervasive nature of this dose response is just not understood well enough.
And it's not communicated effectively. And I wanted, I wanted to do lessons on this in prison.
I did lessons on this. So once I learned this, like we have these little forums where, where you
can do these little lessons and you can kind of be a teacher. And I did lessons on these, on the,
endorphins and dopamine, oxytocin, serotonin and, and taught people this. And it went over
incredibly well. And, you know, your people think the type of atmosphere you're in in prison,
like nobody's going to understand that. In fact, when I started doing these lessons,
I was told that by a lot of my peers in prison that this is going to go over terribly. Nobody's
going to understand this stuff. And I just put it very simply and, and explained it. And it went
over phenomenally and, and everybody was fascinated and everybody wanted to learn more. And, and
people really enjoyed all these classes that I did on it. It's, it really is fascinating. It's
something I never really thought about too, but it also, it, you can see the, the ties to
people now, like in culture now, people like work from home, people working from home,
people living by themselves in an apartment building in a big city, not being surrounded by
people. It's just them and maybe one other roommate or significant other or their, their cat or
whatever. Yeah, you're absolutely correct. And I'm not trying to dismiss real clinical
depression. Like there's some people who just, who have a genetic predisposition for not producing
enough serotonin or maybe they're, they're dopamine transporters are not, you know, they just,
they don't have, or they have too, too many EPC dopamine transporters, transport dopamine out of
your, out of your brain. And, and there's a bunch of things that could go wrong. But, but if you,
if you look at the lives of a lot of these, the smile depression or people who are depressed,
if you look at their lives, you'll notice that they don't contribute to society. And again,
it's not their fault. I'm not saying that, that these people are dumb. They should do more to
help people. They don't know that this education isn't out there. But if you look at their lives,
they're isolated people who have a boring job that doesn't translate into them understanding
that they're actually creating value for somebody you're helping or doesn't necessarily align with
their values, whatever they're doing might not necessarily align with their own personal values.
I had a guy, it's so funny. I can see that I had a guy in here yesterday who was in the
Marine Corps and he was in Iraq for a couple of years and he explained the sort of visceral
sort of feeling of being in a life and death situation 24 seven being in
firefights literally hunting humans every day and what that does to your physiology,
what it does to your body, you're always on pins and needles, you're always on high alert.
And he explains, you know, so I think there's something like 22 veterans kill themselves
every single day because of PTSD or whatever it is. But we label it as like PTSD, but I can see
where when you come back to the United States to living this comfortable normal life after
spending years in this high intensity, super, super fucking high intensity life or death
situation, you I can see how those chemicals would just drop off and people lose their
these veterans, they lose their values, they lose their sort of
they lose their purpose and become depressed. And that's why there's so much suicide.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so the release of those hormones is called they're called corticosteroids,
right? They're stress hormones, right? So, and when you release a lot of those,
essentially you put your body into a state of fight or flight, right, right from the amygdala.
So all your all your neural connections divert to your amygdala, which is the
the fight or flight mechanism, and you're living in a constant state of fight or flight.
And and that can become permanent if you if you've seen too much, right? Or if these
memories of these of these traumatic events, they stick in your head. Yeah, he said when he came
back, he was like, yeah, hyper vigilant all the time. And he was always in fight or flight. And
it's corticosteroids and it just screws up your entire brain and your biochemistry and everything.
And it's terrible. And I feel awfully for these people because this isn't anything they can help.
And and it's it's bad and oddly enough, testosterone because it's dopaminergic,
it helps release the dopamine, which can kind of overpower the PTSD, corticosteroids.
It helps. So a lot a lot of people with PSD can go on testosterone and it does help the symptoms.
And I have a lot of clients had a lot of clients in the past that that that are helped by that.
That's fascinating, man. That's fascinating. Yeah, he said that he was just going through life
when he came back trying to and he thought he wanted to fix the world one asshole at a time.
You know what I mean? Just like flipping out on people thinking that they didn't have the
right discipline. They, you know, whatever, like thinking that he could just fucking scream people
and like like back in the Marines back, you know, being overseas, I could see that's
what a crazy fucking. What a crazy thing to put your brain through.
Oh, absolutely. And I feel terrible for people with PSD. I couldn't I couldn't imagine.
I've read about it. I understand the biochemistry behind it. And it's just
terrible. It's awful. It's nothing that they could help.
Yeah, this guy, this guy found a way through it by he he went to Africa and started this
organization where he puts veterans in Africa and they fight poachers. So now they live in Africa.
It's like, it's funny. It's like, I the only way the best way for me to get through this is going
to Africa being surrounded by animals that want to eat me and hunting poachers, you know, protecting
animals. And now he's like found a purpose, which is right. Yeah. So it has to do with finding a
purpose, doing something, something bigger than yourself, right? And that also drive elicits the
dose response. So some of the answer to PSD and again, PTSD, PTSD, sorry.
And again, I'm not, I'm not an expert in this. I have read a lot about it, but I'm not an expert.
But some of it seems to be over and over again, it can be relieved to a to an extent by overpowering
it with the dose response. And finding a purpose by going and fighting in Africa against poachers to
you think you're doing or you are doing something for wildlife. Right. And still the purpose that's
bigger than yourself and your and that that elicits a dose response too. So community as well.
Yes. Right. Yeah. Forming a community with people, we're all in this together. We are the
connections, right? The human connections. We're doing this for a purpose for a bigger
grander purpose. And that leads to passion, which is another word for dopamine and an
ambition and motivation. All words for dopamine response, dopamine response.
It's fascinating. So how did you parlay this education that you took from prison learning
about this type of stuff into everything else you were doing?
Okay. Yeah. One more thing I want to say about PTSD. I'm sorry. I think it's,
I think it's sort of relevant. So MDMA is showing to be very, very
beneficial to people with severe PTSD. Right. But the, because of the stigma, that same thing back
in the war on drugs and the, you know, at the time when they were just making all the drugs
illegal, all the drugs are bad. Right. So they, they made MDMA a contraband, made it a controlled
substance and put it up to such a high level schedule, one that now it can't be used in any
medical reference or it can't even be studied. Right. So now they actually just moved it and
allowed it and are allowing it to be used in a medical context. And it is turning out to help
tons of people, like a lot of people are really being helped, especially with PTSD symptoms.
So that was again, to show you that the politicians just to, just to run on a platform
anything that will get them elected, right? What's the problem right now? It's almost like
you create a problem and then offer a solution to it. Right. So you create, okay, drugs.
The problem is killing people. Right. So, so, you know what, we're, we're, we're gonna take
all these drugs, run on a platform like we're gonna fix this, we're gonna fix this big problem.
And, oh my gosh, this is a problem. They're saying it's a problem. And they're offering a
solution. Let me vote for them. And it's a, you know, it turns into a political tactic rather
than something that's actually rational, makes sense and is effective. Right. So now how many
years did we lose out on using MDMA medically? Just because, just because of this. And the same
thing happened to marijuana steroids, alcohol, everything. We've seen this over and over again.
And it kills, it ends up killing more people because the pushing into the black market
makes it more unsafe. It makes more, you know, absolutely correct. Right. That's why, you know,
we have cocaine that's accidentally laced with fentanyl killing people. And if you made cocaine
legal, people could do it and not fucking die. You could buy it from a store where it's, where
it's regulated and where, and you could educate people like they're doing with tobacco. I mean,
I think what they're doing with tobacco is much better, right? It's education. Telling people
how bad it is for you, but you don't want to make it illegal, illegal because then you just created
a nicotine black market. Right. And you're creating cartels, putting people in prison,
creating cartels, creating violence. I mean, when during prohibition, there was so much violence.
One of the reasons they made it legal again, one of them, there was a lot of them, but
was that it created so much violence and that so many people died and there was so much violence
in the name of controlling alcohol on the black market that when they legalized it,
now you can just get it anywhere. And all that violence stopped that was caused from the legalization
of marijuana. I mean, it's just over. I think with MDMA though, I always wonder,
I know MDMA elicits a super high serotonin and dopamine too, right? But isn't there like a crash
after that? Oh yeah. When you have super high levels of dopamine serotonin and super low levels
of depressive states, doesn't that happen right after the MDMA? Yes. How do you, you're making
yourself like polar? Right. So how do you mitigate that? Obviously, so, so veterans, they're, they
have the super low levels of serotonin and they're getting MDMA and it's increasing it, but doesn't
it just go right back down afterwards? Yeah. So, but, but if you do it at therapeutic doses, so,
so the dosing in this part, I'm not super educated on. So I don't know, I don't know the exact how,
I just know that it is working and there's plenty of, there's, now there's studies going on. And I
even saw it on like 60 minutes and they did a study that show it, this is working and there's
people who are evangelizing the use of it. And I'd imagine it just has to do with, again, a moderate
use can bring you up and bring you into a space where, where it's therapeutic and you can start
really talking about things. And, you know, so it's kind of used for, for therapy sessions to
really get you to open up and understand why you feel the way you do. And that's really important
in, in healing from these diseases to understanding exactly why you feel the way you do. And
MDMA can get people talking. Maybe it could, maybe they can do it in a way that like, I don't know
what the fuck I'm talking about, but maybe they can do it in a way where it helps people
get their head above the clouds just for a little bit of amount of time to see the light and then do
that in specific doses over time, micro dosing, yeah, or something like that too. And then maybe
eventually wean them off of it to where they don't even need it anymore. Their body's learned
how to produce it or learned how to live that new way. It is fascinating. But what makes me angry
is how many years did we, are we set back on, on this new therapy just because the government
decided that they wanted to get elected. They wanted to just make everything illegal. Like that,
I mean, that kind of, like the lack of foresight from a government to unilaterally abolish something
that could be so helpful. We've seen it over and over again. And there's many countries that have
a lot of these drugs that are legalized and regulated. It's not like there's tons of people
going crazy in these countries and, you know, doing. No, they're incentivized to keep their
people healthy. A lot of those countries also have like socialized healthcare to where they're
paying for healthcare and they're not, they're not incentivized to feed people drugs or sell
people drugs. They just want to keep them healthy. Yeah. So going back to, going back, what? We got
way after. That's okay, man. That's what we're supposed to do. We forgot where we were. Where?
No, yeah. You were talking about, you were in prison and you were learning about
these neuro, the neurochemistry of the brain and how it affects certain responses. And
you were talking about, you know, like manic states, depressive states.
Okay. Yeah, I remember. And how does that all tie into what you did after that?
Yes. Okay. It was like an hour ago. So yeah, so I was explaining like what made me distinct from
all the rest of the suppliers, which kind of, you know, rose me above everybody else and allowed,
you know, allowed me to really start creating a brand and an empire. And I mentioned the simple
business, good business practices that I put in the place, free shipping, free shipping was one.
Yeah. Everybody else was charging for shipping and fast shipping. I just used priority,
which it got people that products in two or three days and nobody else was doing that. So these
are, it's kind of simple, but if nobody else was doing it, good quality products. And
oh yeah, so, so this is how this is what launched into the dopamine discussion. So
everybody else, when you had, oh yeah, so back to the, back to the dose response, right? When you
have, when you're manic, when you're too high, it leads to mentations of megalomania, right? You
think that you're almost God like these people, everybody should listen to you and nobody dare.
This is what happens with really drunk people too. So you see with like, like Trump for exist,
for example. Yes, he's exist in a constant state of mania, right? Or drunk people,
like really drunk people, what do they do? They get very belligerent. No, you listen to me, right?
Like, and that's a state of mania. They're, they're, they're endorphins, they're, hold those
responses too high. And they think like, they think they know everything and everybody, yeah,
and everybody else should be listening to them. And that's, that's what crazy. That's why there's
so many people that fight when they get drunk. Yeah, exactly. That's exactly correct. That's,
they're in a state of mania, right? So, so when, and so celebrities feel this too, right? But they
have like a team of, of, of people, what do you call it, public relations people, right? Who tell
them how to act, don't do this, don't do this, say this, say this, or don't keep them in check,
but just telling them, yeah, everything, like you're doing great, you look great. Well, the,
the public relations tells them how to act on camera, right? To, to make them seem humble,
to make them, you know, because people who, people who are shown respect and admiration to
such a vast and wide degree become manic, like you start to think they're godlike, but, but
actors have public relations teams that are keeping them in line and showing them how to act,
how to present themselves to the public, right? But people like steroid dealers don't have that.
So they become rude and think they're, think they're above everybody else to their customers,
to their own customers. And they start treating, if any customer has a little complaint about something,
they, they end up, you know, you know, calling them names and telling them that,
you know, just, you know, you shouldn't question me this and that. And, you know, so, so there's
an element of, they become too manic, there's an element of they're not, it's not, it's terrible
customer service. You're, you're ostracizing your own client base, you know, by just because
to protect your own pride, right? So, and that's, that's what all those steroid dealers were doing
at this time. They were like, they were fine until you start asking them questions or questioning
something that happened with, with what they're doing, such as an order of something went wrong
with an order or something, then they would just degrade their own, their own client base.
And I, and I saw that, I saw all these other, I'm like, why would you treat your own customer
like that? Just, you know, just help them just figure out what's wrong and fix the problem.
And I, I made a mental note to myself not to do that. So now, so now I'm, I've always been
very good socially anyway. So now when people come to me, I'm actually taking ownership of,
of any problems that occur and fixing the problem. And I would usually give people
something free for the mistake that I made, because, you know, within an operation, there's,
you can't, you can't hire, I can't, you know, take resumes and put my, get my employees from
Indeed or anything. I have to pick from a very small pool of people around me and their employees
aren't always, you know, the best. So a lot of mistakes are made, but it's, it's not about
making the mistakes. It's about how you handle, handle those mistakes. So, so I started to develop
this, this crowd. And as we said, this is just from that one hour post. And I got the ambassadors
and then the ambassador sent me people. And then all these guys started going back and, and posting
about this, this guy is great to deal with. His stuff started working. It was, you know,
it was great. I got my order in two or three days. That was a huge one because everybody else was
taking two weeks. Yeah. It's been basic business practices that people don't use that, that,
honestly, that gym that, you know, roided out bros don't know how to do. They're just tough guys.
That's exactly correct. So when I come in and did this, it just, it just changed the game. So,
and by the way, pretty quickly, everybody else started following suit with what I was doing. So
now I, I like completely changed the way that the business model that all that the, all this,
there were deals operate. Nowadays, you can go and everybody should, everybody's shipping two or
three days and everybody's doing these things. But I was the first one at the time. So, so now,
all this stuff on, and I started getting a good audience before I was even a legitimate source
on EROIDS, right? So then as this has happened, I'm starting to, this is amazing. Like, I remember
even going and at the time, like, all had to be anonymous. And I remember, I remember my very
first order. I got, I had like three orders. I was, I was in the hospitals. I was in the emergency
room. And, and the orders came in from my email, I took them while I was working in the emergency
room, which in retrospect, was pretty stupid because the IT can see everything that's happening
on those computers. So somebody, oh, you actually used, I forgot, that was probably before phones
had email, right? Yeah. So you're using the actual computers in the hospital. Yeah. That was funny.
So, so, so I took the orders right in the, in the emergency room. And I was just like, I was
overcome with this sense of like, I think the orders came to a total of like $1,150 or something.
And my profit margins at the time were, were something like, I don't know, I think it was
250%. Holy shit. Yeah, the profit margins were big, but I'll go into detail when I started my own
UGL, it got much better. I'll go over all the business stuff as soon as we get there. But
so on that order alone, right, I probably made like, I don't know, $550 or something after I
profit profit, which was the most I'd ever made in one day in my entire life. So right there,
the first day, the first day the orders come in, I just, and what that does is that money puts the
warm feeling in your chest and that's a massive dopamine response. Right. So now also, and I'm
just glowing and I'm like, this, I like that you become passionate about this. And you're like,
I got to do this more. This is fantastic. So it just kind of drove more passion. And I just
remember that warm feeling in my chest when I went and picked it up too. When I went and
picked up that money and I had like $1,100 in my hand, like I'd never really held that one.
Oh, Western Union. So Western Union is the only anonymous way you could do it at first. But again,
as you'll see that this became a problem because Western Union shuts down after you collect so
much money, they shut down your ability to collect more money from one person. So I can only collect
$20,000 a year. And once you collect that, you can't, they shut your name down and you can't
collect anymore. So now you got to go find other names. Right. And this became a whole problem.
Yeah. Because when you're collecting millions of dollars, you need a lot.
That becomes a part of your business. Yeah. And it did. And I will get to that.
It became a major problem to collect money. So now I'm at this. I've got it. I don't even remember
how many, but it was a decent amount of clients, especially for me. I had never seen this much
money coming in. And it's probably like, I don't even know how much it is. Maybe $1,000 a week.
It's funny how it's like a snowball effect too. Like what you're saying, like you had that burning
feeling in your stomach and you feel like, oh, I make this much money. Yeah. I can make so much
more. Like now this is my new baseline. Yes. You know what I mean? It's funny how it works.
Yep. Yeah, you're correct. And it's like, it's the same thing goes the opposite way. If you like
have no money, it's like a slippery slope. You know what I mean? It's hard to get your head above
that. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Above the clouds. Yeah. And I had spent that whole gambit of,
of, you know, emotions and from going, you know, doing okay to going back down to now,
now coming back up again. You're right. You feel good. You feel good. You start feeling
good finally. You're more optimistic. You see more opportunities. So, you know, at this point,
I want to go into this too, but I think maybe I'll do it a little later or where people just
kind of label drug dealers as greedy. You're greedy, right? Oh, you're greedy. You just did it for
the money. And it's absolutely not an accurate depiction of why you do it, right? It's not,
the money is great, but it's not about money. At first, it's about money, though, right?
Maybe after? Not even. No. It was so for me for this. And when I was in prison,
I was around a lot of drug dealers. We were in a nonviolent camp and half of them were drug dealers.
So, I got, I got to get inside a lot of heads and some other pretty big drug dealers, you know,
cocaine dealers and everything. And it's not about, it's not just about money. Even with
these guys, it's not an accurate, it's facile, right? It's easy to just put a simple label on
something and then just say, ah, it's that. It's greed, right? Story over. It's not,
it's much more complicated than that. There's a whole dose response. When you help somebody with
cocaine, the person treats you with respect and admiration. When you bring them a brick of cocaine
and you have the best price, thank you. Now, I can go take this. My customers love it, right?
It's the same type of dose response that you get from anything else, but evolution can't tell the
difference between helping people with a drug or helping people survive, right? It's just the,
because it's the response you elicit when you, when you feel a person respects or appreciates you,
right? So, so this, like a lot of the, a lot of these drug dealers were working on,
they were working on this, these dose responses too. I talked to a crystal meth dealer when I was
in prison and I was relaying this information to an entire class of people and one of the
crystal meth dealer is, he goes, there was times when I sold my crystal meth at cost because
I got it so expensive that time. I bought like a kilo of it so expensive and I didn't want to
disappoint my clients by raising the price. So I just sold an entire kilo at cost and made nothing
but I still wanted to do that just so I could be the man. And a lot of, and in the drug business,
a lot of people will front you, front you product and then say, you can pay me later. Like, here
you go, take this and you can get the money. Right. And it's still, so, so, you know, in that case,
it wasn't about money because you didn't make any money or in that case, you know, like you could
lose that money, right? Giving them a loan, you're trusting them. It's more about, yeah, the connection
you make with somebody is, is very intensely elicits an intense dose response. And a lot of
a lot of continuing to build these, even these cocaine or crystal meth empires is built on that.
The money isn't, I mean, don't get me wrong, the money is nice. The money is great. It elicits its
own dose response, which I'll go into later about exactly how money does. Well, I mean, if you look
at it geographically, the poorest countries, the poorest communities are the ones that are corrupted
by drugs and cartels. The people that are generally the most desperate are the ones that get into
this stuff because it's the easiest route to money. And it's the same thing, even with, like,
if you look at porn stars, like, think about who fucking, you know, when they're 10 years old,
say, I want to be a porn star when I grow up. It's not that. It's people who are poor, people who
have been abused by relatives who have nowhere to go. Like, how the fuck am I going to get out of
this house where my uncle's abusing me every fucking day? I need to get out tomorrow. Okay,
I could go fucking do porn and make 10 grand a week, whatever. And it's not only about the money
to get out of that situation too. It's what can I finally do to gain some respected admiration
within the community? And if you're a good porn star, a lot of people admire you and respect you.
You have fans, right? Once they get into it, but I'm saying like the catalyst, the thing that they
jump off initially might be money, like in a desperate situation, they need to get away from.
And then after that, they could maybe, I think, the other part comes.
The other part comes and you grow with that. So I guess the point I'm trying to make is that
not that money is a zero factor in everything, but it's not the only factor. And a lot of people
just want to facially, simply just label it greed and throw the key away. And that's it. And it's
not that simple. It's very complicated. What drives motivation and people that do things.
And that's just all I wanted to instill. So for me, and I'll explain, I'm going to explain pretty
soon, like what drove me to continue and build this empire was not, you know, it certainly wasn't
all money. It was more factored into helping people and the thought of not helping people.
So let me get into that. So because I'm almost there. So the point when,
the point when the website, right? So now I'm actually, I got some clients and all of a sudden
my friend comes to me, hey, website's ready. We had to do all this stuff because you can't,
you can't just build a website on GoDaddy or Wix and open a website, you know, it can be
traced, other stuff. It's got to be untraceable, right? So, so we couldn't do that. So the way
that we had to get around it was you have to host it in a different country, in a country where
steroids are legal. And you have to host the website out of a different country, which isn't
easy because... What countries are steroids legal in? Oh, geez, I used to have a whole list of them.
I think we used the Isle of Man because the Isle of Man steroids are legal. That was our,
because my, my website was bdseplence.im, the IM stood for Isle of Man.
Where's that? I don't even know. I just picked it because the, the domain was cheap in this
country was, it was legal. Yeah. Sounds like a cool island. Yeah. Yeah. Their, their flag is really
crazy too. If you ever look up the Isle of Man flag, it's crazy. Anyways, yeah. So, so you have to
host it out of the country. So this way, if the United States, you know, if the FBI was to get,
get into your case, then they would go and trace it, it would go out of the country in that,
in that country, they have no jurisdiction outside the country. So they can't, they can't search
and go in and you have to host your emails from out there too, right? So they can't go and get
all this information that can obviously put you away. So that's the idea. So we finally did that,
and it took a little bit to set that up, but now we have a website. So I just go
and I go back. So, and the, the moderators told me, they said, listen, if you want to do this,
you have to do it the right way. Here's the rules, set up a website, blah, blah, blah. Get back to
us. So, so we did that. And then I remember it was another, another just spur of the moment thing.
I put that information in and nothing happened. Like I didn't, I didn't notice anything for like
days. And I'm like, this didn't even do anything. Like nobody cared. And then one day, I think I
woke up in the morning and, and all of a sudden I had like two or three times the amount of emails
that I usually have. And I mean, what the heck happened? And then, and I had all these, you know,
people saying, Hey, saw you on, on E-Roids here. And I'm like, what the hell is going on? Like,
what is all that? Where did all this business come from? So, so I go and sure enough, now I have
this source tag under my name. And, and I'm up officially as a label, just source. Yeah. Yeah.
You have to, you get a special label. I'm up officially on the now, now everything I have
is posted by my list in the official source section. So people know that they can go there.
And so now here I am, boom, I'm officially a source on the largest
anabolic serid source form in the world. And then it just, from there, I just kind of kept
instilling the same business practices and it absolutely blew up like before and this is more
than I ever could have dreamed possible. Or so, so let me, I have to say it this way. So when I
started, before I started, I lived in my grandmother's house, I made no money. I couldn't, there was
times when I had to go, I had $5 to eat for the day. And I used to get those back when McDonald's
used to sell double cheeseburgers for a dollar. I would buy like four of those. And that would
be my food for the day, the entire day. And people would ask, hey, do you want to go to
Applebee's or something tonight? I'm like, I can't. So I went from that. And then I got a job at the
hospital, right? So when I made, I worked my, I worked my ass off and I made $9 an hour. After
taxes, I bought them $275 a week. I could not survive on that kind of income. And it was just
kind of a mess. So I did all this stuff, right? And I, so, and I finally start this thing. And
so when I started this, right, I was like, when I started the whole thing, I said to myself,
if I can make two or 300 extra dollars a week, that would be perfect. I'll be right in, you know,
I'll be making like six or $700 a week. I'll be comfortable. Yeah. Everything will be great.
That would be perfect. That would be my ideal situation. Two or $300 extra dollars a week.
And I thought that that was too much. I was like, I don't think, you know, that's,
that's overzealous. I don't think that's going to happen.
When I got put on that source forum, like, and I started instilling these same business practices
that I talk about being nice to my customers and all this stuff, I mean, it freaking blew apart.
Within six months, I was bringing in $21,000 a week. I just, like, everything just blew apart
and I, and it got, it got overwhelming, the amount of business, the amount of work. I was
doing everything by myself at first. And I never dreamed that I could make this much money or
never dream that, that anything like this would happen. How does your mind frame change when
it's all of a sudden the fucking, the faucet is full black? It was crazy. Like you're, a lot of
people talk about, you know, the pursuit of, of trying, of wealth, like the pursuit of wealth,
always trying to figure out a way to like reach that next level. And then people who have reached it,
and then some, it just becomes, now I'm just worried about losing it. I want to make sure
I can maintain this. I want to make sure I don't lose everything. There is an element about that.
Let me tell you where my mind, my mind frame went and that, that will come in, in the, in the
play later. Well, actually, right about here, it comes in the play. Yeah, it does. It comes in
the play right here. So, so when I, when I started bringing in this kind of money and
so one morning I wake up again, right? This is probably, I don't know, six months into it,
if that, maybe we'll have four months. And I had, so I had done a shift at the emergency
room night before I get off at 11. I worked till 5am. I worked during the shift, right? Answer
in emails. When I get home, I got to pack all the orders. Now it's to the point where there's 20 of
them. And I got to pack all the orders. I got to go collect all the money from Western Union,
which is just tedious. So I got to go myself and collect all this money.
So you have like multiple different accounts with Western Union. So you can,
because there's only 20 grand a year you said you take out, right?
Yeah, right, right. So what I started doing pretty early is getting other people's IDs.
And I used to pay people for their ID, give me your ID. And it doesn't matter if it looks
just remotely like here, it's fine. So I would just, so I would tell the people to send the
money in this name. Okay, I have three different IDs. So you're paying them for their IDs?
Yeah, I just pay people for their IDs and then they go get another one for 10 bucks.
From the thing, from the, from the DMV. Yeah. So I got to go pick up. So now I wake up one morning,
I have freaking 200 emails right in the morning and I've never had that many, you know, before.
And I got to go to work. I got to go collect all the money from last night that I picked
up from all the emails I did last night. I got to pack 20 more orders. Who knows how many more
are in this 200, these 200 emails is probably another 20 or 30 or 40 orders in there.
You're still doing all by yourself. I got to go collect all this money. I got to go do a
nine hour shift at the emergency room. And it just freaking slammed into me. And after all this,
I have a, after I pick up all this money, I have $100,000 in my cash at my house,
and I have never, ever dreamed that I would ever be able to hold that kind of money.
And now I'm just like, this is too big. Like, like I fucked up in the way that this is too
successful. I'm going to get caught. There's, there's, I cannot keep doing this. This is out of
control. I have to stop. And I just like, I'm not a person who's prone to panic attacks. But if I
ever had a panic attack, I was right here. I remember sitting down in my head, burying my head
in my hands and just saying, I can't, I can't do this. I got to quit. This is too big. I'm going
to get caught. So I, I said, why did you keep the job at the emergency room? I don't for very much
longer. Okay. I was going to say maybe to keep your, you keep yourself off the feds radar. There
was a, an element of legitimacy that I wanted to keep. But there became a point pretty quickly
where I just, I couldn't, I couldn't keep it. But so I got my head buried in my hands. I'm just
like, I can't do this. Okay, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to fill all these orders
for them. People have paid money. I'm going to tell everybody else I'm done. I can't do this
anymore. I'm just going to stop because this is absolutely out of control. And so I'm just sitting
there. Okay, that's what I'm going to do. I'm starting to feel a little better. I got a plan
in place. All right. And then what, what hit me almost immediately is the thought of, because
I used to get emails every day for my clients, every single day throughout the whole operation
of people thanking me for what I did. Thank me. Thank you. You have given me the ability to be a
better husband to my wife, a better father to my children. I, I enjoy life now. I, I'm, you know,
I'm confident. I can finally have sex with my wife. I can, I have energy to play with my kids.
My whole life is better because of what you do and how available and cheap and easy to obtain. You
make this testosterone, right? Or, or, you know, these products. Right. You have made my life better
and I want to thank you for that. And I got that every single day. Wow. And that drives a massive
intense dose response. Right. So the first thing I thought of was I got to tell, go tell these like
thousand guys or so that I'm not going to help them anymore. That they're going to have to go back
to being poor husbands, poor fathers to their children, having a worse life because I'm a little
overwhelmed and anxiety-ridden right now. And, and I had this, the overwhelming feeling that I
was a part of some, I was a part of something bigger than myself, which I was. This was bigger
than me. It's not about me anymore. So, so that right there, like kicked me into gear to say,
to say that, fuck that, fuck this, I can do this. And I just, I just, after, after thinking about
that, I put my head down and I said, fuck it, I can do this. I'm going to make this happen.
And then right after that, like, you know, what's funny is I started, like on Facebook,
when you go through Facebook, right, where do you see all these memes of all these things to
convince people to try, try, like you succeed when you don't be afraid of change, don't be afraid of
trying new things, right? You know, if you only fail if you quit, like, you know, all these memes.
Yeah, typical self-help type shit. Yeah. And all these things just started hitting me in the head.
And then every time I'd read one on Facebook, I would relate it to this, like, like, you're just
going to quit. Like, and that's not how success is made. Success isn't made by, by making excuses
and quitting. You know, fuck that, make it happen. And then, and that was my mantra. My mantra became
make it happen. Was there any, I'm sure you thought of it, but was there any feasible path,
no matter how hard it be to make it, make it legit? Yeah. So I tried at the end. That was
when my supplement company started. Okay. And I started to like a little, like a real estate.
I bought four houses that I rented out. And it was going to, it was going to start, like, I was
going to build this legitimate empire. And eventually the idea was I stopped doing the illegal one
and, and continue with this. I started a supplement company, which was the one that was on Shark Tank
or almost made it to Shark Tank. So there was that idea.
I just got indicted before anything, I knew that could happen.
Right. So, yeah. So at this point, it was a
fuck this, I can make it happen. I put my head down and I just, I had to scale, right? So I had
to start thinking about, okay, I can't do this with myself. I have to delegate responsibility.
I have to, and, and from just from, you know, a lot of these things just made sense.
And I had some clues from what Jean told me, like I started asking Jean, like his,
I'm sorry, said his name, but that was the guy who, who I met, who I left with the source,
the other guy who was kind of helping me, who had started his own empire. So I asked him,
how do you handle these things? And he started, like I said, he didn't give me a clear indication,
but he kind of set the tone for how to do this. So I started, I just had to scale. I had to,
I had to compartmentalize every, every aspect of the business. So I had, I hired ship, I just
started hiring people. I hired a shipper. I hired somebody who, who could just handle shipping.
I hired money collectors. So I had money collectors and eventually I hired chemists too.
I don't know if we're getting into the part where I started making my own brand,
but it's, but, you know, I started making my own brand. So then I had chemists, I had all these,
all this, all this compartmentalized and the different jobs you do your job, you do this.
And I just, so I started dealing with the customers because I was the best at that,
but I just pulled the puppet strings to make everything happen. And then there became a
point quickly where I never touched a product. Right. You just started delegating all the tasks.
Yeah. It's just delegated all the tasks to everybody. And this, this like freed up, you know,
my time to be able to, to really focus on business development and, and the customers.
So you were like the head chemist. So you developed and started manufacturing all the
stuff by yourself. Obviously you hired chemists. I am a biochemist, but I actually did not.
Did you teach them how to do it? I did later, but I wasn't the first chemist.
Okay. There was a guy. So yeah, I guess we can get into that. I'm trying to think if there's
anything else that's pertinent before that. I kind of want to keep the story chronological.
So there's an understanding of, you know, a clear, concise understanding of how it went.
I'm trying to think if it actually is time to get to that.
Yeah. I suppose, I suppose it is. So,
so, so, so the idea was right.
My idea was to compartmentalize each job. And this also not only did it mean that everybody
has their specific job, but in order to run a criminal empire, you have to put in safeguards so
that if something gets busted, it doesn't necessarily bring down the whole operation.
So the idea was I got to hire these people and they can't know about each other. Right.
Nobody can know the names of the other people in the business. Right. So I had to kind of
like start, and then I started hiring people from out of state. And then, and that was, that was
actually one of the smarter things I did was I, I spread the operation throughout the entire
United States. I had people all over the, all over the country working. And nobody knew each
other's name. And that was the idea. So as we'll see, as we get in, if a part of the operation
gets busted, it just stays right there. Nobody can tell on each other because they don't even
know each other. Right. That way, the whole, the whole operation doesn't have to go down.
So, so I was kind of doing that. I was setting that up and setting up so this, you know, this could
run and I could just pull the strings and have everybody do their job. My Chinese source, which
is everything was going fine. As I said, as I stated before, the zeitgeist at the time was
that you have to have a brand name. Oh, yeah. So, so my source had British dragon gear, which was
one of the five acceptable brands in the world at the time. In fact, it was one of the more popular
brands. What does gear mean? Oh, sorry. I know, I hear, I hear it used all the time. I just don't
know what it means. Forget that. I forget. Gear is just another word for steroids. It's just
the gear that you use. And it's just a, does it stand for anything? No, it's just the term that
they use for any anabolic steroid. It's the, what the juice hands call their, they call it their
gear. Okay. So, so I had British dragon products, right? And so British dragon was one of those
products. The ironic thing is that British dragon actually went down a few years before I started
selling it. But my Chinese source just started sticking British dragon labels on his stuff
and everybody knew it. So, so you had this, so you had the situation where nobody wants to do
anything that's not a name brand. This guy just starts and because of that, this guy just starts
sticking British dragon labels on this company that just got busted and went under. And
so people knew that counterfeit, but, but it was still real and it was still good. So everybody
just accepted. This is like one of the close enough. It's like, okay, well, but the, but
it's not the original British dragon, but the new British dragon stuff is okay too. So it didn't,
it didn't matter. Okay. So I had this, but it was my source that started this. So I had the
repurposed British dragon stuff and everybody's fine with it. But this guy, this guy could get
flaky. Like, I mean, this guy, this guy was probably one of the biggest steroid dealers ever in the
world. Because he was, he was sending this worldwide. And, and this guy, this guy was like,
maybe he must have been pumping out massive amounts. And, but I was one of his biggest
clients at the time. And so was, and so was Gene or the guy was helping because I mentioned Gene.
I said, Hey, Gene's one of my partners, you know, just to kind of seal me in and with this guy,
and this guy knew Gene by his name. He knew stop about him personally. This Chinese guy from,
and so Gene was big and his, and I started, eventually I was getting as much if not more
than Gene. So, so, and yeah, so Gene also taught me how to actually reduce my prices from this
guy, because I was just kind of taken, I had no other options. I was just taking what he gave me.
And he taught me that the prices could go lower. So I actually started to go as soon as I buy it
started buying a little higher quantity that started saying, no, I want to pay this for it.
And I got, and I just never said anything. I just actually just start paying them less for it. So
this is what I'm going to give you. But he taught me that's how he did it. And it worked. So now my
profit margins were even higher. And I could, I could, you know, I could start giving my clients
even better deals here and there. So it just worked out really well. But this guy started
getting flaky, right? So he would just disappear every once in a while for a month and then come
back. And so, you know, what I learned is that I was fragile. I was too fragile. I had all my eggs
in one basket. If this something happens to this guy, I'm done. I needed to do something.
It was the weakest leg. Yeah, I need to do something to create a more robust system.
Right. And I use this terminology because in prison, so what's ironic is not ironic, coincidental,
it's actually coincidental is some of these things that I was thinking of were actually advanced
business concepts. And I didn't realize it until when I got to prison, I was able to read, I read
voraciously about books about business MBA textbooks. And I read, I read from some of the
biographies of some of the greater entrepreneurs of our time. I just read everything. And I started
to learn from Nasim Taleb. He had this book called the antifragile, which talks about
setting up systems, building robust systems with optionality. And to make sure that all your eggs
aren't in one basket, but you do that with everything you do. Every, everything you do,
every system you build, you build contingencies, you build any business you have, you build
contingencies, you build optionality so that you're not focused on one, one thing to drive
your success. Yes. Right. Yep. And I knew that then, but I didn't have names to put to it. And
when I read it later, I said, Oh my God, I did this. And I didn't even know that this is actually
an advanced business concept. It was kind of neat. But so I knew that I was fragile and I had to
build a robust system. So I'm looking at other brands to start buying, but they're all too
expensive. My profit margins would go down. I would have to, I would have to sell it at a
higher price. And my thing was having the cheapest stuff in the, you know, in the, in the black market
and, you know, with the best quality. So I couldn't do that. So then I thought about this guy in you.
Now, mind you, we were building a big empire and I started bringing a lot of money into the
area. You know, at this time we're making 20, probably about 21,000 per week, but more and
more I was coming in. I mean, the business ended up getting five times, five to 10 times bigger than
that. And, and so, but we were, for my small city, like the amount of money that was coming in, it was,
I knew that we had to hide that. That was what was going to get us caught is having the local cops
come in and try to, about this, you know, this guy, because if people went and talked word gets out,
it's a small city, word gets out, some cops are going to find out and they're going to come question
it. So I made sure everybody kept their mouth shut. It was very important to explain to them,
to everybody who was in our operation. Why? So nobody knew what we were doing. I mean, they
did just, they kind of started to see that ever everybody in our operation was suddenly doing
well. But, but nobody, nobody told, you know, what we're doing. And I tried, I tried not to
even sell locally, because the local game was going to get me in trouble. But this anonymous
nationwide game wasn't as dangerous as, as a local game, where the local cops can come busting.
So we, I even tried to keep down the local sales. So nobody knew what we're doing. But so
I knew this guy, all the, all the juice heads in my local area, we all knew each other and all
the dealers knew each other, we're all friends, right? All the other steroid dealers in the area.
And so I knew one of them and I knew that he made his own stuff. And he knew how to do it. And he
had educated himself really well, like he's one of the few people that knew as much about steroids
as I did. And I had never tried to make it myself. I knew he was and I knew a lot of people said his
stuff that he made was good. And he was able to charge lower prices because it's so much cheaper
to make it yourself. Right. So I decided right then and there that, that I had to form a partnership
with this guy. So, so I could have another way to offer something else besides just the British
Dragon stuff from this Chinese store. So one night I just, I went to him, I had this whole thing
planned out. I intentionally got a lot of my Western Union money and I brought it with me and I went
out, you know, to go drinking that night and we're going to meet him. And I said, Hey, I got
something to talk to you about. And he was just like, Okay, let's go talk now. And I just brought
him in my car and I unloaded everything we're doing. I showed him all this money that we're
making. I had like, I don't know, $15,000 that I picked up that day or something or not that day,
that week. And, and I remember like his mouth just dropped open. He was just absolutely just
dumbfounded. But everything I had just told him. And I said, I said, well, let's partner. Let's
you were starting manufacturing. Yeah, you, like, I'll give you all the money to do to,
we'll get all these powders. You can just make this, but you got to just make it on a much
bigger scale. I need, you know, I need like a thousand bottles a week or whatever and just
just start making it. You know, what do you say? And he's just like, he didn't say anything the
whole time. His mouth is just open. He can't believe what he's just heard. But also the
opportunities in front of him, because the amount of money he was going to be able to make
was pretty serious. And he was just like, okay, let's do it. And from there, I named my,
my brand name was Matrix. We created a label. I had another one of my guys create a label.
He made, you know, he, he got all the powders because he had a, he already knew where to get
powders from. He had, he had a good powder source. So he ended up getting the powders,
making these vials. I slept my matrix label on it. And then I put it up on the list of my products.
And, you know, there we were going. And so you can still look up to this day,
Matrix lab steroids, and you'll see all the reviews, a bunch of really quality reviews.
We intentionally made it strong so that it would, the quality would be good. And little
than I know that would just drive a ton more business in just the quality, the strength of
these products. So it started getting legitimized. People started trusting it. People started using
it. And then eventually was that all that you were selling was the Matrix stuff? Yeah. So this
is the interesting part. So again, the zeitgeist at the time was we don't trust anything that's
not name brand, right? Nobody wanted to do that. So I thought that when I entered my
Matrix brand, so at this time, now the whole, the whole black market is run by UGL,
right? Underground lab. UGL stands for underground lab, which is just people making
their own stuff and selling it. Now the whole, there is no name brand anymore. It's all
underground lab stuff. But at this time, it was the opposite. The UGL or underground labs just
started. And there was only a couple in existence. And I was one of the, one of the, I was, I wasn't
the first, I was in the beginning of the whole UGL movement. That's also what helped spark this
empire. So I thought it was going to take a long time for people to warm up to this new stuff.
Now this new stuff I had, I was making my profit margin, I bought 25 milliliters of vials for $50
and sold them for 125. My profit margin was about 250%, right? Yeah, 250%, right? So
when I, the stuff I made, I could make for significantly cheaper. And then I just charged
100. I've made 20 milliliters of vials for $100. So my profit margin came up, it was
a 400% profit margin. So not only was it cheaper to make, but my profit margin, you know,
shut up. And so I mean, the economics just worked out wonderfully. So again, I thought that
I thought that it would take a while to warm up to this new brand that nobody knew this brand
but it turns out that I was the brand, that people, I had set enough of a trust in people
that they trusted me, they trusted everything that I did and anything I put up there that
they would go ahead and accept. Anabox Serial users are some of the,
they have a lot of animus towards people they don't know, they're some of the, they'll berate
you that there are some of the hardest trusting people in the planet, but once they do, they're
also some of the most loyal. So once I got these guys loyalty, once I had all these patriots,
there was my client base, they would, they would trust anything I put up there. And
I'm telling you, if it wasn't almost instant, everybody just switched right from the BD stuff
to this matrix stuff. And then, and then the matrix stuff, people started posting about it.
And so this stuff is absolutely fire because we made it strong on purpose, right? Right.
And that drove in tons more people because now they're like, oh, I got to try this matrix stuff,
you know, because everybody's talking about it. That was all over the internet, all the forums.
This was nationwide. This was not no longer just local. Yes, that's correct. And in fact,
you tried to keep it from being low. You didn't want it to be local at all. That's correct.
But these people knew your name on online. My business name is your business, not you personally.
Nobody knew my name. So they knew Matrix. Matrix. And the name of our business was
BD Supplements. I named it that because it was British Dragon Supplements. That's
what I was originally selling. So my business name was BD Supplements. That's what you saw.
They didn't know your face, though. No, nobody knew my name. But then the matrix was the brand
name of what I sold. So everybody knew kind of both of them. But more people started
knowing the brand because it was, it was so potent. And how long did this last before you
realized that you were on the DEA's radar? I didn't,
I didn't totally, I didn't totally know I was on the DEA's radar. And I never knew.
Until they kicked in the door. It makes sense now. Yeah, it makes sense now. But I didn't,
I didn't think I was. Now I can, after I got indicted and saw the information I have,
I can piece it all the way back. It's pretty evident. I mean, it's obvious how you can see it.
Yeah, it's obvious what happened now. But, you know, at the time, I didn't, yeah, I didn't,
I didn't know. Did you sell to an informant or something?
Yeah, but I did because that was what was in the paperwork, but it didn't, it doesn't matter. It
was all anonymous. So all they can say is I ordered from this site and I got steroids that tested
legitimately, but they can't put a name or a face or anything to that. So that, I mean,
that almost didn't matter. It was, you know, there was a lot of elements that I didn't get
nervous caught, which I could, I could go into, I probably, I could go into at the time when it's,
time in the story when it's more relevant, if you want.
Yeah. Where are we, where are we in the story now? You started producing your own stuff. You're
selling your profit margins up to 400%. Yeah. And you're just making, you're raking in tons of money.
Yeah. Yeah. So what, what sort of problems are you encountering because of all this
fucking money? Yeah. So, yeah. So the, the first problem that became,
there was a whole bunch of just expansion problems, scale problems. So, and one of them was that
we're making, we're making too much, too much money. It's a stupid fucking problem I have,
but it was a problem. So I couldn't collect all this. So I had to start, I had to start finding
other anonymous ways to collect money. And, and I started, so I started using, as you ever heard
those green dot cards, where you can essentially like, you have this reloadable credit card,
and they sell these little reload packs with a, with a number on it. Right. And if you get that,
that number, somebody pays the cashier, you know, the, whatever that costs two, three, five hundred
dollars. And then you send that number, I can load that onto this card. And it's, it's completely
anonymous. And, and I have this card, it's, it's like a reloadable credit card with a,
with a code that you can buy. Okay. And so if somebody from across the country can just buy
one of these in their local CVS or whatever, and then, and then send me that code, and I can load
that money onto my card. Okay. But that you can only load so much money onto these cards. Right.
So I had to have, I had to get freaking 30 of them. And I just, again, I started paying people,
get me one of these cards and give it to me. And I'll give you a hundred bucks or something.
And then I had, so I had, I had like 30 of these and I had like, I had an army of people
collecting money in, in Western Union and this way. And it was still just getting bogged down
because like only 20,000 per person for Western Union, these things can only hold so much money.
Just too much money was coming in, like, you know, at this point, at this point, probably,
we're probably doing like a 1.2 million a year. And, and it just kept getting bigger from that.
And, and I just couldn't, I couldn't collect all this money. So I remember like,
I used to, whenever I had to think of through a problem, I would go to the gym. The gym releases
its own endorphins and you use a lot of the, sometimes your brain gets foggy when you have
that brain fog. A lot of it is you're thinking so much that there's too many neurotransmitters
that are kind of clogging up signals and that's kind of what brain fog is. So when you, when you
work out your brain, actually, you use, you're using these neurotransmitters and it actually
clears your brain out and you, you produce a different type of endorphin. So it really helps
people think and it helps, I would always go to the gym and I could figure out a problem. So,
you know, whenever that happens, like when I had a problem, I would think through it so much that
I would, that would start happening. I can't think straight. So you go to the gym and then
at the gym, like all the, the motor, the motor actions that are happening and the signals going
to your muscles actually uses those neurotransmitters to transmit the signals. So you kind of use them
up and you produce different endorphins too. Which is just like the opposite of what you're
talking about would be like flow where people talk about like being in a flow state where you're
not thinking at all or like a meditative state where your mind is completely clear and things
just happen with effort, effortlessly. Yeah, I guess, I guess it would be like a, it's a way to
create that. I mean, exercise is a way to create, create something like that. I guess it's kind of
like my meditation or like, you know, a lot of people can use it for their form of meditation
to clear their brain. But that's, but when you say I cleared my brain, like scientifically,
that's what's happening. You're, you're a, you're, you know, releasing the influx of neurotransmitters
in your brain to allow better synaptic firings. Yeah, makes sense.
So, so, so I had this money problem and I went to the gym and I'm like, I gotta forget,
just going in, like you said, like when you're at the gym, like stuff starts coming into focus
and you can have these moments of clarity, boom, it hits you. And that happened to me often. So
when I had a problem, I'd go to the gym, I'd figure it out almost every time. And so that's
what happened with this. So, so I started thinking about the whole money flow. It all comes to me
and then I dole it all out to, to wherever it needs to go, right? Because like a lot of it has to
go from my clients to I have to pay the source. I have to pay my employees, you know, but it all
comes to me and then it goes out. So why would I, why would I do it that way when I could just have
the money go right from where it's coming from to where it needed to go? I could just bypass me
as the middleman. So I started, I went, I just, I went to my Chinese source at the time and my
powder sources were also from China at the time. And, and I said, I need, can I send you, because
they had all these Western Union names, they collected through Western Union. And I noticed
every time I did it, I would send like five grand at a time, because that's as much as you're allowed
to send Western Union. So I would just send these five, $5,000. But I know that the names
had always changed and they had no shortage of names. So I said, and I knew other people are
ordering with these names and a lot of people just ordered $200 worth of stuff, you know? So I'm like,
can I have my clients send you money directly? And, and this will like take me out as the middleman.
And I don't have to worry about collecting that money. It just goes right to where I need it to be.
And the Chinese suppliers, like the both the guy with the BD British Dragon stuff and my
powder supply was like, yeah, that's fine. We'll just give you a bunch of names. They had endless
amount of Chinese people willing to pick up money. So, so I was able to stop myself from
being the middleman. And I was able to send money directly to from my clients, right to
the powder source and my employees. So now I said, through the, all my employees had those
green dot cards. There was other companies was more than just green dot. They all had to get one
of those. This is how I was going to pay them. And then it came directly from my clients. So now
what I did is I diverted all that money from flowing to me, from me having to figure out ways
to pick it all up to, and it was just all diverted to the end source where I needed to be. And then
the money I collected was just mine. Right. And, and that was a major, a major overhaul of a major
efficiency to be able to now further operate and collect more money in the future.
So, I can't understate how big that was. The other thing that really aided in business development
was now the, so the powder sources we had, as I stated, so once we started to become big and we
had a name and we're doing UGO was all these Chinese suppliers, powder suppliers came,
came to me and wanted to sell me powders. So I would just take samples from all of them. Sure,
I'll take samples. I'll take samples. And at this time,
at this time, there was no labs that could just test your, test your,
test your gear, test your testosterone and its derivatives. There's no, you couldn't just send
it to a lab. You actually can these days. You can just send it to a lab, have them test it for quality
and then they'll send it or, or, you know, you just send a little sample of it. You couldn't do
that back then. Nobody was taking steroid samples and testing it for you. So I decided
that, that, you know, quality was of utmost importance. And then to do this,
I was going to have to, I was going to use crowdsourcing. I was going to use my own clients
to help me, help me test. And I was, so I'd give guys these discounts and I'd say,
listen, I need to clean you, you need to clean your receptors out. I'm going to give you,
you know, we'd make a lot of these powders that come in, we tested on ourselves first to make
sure like the whole crew tested on ourselves and make sure it was fine. Everything was good.
And then I'd send it to these, you know, I'd send these to clients and tell them to
clean out their receptors, take some of it, and then get a blood test that I'll pay for
and then send me the results. And I knew what this amount of tests take this much,
I knew what it should show on a blood level, right? And so we had like 50 different powder
sources and I just had an army of people testing this stuff for me and get, get me back with
information. So now we were able to pick the top three sources that had the most consistent
quality and the best, you know, the best stuff that really raised people's testosterone levels.
And, and we were able to weed out all the bad ones that had the top quality. So now we're talking
about matrix was made, nobody else was doing anything like this. So matrix was now made of
tested, tested powders from, from, you know, countless other powder sources. And we had the
best stuff probably in the country for sure, possibly the world, just because we had done
that much work to make sure that we had the utmost best quality products. And we just,
you know, kept that up. So now, and that, so now all the forums, all the word was just making
this stuff, it's fire. And it just started pouring more people in. And so pretty quickly,
I couldn't do it with just, just the guys that I had, the guy making couldn't keep up with the
demand. Wow. The shipper couldn't keep up with demand. So I just keep expanding. So I started
getting, I had to get more shippers, I had to, I got them in other states. I had a chemist from
another state. These guys were making together and still couldn't keep up with demand. So
I got more chemists, more shippers and different throughout the entire country. You know, at one
time we had five shippers, five chemists, all making thousands of thousands of vials a week.
And there was rarely a time when I could keep up with all the business. It just got absolutely
insane. So you were completely overwhelmed by this mass. But I kept expanding enough to where,
although it was overwhelming, like I, I worked 12 hours a day, but in my job was just dealing with
the clients. And then I'd send the, so, you know, how my business worked is a client would come in,
ask, you know, oh, hey, I want this. Okay, boom, boom, boom. Here's a payment. Pay me this way.
And I would tell him how to pay. He would come back with the, with the money one way,
whether it was a Western Union or, well, I would ask him what way they wanted to pay. And, and then
I would direct it to where it needed to go, the payment. And then I would put that order in,
into like an email that I had every day, I would just list all these things into a different email.
And then I would send it to the shipper every night. The shipper had till the next,
the close of the post office next day to get this out. And they would just sit there and pack the
orders and then, and then, and, you know, print off the shipping label UPS, they had shipping
stuff all in their, in their houses. And they would just pack each of these orders and take
them to the post office. And so every day this would happen. And then the, so the chemists would
make more, but the chemists would have to ship it to a shipper, which is usually in a different
state. So they vacuum seal them, really wrap them up and ship like a hundred vials at a time.
So that's how it would work. The, the products would go to the shippers and the shippers would
ship all the orders that I sent out and I would deal with the clients all day and then,
and disperse the money wherever it needed to go. So now the only money that's coming to you is the
profit, right? Because you're not, you're not having to pay everybody. So you're making so much
money. Are you laundering this money any sort of way? Are you, how are you legitimizing all this
money? What are you doing with all? Are you keeping it cash? What are you doing with it?
Yeah. So I, I didn't really do anything to legitimize it. I didn't really, I didn't
launder it. I got a laundering charge, but I shouldn't have gotten a laundering charge because
I wasn't laundering money, what they said, but, but um, so all the money was on, I had like 30
of these credit cards, right? And you can spend money on a credit card, on a reloadable credit
card and it doesn't, like anything, you know, under certain amounts under like this $10,000,
a symmetrical $10,000, like doesn't raise any red flag to the IRS, right? So.
So you just have unlimited amount of these $10,000 prepaid credit cards?
Yeah. I have like, I have like 30 of them and they're all, they're full all the time.
And you know, plus like, and you just use those to do everything, everything,
get gas, go to dinner, restaurants, pay your, what about like your living expenses? You bought
houses with this shit? I bought houses with cash. So I still had a lot of cash too. So I was still
picking up cash from, from Western unions, but it wasn't, it wasn't that much. And what I also had
is so I had guys with these cards, right? I had an army of people who had their own and I used to
pay them 6%. Just, just I'd fill up their cards, tell me every week, bring me back, you know, a
couple thousand dollars, you know, and then, and then I'd pay them 6% like that, you know,
that's what they did. So I, and I had a bunch of people doing this. So I was still getting cash,
like they got, so, so what would happen is they'd get it in their name. So they order one of these
credit cards in their name, because it has to have a name to somebody. Okay, I understand.
And then I would load their credit card slowly, right? So bring me back this cash, you know,
when I first got a new person, I'd only put $1,000 on it and said, bring me this cash, I'll give you
6%. But then it started, if they had five or six cards, it only takes them,
it only takes them a couple of minutes at the ATM to pull out, you can only pull out like 300
at a time, twice a week, or they shut the cards down. We had to learn this the hard way.
Holy shit. It got very complicated, but we learned exactly how to do it. So they wouldn't
shut the cards down because it looks fraudulent if you're just pulling out cash and we had a whole
system. Right. It was actually very difficult, but it took us a long time and a lot of lost money
to figure it out. But so I had these guys, you know, and they're bringing me two, three,
four or five grand a week, they get 6% of it and it really only took them maybe an hour of their
time total. Right. And they're making like, and they're making, you know, good money and
four or 500 bucks a week for an hour's worth of work. That's fucking insane, man. And how is your,
how is your life changing? Like, how is your lifestyle changing? How is, obviously, this is
100% of your life every day. This is what your business, your main thing that you're focusing
on. Like, are you, are you being extra careful not to like look like you have a lot of money?
Or are you just like saying, fuck it, I'm going to buy this Lamborghini and this mansion and.
So, so at first that was the idea. And when I, when I lived in the small city that I grew up in,
it was important to do that because it would draw attention. Everybody knew me and they knew
that I was not wealthy. If I suddenly exhibited in all this opulence, then it,
which I, you know, it would look, and it would attract attention. And that's not what I wanted.
But so I ended up, I was, I was okay about that. And I didn't, one of the things I did wrong is I
started going on vacations every like six weeks. And I post about it on Facebook. And that was one
of my mistakes because people could see that. And then, and so I got robbed a few times because
people would know when I was on vacation because I just posted about it. And then they killed
them in my house and probably lost $100,000 and people robbed it. Jesus.
Yeah. So eventually what happened? You get on the feds radar, right? Eventually you get busted.
Yeah. So. And how did you get what, what was that like? Like, was it just like out of nowhere?
They raided your house or what? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll definitely go into that. I think
there's a lot of, there's build up to explain how, how it got there. Okay. So, so let me start there.
To go about the, the money thing. When I moved to, I moved to New York for a girl, actually.
And when I moved to New York, the, I wasn't drawn attention by having money because there's a lot
of people with money. So it wasn't, it wasn't as big of a deal there. So, so I could start,
you know, doing things. I bought a brand new jargon F type. I didn't buy it. I leased it, but,
but I paid for, you know, paid for in cash or I had to put a huge sum downtime. So this is the
strange part. Like I didn't have any, anything on the books. I had quit my, my ER job. Right.
I didn't have any money on the books. And I, so I just went and I found this, this guy who did
leases and I'm, I'm like, Hey, look, I want to lease one of these cars. I don't have any
proof of my income, but I have a lot of income. And he figured it out for me. I was able to get
brand new, brand new tabloid on Jaguar. I was freaking awesome. Jaguar F type. And then,
and then the same way, like in a very strange events, like I didn't have any income from my,
my apartment either. So I had this, uh, I move at first, I moved into this, like,
this really nice place that nowadays would probably go for like $6,000 a month.
And then, uh, and then I upgraded and I eventually had this penthouse overlooking Manhattan on the
Hudson River. And at the time I paid $9,000 a month for it. But that was,
they would go for a lot more now. The real estate market was different back then.
So you were renting places?
Yeah. Yeah. But, uh, I was able to get around to it. They had these clauses that allowed,
I didn't have to prove income. It was kind of strange, but it worked out.
Right. I'm sure you wouldn't have to prove income if you paid like X amount of dollars up front.
Like I'll pay up front for this whole place or half 50% up front.
Essentially. Essentially. Yeah.
It's amazing what you can do when you have a lot of cash.
So yeah. So that's one of the lessons I learned too.
Yeah. So there's a whole, there's a whole thing, like, especially in my book,
I go over what money does or what it does to people. Yeah.
Not, not what it does to people. I don't, I don't even want to say it in a negative sense,
because I think like having money that is seen as a negative thing and it can change people
negatively. And I don't, um, that's not necessarily true. It certainly can. Like,
um, so people say that money changes you. Um, and it does money is a representation
of our value to society. Right. It, it, what is it? It's just this paper or it's numbers
in a bank account. Right. It's arbitrary. This is just man created. It's not real.
So, but what it does represent is our value to society. Right. Cause when we create value,
um, we create value people, the more, if we create value for a myriad of people in a,
in a, in a very meaningful way, we are valuable to society and that is translated into wealth
or monetary. Right. So, so the money is seen as what, when people see that you have money,
it's a representation of your value to society and then it's respected. You have respect for
somebody who can help a lot of people. Right. And the more money you have, money is also like a
panacea. Right. It's a, it's an easy way, um, to, to help everything. It's a, it's a, like a
panacea is, is a something that can, um, uh, I don't know, almost like something that can
take care of any problems. Right. And that's kind of what money is. You can throw money at
anything, almost anything and take care of problems. And it's an easy way to help other
people. Right. So when people see that you have money, it's a representation of your value to
society and you can easily help people. It's very easy. You need your rent paid. Oh, you want to
go out to a nice dinner, blah, blah, blah. You want this. Um, so it's respected. So when you,
just having money gives, makes people respected admire you, which also raises a dose response.
Right. So, so now when you get money, not only do you, are you raising the, the, the dose response
and it can slowly go into something that's a little manic. Right. Just because everybody's
respecting you, everybody's showing you admiration, appreciation, you know, so, so if you're not
cognizant of that, it can get a little out of control and, and I'm no exception. There was a,
but I was able to rein it in pretty quickly, but there was a period when, when I got a little
manic over the amount of money that I had. How did you realize or self become self aware that
you're becoming like that? You know, interestingly enough, I want to say it was probably at a blow-up
I had, um, at a friend's house. This friend, I hadn't seen in a long time when I went to his
place and, and I just got back from a vacation and all I wanted to talk about was me and the money
I had and the, the amount I could spend on everything and, and I bought everybody's dinner
and I thought that everybody should kind of kiss my ass for that. Yeah. And so some of these people
started having a problem with it and then, and I, you know, I was drunk at the time too, which
actually raises the mania. So yeah, so it's, it's drugs and alcohol and mania don't, don't mix well.
And, uh, so like I flipped out and, you know, this is the guy that I knew my whole life and
he was a good friend of mine and, uh, and I ever kind of ruined that friendship. And I think that's
when I, when I say, you know, I screwed that up. That was me. I can't be like that. And,
um, and I was able to rein it in after that and understand that the only reason I have this money
is because of the value I create to people, the value I create to society. And I have to be humble
and you have to understand that my good feelings and the dose response that I get is because of
everybody around me and because of my ability to help people. So I just have to focus on that. And
it's not about, it's not about making people recognize how awesome you are. And, and
that happens in a lot of sports figures. Like you see a lot of mania happen, like with these
young athletes who suddenly become millionaires. You see them just talking, you know, about how
awesome they are, how this and that. And you can see the, the manic, the manic levels just,
and a lot of these, a lot of young sports starts and, and they have public relations people too.
So these, these really wealthy guys like LeBron James, like, uh, you know, a lot of them,
they're, when they're on camera, they're very, they say the right thing all the time. They're
very, you know, uh, Kobe Bryant was also excellent on camera and they have public relations people
telling them about all this stuff and how to act and how you need to be. But before you get that
education and understanding, there's, there's definitely something. So that's what people
mean when money changes people. However,
when I also fuck you up too, one of the, one of the things, uh, interesting things to me about,
I just talked about this yesterday was, is there's a certain path or a certain way humans are
supposed to develop. There's a certain amount of experiences growing up through childhood into
becoming an adult that you need to, that you need to go through to become a well-rounded human
being to understand pitfalls, to understand success, um, to understand failure and to understand
your relationships and everything. Like the brain, I think the brain doesn't stop developing
until you're in your mid 30s or something like that. They say now, um, but there's something
that happens when, if, when you give someone who's in their teens or in their early 20s,
an ungodly amount of money, that throws everything off. It throws everything off your relationships
to your friends, your parents, everybody in your life. Everyone starts treating you differently
and that dramatically fucks up and changes your development as a, from a child to an adult.
So when you, I mean, and a lot of the kids, like I often, you know, NBA players and NFL players
are the most obvious example of this. They get ungodly amounts of money and attention at a super
young age. They don't, they don't know certain things about the world about, about life necessarily.
Is it, I'm not, it's not their fault they, they made this money, but I mean, you have to understand
human development and human nature. And when you give it to somebody who's not developed yet,
it's going to severely fuck them up. Yes. It's very perspicacious. Yes. It's all correct.
And a lot of these cliches about money changes people, money can't buy happiness, which
is just totally not true. Um, all these, all these are, are not thought of with, with a clear
understanding or with a clear understanding of all the things that occur when somebody makes
money. It's not simple, just like everything. It's not as simple to slap a label on it and,
and call it a day. It's, it's very complicated. So on the lines of what you were saying,
what I want to, what I want to iterate is there is a change in the person that, um,
the change and the changes in person goes along with what I said. There's a slight mania that
goes on, but there's also, there's different changes and there's a change in the relationship
with the current people you have. All right. So let me go into something else first. So
when I was talking about, there's a difference between,
you know, you know how Antonio Brown is? Yeah. He's a great example of this. Yes. Yeah,
you're correct. He might have personality disorder as well, but, but yes. And CTE. Yeah. Yeah. But
yes. And you're absolutely correct. Um, like, look at that guy. Sorry to interrupt you, but look
at the guy. Like he's a fucking perfect specimen of human being, super athlete, incredibly fucking
gifted and talented. Keep his ego in check. Right. And he has tons of fucking money and
that's a recipe for disaster. You're absolutely correct. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why I think,
like people like LeBron James or Kobe Bryant was excellent at handling that too. Like they're,
they're phenomenal at handling that kind of fame, right? I mean, they're just, when they're on camera,
it's flawless, almost flawless what they, you know, how they present themselves. Yeah. I mean,
they've been doing it since early teens, but it also is coached into them. A lot of people
understand these people have massive PR firms. They have firms like entire groups of people
working around the clock to make sure that they don't look stupid and teaching them how to act.
And that's what's not understood. So when you have like a drug dealer who, you know, doesn't have,
like things can get out of control, like, uh, you just don't realize what's going on.
That's why I like Michael Jordan so much is because he had all those flaws that he didn't
try to hide, like the gambling and all that crazy shit that he was into. And that's what makes
him so much more fascinating to me than like LeBron. He's like,
no stains on anything. You know what I mean? Too perfect. But he's, like you said, he's been
being groomed for that since he was in high school. Since he was in freshman in high school,
probably, you know, because everybody knew what he was going to be. Right. Yeah. He's been being
groomed like that. Right. That's true. That's very true. Michael Jordan didn't even make his freshman
high school freshman. Yeah, that's what it was. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Michael Jordan is
fascinating. No, I love the last dance. The last dance was fascinating. Wasn't it so
amazing, dude? I need to watch that again. I want to watch like when he breaks down
because he's just, he's talking about like people, um, being upset with him or
having a, you know, I have a problem with the way that he demanded, um, perfection or the way he
is like, no, this is how we're going to, this is how you make it to the end. This is how you get
there. And you do this or you get the fuck out. Right. And when people were taking exception to
that, some of his teammates, like, like on that, remember that scene when he broke down, he actually
started crying and he was just like, he was like, you know, maybe you shouldn't be on this journey
with me. This is how, this is what it takes to get there. I know I've been there and this is how
you have to do it. And if, and if you don't want to, and if you don't like that, then maybe you
shouldn't take this journey with me, but that's where I'm going. And it was just so poignant and
so cathartic. Like it was. Yeah. When he's being interviewed, he's kind of reflecting on everything
and reflecting on how much of a fucking asshole he was to people. Yeah. But he had to be. Right.
That's who he was. If he wasn't, then they wouldn't have got there. If he didn't, if he didn't demand
the, demand the best. So let me, let me use that. If he didn't demand the best from everybody around
him, then he wouldn't have made it to the finals. He wouldn't have been successful as he was, but
he showed people how to get there. This is how you do it. And, and so, and people around him
didn't like that. Right. So there's an element of that. And what happens to somebody who starts
making, making money as well. So, so what I want, when they say that people change who make money,
what I want to really clearly iterate is that the people around you change as well with the
changing social dynamic. So, so now there's a new dynamic. You're the guy who has the money, you have
this money, which is a kind of a panacea and you can help. It's easy for you to help somebody. You
become more respected. Your relationship with everybody around you changes. You have a lot
more responsibility. You know, especially, especially people who made the money, who created
the value to make the money themselves, you have a lot more responsibility. You have, I have a team
of people that I have to pay that, you know, are looking to me for support. I have, I have
tons of responsibilities. I have thousands and thousands of clients that I have to make sure I
take care of. And, and it's not that, so your friendships change. I have a lot of responsibility
now. I have to take care of people. There's, it's bigger than just me. I have a huge empire to run.
You have a lot of money. People are respecting and admiring you. So, so you raise up here and
your friends are still, you know, all the people that were around you are still down here and people
have problems with that. They were your friend because you had something in common. You, you both
had similar circumstances and you could help each other through those circumstances. All
relationships form because there's some sort of give and take. Right. And when you come up here,
people get jealous. People get, they don't like the new dynamic because that's not why
they were friends with you in the first place. That's not, you didn't, you didn't, you're not
creating the same value you did when you were both just like poor people who were made each other
laugh. And then you see new people come in and think, you start getting suspicious of their
motives. That's exactly correct. You're exactly. So, or, or they just, they wreck the relationship
because they're not happy with it anymore. When you see somebody else rise, there's an inherent
jealousy about that and jealousy runs rampant. So I want to iterate that the people around you
change the entire social dynamic changes, the people around you change as well.
And that is a big, but, but it comes out as people say, oh, money made that guy change. Well,
there's some things that he had to change because he's got a lot more responsibility now. Like,
there's a lot of different things going on. You know, you're changing
as well. Like, I can't say it enough. Jealousy runs rampant. So I started heading people,
Rob me, my friends that had been my best friend, Rob, who would start robbing more than one.
You just lose friends and new friends come in, but, but new friends that are now comfortable
with the new dynamic of that you're the boss, you're the, you know, you're the guy who's the
responsibility who can get everything done. And, and you, and you start, you know, so
like you lose a lot of your old friends, some of the old friends come for the ride with you.
I guess that would be your entourage, right? But, but it's those people who are comfortable
with the change and okay with the change, right? But a lot of people are not comfortable with
changing the social dynamic. So I just want to iterate that there, that's a major factor. And
people saying that, oh, money, you know, money changes people. Well, it changes you too. It
changes everybody. Some people say that money is more of a magnifying glass,
just makes you more of who you already were or who you were before.
I suppose, yeah, I suppose I would have to think about that more, I guess it
like you, that was already there and that the money just really magnifies.
Yeah, I can, I can understand whether they'd be good or bad.
Yeah, yeah, I could understand that because it allows you to give in to all your voices and
all your, it allows you to be you more, right? Like, there's nothing holding you back from what
you want. Yeah. And, and I think it will be evident about some of the things I like to be
because of some of the things that I chose to do, just as far as, as far as a lot of my money.
But so one more thing I want to say though, is that about money is, so, so there is a difference
between and when you said and you were, you're on the, you're on the, obviously,
you understand when you just heap a bunch of money onto somebody, right?
So if you have somebody who makes their money because they, they have a business or they
created value for people, right? And say they started a business and they're valuable and
they're creating money and they, they're, they're making money the right way, you know,
by themselves, they create a business or something. Those people are happy with money because they
also have the rest of the dose responses of being able to create value for people and,
you know, and the money is just a representation of, of that. So anybody who, who makes their own
money, makes their own wealth, like I said, did that by creating value and they have the
appropriate dose responses from actually being valuable and the respect and admiration from a
lot of people, right? So those people are happy. Money is not when you say money doesn't buy
happiness. Well, you know, money certainly, certainly can. So I never said, what did Daniel
Tosh say? Never seen anybody frown on a wave runner. That's funny. So I, I mean, I don't,
I don't like that saying money can't buy happiness. It fricking, it buys a Lamborghini.
For sure. That makes me pretty happy. For sure. So, but, so, but what that means, what they're
actually trying to say is that people that say that are broke. Yeah. If you, if you're value-less
in society and you don't do anything, suddenly you win the lottery and you get millions of
dollars, right? That doesn't make you a valuable person. You have this temporary ability to help
people. You have this panacea that is money. Yeah. You have this temporary ability to help
people. But the fact that you have no inherent value or you don't inherently create value for
people to reinforce those dose responses hasn't changed. So you don't have a foundation. Right.
As soon as that money is gone, your value is gone. Right. And those people aren't happy because,
or people, misers, right? Who, who, you know, just have a, get inheritance or something,
and then they don't spend their money on any people because that's the only value they have,
right? They're not valuable. They don't create any value in society. And, and people like that,
they haven't fixed the, the root thing that makes you hunt happy is by getting these dose
responses, these, eliciting these dose responses, which comes through being valuable or helping
people or, or cementing relationships, right? So those people aren't, aren't happy. If you just
heap millions of dollars on somebody who's inherently not valuable and, and somebody who's
just an asshole, the foundation, like you said, hasn't changed and that person will not be happy
with money. Right. But anybody who makes it on their own is happy because they do have a foundation.
They are valuable to society. So it's just like, I don't think that cliche isn't clearly understood.
Yeah. Yeah. It's the same thing when you see people, sometimes even athletes get a lot of
money and they just fucking, they, they find a way to spiral out of control and fuck up everything.
Like if you're, because it's sad, it is. Yeah. Because if you don't have the foundation, you
know, if you don't build it, build it up the right way, bottom up, then it's just going to be chaos.
Yeah. Yeah. Have you ever heard that there's this thing? There's this, there's this idea in this,
this show that I, I just finished watching called Westworld where this guy talks about,
I don't know if you've ever heard of it, but he talks about the human intellect just being an
extravagant mating call. He's like, he's like, look at, look at Picasso, look at the Empire
State Building, look at Mozart. All of it is just an extra, it's peacock, like peacock feathers.
Yeah. Yeah. All it is, is just an extravagant mating call.
That's, that's really funny, but it's also very, it's also very poignant and interesting.
But we'll put others, we'll put a story behind it. Like even like, they like to think about it in
relationship to Elon Musk. Like I want to make a human race interplanetary and make the human
race survive, but is that true? Or is that just a story you're telling because you want pussy?
So evolutionary speaking though, that's, like people say, oh, what is the meaning of life?
Well, it's actually pretty simple. Like the meaning of life is just to procreate and continue the human
species. That's what we evolved to do. So anything we can do, like throw up our, our elaborate peacock
feathers, that's what we evolved to do. So there's absolutely truth in that. And some of it is,
yeah, like the most elaborate person gets the most pussy.
Yeah. It's very interesting. It's very interesting when you put it that way.
Okay. So you're rich now. Yeah. Yeah.
And you, yeah, we were talking about you, you sort of like, you realized you were kind of like
spiraling out of control with your ego and relationships. I was able to pull and check
very quickly, but a lot of people, I still have friends who still haven't been rich for
for decades and still haven't put it together, you know, ran themselves in, but I was able to
rent it in pretty quickly. Yeah. But there was a few things, yeah, that led to, you know, that,
that kind of got out of control and, and I realized it pretty quickly and was able to rent it in, but,
but, but there is a dynamic, there's certainly a dynamic shift and it's, it's not as simple as,
you know, as, as money changes people or money can't buy happiness. It's not that simple. There's
there's a lot that goes on. Let's get to the part where the downfall of your empire. Okay. Let's
transition to there. Okay. I have to tell that. I have to tell about the middle where, so we have,
I moved to New York. I'm in New York. I get into my apartment in New York for the first day.
I sleep there one night. I wake up in the morning and I get, I get this phone call.
It's one of my shippers. I said, the post office just called, called her. She has a shipment coming
in from Georgia from, that's full of, full of steroids. Yeah, it wasn't, in my mind, it wasn't
too much. It was like probably 300 vials, probably $30,000 worth. In my mind, I mean,
it was just a small order that was coming to her. And so she calls us says that
the, the post office called the shipment, some vials broke in the shipment. It was leaking.
They have to open it and make sure it's not hazardous. Oh, shit. So I'm like off. And I'm
in New York and she's in upstate New York. So it's just, it's not feasible for me to get there to
help. So I call some people go, go help them. And this is one of the mistakes I made, which I changed
after this, is to have a shipper ship directly to a shipping house where there's a lot of illicit
product was a bad idea. Because if something happens like that, then they can just, the DEA can
just go to the house where it was being shipped like they did. And, and they can find everything.
So after this, I developed, oh, shit, I need, I need clean receiving houses. So now the shipper
ships to a clean receiving house. And then the shipment is delivered to the shipper. But this
would eliminate the, so now if something happens to the package that the post office finds it and
sends the DEA to the house, it will just go to a clean house. There's nothing they can do.
Nobody possessed anything, right? Because the post office still has it. It's just nothing can be done.
So that's what I started doing. But this is how I learned that this was a mistake. So it was sent
right to a shipper who had a bunch of other, you know, product at the house. The DEA went there.
I sent somebody to go help clean it out. And they got it almost all out and the DEA showed up.
So they had just a few things and it wasn't even that big of a deal. They got, so they arrested
them. They got the most minor felony that you can get. Neither of them had a previous record. So
it would have been, which is called the conditional discharge. Nobody was going to do any jail time.
In six months of clean behavior, it would have been thrown out. That's it. But you know how they,
they get the interrogation, they scared the crap out of this shipper. And the shipper
blew everything in. And this shipper used to be, was a female. She used to be my personal assistant.
But she wanted more because she saw, she started to, like I never told her, but she,
some of my stuff had to deal with drop this guy off some money, collect money from this guy,
this guy, that was some of the, some of the stuff she did. And she just started to
pick up too much information over the time. And then when she said, well, listen,
I want to do this because it makes more money. Let me do something in the business.
I was reticent, but finally I was like, okay, all right, I'll give you a chance.
And she was doing a good job. But, but they just scared the shit out of her. So she just blew
in everything, you know, was blew in almost the entire operation. So I immediately,
the other guy didn't say anything. He could see through everything. So here's just like,
I'm not saying anything. And I got him a lawyer and, and I got myself a lawyer because she
mentioned my name, but I was in New York, I was in New Jersey at the time. I lived in the greater
New York city area, but on the Jersey side of the Hudson. So I was overlooking Manhattan, but
right on the Hudson, just on the journey. So I was in a different state. And so they couldn't even,
they had no jurisdiction over me. But I still got a lawyer and my lawyer talked to them and
everything. And I was going to come in and talk to them if I had to. And at this point,
I thought it was the whole jig was up, right? I mean, it's all, it's, it's damn it. It's all done.
The DE, like they knew everything. Again, they just, they arrested those two.
It was only because they could only charge them with the low level felony. And, and then that
was it. So like a month went by, another month went by. I still have his lawyer were asking him,
what's going on with this case? And they're saying, well, well, it's done. Like, you know,
they just charged you to with the felonies and they don't have any jurisdiction to go get
Brian and Jersey and, and, and there's just nothing else that they can do because the package
came from a guy in Georgia. They don't have any jurisdiction to go down there and do anything.
That's it. It's just, you guys got your, your two low level felonies and that's it.
So pretty soon all the guys were like, okay, let's just stay out of New York and keep going.
That's it. That's done. Right. Okay. Well, I started. Yeah. All right. Everybody wants to
get going again. Not one person didn't want to. So let's get going again. So we just stayed
out of New York and I got shippers in Georgia and I had one from Tampa. I had a shipper,
a shipper and a chemist from Tampa. I didn't even, I forgot about that. I had one from Tampa.
I had one from all over the place. So we all, we got going again. And then, you know, it just,
it just kept getting bigger and better. And this was that, that was it. It was done.
Just kept getting bigger and better. Well, so it's going to turn out that
there was this, this thing being developed or this branch being developed called Operation
Cyberjuice. That was picking up exactly this type of, this type of thing. What a great fucking name.
There was picking up this exact type of case. So, so they didn't pick it up for a long time.
And, and it was, it was almost dead in the wind and the lawyer was like, and I find out later
that it almost died. But that one post office guy who's just a federal, he's just a federal
post office security guy, but he has federal jurisdiction was able to call, you know, he,
he, and he was there when I was busted too. He was the first guy he wanted me so bad. I don't know
why it's just, it was his thing. Yeah. For some reason, he found that and God damn it, he was
going to get to the bottom of this and he, he sparked the entire thing. So he, he got the,
he got the feds to eventually pick it up, but it took a long time and, and we didn't think it was
going to happen. The information we were getting from, you know, the lawyer talking right to the
guys was that this is that it's done. So they picked it up and it still took them two more years
to get, to get us. Wow. But we went stronger. We picked back up and just went stronger.
Can you walk me through the day that they rated you?
Yeah.
So I had just gotten back from a extravagant vacation in Vegas. I took a bunch of friends
there. I had, I had been doing that. Like a lot, a lot of these vacations were pretty epic. I would
go and, and just get a, I had, so I used, like I would go to Miami or Vegas where two favorite
places to go. And I would call these VIP planners and just tell them that, you know, I would just
give them like 50 or 60 grand and tell them to book a pool party during the day in the top club
at the top table at night. And like people would be like, oh, you dropped 60 grand at Vegas. How
much did you lose? You go gambling? I didn't gamble at all. It was all in booze. You didn't gamble at
all? I didn't gamble at all. Wow. It was all, I mean, I did gamble sometimes, but I didn't lose a
lot of money there. I didn't, I don't, I don't spend a lot of money gambling. I just have fun a
little bit. Yeah. And I didn't, some of the times I wouldn't gamble at all. It was, it was all on this,
on these freaking elaborate VIP tables and, you know, I get the best table every time I
went. Some, some of the tables were $16,000, $20,000 for a, for one table at one night,
for a good DJ, you know, you spend a lot, it was fun. Yeah, I bet. It was a lot of fun. And I
brought a whole bunch of people with me. So it's like, you know, bring a little entourage of people
and, and it's fun. We had a, we had a blast. We did that a lot. Anyways, so I get,
I can sense the Dan Bilzerian themes. Yeah. What you, what you probably did.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's fun. I think, I think everyone should be able to experience that for at least one
weekend of their lives. Yeah, I agree. And part of it, part of why, of why I wanted to go so
extravagant was, was because I wanted to show other people something that they may never be
able to experience. Blow their fucking minds. And that was part of it. So I took this, I took an
entire bachelor party to Vegas one time. And that was, that was probably the most expensive
one I did. That was probably like pushing 60 or 70 grand. But I just, I booked the top tables
everywhere. And then like the strip clubs, I had these like roped off sections. We had our own
personal dancers. It was freaking cool. Strip club hops into your limo when you're done. It's
freaking crazy. It was so much fun though. And it was, yeah, it was just like, but it,
but that's what it was about. It's like, let me pull these guys back and show them something
that they had, that they know me and they're still never going to, going to understand what I
can do for them. Right. It was fun. These guys were just, their minds were blown. It was crazy.
And we had, we had a freaking blast. And, and that's what a lot of it was about. It was about,
it was about helping out other people. You know, so there was a lot of good that came from all
this money too is like, it wasn't just all, it was more about, you know, showing people,
doing things that they could never do. I took a lot of people out to expensive restaurants
when I would go. I would, I was always pay. Let me, you know, let's, let's go so you can,
so we can see what some of these top restaurants in New York are about or
anybody who, who was short on their rent that time, I was just like here, you know,
get yourself, get yourself, you know, back up and going. I just, you know, I gave a lot of
people money and it was good. I felt, you know, it feels good. And yeah. And, you know, I'm big
on helping people. So a lot of that, a lot of that happened too. I remember I went to Santa Cruz.
This one time we met this homeless guy. And I don't know, he just had problems. So I just
bought him a whole bunch of stuff like, right, you know, probably spent $1,000 on him and his dog
because he had a dog. And that was a whole different story. But, but yeah, just helping
people wherever it went. And it was kind of important. But, so let me tell you, I want to
get into one more thing before we get to the downfall. But this, this was a part of it too.
But this was a big event. This was a big crisis in the middle. So right in the middle of everything,
we went to, I went to Cancun. I was 32, I think at the time. And I wanted to go to Spring Break.
I'd never gone, been able to go to the Spring Break. I couldn't afford it. So now that I could
find the afford it, I wanted to do Spring Break Real. So we went to Cancun. We intentionally
booked this place with, with all these college kids. We're one of the bigger Spring Break
college kid themes. And we just went there and it was, it was crazy. Like, you know,
went out every night, met a bunch of people, partying with freaking college kids again.
And it was fun. We had a great time. But so one of the things we did while we were there
is we got, we're all drunk and we, we booked flight. We said, why end this vacation? And
because it was an eight day trip to Cancun, why have I ended this vacation then? Let's,
let's stop over in South Beach on the way back home. And so we were drunk and we, we rerouted our
tickets and, and got, you know, and bought new tickets essentially just for Miami. And then
we'd go home and we all forgot about it because we're so drunk. So we woke up in the morning,
I'll hungover. We all had alerts on our phones like, what the hell? Who booked tickets to Miami?
And so like we had this Bakano in, in Cancun. And then all of a sudden now we got to go do
a whole another eight days in, in South Beach just because we got drunk and, and booked it. And we're
like, ah, all right, let's just go. So we go to, all right. So we go to, to Miami now. So now,
now I have to tell another little story. So in my expansion, I had to hire,
I had to hire a bunch of people. Again, I couldn't take resumes. I had to hire the people that were
you know, available to me, you know, that I knew. And one of the,
one of the shippers was really bad. So I had to get rid of them. I had to get a new one. So I
got another shipper or somebody who would do it and he did a better job. But this guy also came
from a criminal background and, and was very, he really thought that I don't, I don't know,
explain it. He thought that he started to think that he should own half of the business just
because he felt that he came in and did a better job at shipping. And so he was responsible for
the business doing better. When, you know, he came in late, like I already developed this
whole thing. I set up this whole model. I had, everything was going fine. He came in and did
do a better job and it did help to get some more customers in, but by no means did he
deserve half the business. Like, like he thought he did. So he still, like it just created, and
this is a part of what the money did, right? Because he knew me before I made money. And
this is part of what happened. So the dynamic when it shifted to me being the boss, like him and I
were just equals and buds. And if anything, he has a strong personality. So he kind of probably
felt that he was a little over, over me as far as the social structure went. But now that I have all
this and everything, the social dynamic changes and he's taking, taking like a fence to that.
And he starts bugging me with all these things that, that he thinks that we should be doing and
running the business the way we think he thinks that we should be running. And, and I was just,
you don't know what you're getting into. Stop bugging me. I built this freaking little empire,
which became a big empire. Don't tell me how to do this. I know how to do it. And I said,
I had to start getting strict with him. And he was like, Oh, why are we doing this and that?
And you know, just, just, you know, eventually I had to, I had to almost like yell at him and say,
stay out of this. This is, I built this, I know what to do. And, and you're, you're actually
going to ruin it. And he wanted to do things that, that didn't make sense. It just didn't make sense.
It didn't make business sense. He didn't have a great business mind. He was very selfish. Anyways,
so in order to go on these vacations, I need somebody to take over my spot because I would get
way too drunk to be able to, to take care of the business. So I taught him how to do all the emails,
collect the money and do everything. And, you know, I had this in the future so I could go on
vacation for, you know, a week at a time here and there and, and still in the business would be okay.
When I came home, I had to put out some fires, but it would still run and everything would be fine.
So when I went to Miami, or Cancun, and then went to Miami and I had to call him back, okay,
we're going to be gone another week. We're out here having fun. Like his, the animus,
and the, the anger and the rage in him just must have been festering about all this. So he
little did I know that, that I was in, I was in Miami after that. And also,
and I get this text from him and he tells me that the cops are watching him. Somebody was
taking pictures of him. I'm out of here. I left all your stuff and I'm taking off.
And this was like right in the, and I remember I was in Miami and I was actually going to go get,
meet this, this multimillionaire on a, we're going to, he was starting to invest in this
new company and he wanted to know if I wanted to invest and I was very interested. It was an
interesting company. And so I was like looking at going and putting $100,000 into this thing.
And, and I was just going to go meet this guy when this text came in and it just screwed up my
whole world because my shipper's gone and my guy, now the business is just, nobody's helming it.
It's, it's done. So I'm like, oh, shit, I got to get home. I had to cancel this meeting.
I think I left the next day. I got, I got a flight like a couple of days early and left the next day
and then went home and trying to figure out and he just doesn't answer me or he took, he took off.
So what I found out is he had actually been planning this and he'd never,
he never even answered another email or, and he just collected all the money that was coming in.
So he took off with like, I don't know, 50 or $60,000 and he just, and he just left and he just
took off. So I got home and I had this crisis, like all these people were starting to be like,
hey, it's been two weeks. I haven't got my money or my order, like what's going on? So I had to get
back to everybody like, I got everybody what they ordered and I sent everybody some free stuff too,
but, but I had to like almost, I had to, you know, I had to get the old shipper back who was terrible,
but I had to, and we had to work back and all these people were angry and it was started to
adversely affect the business. And I had to put that back together, but that was a crisis. So
but at the, at first, we think that the cops are actually, we're watching it. When in reality,
he, we find out pretty quickly that he made that all up just as a way to escape without,
without thinking that he was just straight up robbing me. So he just made all that up. Nobody
was, was watching him. And the other thing is one of my chemists went with him or he didn't
go with him, but he scared one of my chemists and the thinking that there was cops watching
and the chemists actually took off out of the area too. And he was gone. So I'm down a shipper
and a chemist. And, you know, the business was going great before that. So, and it just, you
know, it was a massive crisis and, and a lesson against, I don't know, I realized a lot of mistakes
I made with, with being too candid with this shipper and, and hiring somebody that you knew
before. And when that dynamic changes, it just causes problems. It's almost better to,
to hire new people and start on, on this new, the new social structure, the new,
I know what you mean.
But that, I mean, that was big. That was, that was the first massive crisis. And we,
there was a part of me that thought it was over right there. There was actually a big part of
me. I thought we were done because at first I thought the cops had been taking pictures of me.
And then, and we didn't send anything because we didn't send anything to anybody for like a month
because it took me a couple of weeks to figure out he was lying. And then we opened the business
back up. So everybody was pissed. And I was like, I was like, listen, we're going to get everybody
back. I gained everybody's trust back. I got everybody's stuff. I sent him free stuff. So
everybody was taken care of. And, and I had to overload my other chemists and get new chemists.
But, but yeah, that was one of the major, one of the major crisis. So then, okay, so now we'll go
back to the end. So I get back from Vegas. I'm hungover. I'm sitting there and this is when I,
when I had my, my penthouse and overlooking Manhattan. And at five o'clock in the morning,
there's this pounding on the door. And I wake up and my girlfriend wakes up and I was like,
is somebody really knocking on the door? She's, I don't know. So she gets up and she starts walking
out there. And I get up. And I'm just kind of groggy. And I still hungover. And I'm like,
put some clothes on. And she already went out there. And I go, I go out there. And then sure
enough, I hear pounding on the door again. And now I'm getting angry. Because like, because who's
pounding on my door at five in the morning? Like, I'm not, I don't think I'm going to go talk to
this person and make sure they know, don't come pounding on my door at five, five in the morning.
So I'm getting mad. So now I go out there and she's, she was at the door and she walks back
without opening it and says, I can't see they're black in the peephole. And I'm like, what? I'm
like, so now I just, I race for the door, like, I'm going to go find, figure this out real quick.
I open the door and there's like 15 people with bulletproof vests on and guns pointed at my head.
And, and the first guy is that post office, that federal post office workers. And he just puts
his hand on the door like that. And he says, he says, he just goes, okay. And that okay was like,
both to his team behind him that, you know, because we were nonviolent, I don't have any guns or
anything. Everything's okay in here. He's kind of saying it to them, but he's also saying it to me,
okay, this is done. It's over. We got you. And so they just come in.
They put my girlfriend and me handcuffed us and put us on our stools. And one of the ladies asked
me, do you know why we're here? I said, I have no idea why you're here. I knew why they were there.
And, and, you know, I didn't even go to prison that night. I went and I got released. I was
actually released. And it took me like, it took me like two years to actually go to prison.
Oh, wow. That's all the pre trial stuff had to happen. And then I never went to trial. I just
played guilty. But one of the things that was a little for some reason gave me joy at that moment
is that the cops came in and, and they, and I more than one of them kept coming up to me like,
hey, this is an awesome apartment. For some reason, that made me feel good. It was like,
yeah, maybe if you didn't do this, if you weren't just a cop, you could maybe do something a little
better too. But now it wasn't like that. But for some reason, that didn't make me feel better.
Was it like a sense of all this responsibility has now lifted off my shoulders? All this weight
is off my shoulders. I can finally, I don't know, I don't have to look over my shoulder anymore.
Like that. I want to say that there, there was a sense of that at some point, it wasn't right then.
I mean, I enjoyed the responsibility of having all the clients and taking care of everybody
and helping everybody. And so, and I want to say that that may have came at some point,
especially when I, when I, when I just, you know, like after this, and when I got out,
I decided I'm not going that route anymore. I'm not doing anything illegal. I'm going to keep
you know, all my actions legitimate, illegal. And there is certainly a sense of relief because
there was a lot of anxiety. Like, I mean, there's a lot of good times, but sometimes the anxiety
was overwhelming that you're being watched or looking over your shoulder. And you're taking
all these signs as like, like, I remember I used to live in that penthouse and the cop would pull
in and just pull back out and be like, what is that? What are they doing? And then there's,
there's a lot of instances of things like that. And with my employees too, like I would get calls
in the middle of the night, like, Hey, there's a cop parked across the street. And cops do that.
Sometimes they just park on the road. They were setting that up for a long time.
No, I don't think that was anything. I think it was just coincidence. But everybody sees
something in the mundane or the normal things. How long did you do in prison in total after that?
I was sentenced to six and a half years. I did an RDAP program, which took a year off my sentence,
and I, and I had good time. So I did like a little over four years.
Wow. A lot of people that I have in here say that that prison helped them and that they could go
back, they wouldn't change anything. They're like, I would have done the same thing over again, like,
doing that, having all that time to self reflect really helped me and like turn me into who I am
and it made me a better person. You relate to that? I can. But that's very interesting that
people say that because I think the prison system is, I watched one of your podcasts with, I forgot
his last name, Larry. Larry Lawton? Yes. Yeah, Larry Lawton. And it was very good. And he went
into a lot of the need for prison reform, which, which I studied a lot too. And I had this whole
prison reform and I, like I kind of delineated all the things that were wrong with the prison
system. And it's, there's a lot and it's very bad and it does need reform. So I don't want to,
I don't want to say that prison is, prison was good. It helped me because it didn't and it
doesn't help people and it's not good. And it's very poorly, I mean, I think it could if, if a
prison system is done right and focused more on education and focused more on,
you know, what I learned about being in a, you know, in a little society comprised of a lot
of prisoners is that most people, I was in camps too, so understand that because I'm nonviolent.
So it's different than I think Larry Lawton. You weren't like a high security. Yeah. Yeah.
So I was just in a camp that didn't have a fence. So, so it's a different kind of type of prisoner.
So, you know, I was never in a, I think Larry Lawton was in a medium and he went down to a camp.
Yeah. And so like it's a little different. But a lot of like, a lot of like even nonviolent drug
offenders, they go to, they go to state prisons can be pretty violent. Right. The one that I was at
was, was pretty bad actually. But I only went for like six months, but that was worse than these
federal camps. Yeah. But, but the point is that a lot of these guys aren't bad guys. They're not,
they don't go out there with the intent of hurting anybody. Right. It's the, they just,
and most of them are drug, just drug offenders. Right. So it has to do with, there's a lot of
factors and it has to do a lot with, they don't know what else to do besides the only way they
knew to make money was to sell drugs. That's what their entire family was about. That's what,
that's all they saw. That's all they learned. So if you don't know what else to do that to
put a roof over your head and your family's head, then what if you, you know, so it's important
to educate and the education system and the federal system is very poor. And, and if it was
focused on that, let me get you something else to do. Let me teach you a skill so you don't have to
go back to selling drugs. Right. And that's what the antithesis of what the prison system is about.
Yes. Yes. That's right. So, so there is a lot of reform that needs to be done.
And the system is flawed. Yes. Ridiculously. Yes. But as an individual, if you have the
capacity, you can grow as an individual. Right. And I think Larry Lawton did a good job of that.
Yeah. Like, you know, the way I heard him talk is, and so back to your question
is yes. And it's, it's funny that you mentioned that because I have said that the whole, the whole
time, like even though I don't want people to think the prison is okay and prison is good and
it's good for people and we should keep it the way it is because it's very poor. However,
in my circumstance, if I could go as sick as it may sound, if I could go back and take all this,
all this back, I wouldn't change a thing because it did make me the man I am today.
And it made me a much better person and much somebody who understands the economy and society
and how to properly maneuver and create value for myself within that. And I learned all that
while I was from this business, from the business that I did, and then reflection and reading
voraciously while I was in prison. Yeah. The judicial system as well. This is extremely flawed
when you have people in there trying to just get convictions and climb the ladder, the bureaucratic
ladder of the judicial system and incarcerate as many people as they possibly can, cops with
quotas, giving out as many tickets as they can. It's flawed tremendously. And not only that,
but there's people that are sent to, sent to prison for life and even there's, I forget the
statistic, but there's a lot of people who are on death row who are innocent, they get exonerated
by DNA evidence every, all the time. Happens all the time. Imagine how much that is happening.
That's actually happening, but we don't have DNA evidence to prove it. So look at all these people
who are on death row for murders and now we're finding out that, oh, whoops, they didn't do it.
Now, imagine if you have like some sort of fraud crime or even, or drug crime or some,
or different crime where the DNA, there is no DNA evidence. But I mean, I couldn't have said
a better myself, exactly what you said. You're exactly correct. There's a brotherhood within
the judicial system. The defense attorney, the judge, the prosecutor are all on the same team.
They all went, they all worked for each other. When you get out of law school, you go clerk for a
judge, right? And then you become the district attorney, the prosecutor, or you become a defense
council and you all have worked together for your whole careers and you all, there's a huge element
of not stepping on each other's toes. So even your defense council is kind of working with these
two. Right. That's what happened with the guy I had in here recently who did 16 years when he was
a kid, he was 16 years old. He got sentenced to 16 years in prison, did 16 years and his,
his public defender was working with the other side. They just wanted to get,
they just wanted to get it over with. They didn't care about finding the real killer or murderer
who was actually caught later. It happens all the time. Yeah. All the time. It's absolutely insane.
So tell me about what you're doing now. Tell me about your new company.
Yeah. Yeah. It's all right. So while I was in prison, the final like 18 months,
I wrote a business plan. I finally decided that I had all this knowledge because
you know, this whole time I was answering probably like 500 emails a day
and a lot of that was guiding people, giving them advice and guiding people through
the use of these hormones, all these hormones. So. From prison? No, no. This is during my,
during the commission of my crime. Okay. All right. So,
so I would like look at blood work. People would be like, I want to do this or I'm feeling a little
bit of this. I would look at their blood work real quick, look at pictures of them and say,
okay, I think you should try this. I just became an expert at fine tuning these things. Diagnosing
the perfect, perfect cocktail for them. That's exactly correct. And I, I, I aggregated a lot of
empirical evidence as well. Like, you know, I've seen all this stuff,
seeing all this information, watching it develop.
You know, there's a ton of empirical evidence and, and more than
so much so that we're talking about hundreds of people every day for, I think the whole,
the whole, the whole empire lasted for like five years, a little over five years.
We were talking 20,000 people or more, right? So that's more empirical data, more experience
than any endocrinologist or, or urologist in the country. These are the people who are
supposed to be dealing with hormones, right? And especially with the, the medical community,
the medical community is, you know, there's a stigma about, about hormones, testosterone. So
they don't deal with it a lot. They don't prescribe it a lot because they don't, you know, it's just
stigmatized. And I dealt with it a lot. So I dealt with it more. I have more experience
than almost anybody in the entire country. There's no way that you could have treated the
amount of people that I did or at least, at least guided the people and seen all the evidence that
I have. So I turned this into a business plan. The, the also the ironic thing is that the body
building the black market community is light years, light years ahead of the medical community
when it comes to understanding all the derivatives and how they can be utilized
with testosterone to really fine tune and fine tune the way people look and feel and really,
really mitigate any potential side effects. And, you know, as I said, like really get people to
look how they want to look and feel how they want to feel. So, and then nobody, the medical
community doesn't understand them. I understand these. I've used, you know, compound sensors,
nangelone or oxangelone a lot with people to really fine tune. And really,
these are less anabolic, less energetic than testosterone alone. So they have less side
effects. They're, you know, in some, they lead to, you know, potentially less potential problems.
And none of the medical community will use them just because they don't understand
not because they aren't effective. So I bring all this expertise. And so now I've decided to,
to start a TRT clinic. We're called hormones for me.com.
Where I guide, you know, I personally guide through it's starting to explode right now.
And like I personally guide people, you know, and, and now, you know, I wasn't in anabolic
world. And I know that, that for some people, most people realize how much experience that
gave you. And they're happy to come to me to help them. I am concerned, you know, I've matured a
lot. I'm concerned with safety. So, so it's all about health and safety, making sure that your
health markers are all in place. You know, whether at the same time, we can, you know, help you,
you know, dramatically improve your quality of life, make you aesthetically look exactly how
you want to look and feel exactly how you want to feel. And I'm an expert, an absolute expert
at fine tuning these things to do that for people. And but again, the focus is on safety and health
and maintaining health markers. Can you make me look like Jason Momoa?
I could certainly help you out. No, I don't want to be that jack. There's a lot of, there's a lot of
natural of innate genetics that goes into the way that you react to these compounds. So I don't
want to look like one of those fucking dudes who just look like bulldogs that are walking around
like this everywhere if they're fucking. Most people do not want to look like that. And so,
just because I came from the bodybuilding world of the anabolic world, like because I also,
I coach, I guided thousands of professionals, like my stuff was running throughout the pro
circuit. Have you seen that documentary called, what's it called? I think it's called Screwball
by Billy Corbin. Oh, you know, I've heard of it, but I have heard of it. I have heard of it. It's
really good. I think it's on Netflix. It's basically it's all about the doctors in Miami
who were who were selling the baseball players, all of their fucking testosterone,
all their steroids. It's fucking fascinating documentary. I gotta watch it. It's good.
And as you said, like most people don't want to look like bodybuilders just because I came from
that world doesn't mean I don't know how to do how to just really fine tune these things. I know
how to fine tune them because most people don't want to look like bodybuilders. My biggest concern
personally is that like, I from my understanding of it is like, once you jump on the wheel, you
can't jump off. And I don't want to be I'm afraid of being stuck there. Be like, I got to fucking
keep doing this or now I'm fucked. That's a common thought process. Right. So and
and so I think I was saying this earlier that there's plenty of anecdotal and empirical evidence
that people can get on. And if you get off within a year or so, you can do a protocol that will
restart your HPTA right and and and come back to baseline. So it's not it's not like if you do it,
you're permanent, you're permanently disabled. I mean, you know, you permanently have your
your natural testosterone. That's that's not accurate. However, most people who do it feel
such a benefit that they don't you honestly don't want to get off. So a lot of times it becomes
and there's so many people out there that say, no, once you start, this is a lifelong treatment.
It usually is only because for the for the reasons I just said that that people don't want to want
to get off once they do it, because it really does dramatically improve people's quality of life.
Now, there's also some there's there's something to be said for somebody who has a healthy testosterone
level for is who is healthy. You know, it doesn't always make sense just to just jump on testosterone
just to jump on testosterone. And there is an element of well, you know, there's probably some
natural things that we could do to get you feeling better. And it doesn't necessarily have to be
testosterone. If your levels are already very adequate, right, you know, so so it just depends
on it. It's so individualized. And that's that's what I've learned. Like, we can't
we can't put just these these broad categories and say, and say, well,
testosterone, you know, wouldn't be good for for you because you're scared about about having to
do it for the rest of your life. It's really individualized. I would have to look at your
bloodwork and decide if it would help you. And maybe maybe it wouldn't. Maybe it doesn't make
sense to do it at this point. At some point, it will, right, because your testosterone is going
to lower at a certain age. What can you talk about as far as like anti aging? I know it has
a dramatic effect on like different things as far as like your DNA and and slowing aging, right?
Well, I mean, yeah. So the aging effect has to do with the degradation of all these hormones
and the degradation of cells. Okay. And so so it puts all these things back in the order.
Things like human growth hormone or the the secretogogs are are known to be,
you know, just as good as HGH secretogogs, which spur your body to naturally produce more HGH.
They really, human growth hormone is also wonderful and it really helps replenish or
it's good for all your organs. It really regenerates all organs. That's the word I was
looking for. Regenerates your organs and your cells, makes your skin actually look younger. You
produce more elastin. The younger looking skin is comprised more of elastin than collagen.
And so it does all these things to kind of give a youthful effect.
So this is kind of the anti aging process, right? We're fixing, like I said, the old people,
the reason they shape their way they do is the reason that their bones are brittle and
their joints all hurt is because of systemic inflammation because it is one of the major
problems with aging. And testosterone is an anti inflammatory and moreover,
nangelone is systemically more anti inflammatory than testosterone. So when we take these things,
we start taking away aches and pains. We start looking, you know, our skin starts looking better.
We start forming in the way that we did when we were 23 because the hormone levels are at that
level again. And it just makes you look feel younger, look and feel like you're 23 again.
It's incredible shit, man. What are you is the liver King on steroids?
There's this is no, no way. Like I have done this for a long time. And there is absolutely no way
that he could look like that without being a significant amount of staring.
Yeah. Some people even say he's got fucking ab implants, too. Yeah, it's crazy. It's crazy.
It's like a freak. It's possible. I don't know. Like, I don't know. And I don't,
I don't like speaking on things that I can't. I'm a science guy. Yeah. Everything should be
based on facts. And I don't have any. The only the only thing I will say is my experience tells
me that there's no way that guy is not on steroids. And I think he's he flat out says he's not,
doesn't he? Yeah, straight up. He's like, there's no, there's no way I'm not. He responds with like
these paragraphs and paragraphs and paragraphs of like saying, I'm all natural, you know, the
what does he say? He goes, the ancestors, the tools of the ancestors only,
whatever his bullshit sales gimmick is. I've seen some crazy things. Like, you know,
since I've been in this business, you see, and so one of the things that sets the most extreme
bodybuilders apart. And I've been in those circles before with the some of the biggest names,
biggest name bodybuilders in the world. Yeah. And one of the things that sets them sets them apart
is that they're they are genetic freaks. They start out their genetic freaks. The rock. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, if interestingly enough, if you look at the rock, and I think you said more plates,
more dates, they he does a pretty good, Nadir, Nadir, what is it, Nadir? I forget what he says.
Yeah. But so and he does a pretty good one on the rock, but it shows him in different movies. And
you can tell when he's not on steroids. And when he is, it's very obvious. Yeah. And if you pick
out the movies like a walking tall, right, he was actually pretty small. And he was he wasn't very
defined or very big. And then you think he would he would take time off of it? Yes. But a movie
before that, he was just monsters. And then he'd go down. And then and then and now it's been been
a long time. Like he's like pain and gain. Like I mean, he was a freaking monster. He's still a
fucking monster right now. Yeah. So you can like you can almost you can almost think I mean, this
is just, you know, just off the top of my head. But you can almost feel like he was a wrestler,
right? So so he had to he had to do some, you know, some steroids to play that role.
When he got in the movies, he wanted to try to be the good guy and get off all this stuff and do
it. But he just then he couldn't play the roles that he wanted to play because he really shrank
a lot. Yeah, he's not big and walking tall. I think there's one more. There's one more where
he wasn't big. I think it was only those two movies. Then you could tell he said, fuck this.
That's funny, too. If you look, I gotta be this guy. So then now he's huge and everything.
Yeah. And you can tell the difference, too, between people like him or people like
Hulk Hogan and Macho Man back in the 90s. They just look like clouds, like their
chests and their biceps. They just look like big, like smooth, puffy figures like Michelin
Men. Yeah. It's like they were doing something wrong. That looks kind of like fucked up.
There's a lot more education than it was at that time. So like
everybody was shooting in the dark in the 80s and stuff. Everybody was kind of shooting in the
dark. But now there's a ton of education. There's a ton of empirical evidence. There's
a ton of studies that have been done. So it's a different time. Well, Ryan, thank you so much
for doing this, bro. What a fascinating conversation this was. I really appreciate it, dude. That was
fun. Can I do one more thing about, so I do have a book out? Yes. Tell everyone about it.
Everyone listening and watching. So I have, along with my business, HormonesForMe.com,
which is doing really well and will take care of you better than anybody else in the industry.
I have a book that you can see. It's just on Amazon or a platform called Fiction 8.
Don't it me? It's not Kindle though, but it is Amazon. It's called Amazon Kindle Veila. So what
it is, it's these chapterized, these serialized chapters. So you can just read it chapter by
chapter. So it's not like a finished book yet, but I just keep going on where I go into detail
about the story. So if you go on and you Google Memoirs of a Stairward Kingpin, Memoirs of a
Stairward Kingpin, it will come right up. Kindle Veila. And also, yeah, the business. And I want
to give a shout out to Brady Lanter, one of our guys who's helping us with the business and
Emirates Singh Ashwini Patil. Some of my employees that are really helping bringing this thing to
big levels. We're doing big things with our HormonesForMe.com business.
That's amazing, man. It's fascinating. I definitely want to learn more about it. I think it's cool
as shit that this happened through Reddit told you about coming on here, people on Reddit.
Yeah, I just went and posted the beginnings of my story on Reddit just trying to see what
happened. I embraced the story. And immediately, a lot of people just said, you should go on
concrete. So what's that? So I went and checked it out and I started watching episodes and I
really love what you do. You do a fantastic job of really aggregating some of the most interesting
people in the entire world. And then, and I'm really getting their stories out.
Well, you're one of a man. I appreciate you coming down here, dude.
Yeah, thank you very much. And I thank you again for inviting me. This was fun.
