Hello, world.
On episode 57 of the Concrete podcast,
we have the return of Sean Atwood,
the UK-based author and activist
who is banned from the United States for life.
Since the initial outbreak of COVID-19 in China,
Sean has been spending his time interviewing people
on the front lines,
dealing with the worst of this pandemic.
He's talked to doctors and healthcare workers in Italy,
Spain, Greece, as well as New York City.
He's talked to doctors and scientists
who specialize in viruses and diseases,
including a Harvard doctor,
who believes COVID-19 was accidentally leaked
from a level four bio weapons lab in Wuhan.
Sean has been covering every angle
of this current global pandemic
and has vast knowledge of the history of disease epidemics
and how they've affected the human race and our ecosystem.
That's it.
Enjoy or try.
So yeah, dude, I think we're rolling now, finally.
We're rolling?
This stuff is crazy.
Now you've been doing,
first of all, it's great to have you back on here.
I missed you.
But yeah, you've been interviewing lots of people
from all over the world, Spain, Italy, Greece,
New York, doing Skype chats,
with all kinds of people
that have been affected by this coronavirus.
So what have you learned?
What's the biggest thing you've been learning
from all these people from talking to everyone?
What happened was two to four weeks ago,
I started to get emails from people in Spain and Italy,
asking me to warn people in the UK and the USA
what was coming.
So I started to read those emails out on camera.
And then in the comments,
there was this horrible backlash people saying,
I'm trying to cause a panic.
The flu is more dangerous than this.
Only all people are dying in Italy.
It's not coming to the US.
It's not coming to the UK.
So I thought, all right,
rather than just read these letters out,
I shall interview people in these hotspots.
Maybe that would be more impactful.
So I started to interview people in the hotspots
and the things that they were saying were happening,
you know, all people need in intensive care unit beds
being turned away.
Doctors deciding who lives and dies,
makeshift beds being made intense
and bodies just being laid down in corridors
with blankets thrown over them.
People who are still alive
but couldn't get in the intensive care unit.
One of the most recent videos,
dozens of all people were just found dead
in a cur home in Spain.
So having the actual video testimonies
of these people started to wake people up in this country.
Our government was saying,
well, we haven't really got a policy of lockdown.
We're just going to let it spread
and pray that there is a herd immunity.
And as the virus started to spread,
the government quickly changed its tune.
So people contacted me and watched these messages
from people in Italy and Spain and said,
well, we pulled our kids out of school
when we heard your video.
And, you know, thank God that we did.
And there's still a small amount of people,
but I looked at the graph today.
We're almost a hundred deaths a day here in the UK,
two weeks behind Italy.
In America now, you've gone up to about 200 a day.
So I think America's going to get hit really hard
all of a sudden. That's an army's coming, man.
I believe the U.S. is at 800 total right now.
Is that right? Does that sound about right?
I just checked it. I don't know what the total is,
but I think 200 in a day.
Here's the thing.
When it was like 10, 20 people saying,
oh, you know, the flu kills way, way more than that.
But the flu is constant
and we've adapted to it.
This is a completely unknown thing
that humanity has never experienced.
And every three days it's doubling.
So, you know, when you're a kid and you go two times two is two,
four, four plus four is eight.
Eight plus eight is 16.
And all of a sudden you're at like 1,000, 2,000.
Well, that's what's happening right in front of our eyes.
What kind of people have you been talking to?
Have you been talking to people
in like the healthcare industry?
Have you been talking to scientists, researchers?
All of the above.
I'm talking to people who are locked down in Spain and Italy,
talking to people who are working in the health community.
And I'm talking to scientists and I'm talking to doctors.
I interviewed a doctor who believes it was
come out of a bio weapons lab in Wuhan,
Dr. Cottrell out of Harvard.
And tomorrow I'm interviewing a doctor
who is an expert on pandemics,
who explains how it comes from the animal kingdom.
So we're trying to cover absolutely every angle of this story.
And my thing was not to cause panic,
it was just to give people a heads up
because people started sending me these messages.
And I think the more prepared we are,
the less damage this thing is gonna cause.
Sorry, who did you say the doctor was from Harvard
that you talked to?
Dr. Cottrell, C-O-T-T-R-E-L-L.
And what was he saying about everything?
So in Wuhan, there is a level four bio weapons lab.
And they were experimenting on coronaviruses,
among other things, and looking at vaccines.
Wow.
So the fact that that was there
and it broke out in Wuhan initially is really spooky.
But if you look at the history of pandemics,
nature has killed way more people than humans has.
I mean, the Spanish flu of the previous century
killed more people and died in all of the world wars combined.
And if you look for our history,
I mean, we've just gone through the greatest period
of peacetime talking about no world wars
and no pandemics in the history of the world ever.
So it was inevitable that something like this
would start to happen.
And my understanding is,
some of these areas of nature, the jungles and forests
that we've never cut down and gone into before,
there are reservoirs of the virus in animals such as bats.
Right.
And once we, once we encroach on the turf,
they're like, all right, we're gonna hit back.
And this is how nature hits back.
Yeah, the bat thing to me is completely insane.
Especially like the type,
I guess there's a specific type of bat
that they say it came from.
And that bat typically carries four different types
of coronaviruses that we've been exposed to over the decades.
But apparently this new form of virus,
somehow the bats are immune to it.
And I was watching something on,
I believe it was vice, it was a video that they posted.
Some of the researchers are trying to find out
why the bats don't get sick from coronavirus.
And if we can apply that research to humans somehow,
have you heard anything about that?
The bat is the host in this example.
And the virus doesn't affect the bat,
it just lays in the host.
And that is the reservoir of the virus.
So then when we get into that area
where we've never been before,
we cut down the trees, the jungles, whatever.
And then we start interacting with the virus
and it repels the humans.
And that's nature's way of balancing things out.
That's really interesting.
But they can jump from animal to animal.
So you had the horse Spanish flu in the late 1800s
that came before the human Spanish flu.
And it jumps from horses to birds to humans.
And we think, wow, how can something jump
from an animal to a human?
Well, that's because we're all animals out, we really.
Right, right.
We think we think we're something special,
but we're actually, we're just the same material
that animals are made out of.
So these viruses, the bacteria,
they've been around for millennia,
billions and billions of years.
They look at humans as just a little dot on their time frame.
They have all kinds of sneaky ways of survival.
And they're in a constant battle against us.
If they wipe us all out, they can't continue.
So they have to assimilate
with the host population at some point.
And the pandemics, you know, Trump just said,
we've beat the virus, but America's open for business
by Easter than if you saw what he just said there today.
He's in a dream world because pandemics can go for years.
Spanish flu was over a year and they come in waves.
And it was the second wave of the Spanish flu
that caused the most harm.
I mean, it was 100% fatal for pregnant women.
People 20 to 40 with the most robust immune systems
died the most because,
and they were the healthiest people
because their immune systems reacted so well
that people drowned in their own mucus.
How many people did the Spanish flu kill?
Various estimates from 50 to 100 million.
Wow.
I guess, I mean, compared to what Trump's saying,
he's, I mean, he's basically,
he's getting restless over the social distancing
and the people working from home.
It seems like he's already trying to get people
to go back to work or already,
like the White House is talking about already,
people going back to work.
How does that contrast with what your government's telling
you in the UK?
Our government was completely lapsed a day's ago.
Boris Johnson came out and made an announcement
a couple of weeks ago saying that
we weren't gonna lock the country down.
It's business as usual.
It needs to spread so that we can get herd immunity.
But once they saw the numbers coming out of Italy and Spain
and saw that by not locking the country down,
our trajectory was at a steeper incline than those countries,
but just running two weeks behind,
they've realized now they've had to implement these measures.
And would the US just jump into 200 deaths in one day?
You guys are on that trajectory as well.
Even worse scenario than us right now,
looking at the numbers.
What does it look like on the streets there?
What are people doing, like your friends,
people you talk to, is it like a desertville,
just like New York City?
So there are various stages of lockdown
in the European countries.
So in Italy and Spain, where they are putting the corpses
in the churches, because there's nowhere to put them anymore
and they're throwing blankets over people
who are dying in the corridors.
Those guys now, if you leave your house,
you're gonna get a huge fine.
Here in the UK, we've got Boris Johnson telling us,
just stay at home, stay at home.
There's gonna be police problems coming
if people don't obey this.
So we're not on a strict lockdown as the Italians.
To go out of your house in Italy right now,
it requires a paper, paperwork.
And you've got this three specific reasons
you can leave your house.
And if you can't tell the police,
you're doing one of those reasons you get a fine on the spot
or maybe even imprisonment.
Yeah, and I guess it's worse in different parts of Italy.
Is that right?
I guess Milan is the worst of all.
And I believe you actually talked to a girl from Milan.
Yeah, there are various parts of Italy
that have been affected, much worse than others.
So that's the other thing.
I post a video saying that it's like this in this area.
And then people move over here and say,
oh, well, there's nothing happening here.
This is all hype.
And it's just crazy the way people are reacting.
But the same thing happened with the Spanish flu.
If you look at the cities in America
where the leaders and the business owners
said it was all hype and refused to lockdown,
they got the most deaths
and the cities that he did,
the advice that it was coming and locked down,
they got the least deaths.
So there's a dilemma between the economy now
and saving lives.
Yeah, a lot of people here,
I live in Florida of the United States.
So it's a different, you could,
you could, it's fair to say it's a different type of person
down in Florida than it is in the rest of the US.
A lot of the people here are not taking it very seriously.
Some people are, a lot of the older people I think are,
but there's so many people who I talk to
who just think it's a conspiracy
or shit that I read online.
There's so many like, you know,
bullshit comments on the internet,
people talking about how it's a conspiracy,
how it's the new world order.
They want to put the mark of the beast on you.
They're going to give your baby a shot
and it's going to be the mark of the beast
and they're going to control you.
And there's just so much conspiracy stuff going on.
Have you heard a lot of that?
Yeah. And research in the Spanish flu,
exactly the same stuff happened.
Really?
There was just conspiracy theories all over the place.
There was hoax cures all over the place.
Snake oil was a cure for the Spanish flu.
And what we learn from studying the previous pandemics is,
yeah, the virus mutates,
but human nature stays exactly the same.
And those people who think that it's not coming
to their neighborhood in two to three weeks time,
you've got a tsunami that's about to slam you hardcore
and you are going to be absolutely shitting yourself
when all of your hospitals are completely full
and they're turning people away
who need emergency medical treatment
and the doctors are just allowing the younger people in
to save their lives because they believe, you know,
that there's a more worthy thing
and they're letting all the rest of the people die.
That's where it is right now in Italy.
That's where it is right now in Spain.
And we're just two weeks away in the UK and the US.
So they're treating the young,
they're giving the young people priority
over the old people?
Yes, not young, younger.
So it is generally affecting older people.
We had a girl today die in our country, 21 years old.
Chloe, her name is Middleton.
Anyone can Google it if they think I'm making this up.
No underlying health conditions whatsoever.
21 year old young woman in the prime of her life.
So again, it's an unknown variable.
All these people just saying, well, you know,
Italy had it come in, they got too many old people.
This is a completely unknown variable.
Even what the experts are saying,
you need to be careful with.
We've not examined fully the people who've survived this
and learned what consequences they have.
We're getting reports out of China
from the earliest studies saying that up to a quarter
of the people have got lung and organ damage,
the people who've survived it.
So because it's such a new thing and an unknown thing,
that's what causes the most uncertainty and fear.
And we, until, you know, this is the waves have completed
and we've studied the actual damage
it's done in the populations,
we don't fully know what we're dealing with still.
No, and that's what's so crazy about it too.
I mean, there's a lot of people here
who are young and healthy, like people who work out,
people, you know, bodybuilders,
professional athletes who are getting it, soccer players.
That's when it started to freak me the fuck out.
And I guess there's something to do with blood types.
They're saying that A is the worst
and O blood type is like best case scenario
as far as your survival rate or what your symptoms,
how bad your symptoms are gonna be with it.
Okay, so the people who have got the least chances
of survival so far are in the 70s to 80 age group
and the people with pre-existing medical conditions,
especially lung conditions,
because there are various stages of this thing.
It's cold, flu and pneumonia.
And it's the pneumonia that's killing the people
because they can't breathe.
Now, if you go to the hospital
and they don't have the equipment
to enable you to breathe, you're gonna die.
So more people are going to die
because of the inability to get treated
than are just gonna die from the inception of the virus.
That's what we're seeing is what happening
and there's no possible way
that they can produce all this equipment,
the ventilators, the oxygen to deal with the tsunami
that's coming.
Out of all the people that you've spoken to so far
and the research that you've done,
what countries in your experience are dealing with it
in the most effective way?
China dealt with it in the most effective way.
And they've got a history of communism
and totalitarianism and they were able to lock people down
rapidly and we saw a peak and looking at their peak,
the rest of the world then made their calculations
based on the peak thinking, all right,
this is what's gonna happen here.
But now Italy, as we exceeded the Chinese peak,
Spain is on Italy's heels.
And like I said, the UK and the US
were just two weeks behind,
that's how fast we're going out.
Have you done any research or heard anything
about those malaria drugs they've been testing?
Yeah, that's all speculative as well.
Like I said, with the Spanish flu,
all kinds of cures were presented.
This is a virus that has mutated
and I follow Dr. Johnson, he's a YouTuber out of the UK.
He doesn't believe there will be any useful vaccine
until a year to two years.
And because that's so fast,
the side effects of that vaccine will be unknown
and could also be harmful.
You also made a sort of a public service announcement video
on your channel because a friend of yours,
a wild man is really ill and you made,
it was wild to see you make a video,
basically just calling for help for a friend of yours.
Because he was-
They said if you've got the coronavirus in this country,
just call 111 and they'll send someone to deal with it.
And he spent two hours on the phone calling 111
and all he was getting was recorded messages.
So we were trying to get him into the hospital
and then he just started saying that there were people
in more serious need than him.
He didn't want to go to the hospital.
He was just going to tough it out.
I've spoken to him recently and he has got over it.
He's still suffering,
but he's got over the worst part of the temperature,
the high temperature.
And he said, he drank cider continuously, apple beer.
What?
I'm not recommending that as a cure for coronavirus.
But he's a monster, he's 26 stone, he's a huge guy.
He survived Arizona prison and many other things.
And he's a wild man by name and a wild man by nature.
He just drank apple beer cider all the way through it.
He said it's the best thing for his throat.
It can't be throat down.
Holy shit, what a beast, dude.
And it must be, is that myth true
that people who spend a lot of time in prison
have a stronger immune system?
Well, it's like the saying throw your baby in the mud,
if you're in a bucket of viruses for six years,
like I was in the Arizona prison system
surrounded by hepatitis, TB, HIV.
Yeah, your immune system is gonna build up
some kind of resistance.
But again, in the war against viruses,
they always come up with new and novel ways to outsmart us.
And that's what this one has got right now.
Yeah.
And another thing with you guys in the UK
is don't you guys have an extremely large population
of homeless, like over 300,000 homeless people living
in the UK that are?
It was so sad when I went for groceries
and I just, this guy just looked up at me from the street
and just helpless look on his face.
And I just thought to myself,
you know, the people that have got the health insurance
and I've got the most money,
people like Prince Charles who was just diagnosed with it,
they tested him right away, you know,
no problem there whatsoever.
But these guys at the bottom of the social pyramid,
they're gonna get hit the hardest.
And then you've also got the countries like Africa
where it's only just starting out.
So in Ethiopia, for example,
they have one doctor for 10,000 people.
So imagine how it's gonna turn through those countries.
Yeah, luckily, I don't think there's many cases
in Africa right now, are there?
I don't think there are.
It's just starting.
It just started in Africa.
It's like a fire.
So China's managed to put the fire out,
but that's just one room in the house.
So if you've got three other rooms on fire,
that's not an improved situation on the whole.
And then a week later, the streets on the fire,
that's just what we've seen with this.
Well, China's been able to just kind of like
to level out the curve, right?
They haven't really, they've just stopped
from increasing in their death rate.
It's just, they flattened out, is that right?
Yeah, with a pandemic, a major pandemic,
they come in waves.
So your first wave, it has a curve,
and then it flattens out.
And then the virus, it can appear to go away.
It can move around the world.
It can lay low.
And then a second wave occurs,
and another curve arises.
And for the duration of the waves,
you have a series of curves.
Mm-hmm.
And like Trump says, it goes away with the warmer weather.
Well, that's what happened with the Spanish flu.
It's summer in Australia right now,
and that's where Tom Hanks got it.
So that's another myth.
When something happens that's a disaster
to you personally, onto society,
go through various stages of adaptation.
And I'm gonna start to do videos
about coping with lockdown here in the next couple of weeks
with my advice and the advice of other prisoners.
So when I first got arrested and put in the jail,
I'm in a state of shock.
Heads are getting bashed against toilets,
bodies are getting thrown around,
and prisoners are coming up to me saying,
you gotta get that look of shock off your face,
or else you're gonna get prey done.
Over time, as this thing is constant,
you internalize that fear, and you wear a mask.
So six months into my incarceration,
I've got this look called dead eyes.
If I show any fear at all, it's gonna get exploited.
Inside, I'm still a bit nervous,
but over time, I'm becoming more accustomed
to that environment.
And then by the end of my incarceration,
I had my program, I'm reading all these books,
doing all this writing, got my exercise routine down.
I've adjusted to that way of life.
So in these videos, I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna get into way more detail
about how people can adapt to being locked down.
We are all prisoners now,
and I was in a cell, a three-man cell,
the size of a toilet.
So I got to listen to a guy shit and piss
and smell his farts, and 24-7.
Yeah.
But we're locked down now in our own houses.
I didn't have Netflix, we got Netflix,
we got all this YouTube.
You got everything Skype, Uber Eats.
Yeah, people are freaking out, I understand,
because we have not experienced anything like this
in our lifetimes.
But the shock, once it wears off, you start to adjust,
and hopefully I can do some videos
to help people with that adjustment process.
There's a lot of wisdom right now that prisoners have,
a lot of knowledge and wisdom that prisoners have
that could be very useful to the public at large.
That's something I haven't even thought about,
is has this, what if this hit a prison?
This could seriously fuck up a prison.
It is, it's already in the prisons.
I might as well dodge it in the UK.
I did a talk at Downview,
shook hands with the prisoners and the guards
and everything, and that was the first prison
to get it in this country.
Oh my.
That was there just about a week before.
So in Iran, they released prisoners in Iran
because they thought they would have
a better chance of survival.
In Italy, the prisoners have been rioting,
and people have been murdered.
There are prison escapes going on right now,
because think about it.
Like I said, the people at the bottom
of society's social pyramid,
they're gonna die the most.
They're not, if this oxygen required
and breathing apparatus required,
are they gonna give all that to the prisoners
to save their lives?
No way.
Hell no, yeah.
They're gonna give it to the people
who are law abiding citizens,
the ones that they can,
the ones that aren't getting turned away, that is.
So prisoners know they're gonna die.
So there's escapes, and there's all kinds of chaos
in the prisons all over the world right now.
And it's just, I think there's gonna be a lot more riots
and people escaping and people kicking off into prisons.
And then there's the prison staff.
They're considered essential workers.
They gotta keep the prison population fed
and everything else.
So those prison staff, I've watched some
of the testimonies from them.
They're complaining.
They're gonna be hugely at risk.
This thing, it will spread like wildfire through the prisons.
Oh my God, yeah.
Prisons, there are such close quarters.
They're in line to get food at the cafeteria.
I mean, it's just seems like a death pit.
People are warehouse for profits in the prisons,
like battery chickens and hens.
And they're the ideal circumstances
for the virus to thrive.
And when I was in there, there was like outbreaks of Mercer
and people, the sores on people and all the tattooing
and intravenous drug use.
So yeah, it's conducive to absolute fire ignited
in the prisons.
Well, more than nature resets everything periodically
because it hasn't happened in our lifetimes.
We are not adjusted to it and we didn't expect it.
And it's a shock to our system.
But if you read the history books,
books like Guns, Germs and Steel,
and other books that've got histories of pandemics,
you'll see this is just part of the course from nature.
Yeah.
The other thing I wanted to ask you
is you have experience in the stock market, obviously.
Have you been aware, have you done any research
or heard anything about the senators
who were alleged accused of insider trading
right before the stock market crashed?
Yeah.
The senators were privy to certain hearings
that spooked them and they dumped their shares.
Right.
And insider trading laws are very rarely exercised
unless they wanna make an example
of someone like Martha Stewart, Ivan Boesky.
The law, I mean, one of the functions of the law
is to protect the interests
of the most powerful people in the world.
And that includes the politicians and the legislators
and the business owners at the top of the pyramid.
So you're not gonna see any play in the legal system
going against those guys for selling their shares.
I mean, my wake-up call was the insider trading,
the short selling, the purchasing of the put options
before 9-11 happened.
The bets came in before 9-11 happened.
I was an options trader, I watched them happen,
couldn't believe it, it was headline news
and they said they were gonna track the trades down
and the only way it could have been done
was if insider knowledge from the terrorists,
it had to be the terrorists.
And then it displayed out the news and years later,
it came out, those trades were traced back to
an investment bank that was run by the CIA.
And anyone who had any knowledge of those trades
was deputized, which means you couldn't say anything
to anyone about them or else you would be thrown in prison.
So there are people in this world who know disasters
are coming and profit from them.
And it's a sad state of affairs.
Can you, I'm sorry, you just kind of blew my mind.
Can you expand on that a little bit
on the insider trading before 9-11?
Yes.
What specifically happened?
This was my absolute wake-up call
to how the world really works.
So perhaps I mentioned in the previous interview
that I've been trading the stock market
since I was a teenager.
Right, you did.
When I was a teenager, I also traded
what's called the options market.
Now, the options market allows you to put down
the smallest amount of money and make a huge percentage return.
Or if your bet is wrong, you get wiped out.
So for example, let's say Walmart shares go up 10%.
A Walmart option might go up 100% on that move.
But you can also buy an option that will make money
if the stock goes down.
So if Walmart goes down 10%,
a Walmart put option will go up 100%.
A put option?
Yeah, a call option means...
I'm sorry, I apologize in advance
because I don't know anything about the stock market.
Okay, so if you buy a stock and it goes up,
you're gonna make profits.
If you buy a stock and it goes down, you're gonna lose.
Well, options allow you to make money either way.
If you buy a call option and the stock goes up,
you will make hundreds of percent.
Okay.
If it goes down, you will be wiped out.
If you buy a put option and the stock goes down,
you will make hundreds of percent.
But if it goes up, you will be wiped out.
Wow.
Now, there is an average daily volume on these securities.
And in the week before 9-11,
the put options for the airlines,
the trading on them started to go up
10 times daily average, 20 times daily average
until it was just so outstanding,
it was making headline news.
And how many days before 9-11 was this?
A week before 9-11.
What evidence is there that it could have been
people in the CIA doing this?
Because it was in the news.
They said it was the terrorists.
They were gonna trace the trades.
The trades were traced
and it was traced back to an investment bank run by CIA.
Oh my God.
I can't, that's hard to comprehend.
Yeah. Well, if you Google it,
all the details are laid out online
and it tells you the name of the investment company.
It tells you the name of the CIA guy,
the ex-CIA guy that was running it
and how the, you know, everybody who had knowledge
of the trades was deputized
so they could never ever speak about those trades.
Wow.
And so basically, when you say they were deputized,
what exactly does that mean?
So say I profited from the 9-11 disaster
and I placed a trade through you.
You were my broker.
Yeah.
And the police came to you.
The feds came to you and said,
we are here by deputizing you.
You could not tell anybody in the entire world
anything you knew about that transaction
of why you would be thrown in prison.
Have you published anything on this on the 9-11?
Oh yeah, I've got videos on it.
Okay.
You can actually see the clip that made headline news.
If you put in like 9-11 options trading
insider options trading on YouTube,
the news headline clip is still floating around YouTube.
And you can see it's gotta be terrorist trading.
The only way these transactions could have gone through,
and then completely disappears up is blackout.
Wow, man, that is fucking wild.
What is your view on 9-11?
What is your overall opinion on 9-11, why it went down?
So the fact that people were placing bets on the airlines
told me that there was a grand conspiracy
to allow it to happen and to profit from it.
And ultimately, what did we get?
We got the Patriot Act.
We got endless wars in the Middle East.
We got record amount of defense spending.
And I'm gonna interview some people
on the coronavirus subject about what might happen
when this pandemic goes away.
Will this change the world permanently
in the way that 9-11 changed the world permanently
and these draconian measures such as the Patriot Act
and all the techno spying answered our lives?
So do you think there's any chance
that there's any kind of legitimate
inside conspiracy regarding the coronavirus?
Is there any shadow of a doubt in your mind
that it could have been done on purpose
by the Chinese government or any government whatsoever?
So in my early videos, I was saying
that it was irrelevant where it came from.
The important thing was to prepare yourself.
But now after interviewing Dr. Cottrell
and looking more closely at the Level 4
Bio Weapons Lab in Wuhan
and understanding that these coronaviruses
were being experimented on,
I can't eliminate the possibility
that it was leaked accidentally or on purpose.
I like to hope that if it was a leak,
it came accidentally.
And it does seem to have taken world leaders by surprise.
So I would say right now,
I'm 80% zoonotic and 20% biolab.
Okay, 20% that it was developed for warfare
but accidentally leaked.
And 80% from animals, from nature.
Right, right, right.
Wow, that's scary, scary times.
Well, you know what, during these times,
I mean, are you not like contacting your family
and loved ones more right now and seeing everyone's okay?
Yeah, the craziest thing now
is everybody's out riding their bikes around town,
everyone's outside jogging, walking their dogs.
People realize they own dogs now
and they actually take them out for walks.
And it's like the opposite of what it used to be like
with everyone glued to their phones, it's weird.
Things like this make people appreciate life
and what we've got.
And when the shock's over and people adapt,
I'm hearing from people, you know, I'm at home,
I'm studying something I've wanted to study for years
but never had the chance to do it.
I'm learning a language.
So there came a turning point in incarceration for me.
The first year I was wild, you know,
I would have gone back to the lifestyle.
But after facing the 200 GM maximum sentence
where I was on the brink of killing myself,
pushed the brink of suicidal insanity,
I let go of that material attachment,
my million dollar house, my plasma screen, TV,
my swimming pool, my jacuzzi,
none of that shit mattered anymore.
Getting sentenced to nine and a half years
is one of the happiest days of my life.
And that taught me that happiness is not in material world.
It's in your thoughts and in your heart.
So you can wake up and appreciate the small things.
There's no dead rats in my food anymore.
There's no cockroaches in my bed, you know?
And that becomes a yardstick then.
So if you're going through something,
some form of hardship in your life,
whether it's coronavirus or anything else,
ask yourself what are the toughest things
you've ever got for in your life and compare and contrast.
And if you've never been through anything so tough,
watch my clip about the cockroaches and, you know,
thank the Lord that you're not waking up
and your bed's full of insects.
Definitely, definitely.
Have you been, what have you been doing personally
with your time?
Besides, obviously you're spending a lot of time
doing interviews, whatever, but what have you been
done personally, like with your health
or with your diet or whatever it may be to stay safe?
So I've just gone overdrive on doing coronavirus videos.
And that's kind of burnt me out a little bit.
So I'm trying to balance that out now.
And I'm doing the yoga in the house,
watching a bit of Netflix, relaxing, reading my Kindle.
But as this drags on,
I'm going to have to start doing more physical things.
I'd like to start jogging.
I've got a beautiful countryside behind me.
I've been fattening the squirrels up for months,
throwing them all these nuts and stuff.
And I realize now, if it is zombie apocalypse,
I'm looking at recipes for like squirrel stew.
Yeah, you better catch those things.
Yeah.
I'm a vegetarian.
Are you?
Since the red death mystery meat slot
with the dead rats in it, I'm vegetarian.
I'm eating tons of fruit.
And the top doctors are saying vitamin C and vitamin D
and doing like lung exercises,
having that lung strength because smokers
are getting wiped out by this as well.
Yeah.
Like breathing exercises are really good.
I've heard, you know, obviously restricting your calories.
I recently had a nutritional scientist researcher here
who was talking a lot about like specific diets
that are good for you, like low carb diets
that are good to keep the immune system healthy.
Like a lot of like meditating.
Did you do any meditating?
Oh yeah, I started to meditate in the jail.
Oh, really?
When I was with the cockroaches and that,
because they put me on medication to help me sleep
with the crawl on me.
But the meditation was so effective,
I managed to get off the medication.
So yeah, I highly recommend meditation.
Yeah, whether you do it, whether you do it in your house
or I mean, even doing things like just walking or running
or things like that.
I mean, you can't do that, obviously.
Can you go out and exercise?
Is that part of the ban in the UK?
Or you have to stay indoors
unless you're getting food.
You're allowing people to go out and exercise.
They are.
Yeah.
Boy, if we're gonna follow Italy and Spain,
those days are numbered.
Yeah, they're not even allowed to go outside period
unless it's for food, right?
Right, the military on the streets.
Fuck man.
Well, cool man.
Thank you for doing this.
Oh, you're welcome.
Short and sweet,
but I think we covered a lot of really interesting stuff.
Cool.
Well, I really hope a wild man gets,
oh, you said he already got through it.
So hopefully he comes.
The temperature thing is the scary thing.
His temperature shoots up.
Really?
He couldn't breathe properly.
And he thought, you know, he was panicking a bit.
Was it for sure coronavirus?
Do you think he actually never got tested, right?
No, they won't test people.
Yeah.
So we just don't know.
God, that's scary, man.
I really hope this thing doesn't last as long
as some of those crazy epidemics in the past,
like the Spanish flu or any of those things.
I really hope this thing doesn't start going down
and go up again and last forever.
Well, we've got to adjust to the reality of multiple waves.
And you know, it could go on for over a year.
I think the London B. Boning plague lasted five years.
Obviously you saw that the crazy stimulus package
that's going through in the U.S. right now
with the $2 trillion amount,
the $2 trillion are gonna send to businesses
and individuals, which is the biggest
in U.S. history, they're saying.
Is there anything like that going on in Europe?
Well, whenever the stock market starts to crash,
that's what they do.
And it causes the stock market to bounce,
but then the overriding factors drag it back down again.
So we saw, you know, I put a, I'm on a,
if people out there are watching this
and they're interested in investments,
I put my posts on stageanalysis.net.
I think it's free to join the forum.
And a couple of weeks ago, I just wrote,
look, this is going down.
People are asking me, should they buy?
Yeah.
That's called catching falling daggers.
You do not wanna catch falling daggers.
You're gonna get your hands just cut wide open.
That's when you're buying when it's tanking
during something like this?
Yeah, it's gone into waterfall decline.
And I said that if 22,000 didn't hold,
it would rapidly go down to 18,000.
That's exactly what's happened.
It's bounced off just above 18,000 on the Dow Jones.
It's back up now at 21,000
and change on this stimulus announcement.
But looking at the history of bear markets,
these stimulus things,
they always announced something like this
and it makes it bounce,
but then it starts to go down again.
So if you're a short seller,
it might be a good time to short the market
if it bounces around, up to around here
and starts to fall over again.
God damn.
It's insane.
Well, cool.
Thanks again, man.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, you're welcome, Danny, anytime.
Obviously, I'll link all your stuff below
so people can follow all your recent videos
and interviews with the doctors
and the people living in those areas.
I think they're definitely really informative
and really helpful to watch.
I really appreciate your time, Sean.
All right, you take care, brother.
All right, you too, man.
See ya.
Thank you, bye.
Bye.
