One of your most popular video series on your channel is about an inbred family, right?
Where did they live?
It's got 12 or 13 million views.
Yeah, it's got an insane amount of views.
When I was doing Create Equal, my first book, which is all American portraits, I went to
every state and I did portraits of all kinds of people, from astronauts to ballerinas to
politicians to drug addicts, everything.
Anything you can imagine that exists in the United States, polygamists, everything.
We were in West Virginia just driving around as I would do, just driving around, just with
no goal, no one to hook up with, we were just looking around and I went to a convenient,
like a little truck stop and there was a cop there and I just, you know, the cops are really
good to talk to because they know everybody, they know all the stories and all this stuff.
So I went up to the cop and told him what I'm doing, he goes, you know, yeah, I could
do that.
I get off at two o'clock.
Like, great, I'll meet you too, right here.
So I did and he just took me to a whole bunch of different spots that were incredible.
He was great.
You know, I use these kind of contacts very often and he was one of the best in Raleigh
County, West Virginia.
He was amazing and he eventually, not on the first trip, but the second trip there,
took me to see the Whitaker family in Odd, a town called Odd, West Virginia.
Odd West Virginia.
Yeah.
Well, West Virginia and Kentucky have a lot of these towns that just have the strangest
names.
I just did a video, I think last week of a girl that lives in Hell for Certain, Kentucky
and there's the most ridiculous names for towns in both West Virginia and Kentucky.
So there's a town in West Virginia called Odd and there's a bunch of other.
And this cop just took you to these guys, the Whitakers?
Well, no, what he actually said, it's a great story.
This was a second trip to West Virginia.
The first one, we were doing some other things and all our equipment got rained on, so we
had to just like, we can't even shoot here.
We can't rent new equipment because we're in West Virginia, so we had to pack up and
go home.
But he said, when you come back, make sure you bring video camera because you're going
to need video for this.
And this was back when I was, this was 2004 when I was doing Great Equal, which was just
photography, no videos.
And he goes, make sure you bring a video camera.
And I'm just like, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't do video.
I've never touched a video camera in my life.
So we went back to LA and then two weeks later we came back and he goes, you brought a video
camera, right?
I'm like, no, I didn't.
He got all pissed at me.
He was like, like, I told you to bring a video camera.
And then so whatever, he took us there and he was exactly right.
It was the most like that little scene from deliverance that everyone knows.
We come around this, you know, we run a road and it turns into this little country road,
then it turns into a dirt road and we come to this trailer and then a little shack on
the other side of the road.
And there's these people walking around and their eyes are going in different directions
and they are barking at us.
And the one guy, you'd look at him in the eye or say anything and he would just scream
and go running away and his pants would fall around his ankles and he'd go running off
and go kick a garbage can.
And this would happen over and over.
It was out of control, craziest thing I've ever seen.
But eventually, you know, it's an interesting story.
This shows you how I operate.
This is why the barrier to entry for this project is incredible and barrier to entry
is the key to making business successful, whatever you're doing.
Because if you just do something that's easily duplicatable, then everyone's just going to
copy it and do it.
But here's, this gives you a window into what I do.
So this family in West Virginia gets, they're like kind of protected by the neighbors and
the relatives and whatever, you know, they don't like people come to ridicule these people
and everybody in the area kind of knows of them and oh, let's just go over to the Whitakers
and laugh at them or something.
This kind of stuff happens.
So I was this city slicker with cameras and, you know, it's a pretty, not a huge production,
but it's like, it's clearly I'm not from around here and it's clear that I'm doing something
different.
So just my luck, we showed up and somebody in their family had just passed away and they
were all mourning the death of their aunt or their grandmother or somebody.
And I asked one of the, one of their brothers who actually spoke if I could do these portraits.
And he goes, no, we're, we're, we just had a death in the family and we're all mourning
and we're having a funeral soon and it's just not a good time.
Like, damn it, I came all the way out here.
And this happens.
It's like, it's just terrible timing.
So I have to be respectful and say, okay, I'm sorry.
Thank you.
Maybe I'll come back and that's just the way it goes.
But then I started thinking about it and like, you know what?
It might be really nice for them if, you know, because I was shooting eight by 10 Polaroids
at the time, eight by 10 film, but then shooting eight by 10 Polaroids.
So they get a big, they get a big instant print.
And I said, if I shot Polaroids of them, they could have a print of the entire family and
they could include that in the casket with their loved one and they might actually be
into that.
So I shot one of the members of the family and then I shot a second one and a third and
a fourth and then eventually they liked that idea.
And they said, okay, and that's what I did.
And I ended up getting portraits of everyone I wanted to.
And I gave them a print and did all the little nice things I do behind the scenes and they,
that was that.
And it was a nice little relationship I started and we would go back, whenever I'd be in West
Virginia shooting and other projects and stuff, which wasn't often, but once or twice I'd
be there and I'd go visit them and say hi.
And then so now I'm working on this project and I was just like, let's just drive by and
say hi again.
And I knew I couldn't do an interview like I do, which is a little more civilized like
this.
These people are so hard to, it's hard to communicate with them.
And I don't know if it was ever going to work out anyway.
So it was, I was just with my iPhone.
I just picked up my iPhone and I shot this stupid little video, just kind of to show
that the level of, level of poverty, level of everything that was in that family, without
any, it wasn't meant for my channel because I won't post a video unless it has the portrait.
And I couldn't get another portrait.
I knew that wasn't going to be in the works.
The last time it was a miracle that it happened.
I don't think that was going to happen again.
So I was just shot this little video and as I was shooting, I realized, this is kind
of interesting.
This might actually work.
Let me, let me just follow through with it and see if maybe, so, you know, I see a lot
of comments.
I get all the kind of comments from this is, you know, everything you can imagine on a
video that becomes that popular, it becomes really interesting just to read the comments.
But yeah, everything from I'm an exploitive bastard to this is, this is incredible and
everything in between.
But I forgot I was going with that, but it just turned into something like, yeah, I
guess I could kind of use this.
I can use the portraits from create equal, which is what I did.
And I can post it.
The video, the video.
And I did.
And I didn't know what, what it didn't really fit the channel.
I didn't really say anything in the video.
It was just something that was, it feels exploitive, but, but I, but, you know, I think
it's good for us all to know that a lot of these things exist.
For sure.
You know, people say, oh, you're, what you're doing is exploitive all the time.
Look, a hotel, the hotel, the hotel I'm staying at while I'm here in Tampa, they're
exploiting my need to sleep.
Yeah.
The rest of the restaurant that I had breakfast at is exploiting my hunger where
everything is exploitive.
You know, you take a picture, you know, photography and video, especially or by
nature, exploitive, because if I take a picture of a girl for an ad, you're
exploiting her beauty.
You're paying her for her beauty and you're using it in an ad.
That's, is that not exploitive?
So everything can be viewed as exploitive.
Except the difference is this is actual real shit.
That's, that's, that's whatever it is, paid acting or modeling or whatever.
You're right now, right here, you're shining a light on something that's real.
Like you're shining a light on an actual, an actual wound.
My, yeah, yeah.
I mean, there's so many different ways of looking at what I do.
And a lot of people take a negative view saying, oh, you're just exploiting
these people for money.
I'm not really making money.
But, but one day I might.
So you have to take that off the table.
So I'm one day I might make money.
So, so yes, I'm exploiting people for money, but, but I'm also kind of exposing
or just creating awareness of what's going on in our country and in terms of
like drug addiction and gang violence and sex work and all these destructive
things that people are going through.
And like all the poverty that's, that's, you know, people can say all these people
in Appalachia are living wonderful lives, leaving be, yeah, but they could also
get a lot more support from the government or from corporations or
something so that they could not be digging up roots in the middle of the
winter, climbing mountains to survive on $10,000 a year.
That's a rough life.
Despite the fact that they don't complain, it's still a really rough life.
