We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
Today, my guest is Sean Dunn.
Sean is a filmmaker and psychedelic voyager
who is responsible for some of the best documentaries
on the internet,
some of which include American Juggalo,
Florida Man, and Oxyana.
He has also done commercials for clients such as Google,
Royal Caribbean, Bacardi, Delta, and much more.
Sean has an extremely unique perspective
when approaching his work
and the character studies that he depicts in his films.
For example, he tells the story
of how a late night mushroom trip
spawned the idea to create Florida Man.
He also has his very own podcast,
which is on his Very Ape YouTube channel,
as well as a radio show called The Church of Chill.
That's the hook, folks.
I hope you guys enjoy this amazing podcast with Sean Dunn.
Sean, for people out there who don't know who you are,
give me a little background into your filmmaking career.
Yeah, I don't know.
I've been making films for 12 years.
Cass joined me 10 years ago.
We've made 12, 13 films.
We do, to pay the bills,
we get sometimes hired to do commercial projects.
We usually pour that money into independent film.
And then we started a podcast six years ago
because filmmaking takes a long time
and it takes a lot of resources.
Along the way, a lot of goddamn adventures.
I feel like psychedelics have become
a really big part of our life and our mission.
And yeah, I don't know.
It's a hard thing to encapsulate.
Yeah, it's a lot, right?
Yeah, yeah, it's a lot.
And we don't think about it that much.
If anything, we're thinking about what's the next thing
we're doing, we're so fixated on that.
So it's cool to get an opportunity
to reflect a little bit about the stuff we've done.
Each film leads to the next film.
So it started very simply in a short film.
And when you do a film that's a little dark,
you need to do a film that's a little light
and it's just naturally you always find your balance.
Yeah, I tell everybody that comes on here
that asks me, asks me,
because I have a similar background to you.
These things, these podcasts,
they're like their own little mini documentaries
minus music and B-roll.
Yeah, so it's much easier.
Minus editing is a big one.
It's much easier and it's like you can put out more content.
And I don't know, it's just less...
It's still documentary.
That's what I think of it as.
It is.
That's what keeps my head in this.
And instead of trolling myself,
like, why aren't you out making a film?
I'm like, I'm still making documentaries,
but it feels like the podcast
is almost like the documentary of our life.
It's like a slow burn, long six year process
of people getting to know us through guests
and our friends, the people we have on.
But I love the podcasting medium.
I don't listen to a lot of podcasts,
but messing around in the medium is so fucking fun, man.
So how did you originally start in this filmmaking world?
Did you start in high school?
Did you start just by grabbing a camera
or were you originally just more
like the director writer type of...
It actually started, it's so fucking weird
that there were in seminal Florida
because I went to seminal high school.
It's insane.
I graduated class in 99
and my family moved down here from New York
when I was going into 11th grade.
It's funny because in New York I was getting like
Bs and Cs, regular classes,
and really not going anywhere.
I had nothing going for me.
And I moved down here and I was putting all honors classes.
I'm like, what the fuck is going on?
Teachers were taking a liking to me
and I had this amazing teacher, Ms. Cameron,
who just took a liking to me and was like,
you should work on the morning show
that we're gonna start next year, your senior year.
And I was like, cool.
Worked on that.
It's like my first time really even messing
with cameras or anything and I took a liking to it.
I think around that time is when Tom Green was coming out
and you were seeing him do his thing and...
That must have...
Freddie got fingered?
Freddie got fingered.
It's my favorite movie of all time.
The Tom Green show was like hugely influential, I think,
to a lot of people at the time.
It definitely planted a seed with me
of like getting out there.
And yeah, after high school, my parents left the area
and I was kind of stuck down here on my own
and going to college.
And I was totally becoming a Florida man.
I was totally just becoming that kind of guy.
And so I spent a lot of time just going out with
my friend Joe and we would just troll the streets
and find guys to talk to.
I just would stockpiling interviews.
Not even trying to make a movie.
I didn't even have that concept in my head yet.
But yeah, just a lot of drifting around,
getting to know the area, getting to know people,
getting to know myself through talking to people
and through being an asshole,
through doing pranks to people.
Shit I would never do now.
But yeah, yeah, we got the shit kicked out of us
on camera, just pushing the limits
and pushing the boundaries of tastefulness for sure.
How did you get the shit kicked out of you?
Outside seminal movie theater,
I don't know, we were filming some bullshit
in the parking lot and some kids walked by
and they said some shit and we were like,
you guys are pussies.
And they were 16, we were 19 and they just fucking came over
and beat the shit out of us.
Yeah, we had it coming.
Yeah, yeah, we did, we had it coming.
We had it coming.
It's funny, we called these guys pussy bitches
and then you could see it on camera,
this guy just slowly takes off his watch,
hands it to his friends and comes over
and just knocked out my friend
who was holding the camera, the camera just goes.
Hits the ground, chaos ensues.
They call, the cops end up over there
and while the cops are there,
I'm rewinding the tape to where we're calling them
pussy bitches and taping over it
and making sure that there's no evidence
of that part of the whole fucking thing.
Oh my God. Yeah, just like a lot of stuff like that
and honestly, if I hadn't gotten out of the area,
I probably would have gotten in a lot of trouble.
It was like, we were really just pushing the boundaries
and it wasn't like cinematic or tasteful, so.
Yeah, yeah, when I got out of the area here,
I went up to, I moved it back up to New York,
didn't get any film programs,
got a degree in cinema studies
and after school ended,
just kind of went out into the world,
not with a film degree, no sense of entitlement
about making films or anything like that,
just super humble, worked in a deli
for a year after college
and one day a dude came into the deli
and was like, I think, did I see you around here
with the camera one day?
I was like, yeah, I don't know.
I think myself as a filmmaker maybe, I don't know.
And he's like, come work for me.
And this guy's name was Mark Clark
and he worked for HBO
and he just like took me under his wing
and yeah, I know, it's so fucking generous.
I think about moments like that in my life
and it almost like gives me anxiety.
I'm like, what the fuck if that guy
never walked in the deli that day
or didn't see me with a camera that day
or for some reason I didn't take him up on that
because it really led to the,
that led to me working at History Channel
and History Channel gave me a ton of opportunities
to just go shoot stuff for them
and good budgets to go do whatever I wanted.
So I was like 23 year old kid running around with crews
and directing stuff for History Channel
and got enough confidence by the time I was 27
and I made my first film, it was called The Archive
and it was just a seven minute short
about the world's largest record collection.
Put that on Vimeo at a time where really,
there was no marketplace for short films.
Like no one was really just like,
I made a film for the internet, here it is.
So I benefited from that.
My whole career benefited from
not a lot of people doing that at that time.
And you know, that went a little bit viral,
got into Sundance, Sundance led to me
getting signed for commercial representation
and then that started paying the bills
and we just started a cycle of,
after that it was like, let's make a film every year,
let's really make sure we stick to this.
Let's fall in love with the process
and try to fall back in love with life through the process
because I feel like if you can fall in love
with every part of making art,
you'll fall in love with every part of life.
You know, not just one part of the process
or not just the glory at the end or anything like that,
but like every part of it.
The pain and everything that comes along
with birthing something creative.
Yeah, did you, so when this guy first came in,
he worked for HBO, so you were just a kid in a deli
that now works for HBO?
No, he was actually, he had a side gig
making Jerry Seinfeld's 50th birthday video.
So like, you know, Seinfeld probably gave this guy
100 grand to like, yeah, put together something
for all my friends in the Hamptons.
So I was working on that in his basement.
He was going down to HBO at night
and he was a producer there.
And I just, I kind of proved myself.
I don't even know how.
I think I was just, I just think I had the right attitude.
I wasn't particularly talented at anything.
I just had the right attitude.
I had some initiative.
Like I could just see, I was a good producer at the time.
I could see a couple heads, a couple steps ahead
and be like, oh, that's what I need to do next
or whatever, just to keep them satisfied.
But once I got the opportunity at History Channel,
they basically made me a writer-producer.
I had no idea.
I was just figuring it out as I went along.
I had no formal training in any of this ever.
I think my work benefits from that.
And I wouldn't know how to make these paint by numbers,
formulaic, documentaries.
I wouldn't even know where to begin with that kind of show.
I'm not interested in watching that
and I don't want to make it,
spend five years of my life making shit like that.
Yeah, for sure, for sure.
You're, on your website,
like some of the commercials that you've made are insane.
Like some of the, some of like the,
like just the client, like Royal Caribbean Nest,
some like really big time brands.
How did you get into doing work for them?
That's just a slowly but surely.
It actually really just came from that first film
because I don't, I just think it had been a while
since somebody, I mean,
I just made something so perfectly digestible
that I didn't realize I was making like a reel for myself.
Like that first film was just, it was very cinematic.
It was well done.
It was like a tear-jerker and it's seven minutes.
So I think that was just right around the time
when branded content was getting going.
I don't know, luckily I got some attention
and you get one commercial and that leads to another
and it leads to another,
but I, God, I feel superstitious even talking
about commercials because it's like so random.
It's always though that they saw some film
that he did, American Juggalo or Florida Man
and they like want to work with him.
And it's like they, there's a little bit of an allure
that happens from just like following,
I think Sean's passion and just like doing what he wants.
And then, you know, everyone wants to make money, right?
Well, yeah, definitely.
I mean, it pays the bills, but it's also like,
I think we get these jobs because we've been so authentic
in our filmmaking and the films are so effective
that they're like, can we pay you to do that for our brand?
Once I get the job, it's like the uphill battle
of all uphill battles.
And it's like, it's just like a month of pain
trying to make these commercials.
They have to pay you a lot because they're gonna,
they're basically using your name to legitimize a product
and they're using my skills to make, you know,
to soften their corporate fucking nastiness.
And I'm like, it's just every part of it grosses me out
and I don't end up getting final cut on them.
So it drives me insane.
I don't even have half my commercials on the website
cause I'm just like embarrassed about the way they came out.
So I don't know.
I know what you mean.
Yeah, yeah, you know dude.
How often do you do big commercial jobs like that?
Once a year.
Once a year, you only do one a year.
It's not even like that.
That's just how often they come up.
There's just random?
Yeah.
Do you turn down a lot of them?
No, no, no, no, no.
We have, we have, and it's cool.
It's cool to turn down a job,
but like now we know there's so few and far between.
We're like, we're gonna take them when they come up.
And since we're the production company,
we can make a lot more money
than when I was just a director for hire.
So now Google will come to us and be like,
oh, make something for Nest
and they'll give us the whole budget
and we get to hire the whole team, the edit, the whole thing.
So it's cool, but it's a fuck, not a little soul crushing.
That's a lot.
That's like when Cass has her hands full the most in life
because she's managing the job
and then how much this is crushing me to even do this.
So yeah, yeah, it's such a weird thing,
but I'm grateful that we get to just do this for a living.
Yeah, absolutely.
So tell me the story about how you made Florida Man
and like how did that whole thing start?
And I want to say first of all, I'm a huge fan of that.
I forget his name is escaping me right now,
but the kid who did the cinematography on that.
Isaac Bowman.
Isaac, yes.
Oh, he's incredible.
He does some sick work.
Yeah, yeah, that's, I mean, we found him,
he did a music video for Delta Spirit.
What was that?
Yeah, Delta Spirit.
Yeah, Delta Spirit.
And I remember my editor sent it to us
and she was like, this guy shoots in a style
that like would compliment our work.
Our editor, Kathy Gatto has been working with me
since History Channel.
She's cut everything we've done, but yeah.
Everything he does is like low light, dark,
natural lighting that he uses is just, it's just so.
And you should see how he does it.
It's amazing.
He'll do stuff with the camera that like,
even the camera assistants are like, are you sure?
I've never cranked the ISO that high.
I don't think we should bake this look in, you know.
Uncommercial jobs too.
We've done that on commercials.
Where we're like, we're sitting there with the client,
we're like, sign off on this.
This is how we want this to look.
And normally they'd be like, we'll do that in post,
but like we'll force it because me and Isaac
really want this to come out a certain way.
So we'll bake the look into the camera
where they can't even fucking do anything about it.
Oh my God.
Florida man's Florida man.
I feel like the mushrooms, psychedelic mushrooms
made us make that film.
It was.
Really?
Yeah.
Explain that.
Well, we had just discovered psychedelics in general
and we had just discovered mushrooms
after we had made the film, Oxyana.
We had done Tribeca Film Festival
and during Tribeca Film Festival,
someone gave us mushrooms.
We just threw them in the freezer.
I was like, I don't know what these are.
I don't know about these things.
And we ended up taking them a few months later.
And before we took them, I had this idea in my head
to make a film called Sinkholes,
which would have been Florida man,
but it would have been like,
let's go towards all the weird ass sinkhole stories
in Florida and talk to Florida men with that
as like the Trojan horse of like how to even talk to them.
Yeah, I loved that idea.
So that was just in the back of our head forever.
And we met Isaac and Isaac comes over to our apartment
one night and it's fucking midnight.
And he's like, let's take mushrooms.
I'm like, fuck, this is gonna be a long night, man.
All right, we'll take mushrooms, whatever.
We take the mushrooms and we were laughing about something.
I was telling him about the idea of sinkholes
and I'm describing sinkholes.
And he's like, have you ever seen surveillance camera, man?
And I was like, no, what is that?
And he's like, we gotta pull it up right now.
It's just, I don't know, have you ever seen that?
No. Oh, dude.
If you like Florida men, you're gonna love it.
It's internet gold.
It's like, this dude just goes around
with a fucking camera and just goes up to people
and just starts filming them and they're like,
what the fuck?
And he just sticks to the program and just films them.
And it's very aggressive and confrontational, barely.
The only thing he ever says is like, calm down.
It's just a camera, it's just a video.
And people just start freaking out.
And like, he's like, there's cameras everywhere.
It's just a camera or whatever.
So he put out this eight part series of these confrontations
and we were just on mushrooms dying laughing.
I'm like, this is art.
I'm so glad that I'm not the one that made this,
but this is art.
Like, I'm glad somebody went out there and did this
because it's fucking hilarious and it's tasteful
and it's just fucking funny.
Is it on YouTube?
No. Yeah, no, it is right now.
Oh, it is?
Yeah, one through eight.
He's such a, we met him in person.
Actually, we tracked him down.
He is the epitome of an adrenaline junkie.
So for him, it's not about cinematic artistry.
It's about like, how far can I go
within my comfort zone or outside of my comfort zone?
He's addicted to adrenaline
and that's one of the ways he gets his adrenaline flowing
is like these confrontations.
Yeah, yeah.
So we watched it and it was just like,
we were laughing our ass off
and then we go up on the roof of our building
and it's like 6.30 in the morning and the sun's coming up
and I'm just like, Florida, man,
we gotta make a movie called Florida Man.
And he was just like, yes, him and Cass are like,
yes, fuck it, let's do it.
You know, it's like, you're on mushrooms.
You're like, are we gonna really do this?
But like, let's do this.
Like, it just felt like a message from the mushroom.
Like, go make a movie called Florida Man.
And we did, like, Cass lined it up.
I don't know, like a month or two later
we were down here doing our thing.
And the way we went about making that film was we said,
we're gonna bring one lens.
We're not going with a kit of prime lenses,
switching all of this and we're bringing one lens,
a 16 millimeter wide lens.
We're bringing a sound guy.
We're bringing our friend who can do most of the driving,
a whole bunch of pot and we're gonna go for 10 days
and we just rented an Airbnb in five different areas.
So we'd go to Clearwater for two nights
and then we'd go to Ocala for two nights
and Cocoa Beach for two nights.
We just went around.
Cocoa Beach, that's gotta be a great spot.
Cocoa was one of the most fruitful spots.
Clearwater was one of them.
I'm so familiar with this area.
I knew exactly where to go.
We were on fire when we were here
because I was like, I know the spots here.
Cocoa was amazing.
We filmed this guy called Mr. Sexy Cocoa Beach.
Just literally surfed out of the water
and was like, what are you guys doing?
And started telling stories
and it was incredible.
But yeah, the mushroom told us to make that one
and we fucking listened.
And it was kind of in contrast to the other film
that we were making at the time called Cam Girls
about webcam models.
And that film was, it was like everything was shot on sticks
and it was very cinematic and not precious
but a little bit more precious.
And we were just craving something like loose
and fucking fiery.
It's more conventional, yeah.
And we had just made this film Cam Girls.
We already had it in the can.
And then we shot Florida Man so quick
and finished the edit that we were like,
we'll put these films out on the same day.
So we released two features on the same day
and Florida Man fucking has gotten around.
I didn't know what people were gonna make of it
because when we were making of it,
when we were making it, it came out to 50 minutes
and I was like, this feels right, but it's not a short.
It's not a feature.
It's not gonna, no one's gonna buy this.
This won't live on any platforms.
This is not gonna get into any festivals.
It's not that we even try to get into festivals.
That ended up being the best part about it was
there was like no storyline.
There was no music.
It was just, it's just like an organism.
It's just a thing.
Yeah, it's like a living monument to this lifestyle
that like you've lived here your whole life, you know?
Like, and that's how I knew about these guys.
Cause I'm like, you have to live here
to even start to notice these guys.
Cause you're training yourself to ignore
this kind of like depressing level of despair
that's going on around.
And you're living in paradise down here.
You don't want to fucking think about that kind of stuff.
But if you train your eye to it,
you start to notice these people.
And there was such wisdom and grace and beauty
pouring out of these people that I think were normally
would be like, holy shit, stay away from me.
So it helps us evolve as people.
It helps, like that's, it's so personal in that way.
It's like when we feel ourselves otherizing,
we need to go towards that subject,
figure out how they are us
and then bring that to an audience.
And, you know, sometimes it's sex workers
or drug addicts or Florida man or juggalos
or whatever it is we're going towards at the moment.
But that's what it feels like our mission is.
And Florida man was just a fun way to do it
because like I knew these guys and knew how to talk to them.
I know that they have these stories
on the tip of their tongue, you know?
And so the interactions in that movie,
you're basically seeing the entirety of it.
There's not a lot of, we cut out a lot of people
from the movie, but we didn't cut out a lot of
moments from the interactions.
So like what you see in the movie
is probably about how long we hung out with that person.
And yeah, yeah, it was funny.
How did you approach them?
Like what did you say to them when you came,
when you walked up to them?
Did you have like some sort of like formula
when you went out and filmed these guys or?
They mostly approached us.
You know, there's something about-
Did you have a big camera crew?
Yeah, well, we were a small crew,
but a big camera.
It's when you take up that boom mic.
The boom mic.
I'll do it.
Yeah, you go to a 7-Eleven parking lot,
open up the van door, and it's just like,
we're gonna just be here for three hours.
So everyone chill out and everyone's smoking.
Cigarettes hanging out, we're getting high.
And then it's like when it's time,
we just take out that boom mic.
It's like raising a flag.
And like people just start going,
whoa, what are you guys doing?
And you know, we just always said,
we were making a documentary about Florida,
about Florida, man.
And you know, no one really asked a lot of questions,
man.
We ended up like, we'd go up to someone
in a public's parking lot at two in the morning
and end up in the back of their car
going wherever the fuck they're going with them.
And I'm like, this is the kind of adventures.
Like this is the kind of life I wanna lead.
And the fact that cameras are here for it
and we can extend this experience
for other people is incredible.
So it all came from the mushroom trip.
And you came up with the name Florida Man
when you were that night.
Yeah, it's gotta be called Florida Man.
That's the name of it.
And everything kind of just went from there.
Yeah, it's almost like reverse engineers.
Reverse engineering, yeah.
A lot of our movies start like that.
I wonder if you can relate with that.
It's like, I'll think of a title.
I have no idea how we're gonna find the subjects
or where we're gonna film it or whatever.
But I'm like, I need to make a documentary
called The Bowler.
And it needs to be about a bowling hustler.
And I don't know where this person is
or how they're gonna turn up in my life.
But I'm putting it out there.
I wanna make a film called The Bowler.
And then next thing you know,
someone's like, I met your guy.
And so, yeah, it's very much the same thing with Florida Man.
Just people finding us and like.
It's so funny, it's the perfect name.
It literally is the perfect name.
I mean, as far as like, if you think of,
I know it's not what you're thinking,
but like as far as like searching something
or like the marketing of something to be successful,
that was the perfect name you could have came up with.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, because it was,
every headline starts with that, Florida Man.
And if it would have been called sinkholes,
like it probably would have been the same movie really.
But it maybe it wouldn't have bubbled up.
Is there something about titles in there?
I know.
Well, I see it with your podcast.
Like I look through and I'm like smart.
The way you guys title these like are fucking.
Sometimes we overthink them though.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, we sometimes way too much.
Sometimes the ones you don't even think about is like,
it's all about, it's really the thing that matters
is the content more than anything.
So many people focus like really hard on the titles
and like thumbnails and like whatever keywords
and all that stuff.
But like the biggest thing I've taken away
is just it's all about the content.
It's like how good of a conversation,
how interesting was that?
Or how much can people relate to it, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, we love the Nat Cox episode.
Oh yeah.
It's huge.
Everybody loves that.
And it's one of those things where,
and this is a high compliment.
I was like, let me just see what these guys are all about.
I click on it and I was like,
I'm just gonna watch five minutes
while I gotta go switch the laundry.
I ended up watching for three hours.
And I'm like, all right,
they're fucking onto something.
What an incredible storyteller.
Oh dude, he's amazing.
Yeah, legendary.
It was a total accident too, getting him out here.
Like I didn't even really want to have him on here.
Yeah.
I was tired of like, like I was sick.
I was doing like a lot of like the criminal stuff,
like people who've been in prison
for a long time telling their stories is great.
But I felt like I was going too far down that rabbit hole
and he just started getting some different shit on here.
And he emailed me from the halfway house
and he was just like,
hey, I want to come on your podcast,
but I'm still on probate.
I'm on the halfway house.
I'd have to like skip work and come in.
And I was like, just let me know when you're out
and we'll do it.
One day I had a guest scheduled to come in
and he canceled last minute.
So I just like, shit, I need to get somebody in.
I need to do an interview this week.
So I called him.
I'm like, can you get down here in like three hours?
He's like, let me see.
Let me see if I can do it.
Let me call my buddy as a car.
And he just came.
It was like just like random like that.
And I ended up being like super successful.
Oh God, he killed it.
So you guys had him on your,
you ready to interview with him?
Yeah, we talked to him yesterday.
He came over at like one in the afternoon
and left at like nine 10 at night.
Really?
We had a whole day.
Yeah, it was really, it was really fucking interesting.
Like as soon as he got there, we just,
we shot the podcast and then we, you know,
like he wants to talk to us about like maybe
we can figure out how to get some of these stories told.
Like he obviously has a ton of stories.
And, you know, we wanted to hear them all.
So he hung out and he was so generous.
And God, what a funny fucking day.
Like we're sitting there and we're like smoking pot.
And he's like, oh, hold on.
Yeah.
He's never smoked pot or drank in his life.
That's crazy.
We need to get him high somehow.
We talked about that.
We talked about that all night after he left.
We're like, man, we got to get this guy high.
I don't know if he'll ever do it,
but could you imagine what would happen
if you gave that guy mushrooms?
Oh, that's the dream.
That's the dream.
We'll get there.
We'll get there when, I don't know what would happen.
I don't know if it would be extremely uncomfortable
because he says himself, he's like, I'm a narcissist.
And the mushrooms fucking start to tear down
those e-girl structures.
Yeah.
It's everything he is, is that,
is his ability to be so charismatic and articulate.
That's like his most powerful thing he's got.
You know what I mean?
The storytelling.
Yeah, and you see that with some people
when they smoke pot, like my mom's like that.
She's a fucking whipper snapper and she smokes pot
and it's just like, and she hates it
because she's not in control anymore.
You see that sometimes, but I like that.
I like the things that are like humbling me
and making my ego go down.
The mushrooms are pretty hardcore, but yeah.
The mushrooms, I've always been afraid
I haven't done it yet, but all my friends take them
and I've always been afraid
because I've always been like a super lightweight with weed.
All my friends will eat the same side,
like even my wife will eat these edibles
and I can only eat like a quarter of it.
And it hits me harder than a full one hits her.
So I'm just like a super lightweight.
So I'm afraid to take mushrooms.
I was too.
It's a micro dose or something.
I literally had to have somebody catch me off guard with them.
The way we ended up even taking them was
we had them in our freezer after Tribeca Film Festival.
We had a meeting with some Amazon executives
and we're out and at a bar and they see we're not drinking
and they're like, you guys are potheds, aren't you?
And we're like, yeah, yeah, we don't really drink.
And they're like, let's go smoke pot at your house.
So we go back with these, it's two Amazon executives.
We didn't even know them.
We didn't even know their names.
Like we're just like hanging out
at our apartment smoking pot.
And I'm talking to one of them.
This woman's just like saying how she takes mushrooms
with Seth Rogen all the time.
And like, Seth Rogen loves American Juggalo.
You should take mushrooms with Seth Rogen.
I'm like, I've never taken mushrooms.
I'm too scared, whatever.
I'm like, we have them, but we're scared.
And she's like, you have mushrooms?
I'm like, yeah.
She's like, let's do them right now.
So we're like, fuck it.
All right, let's do it.
And we did our first mushroom trip and it was scary.
It was very uncomfortable.
And I haven't eaten meat since.
All my relationships are better.
We meditate every day, twice a day.
You know, we have a spiritual life.
I know that word scares people.
You're full blown hippies basically.
Yeah, man.
Cause I grew up a punker.
Like I was into like crust punk.
Like I was just like, the furthest thing.
I made fun of hippies.
I made fun of the Grateful Dead.
And we're like, we're so typical.
We started taking this stuff and like grew my hair out,
wearing tie dye.
We're the biggest dead heads you can imagine now.
So I think it caught me off guard.
It caught my ego off guard.
I didn't have time to be too scared about them or anything.
It was just like, oh, you're all of a sudden taking
these things and I was your age.
Fucking changed me, changed me.
And I was like, oh, thank God, man.
I was running out of, my ego was kind of backed
into a corner, my ways of dealing with the world.
I was like, my tools weren't as sharp, you know?
Like I was like, I need to bring, in retrospect,
it's easy to say this, but I needed a sense of connectedness
to come back over my being, to keep even making these films.
So yeah, the mushrooms coming into my life,
which then led to acid, which led to DMT,
which led to toad, which led to ayahuasca,
to diming medicine, all kinds of shit.
And just coming at your ego from different angles,
like just trying to keep it humble.
Yeah, yeah, it's good.
I think it's a good practice for any artist.
How often do you do it?
Do you like micro, I know a lot of people
are doing it every day all day, like at work.
I think like a little bit, like a micro dose.
We don't really work.
So there's no like, when we trip, we fucking trip.
And I just go, oh yeah.
And I think more people should do that.
There's a lot of talk of micro doses in these days,
but what we always end up saying is like,
the main problem is people not taking enough.
Like we see people, they'll take one tab of acid
and then struggle with their ego the whole time.
It's like, why didn't you take three
and just fucking be God for a little bit?
You know, like just do it.
Do the fucking thing, be God.
That's what it's doing is stripping away the layers
of that, of you that make you think you're you.
And it's actually fucking a huge relief.
You feel incredible in the days and months after psychedelics.
So, oh my God, especially mushrooms.
Like if you had any sense of anxiety, depression,
whatever, just clouds, just part.
I mean, there's studies now that say like
pretty much six months of relief
following a mushroom journey.
Talk about yours that time.
You casted a heroic dose of mushrooms, which is five grams.
Heroic, five grams.
Wow, that sounds like a lot.
Yeah.
It deserves that name, I would say.
Oh yeah, totally.
All I can say is like, I was having panic attacks.
I don't have panic attacks anymore.
It really did kind of shift something within me
from the inside out where I'm like, oh, it's all good.
Nothing I'm worrying about is worth having
a panic attack about.
Yeah.
It can be pretty simple messages.
But you have to feel them, you know?
You did five fucking grams by herself.
Like that's another part of the heroic dose.
You didn't have any people with you, you were just alone.
I was desperate.
I was like, like Sean's saying, up against a wall,
freaking out, not understanding what's going on in my life.
Wanting to get a grip.
Of course, my heroes turn to McKenna,
so I'm going to listen to him, and I'm glad I did.
Do you remember everything pretty vividly?
It's so ineffable.
It's funny, because I was out in LA.
We are never more than this far apart from each other.
And I was going on Adam Corolla's podcast in LA,
so I was like, I'm just going to go do this.
I'll be back in a day.
And I go out there and I'm hanging out with Isaac out in LA
who shot Florida Man and Cam Girls.
Yeah.
And Cass is calling us every half hour like,
what the fuck is going on?
You're not real.
You're not real.
And I'm like, yeah, I am.
I'll be home tomorrow.
I didn't even understand the extent
to which she was tripping balls.
She was having, what are they called,
tactile hallucinations, where your phone felt
like a spiky ball.
That's a level of tripping that's like, fuck.
Yeah.
I was his mom.
I was jumping timelines.
I was greeted by like, I mean, I got the angelic message,
it's okay, everything's okay.
But then my mind's trying to make sense
and I get into this like paranoid loop of like,
no, it's not okay.
You're actually like maniacal fear come over me.
But in some ways I had one of the worst trips I've ever had.
And so it's interesting to say like,
oh, I had this horrible trip.
I was scared.
I was calling Sean.
I was all this like fear and paranoia.
Existential dread.
Existential dread.
But the truth is it lasts like six hours
and then you can like feel and integrate all that fear
and take that with you and be like, oh, like I'm okay.
You know, that was a feeling I went through,
but I'm really okay.
And it's actually, life isn't what I think it is.
So let me have fun with life.
And it's kind of has allowed me, psychedelics allow me
to be a little more playful with my existence
because I really did get from that message like,
oh, Sean's not real.
And then I was like, oh, well, love is real enough for me.
You know?
This might not be real.
This might be an illusion.
This might be all my sensory perception playing tricks on me.
And I might not actually be where I think I am doing
what I think I'm doing.
But there is something about this experience
that is worth holding on to.
And it's like goes simple foundational stuff of like love.
You know?
It's like so corny, but it's so true.
Yeah.
I mean, like the first time I smoked DMT it was so mind blowing
and like, holy fuck, what are these colors?
What are these fractals?
Where am I right now?
But the eeriest feeling of familiarity
where you're like, I've been here before.
This seems freaky, but like,
is this where I was before I was born?
Like, or is this where I'm going when I die?
And like, that's what I've deduced from a lot of this stuff.
We're not the type of people who take a lot of psychedelics
and pretend to know anything additional.
I just feel more comfortable in my being
and more comfortable knowing like, this is temporary.
There's no way to kill or crush consciousness.
It just keeps going.
The cycle keeps going.
And yeah, it's like, it invited in that connectedness
that I think I needed to keep making films
and making podcasts.
And now like, I just feel like we're building community now.
And like, we're not filmmakers.
We're not podcasters.
Those are the things we do.
We're not even community builders.
We're just, we're just hanging out.
We're doing our thing.
I'm not looking to wear any masks or identities or labels.
I'm not, like, I've had all the validation
I could possibly need for filmmaking and all this shit.
So I'm really determined to find out what life's all about.
Here's the movie, Interstellar.
Yeah, of course.
Like how you said, talked about love.
Like, it's its own, it transcends time and gravity
and that movie, the love is the-
I went into the bookshelf.
Yeah, you went into the bookshelf.
Crazy that you brought that up,
because literally that's the only reference
that she ever says about that trip.
And she's like, it felt like I was behind the bookshelf
in Interstellar.
That's what I was picturing when she was saying that.
Yeah, that's a heavy one.
I mean, in Iowa School, I'll take you right there
and keep you there for six hours.
Like, one way you take it to the shadow realm,
and it's like, am I going to make friends with my demons
and realize they're not that big of a deal?
Or am I going to fight them?
And, you know, it's all fear of death stuff
that starts coming up.
And if, like, these things teach you
how to not be scared of death so you can live.
And that's what we probably trip once a month.
Yeah, I mean, life is pretty simple
when you think of it as, like, breath play.
You know, like, really just when you can bring it
to the breath and like everything else is like,
I'm playing a game of having, running these thoughts,
but when you realize, like, what it's all about
is, like, following your breath
and, like, connecting to that inner piece, the connection,
you kind of have a good time,
even when you're having a bad time,
because you're like, oh, I'm so stressed,
but you can kind of have an outsider perspective on it.
You know, so you're not so much as in the stress
or in the fear or in the paranoia.
You're like, oh, look at me being stressed.
Doesn't mean I'm not going to look stressed to Sean,
but it's like, I have more of a sense of humor about it now.
Yeah, you take it like life less seriously.
Yeah, it's like, we're actors in a movie.
I'm not going to fucking try to fucking method act this thing
and take it too seriously.
Like, it just gives you that one step removed
where you're like, oh, okay, cool,
this isn't that big of a fucking deal, like.
What's the biggest difference between mushrooms and DMT
or like a shitload of marijuana edibles?
Yeah, marijuana edibles.
Scary is the scariest of all.
Marijuana edibles could be the scariest of all psychedelics.
Really?
In a way, because you don't know when they're going to wear off.
If you're on a bad marijuana trip from eating too much,
you don't know when it's going to stop.
With mushrooms, you're like,
this can be over in four hours.
Like, I know what I could feel it wearing off.
But yeah, mushrooms and DMT,
like I feel like they share a similar molecular structure,
but it's totally completely different experiences.
When you smoke DMT, you're for three to 10 minutes,
just in a fucking crystal palace of fucking,
like the gates of heaven just open up
and you're just there and it's,
that's what I like about the idea of DMT.
It's the only last 10 minutes.
We could have done it before this podcast
and we'd be talking like this right now.
That's cool, I like that.
It is, and now they have DMT vape pens.
So like, you'll go to a concert
and you'll smell DMT everywhere.
It's like, Jesus Christ, that's hardcore.
Because I mean, you close your eyes
and you're in another dimension,
you're being visited by entities,
it's some pretty fucking hardcore shit,
but I highly recommend smoking DMT, highly recommend it.
When we first took mushrooms,
we were like, we're not gonna take any more drugs
in our life, mushrooms are great.
Yeah, let's keep to the natural stuff.
We don't need to try acid or anything like that.
A year later, we tried acid and we're like,
this is our shit, this is the sacrament of our life.
And it still is, still is.
I don't even count marijuana because it's so, it is us,
I'm made of cannabis, it's fucking coming out
of every orifice of me all the time.
But acid, whoo, daddy, that is, that's our shit.
That's your favorite?
Yeah, really?
Yeah, totally, and I feel like we kind of like
being evangelists for it because a lot of other people
like to talk about the natural things and all this,
and I'm like, acid fucking does,
it's exactly like what it sounds like, acid.
It's just like, stripping everything down and fuck.
Have you heard of the kid that, I forget his name,
but he does have all gas, no brakes, YouTube channel?
Yeah, I've heard of him.
He goes around and interviews everybody.
He talked about how when he was a kid,
he did a lot of mushrooms and took a lot of acid,
and now he's got like a problem where he sees
like permanent illusions in his vision everywhere he goes.
Like usually that's like a wave or something.
We're a flickering.
Yeah, like a flickering or like little spots,
things floating around.
So he's like permanently tripping kind of.
I've heard of stuff like that.
That's honestly why I'm glad I didn't discover
that stuff in my teens or 20s.
Like I'm so glad I waited until my 30s
to find any of this stuff because I think it's too freaky.
Like there's some kids that can handle that kind of shit.
I was not that type of person.
It's kind of nice to build an ego
before you strip it down, you know?
Yeah, interesting.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Like have a sense of who you think you are, and then.
That's all, when we say ego, we're just saying,
like I'm just saying the story of you.
Yeah, yeah, right.
That's just it, that's your story of you.
So yeah, keeping that updated and stripping it down
and rebuilding it.
It's threatening though, because you know,
if you're stripping your story and realizing
you're in a story, you can rewrite the story.
And when we're all like little monkeys walking around
being like, we can change the story,
it's a little threatening to the status quo.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, it's kind of weird to think about.
Like I'm afraid that it's gonna change me
and turn me into something else that I'm,
you know what I mean?
Like I don't want to do that.
That's the biggest fear.
That would have been my biggest fear
had I had time to even contemplate it.
But they came at me in such a way that I was like,
oh, okay, I guess I'm doing this.
And literally laying on my bathroom floor,
like on the verge of purging,
like with messages of just like, clean your diet up, dude.
You know, like you're an adult,
stop eating like a fucking four year old,
like eat plants, motherfucker.
Be good to your family, douchebag.
And like, I took that shit seriously.
I was like, I don't really usually get messages
from the great beyond, but,
and now it's like that portal's open.
They're just flowing in all the time.
You know, when you learn how to listen,
when you learn how to fucking calm it down.
And like Cass is saying, the breath play.
Like it sounds like cheesy and woo-woo,
but like as I did more psychedelic work,
I started to understand like religion
and the religion I came up with better.
And it's like, I don't subscribe to any of it,
but there's beautiful stuff in there.
And yeah, definitely.
Like I think all Jesus was saying is like, you are God.
I am, you know, we're all the son of God.
You are God and so am I.
And really the word of God is your breath
and you can come back to it at any time.
And you listen to your breath, listen to the word of God,
things will calm down.
It really will.
Take some deep breaths.
Inevitably, that'll get you out of any kind of mental crisis.
Yeah, I've heard people talk about breathing themselves
into a psychedelic state.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like the Wim Hof stuff.
Yeah, there's methods that are even like,
Wim Hof, you can stay conscious.
There's methods where your hands will become like this,
a holotropic breath, breath work.
That's where you like aggressively breathe in and out.
Yeah.
And yeah, there's other tactics.
I mean, there's breath work to get you
into any kind of state.
Like that's some master level shit.
You know, I feel like psychedelics
is like preschool compared to that shit.
Because it's just like a cheat code.
Yeah, it's a cheat code.
It's like, I'm gonna take this thing and be God for a while
and be the best version of myself for 12 hours.
Without doing any work really.
The work isn't integrating it though.
It's like you get a glimpse behind the curtain.
It's like you get a glimpse at a high watermark
of what you could be.
And for people like us, I'm like, oh, cool.
Oh, we're not artists, we are the art.
And we're works in progress.
And we're just trying to make this thing more beautiful.
And we're trying to let beauty radiate and emanate off of us.
And it's an inside job.
So just these realizations start to flip the script
on everything you were told about life
and looking out for yourself and, you know,
individualism and all this stuff.
It just starts to get stripped away
and your heart's path becomes more clear.
And I know this sounds far out.
I know it does.
But, you know, it's how this stuff's affected us.
Yeah, I mean, it's like, talk about taking a natural evolution
with the filmmaking.
Like the last two films we made were, you know.
People tripping.
Were people tripping.
Yeah, what's up with the one with the old lady
and her daughter in Joshua Tree on mushrooms?
Yeah.
That was interesting.
Yeah, yeah.
When we discovered this stuff a few years after we discovered
psychedelics, I started thinking I was like,
this would be a fun thing to try to work into our filmmaking.
Like, I don't know how we could do it, but it would be fun.
So again, like I did with the bowler,
I just started telling people like,
here's what my next project is.
It's gonna be these people.
It's gonna be people tripping.
If you know anyone, let me know.
And I asked this girl, Ryan Worsley, in Seattle.
She's a filmmaker.
And I was like, ask, if Seattle's a perfect area
to do this, ask people around here.
Like six months later, she hits me up.
She's like, nobody would trip on camera.
I asked a bunch of people.
But my mom's never tried psychedelics.
She wants to try them.
And she said, she'd be down for you to film us.
And I was like, yeah, when are we doing it?
So a month later, we're in Joshua Tree.
Give them an eighth of mushrooms each.
And it was fucking beautiful.
The mom's 72 years old.
She didn't really even have a reference point
for psychedelics.
And she's like, I just literally have no idea
what this is gonna be.
So we spent the night before with them,
just cooking dinner, chilling out,
like explaining what this could be,
preparing them for it and showed up the next day
and just shot them tripping for like six, seven hours.
And yeah, that film's called Joshua Tree.
And I feel like it's a prototype for future projects
we wanna make.
We wanted to see if it was even possible to do this
and depict the psychedelic experience in a way
that could get you kind of in their mindset.
And I think we pulled it off.
And then we made another one of our friend,
Ayla, taking two and a half tabs of acid in Woodstock.
That one's called Sweet Nothing.
And yeah, that was the last film we made.
It's kind of my proudest film.
Sweet Nothing was the most recent one?
Yeah.
When did you do that one?
2019, 2018.
Okay.
Yeah, the COVID slowed us down a little bit.
But yeah, she fucking, she was the chick
when we were making our movie, Camgirls,
we met all these psychedelic Camgirls in Seattle.
And we had only tried mushrooms,
but they were way into acid
and they turned us onto acid and DMT.
And a couple of years later, Ayla calls us up
and she was just like,
I think it's time that you film me take acid.
I was like, fuck yeah, cool, let's do this.
We just rented a house in Woodstock and pretty easy.
We all took acid, I was tripping off camera
and we just hung out for a day.
And I wanted them to be,
I wanted those films to be really visceral.
I do not want to feel like the audience
is having its hand held through this experience.
There's no expert that comes in
and says, here's what's going on.
And it's just purely just with her.
That was a really fun one.
So do you operate the camera when you do this stuff?
No.
You always get a camera operator and a certain guy.
Yeah, that's usually, that's the bare minimum.
We have operated cameras on some of our things
like when it's completely necessary.
But I like the subjects to be distracted with me.
Cause I can engage them in a way
where they forget about all that shit.
So that's like, my main focus is like,
you get what you give.
You don't want them to be focused on the camera and stuff.
No, I don't even want them to,
Florida Man was a little different
cause we only brought one lens.
So we knew the camera was going to be like a character
and then cause we're going to have to get so close
to get close ups and like it's almost going to become
a thing where you see them reacting.
It's great.
But yeah, usually we hire, sound, camera,
cast does everything.
I just ask questions and find subjects.
That's the more expensive way of doing it.
Yeah.
Is it?
I always do it.
I always do the camera operating and the talking myself
whenever I do that kind of stuff.
I do a lot of that kind of stuff.
So it's like, I just like, yeah,
I take the camera with a microphone mounted on it.
And I just.
Oh, wow.
So you did like duck hands and stuff.
I was watching those, those are great.
Yeah, just like that.
Wow.
And the sound came out good.
That's what I always get worried about.
A lot of times it's shitty, but I fuck with it in post
and try to make it usable.
It sounds great.
Well, we watch sounds great.
I'm always wondering about people's sound approach
because I'm like, that is the one thing.
It's like, fuck, man, this looks, this is, this intimidating.
The thing, the, there was like a moment,
there was like a film this kid did that was on,
went on YouTube year, like probably a little over 10 years
ago that like got me into wanting to like start creating
stuff and putting it out myself.
What was that?
It was a, I want to say that Isaac worked on it,
but maybe I'm totally wrong,
but this dude named Samon Ketchavars or something like that.
He made this music video called Love Deluxe,
where it's basically, it was the first like POV video
I ever saw.
And it's basically, he's like following this girl
through all these different towns and stuff.
Like they're on a beach and he's like following her
through all these different personalities.
And like, you just have to watch it.
It's hard to explain, but.
Cool, cool.
I wonder if Isaac shot that.
It was a really cool music video.
Isaac shot on like the first 5D that shot video.
But I know there was a guy that had to like walk around
with a camera strapped to a helmet.
Yeah.
And I want to say that he was part of it.
I could be wrong.
Oh, interesting.
I'll have to like Isaac shot like the 300 music video.
Oh yeah.
I think he was a little upset after Florida Man
because so many people were trying to get him to do
documentary and he's like, I'm more of a sci-fi guy.
You know?
So he's like taking off his website.
He's not even a doc guy.
And like we pulled him into that world
and he had a lot of fun with,
and we've had a lot of fun together
and we're going to work together again.
But he's totally like, what the fuck?
I'm getting hit up about all this stuff in that world now.
Isn't that amazing?
So he's probably just like full,
he's like full on getting hired by like TV networks
and stuff doing like, he's like union guy now.
Yeah.
He shoots a lot of stuff for American Horror Story.
I think something like that.
There's all kinds of shows that he's involved with.
It's such a different world when you're like working
for like the established networks doing that kind of stuff
versus doing stuff like that you do
or like stuff that I do.
That's why he craves us after enough time away.
He's like, all right, what are we doing now?
CP's are always excited
because it's kind of hard to believe
but we're like, we're going to shoot for like four hours.
You know?
And then we're going to call it a day, just hang out.
You know?
Because it's more about-
It's the vibe.
It's the vibe.
So we have to keep our vibe good
so we can put a container around it
so that when we're going out, we get what we want.
And it's like, that's where Sean's kind of different
because he doesn't, as a documentary filmmaker,
doesn't overshoot.
He kind of, if anything, maybe undershoots
to make it really easy for Kathy to go in the edit
and also just, he gets the pieces he wants
and puts something in it.
Well, I just, I know what we want going into it.
And once I feel like we got it, I'm like,
I'm not going to torture my subjects or my crew
because of my insecurity about not getting something.
Whatever we got is perfect and we're going to make it work.
I didn't even know that's not how other people work
until we work with people like Isaac
and they start telling us
about how other documentarians shoot.
And I'm like, holy shit.
They're like, oh, they want you to roll 18 hours a day
at whatever you see, just fucking get a shot of it.
That's brutal.
I can't work.
Like that's too tedious.
It's too tedious.
I would have already bailed on this medium.
Yeah, you need to do it your way.
You need to do it you like.
I mean, you clearly did that with Florida Man.
I mean, that was like a redefined anything.
Like there was nothing like that before that I know of.
I appreciate it.
Especially on the internet.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fuck man.
It's just like the same way kind of like podcasting
is a new thing over the last 10 years or whatever.
It's kind of taken off now, but.
Yeah.
That is kind of like its own little thing
that no one ever, people didn't take that and run with it.
Yeah, yeah.
It's, well, it's like, I don't know.
It's just raw footage with no music or B-roll.
Yeah, yeah.
I like to tell people, they're like, wow,
you didn't use any music or whatever.
And I'm like, watch it again.
There's a dope soundtrack in there,
but it's just happening in such a natural way.
You don't notice it.
It's happening when a bar door swings open
and you hear Fleetwood Mac.
And we're with a cab driver and he's playing David Bowie.
And we're with these fucking weirdos from Cocoa Beach
and you hear fucking Jethro Tull in the background.
Like there's like little things that me and my editor
were really getting off on in the edit.
Like, like, whoa, there's like a secret soundtrack
to this thing without being obvious about it.
It's there.
And like just like little things kind of bring that to life.
So.
You mean it was already there or you guys added it?
No, we didn't add it.
Okay.
We didn't add anything.
But like what we discovered in the edit,
we were like, well, there's a soundtrack to this movie.
And of course, it's so what I would think it would be
because I lived down here and it seems like music got frozen
in time in like 1998 down here.
And it's like, you know, like, like Godsmack.
Like I wouldn't hear that anywhere else.
You come down here, you throw it on the radio
and it's like, oh, they still like Puddle of Mud
and Godsmack and like, what year is this?
So yeah, all that, like just like little stuff like that.
It was such a pleasure to edit that movie.
It was just like four days, you know,
the way we edited that one, it's like, it's like,
I'd like to think of it like I'm putting together
a mixtape when it's something like that
because it's all these disparate stories.
It's all, nothing has anything to do with each other.
So I'm just like, this guy's a song
and then this guy's a song.
If I was making a mixtape for you,
how would I want this to feel?
You know, the first thing does, it sets the stage
and you want to take it up a notch
and you want to ease it out a little bit.
So, you know, I'm just kind of thinking of it
like kind of like music.
So we just start putting it together
and then we watch it down and we say,
that guy belongs here, get this guy out of there,
watch it down and like that movie,
I feel like we watched it like five times
and we're like, that's the movie
and we literally would just upload it then.
You know, just like put this out on the internet.
No film festivals, nothing like that
and let the people decide.
It's like,
I love the Trump rally one too.
That we shot ourselves.
We shot on cell phones.
We, it was funny because he had announced his candidacy
and like the media's going crazy
and we knew he was getting all the support
but the cameras were never turning to the audience.
So like we knew that this Trump phenomenon was building
but we were like, who are these people?
Like now we understand who they are
but at the time when we made that,
that was January, 2016.
There wasn't a lot of stuff about them
and or a lot of ways to even get down with it.
So we thought of this idea
and we're like, there's no way we can bring real cameras
in there, let's shoot on our cell phones.
So we put an ad on Craigslist
and we're like, if anyone has an iPhone 6S
and they want to make 50 bucks,
show up at this Trump rally.
A couple of people showed up.
We threw them 50 bucks.
Cass and I walked around.
Another friend of ours, Britt Worrigan,
who's a photographer, walked around with us
and we just all just like,
nobody's intimidated by that shit.
No. Nobody gives a fuck, man.
The most, the weirdest, most fucked up racist shit
was coming out of people.
Oh yeah.
You know, like Cass was great on that one too.
Like they see her and they're like,
I don't know why they're just like disarmed
and they're like, whatever, she's just got a cell phone.
I'll talk to this pretty girl.
Yeah, yeah.
The fucking shit people were saying.
That film was incredible because they knew
that they could only fit 2,000 people in there,
but 10,000 people showed up.
And so all of a sudden they just cut it off.
So there's all of a sudden security has built a wall.
All these people are there to cheer on a wall.
They're now stuck on the other side of a wall
and they're screaming and throwing a hissy fit
and fucking claiming illness
and like just complete meltdown mode.
So it was just hilarious to see this crowd go from like
cheering on this racist to like completely melting down
when they couldn't get in this thing, blaming everyone.
But they were thinking like Trump will fix this.
Yeah.
What tower are you in?
Las Vegas.
Oh, it's Vegas.
Wow.
It was some shit casino.
I was gonna guess like Daytona, Orlando.
Yeah.
It's the same type of people.
When we showed up there, I was like,
is this an Aerosmith concert or what the fuck is this?
I was like, who are these drunk 60 year old ladies?
What the fuck is going on?
You know what I had no idea of what his supporters were like
or anything.
It was super eye-opening.
We left there and Cass was like, Trump's gonna win.
I was like, get the fuck out of here.
No way.
No way.
With what he's saying up there, no way.
It's insane, right?
Cass was like, he's gonna win.
Yeah.
It's amazing how many people feel the same way
those old ladies did.
Oh, I know man.
It's crazy.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, they're all around here.
We're in the middle of it right here.
Oh, I know.
That's Sean's family.
Yeah.
Yeah, same here.
Half of my family lives down here
and they are so hardcore into that stuff
and we're not partisans.
I try to fucking stay out of all that stuff.
Trump's a piece of shit, but so's Joe Biden.
So welcome, that guy promised us $2,000 checks.
Where's that shit, motherfucker?
I saw the funniest fucking tweet today.
This dude who does like, he's a stand-up comedian
and he does political commentary.
I'm sure he's a big podcast, Tim Dillon.
The fat gay guy.
Big fan.
Huge, huge, Tim Dillon fan.
Dude, he's so fucking funny.
He's the funniest guy out there right now.
There was, I don't know if you heard,
but the Associated Press, they posted something.
They said that Hasbro is now going to start making
in 2021 Mr. Potato Head is going to be called Potato Head.
He's not going to identify as a mister.
So he like quote tweeted it, you know what I mean?
So he said, Mr. Potato Head is now non-binary.
You still don't have health insurance.
Well, that's why I love Tim Dillon so much
is because they're trying to divert our attention
away from that and he'll divert it right back.
The bigger audience he gets, the better for all of us
because he really does speak for the people
and he calls out bullshit, like, come on.
They want us all divided on these oddly nuanced,
increasingly fucking, increasingly detailed lines.
Like, oh, you're different from me.
Fuck, fuck all that.
We're a human species.
Like, are you going to let them divide us up like this?
And it's to make sure that we're not looking up
and saying, wait a second, why the fuck do we have masters?
No, let's blame each other.
No, it's the brown guy.
It's the immigrant.
It's the back dude.
It's fucking white people.
It's Karen's.
Get the fuck out of here with all that fucking stuff.
We're all the fucking same.
Take enough mushrooms, you'll realize that.
Exactly.
Smoke pot, you'll realize that.
When you make some sort of series that makes it easier
for people to be comfortable with the idea
of trying mushrooms.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
The Joshua tree kind of made it like, OK,
I'm watching this lady take mushrooms.
Now it's kind of, I feel less scared now.
Yeah.
Well, that's.
I feel like am I going to be more scared than her?
Right, right.
Was she puking, by the way, into that?
She thought she was going to.
She held it down, man.
For a 72-year-old lady to take an eighth of mushrooms,
she just had a good fucking time.
She just loved it.
Yeah, but that's kind of.
She was kind of convulsing, though, at one point.
Yeah, I know.
I was like, this isn't a good look.
No.
And she's like, ugh.
I was like, yeah, that's the come up.
That's kind of what it feels like.
But honestly, what you're saying right now
is our next project, where we want to make a film called
The Family Trip, where we're interweaving three families
tripping together and make a 70, 80-minute thing that
is palatable so you could show your mom and be like, here,
check this out.
And she might want to do mushrooms.
And because we've tripped with our parents,
we've dosed our parents, we've done all that stuff
at this point.
You've got your parents take mushrooms?
Yeah, and acid.
And they're Trump supporters?
No.
OK.
None of our parents are like that.
OK, I thought you said that they were.
No, no, our aunts and uncles.
Just family, just family.
Every single person in our extended families,
besides our parents, are Trump supporters.
They're just like typical.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So The Family Trip is hopefully a film
we'll be making soon, right?
That sounds amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
And well, I mean, it started with us tripping with it.
Well, with us discovering this stuff and be like, oh my god,
everyone needs to know about psychedelics.
Yeah, I feel like it's just such a foreign, scary, dark thing
for a lot of people.
If you don't know anyone who's done it
and you don't talk to somebody like you, a lot of people,
I mean, it's not something that you're going to come by very often.
Even our parents did not trust any of this stuff.
They didn't like when we were just always very honest with them
about what we're doing.
It honestly took like five years of them
seeing the results of us being more conscious.
It's for them to be like, fine, what is it?
What are you guys doing?
I'll do it.
I'll fucking try it.
Both my parents did acid when they were young, like teenagers,
and hadn't touched in 50 years.
And since then, in the past couple of years,
I've taken mushroom with my dad a number of times,
giving him Molly a million times that acid.
I've given him a candy flip once.
We went to a Grateful Dead concert, and it helps him.
He struggles with depression.
He struggles with suicidal ideation.
When someone is, when their ego is taken over,
and all the negative stories have bundled up,
that's what depression is.
And all it is is misdirected creative potential.
And it's just you're putting all your creative potential
into reinforcing this negative story.
And the mushrooms or the acid or whatever just comes in,
just dissolve that story temporarily,
giving your body, your cells, your muscles, your nervous system
a break from that tension.
And I think that's why people feel such long-term benefits
from it.
I've seen it with my dad.
Did you ever get scared that one day you're not
going to be as good as you are?
At your peak, when you made the best work you ever made,
did you ever think, fuck, I keep getting older.
I'm going to get less creative or less good at this?
Not less creative, but it does come into my consciousness
every now and then.
And I'm going to be like, what if American Juggalo was
the biggest thing you're ever going to do?
You're like, fuck, man.
That's a terrifying thought, isn't it?
I was 29 years old.
Like, no, that can't be the fucking peak
of my artistic output.
So it's honestly what keeps me seeking and trying different
things and not nervous to fucking start over,
destroy my ego, fucking.
Because I know I'm going to be creative.
I know we're going to be thinking of good ideas,
whether or not we'll get the opportunities to make films
and get them seen on that level again.
I don't know.
That shit may have sailed.
But like I said before, we had to switch into a mode where
we're like, we're the art.
We're the works in progress.
We're not just artists.
We are the art.
And you can see us evolve over time.
And you can see us update our operating systems.
And it's kind of what we're trying to bring people in on
with our podcast.
It's very casual.
It's just setting space to hang out with us.
Now we have a daily podcast called The Come Up,
where it's like 15 minutes every morning.
And it's me, Cass, and our girlfriend, Mare.
And we just do a little like, hey, here's
what Monday's all about.
Let's get through the day.
Here's some wisdom.
Here's some quotes.
Here's some songs you could check out.
That's cool.
Just trying to give people a little something.
The podcast is, I love the podcast because, I mean,
I've said this before, but it's like it helps me build
discipline because it's like the opposite sort of way I'm
used to creating stuff to where I like coming up with a
Florida man.
I got to do Florida man.
I got to make this thing happen.
Just the same thing with deck hands for me.
This is more like, I have to do at least one of these every
week and post it on Sunday.
And it's like, I don't care what it is, I've got to do
something.
And it's a, have you ever heard of a book called
The War of Art?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a great one.
We talked about the muse and just sitting down and doing
your work and letting it come to you.
That really struck a nerve for me and changed everything
for me to where just coming and sitting down and doing the
work, whether it's good, bad, whatever it is, just do it
and then release it into the world.
Absolutely.
And I think that's what it comes down to for us is we've
become very aware of the carrot that's always dangling in
front of us as artists is the muse.
It's like we will chase the muse and we will serve the muse.
We will very much recognize when the muse has taken human
form and that there's a particular energy in our
world that is making us shine.
And I think what it does is you put a new lens on life.
And you're less victimized by the circumstances.
And you're just more like just like waiting for some
inspiration to put some creative wind in your cells
and just kind of looking around for that as opposed to, I
don't know, the way that we used to do it, like you're
saying, is like come up with deck hands.
And then it's going to take a this is going to be a big long
project and just take this long.
The podcast just allows us to keep serving the muse and like
just feeding this beast.
I don't even know what the fuck it is, but it feels like
each episode like illuminates another pixel on this board
that's like figuring out what my life looks like and trying to
soak up wisdom from different and unexpected places.
I think that's what I really get off on.
That's what I love about what you did with Matt is like, I was
like, I know this type.
I know what this guy is.
I'll watch him for five minutes.
I'll get a sense of it.
And I'm like, oh, man, of course, he's fucking full of
wisdom and charm and all this shit.
Yeah, the craziest thing for me about doing this podcast, I
realized how stupid I was.
Oh, man, on a weekly basis to realize that.
I mean, I still am, but a little bit less.
I've only done this is like the hundredth episode.
I've done a lot.
You guys have done like 300 or 400, right?
We're up to 230 or something like that on ours.
There's been times where we haven't put one out for a
month or so, but we've been consistent every week for a
couple, two, three years now.
And yeah, it's like it builds this muscle in you where it's
just like, it forces you to do it.
Because with a film, it's so easy to be like, I'm not
feeling it today or this week or this month.
Cool, we'll get back to the family trip when I feel
inspired with the podcast.
It's like, I really do hold a fucking gun to my head to do it.
Our household is a disaster if we don't do one of these a
week.
We both feel like shit.
We both feel like some like just weight on us.
And it's just like, it's not a good vibe.
I think what it's done for me is allowed me to take
myself less seriously.
I'm looking for excuses to take life and myself less
seriously.
And when you get on a podcast every week and you're just
like, cool, I'm just talking shit for an hour and a half.
Those ideas, they're not with me anymore.
I'm just like, cool, I got them out there.
I don't have to dwell on that thought anymore or let it fucking
crystallize into my destiny or anything.
It's just like, cool, I said that.
I don't know.
That's who I was then.
I'm going to forgive that person, put this out, and
that's that.
I love that process of just purging ideas, purging of
thoughts, just keeping the energy moving.
That's what I think of the podcast is, just keep the
energy moving, just keep it moving.
You'll still make films.
I'll still make films.
But man, the podcast, what a discipline.
I recommend everybody do it.
Even if you don't put them out, I've interviewed my mom and
my dad.
I'm like, I'm going to fucking have those the rest of my
life.
I need those things.
I have a really well shot interview with my dad where
he's talking about selling fake acid to the Hells Angels
and fucking insane fucking criminal, wild drug stories.
And I'm like, man, I'm going to show this to my grandkids.
That's sick.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah, for me, when I shot Deckhands, we shot it, it
didn't take us that long.
It took us a couple of months to shoot the first two
episodes.
But after we shot it, it sat on a hard drive for almost two
years.
Two years?
Two years.
I was afraid of it.
I was afraid because it was so much.
I had so much content.
And I literally was terrified of the idea of sitting down
and going through all that.
I knew it was gold, too.
It was gold.
Because the first thing we shot was when we went on this
guy named Shane's boat.
And it was laser lights and fog machine.
He had Marilyn Manson music videos playing.
So Florida.
And it was like, as soon as we left there, me and my buddy
Luke, we just high-fived.
Dude, this is, yeah, we got it.
Wow, I can't believe you sat on it for two years after that.
It was terrifying.
Yeah, it was daunting, the idea of trying to edit it
into something.
It was like.
Because you're the editor?
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah, I did everything.
Yeah.
I think this is how I'm able to not sit on something for
two years, is because I've sat in the edit room with Kathy
for so long on so many different kinds of projects.
And I've heard her complain about what other people
dump on her to where I'm like, I don't want to be that guy.
A day's worth of footage is going to be four hours at the
most.
I'm going to watch it with you.
I don't want to overwhelm her.
And we tell young filmmakers that all the time.
They'll come to us bragging.
Hey, I shot 1,200 hours so far for my next documentary.
I'm like, good luck ever fucking getting that thing made.
No editor is going to touch that.
You're not going to want to fucking touch that.
And it's going to be like finding a needle in a haystack.
So it's like, where did you make the decision making as a
filmmaker?
As a director, that's the only thing I'm doing.
It's like, I'm just curating them.
And I can make edits in real time.
Cool, that's enough with that guy.
Let's fucking move on.
Let's not torture everyone here.
And plus, it's just like, I just want to get out of their life.
I don't want to be hanging around in someone's way.
That's a great way to do it.
I never thought about it that way.
Yeah, just move on.
How long have you been shooting the family trip?
Have you started shooting it yet?
We haven't started shooting it yet.
It's something we want to shoot in the next couple of months.
The cast is going to start working on casting.
Basically, it comes down to that.
How do you cast something like that?
So it's three families.
So are we allowed to talk in depth about it?
I mean, absolutely.
We can help us work it out.
This is how we get things made.
Three families who have never taken acid before.
Yeah, or mushrooms, or ayahuasca.
They could smoke toad.
I want to do an older couple doing MDMA together, who's
maybe been through some shit, maybe lost some family members.
They've seen it.
And maybe a loving perspective on their life
could really blossom over the course of a trip.
I picture that being like, yeah, one of the stories
is like kind of sweet, and it's an older couple.
And they're taking MDMA, and they're connecting in a way,
and they're talking about some traumas that they went through,
and they're saying it from such a forgiving place.
To have that weaved in there with maybe three kids
and their parents, who none of them have ever tripped before,
but they've gone through some tragedy and loss,
and they take these mushrooms together, and they get over it.
Maybe like a father and son taking acid
and just weaving these things.
I don't even want to get too specific about it.
I see a problem there working out.
Trauma.
Trauma?
Yeah, that's usually what it is, because you'll take this stuff.
And MDMA especially, because it's so lucid.
You're more with it than ever.
But you're operating from the heart,
and it's just like, it's the forgiveness drug.
There's a reason it's been used in couples therapy
along the West Coast.
There's a reason that they are giving it to veterans.
For PTSD, yeah.
Because it's like, when you have a traumatic experience,
you kind of store the memory of that experience
in your cells and your body.
And you kind of have this story about what
happens when you take MDMA.
You can revisit the experience you had
with a more loving mindset.
So you can kind of reprogram.
Reprogram.
It's neuroplasticity.
We're very neuroplastic.
But it's a beautiful healing thing
that has worked wonders for us.
And that's why I'm like, I can't move on from this.
It kind of seems like I don't want to say a one-trick pony,
but to say like, oh, psychedelics changed our life,
and we have to talk about psychedelics all the time.
It is true, though, because I know
how many people are suffering right now,
whether it's trauma or anxiety or despair or disconnection.
And I know that there is something
that doesn't just treat that like anxiety, like a Zoloft
or whatever it is, but actually goes to the root of it
and heals you.
And it's something where you don't
have to keep taking mushrooms.
You could probably do three mushroom trips,
heal something that's a trigger of yours,
and then move on with your life.
Yeah, it's just that there's not enough money
to be made in these things, because they're so curative
that our system of profits over people
is not going to be accepting of it.
When you take this stuff, it's like, this is illegal?
Like, I remember my dad had no context for MDMA.
We show up at his house.
It was my birthday.
And we show up to say hi to my parents on my birthday.
And my dad's like, I want to kill myself.
I'm dumb-done.
Like, I can't go on.
He was an anxious, depressed mess.
And like, we're freaking out.
He's been in and out of rehabs.
He's been in psych wards.
He's been in prison.
He's amazing.
He's doing great now.
But he was just having a really rough go.
And I was like, I don't really know what to do or say about this.
We recently discovered this stuff, MDMA.
I think you should try it.
And he's like, I don't know.
I was like, I don't know what else to tell you.
This is what I have that I can offer you.
And I know it's safe.
He's like, fine.
So him and I take it together.
And an hour goes by, and it kicks in.
And he just comes over to me.
And he had no context for this.
He just said all veterans should have access to this,
because he's a veteran himself.
And that was his first thought.
And that's what it's being studied for.
That's a big use for this.
And for my dad to deduce that with no context,
just he felt it.
He felt the forgiveness.
He felt the trauma kind of dissolve away a little bit.
I was like, man, he's a case study in this right now.
It's insane that this stuff's illegal.
It's insane that people don't have access.
I mean, and the other thing we've found and been told
is you don't have to be sick to get better.
You don't, there is, I mean, the human experience
can be kind of traumatic for us.
So we have these things that kind of get programmed into us
that we do have room to maybe reflect on
and adjust course and man.
Yeah, my friend, my dad's friend is going through
some medical shit right now.
And they prescribed him Vicodin.
And he's like dependent on the Vicodin now
because he's addicted to it obviously
because it's so fucking addictive.
And he drinks, so he mixes it with the alcohol.
And he wants, he's so dependent on his prescription.
I'm like, dude, this guy used to be a big weed smoker.
I'm like, you need, he quit smoking weed.
I'm like, why'd you quit smoking weed?
Like that seems like the one thing
that would be the best for you right now.
He goes, cause I get drug tested for the Vicodin.
If I smoke weed, they won't give me the Vicodin anymore.
Oh my God.
How ass backwards is that?
I know.
That's how they keep you on the Vicodin.
Yeah.
Because if you smoke weed,
you might not need the Vicodin as much.
Well, you definitely, I mean, they've seen this
in states that legalize marijuana.
Like opioid use goes down 17% in counties
where there is legal dispensary.
Like that's the tip of the iceberg
in terms of what we're gonna see.
And the funny thing is that of the stuff
that they criminalize, it's so obvious why they're doing it.
They're trying to criminalize cratum right now.
Like cratum helps people, it's a plant.
It's like, it's so innocuous
and it helps people get off heroin.
They need to demonize it though
because it's a very cheap and effective way
to get off heroin.
And the people that created the opioid epidemic
want to be able to control and profit from the solution.
So, you know, and they have the media working for them.
So like that's why any opportunity we get,
we try to speak to this stuff
and try to speak to it from a place of like,
yo, we're normal people, we're not drug addicts
or anything, we're using this stuff very responsibly.
We don't drink, we don't fuck.
I've never taken a pill in my life.
I've never done cocaine, nothing like that.
Psychedelics, these are experiences
that I think are essential.
I think, you know, and this is how I'll convince you,
imagine going through your life
and never having an orgasm.
Really?
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, it's on par.
Like I say, it's on par with essential human experiences
with falling in love and having sex.
Psychedelics right up there and creating art.
Like it's like, it's right up there
with the essential human experience
of making you feel connected in this world,
making you feel at home, no matter where you are.
Like it's such a gift for a person
that struggled with anxiety myself
and a ton of self doubt.
Like the confidence that it's given me
to traverse the world in a way as an artist,
not doubting myself, not constantly questioning myself,
am I doing enough?
Oh God, did I put enough shit out?
Are people paying enough attention to me?
Do I have enough money?
Should we get a mortgage?
Should we have a kid?
This is like, none of it is a fucking concern to me
because this stuff's given me a little bit of a perspective
and confidence that I think that no person should go without,
no right-minded person should go without.
And if we lived in a more advanced,
evolved, civilized society, people would have access.
I feel like it would be the type of thing
that your dad and his buddies would take you
on a camping trip when you're 13 years old
and you'd get introduced to cannabis and mushrooms.
And like when you're 18,
some other people show you what acid's all about
and you learn these things in a ritualistic way
and it's handed down from the elders
and it's not sneaking around and fucking partying
and recreational, it's ceremonial, it's ritualistic.
So we're trying to bring some of that stuff back to it.
We created a new holiday called Portal Day.
January 11th is Portal Day.
That's an acid holiday.
Why January 11th?
No, no, no, it just sounds good, 111.
Ooh, I like that.
And it's also, it's the perfect amount of time
after the holidays where it's like,
you've had to come down from the holidays.
There is that like weird depressing
first couple of weeks of the year,
like, ugh, type of feeling.
And like to have right baked in there fucking,
like this year it was Wednesday.
A whole good, like people all over the place,
this year it was all over the world.
This was our third year doing it.
We had to have people in solidarity
with you all over the world.
And the point of the holiday is you go in
and you write down all your fears
on a piece of paper with your friends,
crumple it up, put it in a bowl,
take the acid at 111,
and at the end of the night, burn your fears.
It's as simple as that.
That's portal day, opening up the portal.
That sounds fucking amazing, man.
It's so fun, man.
It's so fun.
And yeah, I mean, like that's all.
We're just like trying to decorate our life
with cool shit like that.
We have this thing called Church of Chill.
And it's just like, it's like all the religions in one,
but all we're worshiping is a chill vibe
that's available to everyone
that I think a lot of people are averse to
because we're a productivity driven society.
So we have the Church of Chill
and that's music is the sacrament.
If you could normalize to make people
more comfortable with psychedelics,
you could change the world.
Oh, absolutely.
And the first attempt at us doing this back in the 60s,
it came off to like revolutionary
and it scared the fucking shit out of people.
And now it seems like this stuff is kind of having its day.
Well, we have the information now to have like safe trips
where you have good set and setting.
Like we've learned from those stakes in the 60s.
You know, we've learned,
and now you can do your own research.
You can go on Arrowhead.
You can go to maps.
You can ask people like us, like, how do I do this?
There's so many podcasts out there about how to do this stuff
and how to do it responsibly and where to get it
and everything like that.
So yeah, we just want to be a little reminder.
Yeah, I mean, I feel like I'm optimistic
about the future of this kind of stuff
and people being more like awake and aware
of everything that's going on,
even like when it comes to the government
forcing opioids down your throat.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a reason they want you on opioids.
There's a reason they're not giving us those $2,000 checks
or giving us $2,000 checks every month
because the desperation and despair breeds consumerism.
And when they got us cornered like that,
we got to work for their slave wages
and we got to buy their bullshit food
and we have to take their bullshit education
and don't question the military industrial complex
and don't question the prison industrial complex
and stay away from these plants
because they might wake you up
and stay away from this little piece of paper.
It's illegal. Get the fuck out of here.
How often do you guys take MDMA?
That is, I would only keep that to every three or four months.
Three or four months?
Yeah.
Now, is there like a,
I heard there's like a hangover effect
that where like it sucks up all your dopamine or something.
It can feel like, and we don't take it,
with MDMA, unlike acid or some of the other things,
minimum effective dose, like 100 milligrams
that on an empty stomach will do you.
If you're going 200 milligrams or higher.
Minimum is 100.
To me, that's the minimum effective dose
and that's really where you want to stay around
because like when you do 200 milligrams, 300,
you're borrowing from the next week.
You're, and that's going to be a rough week
where it's not like you're going to be depressed.
You're not going to feel anything.
It's just, it's like a void type of feeling
of just like, what the fuck.
So we take the minimal effective
and we haven't had, we haven't really struggled with that.
We like to give ourselves a lot of spaciousness
and like that's what we've tried to afford ourselves is like,
how do we have spaciousness around these experiences
so that we do have the time and space to integrate them?
Yeah.
We don't have a podcast the next day
or something like that.
We've made that mistake many times.
We're like canceling.
You're like, I just can't do it.
MDMA for a podcast?
The night before and we're like, oh no, we'll be fine.
We'll be fine for that.
And like the next day you're just like, I don't know.
It's so worth it though.
It's so worth it.
Every time it hits you, you're like,
why was I questioning this?
This is the best.
What about MDMA during a podcast?
We would do that.
We probably have done that.
I've been tripping balls on acid on our podcast.
I've smoked the MD, I've done ketamine on our podcast
and played it fast and loose,
but not a lot of people listen so we can get away with it.
If we were doing your kind of numbers,
I'd probably have to be like, this isn't real pot.
No or whatever.
No, no, no.
Yeah, yeah.
What, okay, when did you do the,
what was the name of the opioid documentary you called?
Oxyana.
Oxyana, how long ago did you make that one?
Oxyana came out in 2013.
We shot it in 2012.
That was basically, we had made this film,
American Juggalo and right after it,
I was like, that achieved,
that was like the first thing that we did
that really popped off and-
Juggalo?
Yeah, American Juggalo.
And we were like, I think that my next thing needs,
like I need to, this is my career starting right now.
Like you can feel it palpably.
I'm like, oh, the spotlight's on me, people care.
I could make something bigger and more ambitious.
And I didn't know what it was gonna be.
I knew I was kind of drawn to those stories,
but we actually were just on a road trip.
Me and a friend and a country singer friend
of ours, Johnny Fritz.
And he had, when he grew up in Virginia
and he said, we used to fucking take ATV tours.
We used to hang out in the mountains of West Virginia
in this town, Oxyana, we should go there.
So we just go pulling into Oxyana one night
on a long road trip and it's this old coal mining town
in the middle of fucking nowhere in West Virginia.
It's an hour away from any other town.
You just, you really feel like you're driving
into the middle of nowhere weaving through these mountains,
the lights and you're going into this town
and we got there and it was an eerie feeling
as soon as we got there.
I could tell something was like a little,
kind of how all of America feels right now.
That's how Oxyana felt when we first showed up there.
Like maybe I shouldn't be here.
Yeah, something's off.
Like I don't know what it is.
And, but I was like, I don't know how to really,
I don't know, let me figure out what's going on.
And then we saw a juggle, though.
And I was like, I don't know how to talk to jugglers.
These, I went up to this guy and I was like,
yo, what up, whoop, whoop.
And he's like, yo, what up?
I was like, yeah, I made this movie, American Juggle.
He's only shit.
Oh my God, you made that.
What the fuck, yo.
And like he was excited.
So I'm talking to this guy for five minutes
and he like takes me over the side and he's like,
you want to know the real, the truth
about what's going on around here?
I'm like, yeah, what is it?
He's like dope.
This whole town is full of dope.
That's all it is.
He's like, it's so much,
there's so much dope here that they call this place Oxyana.
They don't even call it Oceana.
Everyone calls it Oxyana.
The cops are in on it, the judges,
the fucking everybody's in on everybody's on this shit.
Just like, what the fuck?
10 minutes after that, he's shooting up in front of us.
And I was like, all right, this guy,
he might be telling the truth.
This seems pretty fucked up.
And then you just like, look around.
You get a sense of the place.
You're like, yeah, this is weird.
So we hung out for a few days,
got to know some more people.
And then in the back of my head,
I was like, this could be a movie.
And I'll come back and I'll make sure it is.
So it came back a couple months later
and just went there with my cinematographer, Hilary Spira.
Me, Cass, her and a producer went down there.
No cameras, just showing up as people.
And we stand out like a fucking sore thumb in West Virginia.
And we started picking up hitchhikers.
That was the way we made that movie.
We just started picking up hitchhikers
because there's a ton of them
and they would get in the car
and we'd start asking them questions.
We'd ask where we were taking them.
We were just kind of putting two and two together,
getting a sense of the scene.
That's how we mainly, we mapped the territory
by picking up hitchhikers.
And you weren't filming any of this?
No, just making friends.
So then we went down there a few months later
with the cameras.
And we were doing a Kickstarter for the film
at the time when this was a mistake.
We were running an active Kickstarter
when we went to make the movie.
So the people in the town,
especially some of the drug people knew
we were coming down there to make a movie
and we were getting threats like,
don't fucking come down here with your cameras.
We'll blow your head off if you show up in this town
with cameras digging around in the drug scene.
So it was like a little bit harrowing going down there.
We had to have like two plain closed security officers
with us the whole time, like that was packing heat
and like make sure.
And they needed to pull their guns a couple of times.
Really?
While we were making the movie, yeah.
Yeah, so we get down there and we just,
there's no way to plan for a movie like that.
You're just in a town that has a problem.
It's like, how do you even tell that story?
So we're just like, let's just talk to whoever will talk
to us and talk to one addict, talk to one dealer.
They tell their friend, like these people are actually cool.
It was really cathartic to talk to them.
It made me feel better to tell my story.
Just one thing led to another.
And we interviewed a lot of people in that town
and that was our first feature length movie.
Oxyana, it's out there on our YouTube channel for free.
So you raised all the money on Kickstarter for it?
Yeah.
Yeah, we raised a 70 grand for that one.
Whoa!
Yeah, for in a month.
That's when you could do that.
See, I feel like a lot of stuff that made my career,
you couldn't even do now.
Like, there's so much, everyone is doing,
like it's just like, I don't even know how the fuck
I would get something noticed now.
You know, like literally all I used to do
was make the thing and put it out.
No marketing or promoting or putting money behind it.
You just feel sent to a blog and you're like,
all of a sudden, whoa, there's a coming views.
You got, how many people did it take to raise 70,000?
A thousand.
1,000 people, 70,000 dollars.
Yeah, I think that's, yeah.
Maybe less.
Yeah.
That's insane.
I know.
We did it again too for Camgirls a year later.
Raised more.
We raised even more with Camgirls.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was cool.
That's a trip.
That's what I mean when I'm like,
you have to fall in love with every part of the process.
Otherwise it's going to be fucking torturous.
I thought you were just paying
for all this out of your own pocket.
The shorts.
The shorts, yeah, because they cost four grand.
But that, like the budget for Oxyana
was probably 200 in the end.
I pumped a bunch of money into it.
Another producer did.
We raised that money online, but we paid everyone back.
Everyone got their money back.
We've never really made money on any of these movies,
but we also haven't really lost money.
It's kind of a weird thing.
It's not really tangible.
Like we put out a movie and we get commercial attention.
So that seems to be the way the universe pays it back.
But all our stuff is free.
That's been important to us.
And it's also been important to us
to premiere on the internet as opposed to on a network
or a film festival or anything like that.
I think that's super important to us.
Yeah, YouTube's pretty awesome.
It's amazing.
It's amazing.
YouTube is like one of the fucking best things.
It's the worst because they just demonetized your channel
for talking about psychedelics.
Yeah, there's also a lot of weird wonky shit
going on with YouTube and the way they're trying to...
Have you heard about that law they tried to pass
in that last COVID bill?
It was called Section 230 Communications Decency Act
or something like that.
Have you heard of that?
No.
Basically when YouTube and Facebook first came out,
I think it was 2006 maybe, somewhere around there,
they came out with a law that basically says
these platforms are immune to legal action
because there's third-party people
like you and I posting content on there
so you can't sue YouTube.
Like you can go after the people that make it,
which I think it makes sense.
Or else YouTube wouldn't exist probably.
Yeah, they'd be getting sued every day.
And there's also part of it's a copyright law
to where if you violate someone's copyright,
like if I post Florida Man and say this was mine,
I'm obviously violating copyright law,
YouTube can't be sued for that.
I can be sued for that, which is rightfully so.
So I think it makes sense.
But Trump was trying to get rid of that.
Well, because he hates these platforms.
It's very personal for him.
And you're like, oh, that doesn't really,
I don't know, that doesn't add up in your like,
oh yeah, these platforms censor you.
So it's like, I think it's up in the air right now.
I don't know all the specific details
on like the politics of it
and how the people that are voting for it,
the people who aren't voting for it,
but I know it's kind of up in the air right now.
What's gonna happen with that?
I don't know what's gonna happen, but it's kind of scary.
Yeah, I mean, it's kind of scary
how much power these platforms have
to just make or break your life.
Like we just were, we woke up one day
and we were demonetized.
We were like, okay, nothing we can really do about it.
The whole channel?
Yeah.
What?
Yeah, I know.
And it's like, fuck man,
Oxyana is about to have a million views.
We haven't made a dime off that.
We're on unemployment right now
because we can't fucking work.
What was the reason they say they demonetized
your whole entire channel?
Because of what we're talking about.
Whoa.
They were like, your content is not in line
with who we advertise to.
Was it just a video though,
or every video you upload?
I don't know, we're guessing they don't really like the tags.
I mean, even American Juggalo is a little iffy.
Because even Deccan's,
there's only one episode that's not monetized on that.
And that's some fucking gnarly shit that we're doing.
Why did they demonetize it?
Because it was, I think it was the woman who gave birth,
the title is, the woman who gave birth to her father's son.
She talks about getting raped by her dad
and having her dad's son.
An ad for dog food comes up during that.
So I mean, I can kind of understand that a little bit.
But at least they didn't take the video down.
I understand, okay, don't run ads on it, whatever.
They don't take our videos down,
but they just say, you can't make money off them.
It's fucked up.
Yeah, that's super fucked up.
I think we'll figure it out.
I think it's like, the way to do it
is to kind of have your tentacles spread everywhere.
We might get a commercial,
we might get a little money from Patreon,
we might get a little money from YouTube.
We might get hired to do some other weird shit
with fucking nos.
Just trying to be adaptable.
Yeah, you gotta adapt to these fucking times.
Did you hear David Chappelle's story,
his recent story about HBO and Netflix?
Yeah.
Like, why do we need you when you was pitching Chappelle's show?
Yeah, yeah.
They worked it out though.
Did they?
Yeah, I heard that Chappelle's show was back on HBO
and Netflix with his approval and everything.
Okay.
What a power move, man.
He basically puts out an 18 minute video
that like fucking bullied these huge networks
into fucking succumbing to him.
It was amazing.
That's insane, man, because it's so true.
I mean, they're fucking monsters, dude.
Oh yeah, they don't give a shit.
Especially when you're a young black dude,
however old he was when he was signing those deals,
like they didn't give a fuck.
They wanted to take advantage of him.
That resonated with me when he was talking about that,
like being a young kid trying to pitch his show
and trying to go through the rigmarole
of convincing these old men in suits
to pay you to make your show.
Well, okay, let's see if the people that pay us
will accept this.
Let's see if it'll fit with our advertisers.
That's how they determine what's good or what's not.
I love the idea.
That's why I started creating content online
is because I went through the process
of trying to create and pitch shows to networks and stuff
and had a bunch of packaged content
that I just kind of like reformatted for YouTube.
Oh.
And I just started posting it and then making new stuff.
Well, you hacked the system
because like that fucking chasing that like,
oh, I got a meeting with so-and-so
and it was like, fuck all that worst.
You're going to ask permission to do
what you got to do in this life.
If you want to make fucking films,
don't sit around waiting for someone
to fucking sign off on that shit.
Figure out how to do it.
Like Christ Almighty,
you could make a movie on your fucking iPhone.
Like there's really no excuse now.
So yeah, I mean, it's, yeah, it's,
I see it way too much with young filmmakers.
It's like, and I get it
because I was like that at one point too.
They're like, they're like, they hit me up.
Like, hey, can you look at my thing?
Can you read my thing?
It's just like, you don't fucking need my approval.
Do I need anyone's approval?
You like this?
Fucking go make it.
Make your mistakes, put them out there.
Fucking feel how that feels.
Forgive yourself and start making the next thing.
That's how you evolve as an artist.
But if you're not putting it out there
and not getting even that feedback from yourself,
that feedback, like, you know how it feels different
when you watch your edit
as opposed to when you're showing it to somebody else.
Like it feels completely fucking different.
That's how it is when you put a project out.
People start imbuing it with their meaning of it
and you gotta let go and you gotta say,
fuck man, I might've made mistakes here, there,
or everywhere in this film,
but people are casting meaning onto it.
Now it's not mine anymore.
I gotta start making the next one.
I'm gonna make this one better.
This one's gonna be a better reflection of who I am
and what I see humanity as.
Yeah.
That's amazing, man.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Well, cool.
I appreciate you doing this, dude.
Yeah, incredible.
Great fucking time.
Tell everyone who's listening,
where they can follow you and listen to your podcast
and watch all your stuff.
YouTube.com slash variape or variape.tv.
All our films are there for free.
Our podcasts are there.
We have a radio show called Church of Chill
and we have to hide that behind a paywall, unfortunately,
because it keeps getting torn down.
Fucking YouTube demonetizing you.
Yeah, yeah.
And Spotify and SoundCloud,
everybody came after us at once.
So yeah, patreon.com slash church of chill.
You can find us there.
You pay any amount, pay one cent
and you can get access to our radio show,
additional podcasts and our Discord community.
Our Discord community is like my fucking favorite.
Really?
Oh my God.
It's like other like-minded homies.
It's like, how the hell are we all finding each other?
Just dope psychedelic artists from all over the world
finding each other and just communicating all day.
It's helping me get off other platforms.
Really?
Oh yeah.
How do you talk to them?
Just with the app?
Yeah, yeah.
And it's like a chat?
Streaming text and you can get on video if you want
or whatever, but like, oh, we have a couple hundred people
on there that's just like, it's like active all day
and all night.
And it hooks up to your people that pay on Patreon?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I need to set that up.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Discord.
I need to figure it out.
I haven't figured it out.
Discord's a weird, it's hard for me.
Yeah, I know.
People were telling us to get a Discord server years ago
and we were like, whatever.
And now we have one.
I'm like, fuck, I wish we started this years ago.
Yeah, I need to do it.
Dope.
Yeah.
Yeah, so that's, and we have this morning show
called The Come Up.
That's every day on our YouTube channel
and on Instagram TV.
And that's at very ape TV.
Awesome.
I'll link it all below too.
Oh, cool.
Cool, I appreciate it, Sean.
Thank you.
Awesome, thank you, Cass.
Thanks for having us.
All right, guys.
Seminal high.
Yeah, rock on.
