Thank you for calling concrete. What is the meaning of life? Why are we here? Where are
we going? What is your relationship with spirituality? Do you believe there is a purpose to all of
this or are we just spiraling through the void racing towards an inevitable end? What
do you believe? Let's talk. Leave us a message. Let us know how you feel about your place
in the universe. We appreciate your courage to confront these thoughts.
Next message. Wow, it's pretty heavy stuff. Next message. As people, we tend to forget
how really minuscule we are and how our options truly mean nothing. We are a tiny planet,
minuscule to other planets that are even 10,000 times almost smaller than our Sun, which
is one of the smallest Suns in our galaxy, which also is just a known fraction of what
we know of the universe. We are forever changing the Earth or remain here. People think the
universe is going to outlast us or that we will outlast it and have to move on to Mars
or to Moon. It's a foreseeable goal, but humans, we put too much on our actions and our lives.
We care too much. We forget that we are literally atom-sized, basically, specks of organisms
that are living together compared to what is out there. The universe is going to go
on and continue to go on, long after humans go extinct, just like every other known animal
or anything else on this planet. It's all going to go away. It'll all come back again,
maybe not as humans, maybe not as what we know, but forever things change and forever
things go on. People aren't going to be here.
First of all, some of you guys know that outer space is fake. God separated the waters from
the waters and he sucked a firmament in the midst of the waters. NASA is using CGI animation
to fake space. The sun, moon, and stars move above the earth. Okay? And it's my job to let
everybody know. Next message. It doesn't matter. Bring back the fucking crack heads from Florida.
Let's do it. Next message. Hello. I believe that Jesus Christ was born of a Virgin Mary
that he came to relieve us of our sins and that we are here for God's company,
for his pleasure, for companionship. That's what I believe. Thank you.
Next message. We're here to fuck. We're here to fuck vaginas and do that all the time. I'm
here to fuck. God took me here to fuck. We're here to fuck. We need to put our dicks and butts
in that dick. Next message. And my name is Dan. I'm from California. I'm 19 years old right now.
I understand that with my little experience of life so far, I don't have much to speak on
or may not be regarded as a good candidate after where you find the meaning of life or
what it means. And I can't speak for other people or if it's valid for other people,
but I think I've discovered my meaning of life. With drug addiction and family hardships and
stuff that has changed the core of how I look at the world, I was raised in a really orthodox
Catholic Hispanic household in California. And questioning religion and questioning
where you stand in the world in an orthodox Catholic household is really looked down upon.
It's bad if you're questioning God and stuff because you're directly questioning the beliefs of
not only you, but your entire family tree and stuff. It's very overwhelming.
But I'm going to keep it short and so you can say that for me, the meaning of life and the origin
of humanity and all that stuff, I talk to my friends often about the meaning of life and stuff.
I'm always curious about what motivates other people, drives other people. Because the meaning
of life is probably the most important question humanity is. All the inventions,
all the progress humanity has made. At the end of the day, what's the meaning of it?
If there's no meaning yet for humans, what's the purpose of it? If we're just living in a black void
that never ends. And for me, I don't believe in God anymore. I don't believe in a lot of that
stuff. But what I do believe in is just the idea that matters neither created nor destroyed.
So the fundamental stuff I'm made out of goes back into the universe. And one day,
the earth will be swallowed by the sun and the universe will stop expanding, whatever,
science, right? I guess I believe in science. But I'm not scared of black boys and stuff.
I think the reason that we put so much importance on life is because of what we're in it. It's just
like the grass is always greener on the other side kind of thing. But instead of the grass being
greener on the other side, it's like what the people of countries live and die for, right? Like
why people go to war and die for their countries because they live in it. It's all they know.
It's all they have to stand behind. It's what they're proud of, you know? They don't know
anything else. There's nothing else to fight for. So it's like, this is life. We're just fighting
for it, you know? Next message. The meaning of life is the number 42. And that's it.
Next message. Honestly, I think the purpose of life is, I don't think there is any purpose.
Some people believe in a god, you know, or multiple gods, you know, back in the day,
they thought they gave reason to existence in nature and anything in Buddhism and all that.
I don't know. Probably like reincarnation or something. I mean, we're all here just to do what?
To progress, you know, further in society to evolve technologically, mentally, physically.
And if you like look at it from like a scientific perspective, like if you look at it from a non-
faith-based viewpoint, you know, we're just here for no reason. I mean,
like evolutionary wise, I mean, we're pretty much like a fuck-up in nature, like nothing like us.
Like we should not exist naturally in nature, but we do. So somewhere along the line,
like something screwed up, you know, some monkey got down with like some weird looking monkey or
whatever and boom, here we are. I don't know. I mean, I think maybe like when we die, we go into
like a higher dimension consciously, but or like reincarnation, you know, maybe you come back,
maybe when you die, your spirit goes back into like someone else's body. Maybe we're reliving the same
lives over and over again. But I don't think there is any point to life except to just be to exist.
I don't see any other point. I mean, yeah, maybe this is a test or this is all a simulation.
We're all hooked up into some HTC vibes and, you know, this feels like a lifetime,
but then like when we die, you're going to wake up in arcade and be like, hey, Jim, what's going on,
bud? Who knows? But you got to have something to keep it going and I guess that's where religion
takes place. You know, but if you just, you know, don't care about it, you know, like,
don't people work themselves up over like what's going to happen when they die? You know, like,
where are they going to go and everything? And I think that's where a lot of people get caught up
in that trap of just worrying. And if you just decide, you're like comfortable with the fact that,
you know, with the unknown, that you don't know what's going to happen when you die.
Next message. I was a former Jehovah's Witness. I had left the religion back in 1995. I am now
a Buddhist and a practicing petitioner of Paul Mayonbe. I believe that the earth will eventually
die on this birth and then there's death. So eventually the earth will die. I believe that
we will have a new earth. We will have a reincarnation of the soul. I believe that when
we die, our soul is either reincarnated into another person or we go into the eternal abyss of hell.
I also believe that our purpose on life here on earth is to improve the quality of life
of each other, to improve the quality of life, not just physically, but mentally and spiritually.
There's people that are on drugs, that are on oxys and dope and meth, and these people have no
contribution to society whatsoever. Therefore, I think these people have zero meaning in life.
The life is beautiful. There's so much to it and I believe that if you want to have a great life,
you'll have a wonderful family. It's not all about money, but it's about having a family that
loves you, cares for you, and that's my meaning on life. Thank you.
The next message, the meaning of life, the meaning of life.
From the oldest of times, people dance for a number of reasons. They dance in prayer
or so that their crops will be plainful, so their hunt will be good and they dance to say
physically fit and show their community's favorite, and they dance to celebrate,
and that is dancing what we're talking about. All we told, praise the Lord, sing unto the
Lord a new song, let them praise his name and dance. It was King David. King David, who we read about
in Sam's, and what we do with David do, and what did David do? The meaning of life. His might,
he's leaping and leaping and dancing before the Lord, leaping and dancing, shows us that there's
a time of every purpose under heaven, a time to laugh, a time to weep, a time to mourn,
and there's a time to dance. And there is a time for this law, but not anymore.
See, this is all time to dance, it is a way of, a way of celebrating life, and it's the way I was
in the beginning, it's the way it always been, it's the way it should be now.
And that's the meaning of life.
Thanks for calling. Your thoughts matter. Let's talk 727-222-0423.
