All right, Sean, SB1Hargans, thanks for coming, man.
You bet.
Excited to see where we go.
Yeah, I don't know where we're going to go, but it should be interesting.
Yeah, so I was introduced to you through Chris Bledsoe and Dave Broadwell, that's his last
name, right?
Yeah, how did you originally get in touch with those guys and how did you meet Chris?
Well, Dave was bringing together a group of people for an event at the Monroe Institute
and wanting to focus on UAPs, and Chris was going to be part of that, and so Dave reached
out, came across my information, because I'm doing a lot of work kind of at the intersection
of academics and UAP studies, and with a focus on experiencers and anomalous experiences.
What were you guys doing at the Monroe Institute?
Dave wanted to do something that brought together a bunch of different modalities of contact
to see what would happen if we had a group of people who all were oriented towards the
phenomenon, had experiences with the phenomenon, had a background with the phenomenon, and
so throughout each day we're there like four or five days.
We did the Hemi-Sink technology with the headsets in the boxes at Monroe, like the Faraday
cages?
No, they have, when you sleep at night, you have these, there's kind of these, they just
often call them the boxes because you kind of get in there and you pull a curtain so
it's totally dark and you put on headsets that they have the Hemi-Sink technology coming
through in order to have out-of-body experiences or different types of contact experiences.
We were doing that each day, also during the middle of the day, like after lunch and stuff,
and then we were doing different types of PSI practices, different types of CE5, types
of activities, each night we were doing Skywatch, and so the idea was like, what happens when
you bring together a dozen people who have collective intention around making contact
and then throwing in someone like Chris Bledsoe who has a real strong kind of history of being
able to connect with and bring forth the orbs and the other types of phenomenon, and yeah,
it was amazing.
It was a great event and quite fascinating, so yeah, so I met Chris there and we were
able to connect both during the activities but also during the meals and other moments
during the time there.
What do you think about the orbs that Chris is able to summon?
Yeah.
What do you think those things are?
I think there are a number of different things.
I think the way I orient towards it is they are forms of non-human intelligence and I
think what's fascinating about orbs when you look at and study how orbs are experienced,
both currently and also historically, they seem to be a form of energy that allows UFOs
to manifest, to allow beings to manifest, people witness beings becoming orbs, orbs becoming
beings, people witness orbs becoming UFOs, UFOs becoming orbs, so it seems that orbs
are more like a state of energy that different types of phenomenon are able to transform
into and out of, so I think orbs generally aren't just one thing.
They could be a lot of things.
They could be a lot of different types of intelligences.
They could be a lot of different types of technologies, so I think it's still pretty open as to how
to make sense of these things.
Yeah.
Have you ever heard of anyone else having any kind of experiences like that or being
able to, anyone in history witnessing something that's so clearly the same thing as what Chris
is seeing?
Yeah.
There's another woman.
I'm forgetting her name.
I want to say her name is Dorothy.
Oh, Dorothy Iza.
Yeah.
And she also did a lot of video and recording back in the day with kind of an old, funky
camera and it's a very similar kind of story to Chris's.
Though Chris has a lot of additional phenomenon that's associated with his experiences.
So well, it's interesting that other people are able to witness it alongside him.
Yeah.
It's like, it's not just him who can see it.
You can go out like I went out to the beach with him, me and Stephen and I, and we were
able to see these things after staring at the sky for two hours.
And I said this before, I was like, I've never seen these orbs in my life, but at the same
time I've never stared at the sky and looked for them for two hours.
Sometimes what he films, they're really far away.
Sometimes they're much closer.
Sometimes they're in his backyard.
Sometimes they're over the horizon.
So there's a lot of different types.
And I think he mentioned on your show, like 2700 clips of film in one year.
And some of them are less convincing than others, but when you look at the total set
of video clips, it definitely makes you consider that something else is going on.
Yesterday, he posted one on his Instagram that I've never seen before.
He posted one.
So all the ones that he's posted, Stephen, he could pull up his Instagram.
They all look like the ones that we saw, right?
They all are filmed on those night vision, monocular that he films everything with.
And you can see, he's clearly filming it with his hand.
It's moving around.
You can see the grain in the background.
The one he posted yesterday is very different.
It looks like it's filmed on something else and it's completely stabilized.
Like, look at that.
There's no movement.
It's like, is he filming this on a tripod or something, or maybe he got a new camera?
No.
And this is the most up close, detailed shot I've ever seen of one of these things.
Yeah, and see, there, it blips out, you know, I think there's zero grain in that.
It's crazy.
You know, so the orbs, I think, are best understood as an energy state of some phenomena that's
choosing to be in that energy state, whether it's a craft, whether it's a bean, whether
it's something else.
And they come in and go out of that energy state.
You know, in Stephen Greer's documentary, Close Encounters of the Fifth Kind, there's
a lot of different video shots that they've collected over the years that are showcased
in that film, you know, things like this and a lot of other things that are also even kind
of more provocative.
You know, so there is a lot of interesting film footage of stuff that, you know, makes
you wonder, what are we dealing with?
What initially got you into this stuff and to studying this stuff and you have a, what
is your PhD in?
My PhD is in Integrative Meta Theories, so looking at...
Which is what, in English?
Yeah, theories that take a big picture of reality, try and explain reality by not reducing
it to any one aspect of reality.
And so theories that kind of embrace psychological dimensions, cultural dimensions, behavioral
dimensions and systemic dimensions.
And you know, so how do we include insight from lots of different disciplines and domains
in order to better understand the complexity of reality around us?
So it's basically like an interdisciplinary approach to big picture thinking.
So think of, you know, Toe's theories of everything, you know, coming out of the physics world,
but they kind of tend to orient towards just matter and physics and gravitational forces
and so forth.
These kinds of theories of everything like include religion, psychology, sociology, you
know, like kind of all the different domains of human knowledge to try and integrate the
core elements to see what can we really say about reality.
Interesting.
So like philosophy, cosmology and consciousness are kind of the three areas I spend a lot
of time studying and teaching in.
One of the interesting things to me is, I had this guy in here, Andrew Gallimore, Dr.
Andrew Gallimore, and he is a neuroscientist studying in Tokyo and he's doing research.
It's called DMTX is the name of his project where he puts people on extended state DMT
where he gives them an IV drip of DMT for like hours at a time and he tries to study
the DMT realm and what's going on, the entities that people see in that realm.
Exactly.
Yeah, I know his work.
Yeah, it's fascinating work and, you know, I have a feeling a lot of this stuff has,
is something to do with the pineal gland and something inside the mind.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that definitely seems to be like a bridge point between our consciousness and these
other realms.
And a lot of the esoteric traditions talk about the pineal gland and the pituitary gland.
Sometimes there's debates in the esoteric literature about which of those two is kind
of the primary kind of entry point into these other realms, but they both seem to be involved.
And one of the things that's been interesting and like John Hopkins recently did a study
in the last couple of years looking at DMT entities and trying to understand the nature
of the encounters.
So we're at a point in history now where a big medical school like John Hopkins is actually
funding research looking at the kinds of entities that are encountered in DMT states.
So it's really fascinating to see.
Really?
Yeah.
When did this start?
You can pull it up.
It's on the internet.
There's a study they've been doing for a number of years and, you know, folks like David
Luke are involved and, yeah, and so they're trying to, you know, they're using it more
in therapeutic contexts as well, right?
With the whole psychedelic revolution, the legalization of marijuana.
You see our society warming up to the reality of other states of consciousness.
Oh, wow.
Look at this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So there's a famous study that came out.
It was published a couple of years ago that, you know, a few, maybe if you did a search
also for DMT entities and John Hopkins, but yeah, like 55 million in funding.
So we're basically, we're moving from kind of a monophasic orientation to reality to
a polyphasic, meaning that currently we generally think reality is just based on what we can
see with our five senses and we take a rational approach.
So it's kind of like monophasic, meaning one state, one state of consciousness is privileged
as the primary state from which to know reality.
So waking rational scientific consciousness is what's kind of ruled the day for the last
600 years.
We're shifting to a polyphasic mode where multiple states of consciousness are being recognized
as having value and access to different aspects of reality.
And this being one example with John Hopkins research kind of looking into that.
So we're seeing this, you know, shift in kind of public perception around what's real and
the nature of what's real.
It has to be the case that some people have a higher perception than others or have heightened
sensory input and output than other people.
And one of the best ways that that was ever put to me is my friend Paul Rosely who spent
like the last 20 years living in the Amazon rainforest.
He went from living in Brooklyn to living in the Amazon.
He explained that once he got down there, after being down there for a couple of days,
it was like being disconnected from society and all the technology and all the computers
and phones and TV screens.
Your senses and your perception is raised when you're in this environment of nature disconnected
from modern technology.
Totally.
Part of my background is I've been a wilderness guide leading outdoor trips at different phases
in my life.
And in eco psychology, there's this whole notion of the wilderness effect, which basically
says that when you take a group of people out into nature for an extended period, it
usually takes them around five days to kind of detox from kind of civilization.
And then you see a transition in them, you know, kind of in this moving into the second
week of the trip where what you just described starts to happen, right?
Where they orient differently, they kind of are in touch with their sleep cycle and their
body and their food in a different way.
And I remember when I was younger in college, I was an assistant leader to a trip and we
went to Utah Canyonlands.
And the trip leader right as we were getting ready to leave the van for two weeks, he put
a bandana on the ground and he said, okay, just one last kind of activity, I think you
guys are going to like this.
You know, take off your watches, put your watch in the bandana and then I'll tell you
what's going to happen next.
So we all do that.
And then once they're all in the bandana, he walks over, he ties it up, unlocks the
van, puts it in the van, shuts the van and says, all right, let's go.
We're all like, what?
And then I realized, you know, over the next few days, I didn't have my watch, right?
And I used to say, oh, it's four o'clock, I'm hungry, right?
Or oh, it's eight o'clock, I should get up, you know?
So I noticed that I tended to refer to the watch to know how I felt or where I was at
in my daily cycle.
But when he took the watch away, this process that you described started to happen more
readily in this trip, right?
So I started to look at different reference points for knowledge and understanding.
Like, oh, check in with my actual stomach to see if I'm hungry, you know, like notice,
am I tired or not tired?
Should I sleep or get up, right?
So I think there is a lot to say about this kind of process that your friend described.
And this is a big reason why I got into studying the phenomenon, because I was really fascinated.
My background in partisan philosophy of science and kind of what makes valid knowledge and
how do we understand what's real.
And I was very intrigued by the many stories of individuals who, let's say there's three
folks out in the evening on the back of a tailgate, you know, having a beer and talking
and looking at the sky, and they have a UFO encounter.
And two of them see it, the third person doesn't see it.
But the two people who do say it, see it, think it's really close.
One person sees it as being kind of a classic saucer shape.
The other person sees it more as like an orb.
And so you get these three conflicting reports.
One person says, I didn't see anything.
Two people say we did see something, but they don't agree necessarily on the specifics.
And we generally in our society would use that to say, oh, we just dismiss it because
there's no agreement, clearly like people are making things up, they had a beer, whatever.
But I started to sense like, wait, I think these people actually did see something.
And so why did that one guy not see anything?
And then why did those two people see something different, but they both saw something?
And that led me into thinking about this point you're making with respect to
senses and inner senses and different modes of sensing and perceiving.
And because my background is in consciousness studies and kind of the esoteric and contemplative
traditions, I knew that there are vast literatures that describe our subtle bodies and our subtle
senses. And so I started looking at that literature to try and understand how is it we might,
different people might be seeing different things, right?
Because you also have a dynamic where some people will report that they see fairy beings.
And other people will report they see angels on a semi-regular basis.
And other people will report they see extraterrestrials.
Or you have someone like David Steven Greer says, I've never encountered a negative
ET in my life, they're all positive. And then you have other people who have abduction experiences,
right? So there's a wide range of experiences being encountered.
And then you have someone like Chris Bledsoe, who I call a super experiencer, who's kind of
seeing and experience a full range of phenomena. So I kept asking myself, why are some people
seeing one thing, one kind of thing? And other people seeing a lot of different things.
So like, why does one person only see ghosts in their life? And another person sees extraterrestrials,
Bigfoot, poltergeist activity, and so forth. And it appears that a lot of it has to do with
our subtle bodies, in our subtle senses. How many people have you studied that have experienced
these different types of phenomena? About four years ago, when I kind of came out of the UFO
closet and started talking more about my own experiences and using my background in integrative
meta theories to look at the phenomenon, I started running a course, an online course,
for three months on what I call exo studies, right? Like an integral approach to the phenomenon.
And initially, I started the course because I wanted a platform to talk about how we might think
about these phenomenon from an integrative perspective. A bunch of people signed up and,
you know, like 30, 40 people signed up. And what happened in that first course was people were
more interested in sharing their experiences. And I was a little surprised by this because I just
was wanting to kind of have more of an intellectual discussion. But because I created a safe space
to look at this phenomenon from a lot of different angles without privileging one side or one
interpretation over another, people felt it was safe to share their own experiences. And what I
started to discover in that course and subsequent courses is a lot of people are having these
experiences. And so I would say over the last five years, I've been in direct conversation with
probably 500 people who have a wide range of experiences. And they usually don't talk about it.
And I also started to discover that a lot of my friends, who I'd known for 20, 30 years,
had these experiences and they had never talked about it to me or anyone else.
So I realized there's a big taboo that prevents people from talking about it. Part of it's because
they self doubt and they even question what they saw. But when you start to create a safe place to
explore and talk about this and you kind of are considering different theories that might help
explain it, then people generally have a lot to say about it. And I feel that these experiences
are much more ubiquitous than what kind of general perception is. You said you had your own experiences?
Yeah. What kind of experiences?
I like to joke that I've been microdioscene weird for about 30 years. And by that I'm referring
to the fact that I've had a lot of different experiences, like kind of 30 different types
of experiences. But they're often just like little glimpses. Like I had the experience of
seeing a ghost in a friend's house, turned out it was her mother. But I've never seen a ghost
before since. I've had precognitive experiences. I had a really intense download experience
a couple years ago where like a whole kind of understanding came through and it took me
months to kind of unpack it. And I built these 3D models based on it. I've had encounters with
different types of intelligences, not in kind of the classic kind of, you know, physical eyes
seeing something, but different types of experiences that lead me to believe that I'm
having some kind of interaction with a non-human intelligence.
When you say download, what do you mean specifically? So what was downloaded?
There's a personality system called the Enneagram that Gurjeev, a Russian mystic in the late,
in the early 1900s, kind of made popular. And then it, you know, came over to the US in the 80s.
And, you know, businesses use it today to understand nine different personality types
of individuals. And I've taught that home system and graduate courses for, you know, many years.
And, you know, it's a very amazing system that kind of looks at nine different major types of
personalities and kind of, you know, what their main fears are and what their
core orientation or strategy to dealing with challenges in their life are.
So I had a background in this system. And the download was essentially this experience I was
flying home on a plane from Brazil. I was doing some consulting work there.
And I just started kind of having like all this information in my head around the system.
And the fact that the system is actually, well, at first I didn't know where it was headed,
but I had, I got this impulse to start playing with the different triangle combinations in the
system, because it's a, it's a nine point kind of chart. And, and so there's different triangles
you can make between the different numbers, like the seven, the nine and the two. And there's
different harmonics connected to those combinations. So I ended up having this intense impulse
to start mapping this out. So I started making these little triangles with the different numbers.
And I, and I created, there's like 27 possible combinations, right? Because you have, you know,
nine times. And so, and then I started taping them together. And I started like trying to figure
out, and it was all this deep impulse, like, and my family was joking about, right, you know,
what's the guy's name on Close Encounters of the Third Kind, where he's making the
devil's tower out of mashed potatoes. You know, it's just kind of this like intense,
like, I'm staying up, I do my work during the day, the family would go to sleep.
And then I would, you know, start building these geometric models, right, up until about midnight.
And it turned out they created these, these complex platonic forms, right, like octahedrons,
essentially kind of this mega octahedron. But anyway, so in this like three month process,
I was also just getting information that seemed connected to galactic sources, that seemed connected
to potentially archangels, you know, so like it was really kind of odd and confusing.
Is this something that you had thought about before? No, it's like that, that was the whole
thing about it being a download was like, I knew nothing about sacred geometry. I knew nothing
about all, all these things that were kind of coming through. And there was this impulse. And
it was like, I was working on and working on it. And then at a certain point, late at night,
when I got to a place where I knew I was close, I knew I was really close to kind of where this
was headed. And I had, and I finally made this model, and I have pictures of them, I couldn't
pull them up probably. And then once that model was there on the table, when I finished it,
and I stood back, all of a sudden, I was like, I just had this thing released in me. It was like,
okay, that's it. I did it. And it was like this knowing that that's what all this was about was
to create that particular geometric structure. And it was like, almost like I was released from
this obsessive compulsive desire to try and create it. So it was like it was in me. And my job was
to like get it out. And so, and I, you know, I was pretty confused by this whole situation.
And so I talked with a number of psychics to ask them kind of, what do you think is going on?
Can you give me like any insight? Yeah. So like people, you know, Sears, people with kind of
intuitive knowledge, just, you know, I was like, Hey, you know, help me out. Like, what's, what's,
what's this about? What's going on? And, you know, they all confirmed in their own way that like,
yeah, like this is like, what we'd call download, like you were given some information. And then
your job is in a sense to kind of like bring it out. And so, so I've been working on a whole
book related to that geometric object. Did this stuff come to you at a specific time of day?
Was it, did you have to follow any sort of like creative process to sort of get this stuff to
come to you? Or was it just coming to you randomly? It seemed to start on that plane trip home,
for whatever reason. And, and it just kept occurring, like there was like, it was like this
impulse, where I didn't have like a vision, like a geometric vision of something I was trying to
work towards. It was more like this info. And I would, it was like, I'd get a little clue, like,
okay, make triangles. Okay, and make a bunch of triangles with all the numbers. Okay, now try and
connect them. Like, is there a pattern that connects them? Okay, so it's like I was getting
these like intuitive hits on kind of step by step, what to do. And maybe that was just a creative
process, totally within my own kind of psyche. It didn't feel like that. It felt like something
else was going on. And people I talked to who seemed trustworthy and insightful about these things,
confirmed, you know, from their perspective that, yeah, there was likely an interaction happening
between me and, you know, other sources of information, or non human intelligences, right?
And I think that's what makes this whole domain so kind of sketchy and confusing. Because, because
it's not linear, it's not clear, it's not like, oh, boom, here it is. I mean, in Chris's situation,
it's sometimes more clear than it is for a lot of us other folks, you know, where it's like,
we're kind of grabbing straws in the dark and trying to make sense of this.
It's very, it's like a minefield trying to navigate this topic, because there's so many
grifters that are involved in it. And when you, and especially when you start talking about psychics,
I mean, there's so many psychics that are so full of shit, it's unbelievable. So, so yeah,
it's really hard to navigate like what's real and what's not. But I mean, what you're describing
sounds a lot like rosa-crucianism, which has been a topic that has come up on this podcast a lot
recently, which Diana talk, Diana Psilka talks about in her book, where some of these space force
rocket engineers practice these protocols where they like don't drink caffeine and they go out
in the sunlight and they try to like tap into some sort of extra extra perception or some sort of
intelligence that is not perceivable normally. Yeah. Well, the esoteric traditions are full
of those protocols. Yeah. Right. And, and there are people, you know, like Tyler D and others,
and, you know, and Jacques Delays connected to, you know, rosa-crucianism, you know, as was
Heineck, you know, so they both have links into that particular tradition. A lot of people kind
of discover or develop their own protocols kind of intuitively, but there are lots of traditions
that basically train you to make contact, right? You know, so like Grant Cameron has a book on
contact modalities, but these kind of contact modalities I think are kind of go even deeper
because they're really about these rituals, these daily and weekly rituals you go through,
and they can be simple just like getting up at the same time in a certain way, journaling,
like they don't have to be weird and esoteric, but there's like a process that you put your
awareness in your body, usually your body's involved, right? You know, like not having caffeine or
running in a day. Right. It's like the body is some sort of, you can treat your body as an antenna.
Yeah. And, and so these traditions work, have these protocols and from my understanding and kind
of my working hypothesis is these protocols activate different subtle bodies. We have multiple
subtle bodies and we have different types of inner senses connected to different subtle bodies.
And so different protocols activate different bodies and senses. And then based on that,
you'll have access or contact the certain types of energies and or intelligences.
Now, is this something that you've noticed with all the people that you've spoken with
with your course that these people have been practicing or is it even something that you
practice yourself like purposely? Yeah. I practice myself purposely in this kind of context working
out of the theosophical tradition. What I've noticed is that a lot of people do practice these
kinds of protocols themselves. Some of them have had traumatic experiences. So like near-death
experiences, medical emergency, car accidents. And that seems to create what I refer to as a
separation event where their subtle body gets separated from the physical body. This episode
of the podcast is brought to you by PXG. When PXG says nobody makes golf clubs the way they do,
they're not lying. My personal experience with buying golf clubs and using different brands of
golf clubs is I always thought the more expensive golf clubs were, the better the quality. But my
new set of PXGs has blown that perception out of the water. And when I heard about their new Black
Ops driver, the driver that promises you don't have to sacrifice distance for forgiveness,
I absolutely had to try it. Last weekend, PXG invited me out to one of the high-end golf courses
out in Tampa so I could get a custom fitting with their new Black Ops driver. And it was incredible.
One of their golf pros spent an hour with me helping me dial in all the little measurements
and all the little tweaks in the golf club to make sure that I had the perfect fit for my driver.
This PXG Black Ops driver is a breakthrough in driver technology. It's a complete and total
victory in golf club engineering, something like you've never seen before. Black Ops drivers are
adjustable to deliver a combined MOI of 10,000 plus for unreal forgiveness that's ridiculously high.
And the higher the MOI, the more forgiving the club will play, meaning you don't have to square
the ball perfectly for it to go straight and to get distance. Add PXG's new advanced material
face technology and you get incredible ball speed that pushes distance to the absolute limits.
That's more forgiveness, more distance and no sacrifices. The term game changer has been thrown
around so much that it's lost its meaning. But trust me when I tell you, the PXG driver is a true
game changer. Learn more and get free shipping on all PXG equipment by going to PXG.com slash
Danny and using the code Danny at checkout. That's PXG.com slash Danny and use the code Danny
for free shipping on all equipment. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
And they have an experience and then they kind of a revive or they come back and then they're
kind of their subtle body kind of comes back into their physical body. And thereafter,
they start having psychic experiences. They start having experiences of non-human intelligences.
They start having healing capacities. And so I started to notice like, okay, wait a second.
In the experience or literature, people who report having encounters with the anomalous,
there's a very strong pattern that people will have a near death or traumatic experience and
they basically describe an out of body experience. And then after that, they'll start talking about
how all of a sudden they have psychic abilities or healing abilities or they start seeing shadow
beings. And so I started to notice like, wait, in the esoteric traditions, they give you
training methods to separate your bodies consciously. And then they describe that after
you do that, you start having these kinds of experiences. So it's like, okay, so there's
an intentional way to do this through the protocols and the practices, or there's an accidental way
that this happens through accidents, medical emergencies and so forth. And then there seems
to be some people who just karmically, for lack of a better term, start to have these experiences
at certain points in their life. And then sometimes they report that it seems related to their past
lives and the fact that they develop these capacities through protocols in past lives.
And then in this current life, it's kind of like this latent ability that just gets kind of activated
at some point. So there's like karmic accidental and intentional examples of people gaining access
to different subtle bodies and their associated senses, and then having a wide range of experiences
as a result. There also seems to be some sort of connection. I don't know if you know anything
could speak to this at all. But there seems to be like younger kids or younger people have
more of a higher access to some other perception or see things more, like even if you dig deep into
UFOs, the history of UFO sightings, it seems to happen more and more around schools where there's
young kids who witness them. Have you noticed any sort of connection or something like that
with in the human body where the younger somebody is, the more they're able to access something?
Yeah, I think a couple of things are going on. One is they just haven't been inculturated into a
scientific materialist worldview as much as they will be in subsequent years.
I think part of it is what I've just been describing around the subtle bodies.
Young kids kind of have more access to their subtle bodies and their subtle bodies aren't as
kind of fully kind of trapped in the physical body, if you will. There's more fluidity
in access to their different subtle bodies, and so they'll have more of these experiences.
In a sense, you could think of it as they get older, the fluidity of access to the subtle bodies
reduces and those subtle bodies get more and more integrated into the physical system,
and then they get overly identified with the physical system. There's not as much access to it
unless an accident occurs that rips the subtle body system out of the physical body,
or they start taking up protocols, or they have some kind of karmic dynamic going on.
A lot of the experiences we'll talk about, they had experiences when they were young,
up until like 10, 11, 12, then it goes dormant, in part because there's usually an experience of
them sharing some experience with friends, and the friends doubting them or laughing,
and so they kind of learn at that point like, wait, not everyone else is having these experiences,
so I should be careful with what I say and who I say something to. Then they kind of shut it down,
and then it kind of pops back up usually in college in their mid-20s, and then they kind
of have to come to terms with the fact of, oh yeah, this used to happen when I was a kid,
and now it's happening again, and why is that, and so those capacities kind of re-emerge later in
life, sometimes through an event, sometimes just like through reading a book, so it just kind of
depends. What do you make of all of these people within intelligence in the military and NASA
coming to Chris Bledsoe's house, and being fascinated with him, and becoming friends with
him, and studying him? Yeah, I think they know a lot more than what we might imagine.
You know, if you look at NASA, just as an example, I think the majority, if not all,
the kind of original set of astronauts were like 33 degree masons, right? So,
and that's the highest level you can be in the Masonic system, and at that level you've been
doing protocols for a long time, and you have experiences and encounters with a lot of these
types of phenomenon. What astronauts were 33 degree masons? Most of them, I think almost all
the early ones. Like for example, who's one of them? Well, I don't know if Edgar Mitchell was,
it'd be interesting to look and see if he was a Mason, but if you just do a search on
astronauts and 33 degree Mason, you should get a list of a lot of the early ones. I think even in
some of the things they left on the moon, where there were some Masonic symbols that were part of
that. So, what is this? Among the stars, Freemason astronauts, Freemasons on the moon, a secret
mission. Can you zoom in on that a little, Steve? Yeah. What's this website? Oh, this is like a
Freemason website. The moon isn't a bad place. Anyways, it certainly deserves a short visit.
This is what Neil Armstrong told journalists in the press conference after his return to earth,
but humanity paid a high price for this brief visit in resources and even human lives. Three
American astronauts of the Apollo 1 project burned alive a month before the planned flight.
Armstrong himself miraculously survived when he had to eject from the height of only 60 meters
during training. This is just a history lesson. Supreme Council, I don't know. Just kind of like
going over the, here, let me type in Mace. Yeah, it didn't. There we go. Given how many Freemasons
there were in NASA's astronaut squad, it's quite logical to open a special lodge for them.
All right. But the point being that the intelligence community, many of the people involved in that,
have been involved in systems and traditions of these kinds of protocols.
And so it's not surprising to me that they would be interested in Chris for the kinds of
experiences he's having. And so it raises a lot of interesting questions like, why is that?
Are you familiar with the story of Paul Benowitz? Yeah. No, no, tragic. It's a real eye-opener,
especially when you look at everything that's happening right now in the media with UFOs and
within the government and the military and everything that's being disclosed to us publicly.
You know, for people who don't know, Paul Benowitz was a, he was a UFO, a ufologist, right? He lived
in, I think it was Nevada across the street from a test range or a military or an air force base
where he was seeing these UFOs that were hovering above this mountain and he was filming them.
And I guess the air force base caught wind of it and they sent a counterintelligence officer to
go pay a visit to see what he knew, see if he had any footage or photos or whatever that could
compromise what, you know, see if it could compromise national security. Anyways, this guy's name
was Richard Doty. And he was basically, he went to meet Paul, saw the footage he had and he saw
that Benowitz believed these were UFOs when in fact they, this was during the development of the
B2 bomber, I believe this is the right smack down in the middle of the Cold War. And instead of,
you know, telling him the truth, he said, you know, maybe these are UFOs, maybe you need to pursue
this further. So, you know, he knew that Benowitz was very tied into the whole UFO community around
there and this was during the Cold War. So we knew that there were Soviet moles embedded in the UFO
community. So what they did was they used Benowitz as a conduit of disinformation into the whole
UFO community. So they could sort of divert them away from some of the real projects that were
going on. Long story short, Benowitz was put into a mental hospital and, you know, he went to his
grave thinking that this was something that it wasn't. Not saying that UFOs aren't real, but,
you know, this was a very clear, you know, historical example of strategic deception.
And that really, really opened my eyes. So like,
what do you take from the military and the Pentagon all saying that this is something
that we need to pay attention to and it's non-human intelligence and we don't know what these things
are. You know, there's so many layers to this. It's kind of hard to wrap your mind around.
And the fact that they're paying so much attention to him. All right, you know, what
are they telling him the truth? Are they trying to lead him in a certain direction?
I don't know. Yeah, it seems that kind of what's at stake is the nature of reality and our
understanding of the nature of reality. And so it's, you want to have the best map of reality
possible, right? And so it's, there's so many implications for economics, for politics, for
education, for society. The stakes are really high. And, you know, and I think this topic,
the implications of it are, I mean, literally like earth shattering, right? And there's,
there's a lot of money and power at stake. And, and that's not to say that the people involved in
the intelligence community like are all bad actors, like I think it's a complex landscape of people
trying to navigate their sense of how best to deal with the fact that our view of reality,
kind of the mainstream narrative of what's real and what's happening is just part of a much larger
set of considerations. And that we actually live in what I call a wild cosmos that's heavily
populated with a wide range of different types of intelligences. And I think part of what's
interesting about the UFO topic is Jeffrey Kreipel kind of refers to as this waste basket problem,
where like, there's every kind of paranormal, you know, experience gets thrown into this big
bucket called the phenomenon, right? It's like, we even refer to it as the phenomenon. It's like,
well, what is the phenomenon? Well, the phenomenon is like refers to like everything,
all these different possibilities. And so we've had like kind of 600 years of ascendancy of a
particular rational, scientific, materialistic, reductionist view of the nature of reality.
And there's a lot of data points that no longer fit into that. And so the implications
are pretty big. And you know, and so like Alex Wentz' work on national sovereignty and how the
UFO topic is a direct threat to national sovereignty, right? He's a sociopolitical scientist,
I think in Ohio. But he wrote a really famous article that was published in a peer review
article in a political science journal that basically, you know, this was like a number of
years ago, and it's still their number one downloaded article. And he has a chapter in
the back of Leslie Cain's book, UFOs, and where he's kind of laying out this argument that the
national, you know, the national state is extremely, existentially threatened by this topic. So when
you read that, and you start to appreciate how and why our government or aspects of our government
would be very interested in this topic. And it's often not for the same reasons like the conspiracy
theorists often run with. Like it seems like, I mean, some of that's true or it's worth considering.
But it seems that there's a lot of other layers to just kind of nationality and the economics. And
it's like, and I have some colleagues who have been doing this study on what are the implications of
disclosure. And they have this 70 page report at CosmicConnectors.com that they've just finished,
they've been like working on it for most of a year. And they identify 44 implications of disclosure.
Like if President Biden came forward, and did a televised event and said, there are
non-human intelligences that have been visiting and interacting with us on this planet or something
to that effect. What would be the implications of that? They identified 44. And so the point
that I'm making here is that the implications of this topic are so far reaching. And whether you
believe just 10 of those 44 or 20 of those 44, it affects almost everything. And so why wouldn't
the CIA and NASA and everyone else be at least certain people within those
organizations be very interested in this topic? Well, don't you think it depends on what the
disclosure is? Like what are they disclosing specifically? Are they saying that these are
ETs coming from Zeta reticuli? Or are these things that exist like here with us, but in
another dimension or in another DMT elves that people can just see on a regular basis?
Because would it have a difference? Would the implications change?
A little bit. But the way this study was done was just around Biden or the president.
Saying that an alien landed on the White House lawn.
Or them just saying, acknowledging a non-human presence. Not even getting into the details
around, is it flesh and blood? Is it interdimensional? Is it an ultra terrestrial? Meaning like
they're here and have been living here for a long time and we just haven't seen them.
The other thing is part of my study of this phenomena using my integral approach is I've
identified over 35 different theories about who are they and what are they. There's the time
traveler hypothesis, the crypto terrestrial, the ultra terrestrial, the extra terrestrial,
the sociological hypothesis. There's all these different theories people have.
When I map those out and I look at what are the different variables that they're highlighting.
Like where are they from? What's their consciousness they have? What kind of bodies do they have?
What's their intention? When I look at like eight different variables about what's being
described and I look at the three or four possibilities of like, oh, they're on this
planet currently or they're from other planets or they're interdimensional. When I kind of map
out all the variables, there's like 25 variables. What's interesting is these theories, these 35
different theories that have emerged over the last two decades, essentially when you add them all
together, they're accounting for these 25 different possibilities. In other words, what seems to be
happening is every conceivable combination of who they are is represented in kind of this growing
list of who they might be. And it seems that actually all of them are potentially true in
some sense or at least a majority of them are true. So that there are ultra terrestrials, there are
crypto terrestrials, there are extra terrestrials, there are interdimensionals. All of this seems
to be happening and it's kind of this Pandora's box. And this is partly why some people have
certain experiences with some of those and other people have other experiences with different
sets. And then you kind of end up arguing, well, who's right? Well, actually, I think the cosmos is
so diverse and creative, there's a good chance we're likely interacting with all of those different
possibilities. Well, I mean, when it comes to an individual's perception of something that happened
or an individual's experience, if they believe something, I mean, you can't deny that, but you
can't say that there's extra terrestrials. There's no evidence, right? We have zero evidence that
there's any sort of life from outside the earth. Yes and no. It's interesting because you see this
these positions, like there's no evidence, and there's a lot of evidence, right? And you have
this back and forth. There is a lot of evidence. Is there a lot of scientific evidence? No,
scientific evidence is a higher bar. And yes, like there's still things need to be done to
meet that standard. If we talk about legal evidence, there's plenty of evidence that would
satisfy definitions of evidence and a legal court of law, right? Can you give an example?
Well, like witness testimony, so in a scientific context, it doesn't hold a lot of water. In a
legal context, it can hold a lot of water. And so you can convict someone without a weapon,
without the murder weapon, based on witness testimony and circumstantial evidence and a
lot of other things, right? If you took the case of other ETs, flesh and blood ETs, to the court,
present all the evidence, you should win. There's enough evidence to get an affirmative
conviction that that's the case. If you take it to a scientific lab, you're going to have a hard
meeting the standards of scientific veracity. So part of what's going on is we have different views
of what counts as real and what counts as evidence. Well, for evidence, if you want to prove something
exists, you have to have some sort of physical evidence of it. Right. There's a lot of physical
evidence with a phenomenon. So like you take abductees, people who have experiences of being
abducted. And so there's no smoking gun. So I think this is part of your point. You're pointing
out there's no smoking gun. I'm saying you're right. There isn't a smoking gun. We don't have
that yet unless Gary Nolan and his team are able to get the government to roll out one of the
crafts that we have and hang our X, Y, and Z. So we're waiting for the smoking gun.
But we don't need the smoking gun to be able to look at all the other evidence and use scientific
methodologies and logical methods of deduction and induction to arrive at a very probable conclusion
based on that evidence, just as like we would in a court of law. Right. So there's archaeological
evidence. There's sociological evidence. There's lots of experiential reports. There's, you know,
there's, you know, there is physical evidence like the burns in the grass that Chris Bledsoe
showed. Right. You know, even Travis Walton, you know, when they went and they studied the tree
growth of the rings where that incident occurred. And there was an anomaly with how the trees that
were closer to where, you know, the event occurred grew in a different rate than the other trees
farther out. So because of radiation, right? Yeah, that's the assumption. There, you know,
there have been implants, there are scars, there's body marks, you know, like there's,
you know, there's scratches on cars, you know, there's like, there's a lot of like physical
evidence, but it's not a smoking gun. But we should be careful not to dismiss all that physical
evidence just because it's not a smoking gun. But when you combine it with all the other elements,
it's very suggestive, right? Very, very suggestive.
So out of all of the different hypotheses, or all the different examples of what these
different intelligences could be, was there any sort of underlying consistency between all of them,
or any kind of like common denominator across all of them? How many of them did you say there
were like 40? There's like 35 different theories that they are all over the board, you know,
like some is like ancient aliens, or some it's, you know, it's us from the future, right? Right,
it's like some it's like they're from other star systems, no, they're from other dimensions, like,
oh, you know, they're, you know, so there's a lot of variety, you know, but it's, it's interesting
that kind of in the course of human imagination, we've come up with all the possibilities, all
the combinations are represented in that list of 37, right? So you have an approach like SETI
that says, you know, like, you know, there are probably, you know, life on other planets, but
very far away, and we're looking for radio signals, and, you know, we're trying to like,
you know, kind of tune into their channel, and they're not coming up with, there's like nothing
has come out of the SETI project, basically, over the last, you know, 40 plus years with a lot of
funding. And so it's interesting, you compare that with like, kind of ufology, which has a lot
of craziness in it. But when you pull away a lot of that craziness, there's still, there's a lot
of evidence, right? You know, like you, you line up, you get a lot of Chris Bledsoe's in the room,
you know, and it's like, or you go and hang out with them, you know, and you, you have multi-witness
reports, you have lots of multi-witness reports, you know, and, you know, and you, so there, there
is quite a case to be made. And again, I think for me, it often comes back down to, you know,
different perceptions based on different subtle bodies, based on different subtle senses associated
with those bodies. And because we are still tend to privilege our five senses in our physical body,
and we want physical evidence that matches our, you know, vision and our hearing, that we tend to
have a very narrow view of what is evidence, right? And so what is a broader but still very
scientific and rigorous view of evidence look like that's able to include and compare experience or
reports, able to understand how the brain works in relationship to this phenomena, right? So like,
you know, like Gary's research on the basal, you know, and, you know, how there seems to be this
hyperconnectivity, right? So one could look at that to say, well, okay, there's this hyperconnectivity,
so people are just better at projecting or imagining these phenomenon, or you could say, no,
that's an antenna that actually allows them to perceive the phenomenon. So the same data point
could be used to argue for or against the phenomenon, right? You know, and so, but then when you
couple it with like a lot of this other kind of evidence, then, you know, and this is why I feel
like the government knows a lot more, at least sections of the government know a lot more than
what they're letting on is because, you know, like, I was told by a CIA agent that they actually
have a test to determine if you have alien DNA in your system, right? And so maybe, maybe not,
I don't know. But this person's a trustworthy person. I don't have any reason to believe that
they're pulling one over on me. But it's like, there's those kinds of things that get said
by certain people who seem to have knowledge about these things that just kind of boggle your mind.
You know, like Chris, you know, shared several of these kind of things in his interview with you,
where you just end up scratching your head, you're like, and there's nothing you can do with it.
It's like, well, until they show me the DNA test, you know, like, I can't believe it.
Did he give you any more details on that? Like, how do they get the test? And what is the,
what do they test for? No, no. But, you know, there's, you know, but so
I think the whole idea of like evidence, like we need to like zoom out a little bit and go ahead.
What do we mean by evidence? What kinds of evidence would count and what combination of
evidences would be suggestive? Because I think the conversation too often is framed around the
smoking gun. And then that's used to dismiss a lot of otherwise important points and insights.
Well, that's, I mean, that's one of the conundrums of what I was talking about earlier with like
those remote viewing programs during the Cold War. I mean, that's 100% was being done,
like it was declassified in those programs, those secret or special access programs did exist.
And there was a big, you know, there's a big like, for lack of a better term, war going on
around it where it is like science versus the paranormal, right? Because they were using these
things like remote viewing where they have these people go in these rooms at Monroe Institute or
wherever it was where they remote view somewhere and they write down the details of where they are
and there's a person that's kind of like managing the session. And it, it worked like it literally
worked. They spent millions of dollars on this program over many years. And I think the CIA director
I'm paraphrasing, but he said something like, if we're, if we can get
two or 3% accurate intelligence out of this, it's worth X amount of dollars, right?
And the detractors of this, the people of the scientific people will say, well, this is not
duplicatable or replicable in a lab. You can't, you can't study this. But that's not to say it
isn't real and it isn't useful. And it is pretty duplicable, you know, like they have, you know,
like they have double blind and triple blind protocols to remote viewing. Like there's a
very scientific approach to it. You know, there's different schools of remote viewing that use
different methodological protocols to try and, you know, up the level of veracity associated with
the findings. And they will have several people given the same coordinates, not knowing it and
not knowing what the coordinate and they'll see what the similarities and differences are.
And so it might not be an exact science in the same way that some of, you know, our biochemistry
and so forth is. But like you said, if just two or 3% of it is actionable on Intel, right, then,
you know, it might be worth it. And, you know, the SRI, you know, Stanford Research Initiative,
like it was funded for many, many years. Do you think the government would have kept funding it
if it wasn't producing results? And I suspect it's probably more than 2 to 3%. You know, it's
probably, you know, 40 to 60%. And it's still a thing that's going on too. I just had a lady in
here. I don't know if you've ever heard of her, Annie Jacobson. Oh yeah, she wrote the book. She
wrote a book called Phenomena. A bunch of great books she wrote. One of her, I think it was her
first book, Area 51. I don't know if you are familiar with that book or not, but she had a
source who was part of EG&G, I believe. He was an EG&G engineer and
he talks about Roswell. And he was part of the crash retrieval at Roswell and testing it.
And what he said was that the craft, the crashed, was a, the flying saucer or flying disc came from
Stalin. It was built by the Russians. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by
Mudwater. Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms. With
only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee, you get energy without the jitters or the crash of
coffee. And each ingredient was added for a purpose. Cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine
and hot chocolate like flavor. Lion's mane to support focus. Cordyceps to help support physical
performance and both chaga and reishi to support your immune system. What I really love about
Mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their time to find all the perfect ingredients to
develop a product that helps you feel better every single day. Mudwater donates monthly to
psychedelic research and treatments as they believe the country is in a mental health epidemic and
sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals with depression, PTSD, anxiety and other mental
health experiences. So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below Mudwater.com forward
slash Danny and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off. That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny
and use the promo code Danny at checkout to get 15% off. It's linked below now back to the show.
And it had surgically altered children in there that weren't flying it because it was remote
it was a remote control craft and the purpose of it was to sow sort of chaos in the U.S. that
we were being invaded by extraterrestrials. And it even had some sort of Soviet markings
on the inside of it and she asked him much later like why he never talked about this before
and obviously it was classified and this guy was like close to dying. He was in his 90s
and he said that because after they discovered this thing the United States started doing the
same thing. They started doing the same tests on on she claims it was like children with
with like different mental conditions or like Down syndrome or something like that. They were
doing experiments on them trying to surgically alter them to look like extraterrestrials.
Have you ever heard of that? Yep. What is your take on all that?
As with a lot of this stuff I think we have to be open to that as being one layer of what might
have happened. Like you know I mean there's some very unsavory realities that you know our government
has been involved in. So I wouldn't put it past us to have some you know really unfortunate you know
things like that as part of it. I don't I don't really buy that explanation as a good explanation
of Roswell because to me that's basically more or less one person saying that whereas when we
look at like the book Witness to Roswell where these two guys spent like 20 years tracking down
every person they could find that was part of the Roswell incident over a week long period.
They ended up with 600 witnesses 600 people like the guard who was just standing in front of
the box that was closed and they never saw what was in the box but they were just the guard
guarding it and they interviewed them like you know who came and went what did they say what
was your sense of what was going on right so so they put together a chronology of what happened
over the that week and and to me and that's 600 witnesses that are each have a little piece of the
puzzle almost all of whom are pretty credible like there and when you have that many witnesses
there's no reason to think there's some mass conspiracy where like all of them are somehow
part of some gotcha and and so the the sum total of that investigation as represented in that book
Witness to Roswell I don't think squares with that particular story right you know so it doesn't
mean that there wasn't some layer to that that's true or worth considering but I think that's
the phenomenon is multifaceted and I think when we look for a single explanation to try and
account for Roswell I mean Roswell is so fascinating because there's like layers of mythos and cultural
perception and you know media and you know and so there's so many layers to it that it's you know
it's a fascinating kind of consideration of like what really happened there you know I mean the
fact that you know the Air Force came out with three different reports of different places trying to
say okay now we're telling you the real story you know like that's interesting in and of itself
you know they you know there's this notion I develop in exo studies of doubleness that basically
refers to how the phenomenon is basically double it presents itself in contradictory ways and Jacques
Filet even talks about how the phenomena basically gives evidence for itself and evidence against
itself right so the the it's like and like it's like self erasing evidence yeah that there's this
dynamic with the phenomena where it's both subjective and objective right it's um it hangs out on the
edge of our of human perception yeah and and but it also seems to be interacting some of deliberate
yes yeah and so so there's a way in which it it occupies this liminal space where it's both
objective and subjective and that really messes with our view of what's real because to us it's
things can just be objective to be real right so something that kind of like is a physical craft
and then changes into an orb and then changes into nothing and is gone right like we just can't
get our minds around that right and so so then we are inclined to say well that all was just imaginal
even if the person went up and got radiation burns or touched it and said it was physical
but you know so so there's this way in which the phenomenon um it manifests in in contradictory
ways and so you know I think with something like Roswell there's there's there's a lot of
contradictions there's a lot of complexity and you know we we might not ever get to the bottom
of that particular story but when you place Roswell in a larger continuum of crash retrievals
you know there's you know there's over a hundred um you know documented crash retrievals
that the U.S. has been involved in right so you look at the book Majestic Eyes
you know where you know Ryan Wood and others are reporting out all of these what book is this
um Majestic Eyes who wrote it um Ryan Wood Ryan Wood okay yeah and you know and if you look at
work at Richard Dolan um around crash retrievals you know the work of Leo Springer around crash
retrievals um and you look at the pattern of how those craft have been recovered and taken by
the U.S. military and government and then you look at Roswell you see patterns and continuity
between what happened at Roswell and what happened in the subsequent events right so if we just look
at Roswell in an isolated case it's in a way it's a lot easier to dismiss it but when you look at it
in this this historical continuum of you know dozens and dozens of crash retrievals and the
witness reports associated with those crash retrievals the military officers that have come
forward you know like you you I think it's hard not to walk away with feeling like hey we must
have anywhere between five and 20 craft and then now with people like David Grush and others coming
out they're like saying yeah we do and it's like okay well that makes sense given the history of this
crash retrievals that have happened since the the mid 40s right with Roswell being you know
and it seems and Dolan makes this point that basically if you look at the first like five cases
of crash retrievals and the witnesses and kind of what they report happening you basically can see
that the military is getting better and better with each incident to deal with it and make it go away
right so it's kind of like Roswell was kind of like caught us off guard you know or the
Trinity event that Jacques Voulay talks about that happened right before that that kind of and
then it was kind of like all right we got to get a team in place and then the team's in place and
then the next event happens and the team kind of goes out and they're kind of on task sooner
but they're kind of fumbling things and you know the the local preacher you know it comes to the
site and they don't get rid of him soon enough and you know like you know and you know so you see
that they are getting better and better they're becoming a whale oiled machine by like the sixth
major crash retrieval event that happens in the late 50s you know and then now they're just like
they're they're really really good at it now you said you did a lot of research on there was a paper
or study on like the the biggest possible implications on human society or or yeah our culture
if some something was disclosed what were some of the things that stood out to you
well so this is research that my colleagues have done and people can look at it at CosmicConnectors.com
70 page report there are 44 implications that they mapped out they developed these implications
through a series of focus groups by getting small groups of people together and just having
them brainstorm and think about what are the possible implications so the implicate what's
interesting with what their findings are is that people who don't know anything about the topic
right don't know much about UFOs or ETs they tend to just view negative implications occurring as
a result of disclosure whereas the people who are more educated in the topic they see a variety of
positive implications so positive implications like you know a recognizing that we're not alone
being a unifying narrative for a globe that's you know otherwise in much polarization the possibility
of more funding going into UAP studies and and tech and that there might be you know some you
know results that come out of tech by investing you know more funds into this you know some of
the kind of things Gary Nolan's trying to do you know and other implications would you know then
there's you know like taking abductees and their stories more seriously you know so so you can go
to that website you can see their report and see all the implications there but it's nice because
it kind of maps out all the different possibilities of like oh you know the economic implications
the educational applications like how might we have to rewrite our history books in light of
you know some of these findings right like if if in fact we have been visited by non-human
presences um you know for you know at least the last 5000 years like you know what does that
say about our religions and our science and okay maybe now we can explain the pyramids or whatever
right like like there could be some pretty you know dynamite um you know things to reconsider
in light of a larger galactic narrative that might be emerging where we realize like one we're not
alone and two we haven't been alone a long time and three there have been ongoing interactions
between a variety of beings and ourselves and I find it very telling that like if you listen to
what Chris Nolan um or Chris Mellon has been saying what Gary Nolan has been saying on Louis
Elizondo have been saying over the last five years if you kind of you know four years if you
track the kinds of statements that they kind of started making after 2017 right when the New
York Times article came out and that they progressively have moved and like more and more
bold saying basically that we're dealing with a non-human presence that has been on this earth
for a very long time all of them are saying that all of them are increasingly in more and more
bold statements kind of landing on that they're not saying these are flesh and blood beings from
other planets they're not saying they're necessarily interdimensional though both of those are probably
true like some of them are that but but Lou Chris Gary and others seem to be on the same page with
being more suggestive that what we're likely dealing with is something that has been on this
planet for a long time and that this is actually their planet right like if anything we're kind of
like the visitors um and and so you know and you look at the all the stuff around the oceans and
all the you know UFOs are coming out of the water right and and you also get reports of them going
into mountains right so there seem to be bases you know underwater and in mountains and you know
and maybe even just in other dimensions above us right so it starts to make you have to reconsider
like what does it mean to be on this planet like are there other layers or dimensions of this planet
that go beyond just our kind of basic physical view of it well people intelligence people like
Elizondo what is their incentive to do this what the fuck do they care like what there has to be
a good reason for them to want to paint some sort of narrative yeah and it seems very controlled
the way they're releasing it so why well I mean so yeah I think it is controlled but I don't think
it's controlled by like a single person or a single agency it's controlled by almost like the complexity
of the topic and the fact that they all or I've worked with the government they're all aware of
you know their NDAs their aware of national security you know they're they're trying to walk
a really fine line right you know so you know it's I think they're when you look at the institutionalization
of secrecy you start to appreciate and realize like it's a very complex landscape that's not
just being driven by one person or one thing like there's a lot of kind of contributing factors
and that you know Mellon and and Luizondo and others they're they're they're doing as best they
can in that and and Grush and if anything they're trying to stimulate the larger populace to demand
answers and so I think we see that successfully with Congress so we have an interesting division
where sections of Congress are really interested in this topic but they keep getting stonewalled
by the Pentagon right so that's an interesting development that we now have that that was
not the case a few years ago um I've heard a lot of people and this was brought up at the sole event
um you know in Stanford um that you know the next president is likely going to be a UFO president
right like this topic is likely to come to a head where whoever is president is going to
probably play a big role with some major steps in the disclosure project either shutting it down
or moving it forward and that like these things are kind of coming to a head and that you know
the the whole effort around the legislation that got gutted in December was basically to kind of
try and set up that possibility so that the presidential candidates campaigning in the fall
would have to speak to this topic right and like make this a major kind of you know issue for
their candidacy which president do you think that's running right now is the UFO president
um I don't think it's Trump Trump just doesn't have any interest in the topic at all as far as I can
tell if he knew about it though he would definitely not keep his mouth shut yeah I think I don't think
I don't think we I don't think our military or our our defense contractors would let ever
let the president know especially him well and this is what you know like Grant Cameron who
studied the UFO topic in relationship to presidencies you know has said in various places that
basically the president's a four-year problem you know in the sense that like yeah they just
your problem you know they just cycle in and out and like you don't want to let them know because
you know that they're going to be gone in four eight years right and so it's only you know
lifers you know who are in you know those political systems are the ones that are really in the know
but there have been presidents that have been briefed to an extent not much you know and so
there there is a real interesting history around which presidents have known what at which point
but I think it's fair to say none of them have really known much except for the early ones you
know like Truman and Eisenhower who were directly involved with creating you know what's now thought
of as the truth embargo you know putting in place the CIA and you know and other mechanisms to kind
of manage this until we got a handle on it and then by that point it was like why why let the cat
out of the bag now you know like let's just keep going because secrecy has a tendency of replicating
itself right so it kind of perpetuates its own you know self-serving needs what do you think about
that latest report on Grush going to New York to some penthouse flying there and doing a talk to
all these people and talking about the space a 40 foot wide craft that as soon as you walk into it
it's the size of a football field a lot of people report that it kind of experience in the experience
or literature so and this is why I often come back to like yes you know it's testimony it's it's
very fallible I mean there's a lot of things you have to consider when you're you know looking at
you know witness reports but there's a process of of examining it and and seeing kind of where
does it take us and when you have like over a hundred people over the last 50 years who have
gone on record and reported that kind of experience and and the majority of them seem credible there
you know they don't know about the other reports and so then you have to say well it seems that
part of the phenomenon is that from time to time people have an experience of entering into a craft
that seems much bigger on the inside than the outside right and since we know that the phenomena
seems to manipulate time and space and there's lots of other examples of that whether it's missing
time or you know all kinds of things then why wouldn't we expect that kind of spatial distortion
or spatial complexity to be possible in this kind of you know situation right so when you
situated amongst all that other stuff then it's kind of like yeah that's not surprising you know
like one there's a a witness record you know of that kind of thing being reported and with
those people not knowing each other but also what we know about the physics of this phenomena
would suggest that that's a likely possibility. It's just so convoluted you know even within
the government seems like there's different factions that have different objectives or
that are trying to push different information or suppress different information. Yeah well I think
that's part of it I mean we often talk about the government as if this is monolithic block you
know I think they're I think they're like 10 different agendas and turf wars going on around
this and different groups have different understandings of the phenomenon based on their own history
and reconnaissance work around it and they've come to certain conclusions and certain understandings
of it and then they're using that to inform how they feel they should go about navigating the
current disclosure kind of dynamic right so so I don't think there's like a unified view across
these different kind of camps if you will like and I think that's part of as the public I think
what we get wrong is that we kind of think it's like oh the government against David Grush or you
know like it's like yeah I think it's I think there are a lot of different players with different
backgrounds experiences and you know understandings and they're all I think mostly trying to do what
they think is right you know so I think that I don't think it's as nefarious as often it gets
portrayed I think we do have some nefarious dimensions that are going to get accounted you
know come forward like so it's not like that's not in the mix but I I don't feel that that's
some big driver of a lot of it I think it's just the complexity of an institutional power secrecy
dynamics and and just the the deep challenge this phenomena gives at an individual level
collective and social level that's you know so people have strong opinions about what we should do
I wonder how much of the driver behind the US trying to come out with this stuff has to do with
other countries or superpowers coming out with it before them yeah or like announcing or maybe
talking that they're they're gonna disclose it and America doesn't want to be the second person
they want to be the first ones to it kind of like the space race yeah yeah I think that's a
really important geopolitical dynamic that's going on because you know if Russia or China
you know played the disclosure card like that would be pretty wild and it is very interesting
that when you look at like crash retrieval you know incidences around the world you have you know
other countries basically saying the US came and got it right so you know so there is a way in which
a lot of countries I think deferred towards the US on this topic and we're kind of waiting for the
US to make a move you know so because a lot of people are kind of like why wait on America like
you know why doesn't you know Brazil come forward or why doesn't you know Canada do something but I
think there's a lot of complex behind the scenes implicit and explicit understandings as to basically
the US needs to be the one that moves this forward and I think once it does and we've
we've done a lot already just in the last five years you know and more and more countries are
you know I'm talking about it at a you know national level you know we have Mexico having
their congress talk about it we had Brazil their congress you know talked about you know like so
I think all of that's really yeah what did you what did you think about the the mummies
the little mummies in Mexico I've seen that I saw that photo on Google probably like five years ago
yeah that thing's been floating around Google for a long time yeah and Gaia did a big thing on it
yeah these things I don't know I when I look closely at the back and forth I see good reasons
to dismiss it and I see some good reasons to um keep an open mind so I I don't know I think it's
an example of how in this topic you get a mix of hoaxes and genuine phenomenon
Jamie the guy who's you know behind a lot of this he doesn't have a good track record
so it's harder to who is Jamie um I'm forgetting his last name but he's you know he's been known
to be kind of involved with promoting other you know bodies that turned out to not be bodies and
so he's he's kind of got a you know a charlatan reputation mm-hmm yeah there's a lot of people
out there in this field that have that kind of reputation what is that they're doing an MRI
of one of those things yeah yeah I wonder what turned out because they scanned it but I think it
it was sent to an institute that lost his accreditation oh so the scans were deemed unreliable
or something uh well maybe they saw that the institute was doing the scans they decided to
pull the accreditation well I think this this raises a great point because I think even when
you have a let's say that's a genuine possible extraterrestrial of some sort right like let's
say there's a good chance it's actually a real body okay like I think we have this idea of like
oh why don't we just send it to you know get some lab work done on it it's a lot more complex than
that right like so they sent it they got scans but then the the institution lost its accreditation
now we can't use those scan like there's so many layers of complexity around you know especially
when you're when you're investigating something that's controversial it like amplifies all those
layers of valid knowledge and and it's like you you end up with scientists good scientists that
disagree for different reasons and it's like I think it highlights that we often don't agree on the
nature of reality much more often than we realize you know and so when you take a controversial
topic like this it kind of exposes that you know even science even the scientific method is not as
straightforward as we might think it is what does this say they're not extraterrestrials they're dolls
made from animal animal bones from this planet joined together with modern synthetic glue says
Flavio Estrada an archaeologist with Peru's institute for legal medicine and forensic sciences
it's a totally made up story Estrada added but there's other examples where they've done x-rays
where it doesn't seem like their animal parts glued together like the the x-rays actually seem to
demonstrate like a coherent organic form right so are those online are those is that published
what you were talking about where they said they think it's completely organic and not fake
yeah i've come across that in different places i don't know if we'll be able to pull it up with a
quick search but my point is that you can get very differing expert views on a controversial
issue like this yeah and so it kind of leaves you having to just keep a question mark right it's like
it's like you can't really land on one side or the other um because it's like oh one expert saying
it's glued animal bones and you have another expert who has good credentials who's saying no
i did the x-ray and as far as i can tell the the bone structure is organic and natural right and
then it's like okay well what do we do with that one person saying it's bunk one person saying
it might not be bunk you know and and then when it's situated with jamie and you know like it just
it's kind of like the roswell thing it's like it just it becomes its own thing and it's like you
can't even figure out like what to do with it so it's just kind of like you just like sit it over
here on the side just like okay let's let's focus on something else yeah and it's easy to inject
like a little bit of like false narrative into something that's real too to just muddy the water
like um like going back to anne jackson's book area 51 when they were first when they were first
developing uh the first fighter jet um off of groom lake and the cia pilots were test flying
those things over nevada they would bring gorilla masks and the cockpits so in the event that a
commercial pilot or a civilian pilot would get in with like viewable distance of that jet plane
the pilot would put on a gorilla mask well so that way when they go to the bar or they go to
tell family about that later they say oh i saw a fucking gorilla flying a jet plane right so it's
kind of like just injecting a little bit of falsehood to like keep secrets and you could almost
say the same thing um about babla's our story right when he's in there you know he describes
working on all these crafts and and then he describes walking past a corridor where for a
brief second he saw a scientist looking at a little alien body all right right so if you had if you
did have if you're the government you had these whether they're archaeological crafts that they
found or if they're things that we back engineered but they're super secret and you had this guy
that was in there working on them wouldn't you try to do a little bit of that gorilla mask trickery
by showing him that showing him an alien so that just makes him a little bit more
you know incredible exactly well and i think there's been Richard Dolan and others have shown
the documentation that's been released over the years this episode of the podcast is brought to
you by better help what's the first thing you would do if you had an extra hour in each day
would you go for a walk read a book help a friend a lot of us spend our lives wishing we had more
time the question is time for what if time was unlimited how would you choose to use it
the best way to squeeze that special thing into your schedule is to know what's most important
to you and make that a priority therapy is a tool that can help you discover what's most
important to you so you can spend more time doing that for me it's always been helpful to focus on
the wins in life and the moments that i'm most grateful for daily journaling has been a really
powerful tool for me because it's helped me get my thoughts out of my head and onto paper which helps
me organize and understand my thoughts and emotions better and this is not just for people suffering
from PTSD or trauma it's for everybody if you're thinking of starting therapy give better help a try
it's entirely online and it's designed to be convenient flexible and suited to your schedule
just fill out a brief questionnaire to get connected to a licensed therapist and you can
switch therapists at any time for no additional charge learn to make time for what makes you happy
with better help visit betterhelp.com slash danie jones to get 10 off your first month
that's b-e-t-t-e-r-h-e-l-p.com slash danie jones it's linked below now back to the show of how
the cia and others have you know intentionally engaged in that kind of activity around the
ufo topic right like it's been a you know explicit you know kind of strategy and you know and so
we should expect that even now that's and it's also highlights that the phenomena itself kind of
pulls out this doubleness like it almost always has falsity and truth combined and in very odd ways
that leave you kind of not clear which aspect is truthful and which aspect is false right you
know and the phenomena does that itself and then we do that in relationship to the phenomena
and then the phenomena sometimes seems to be mocking us in doing that and doing its own version
in response to us right you know and so you know like there's interesting documentation of how
you know like how the different shapes of ufo's have appeared over the years
and it seems that and the the phenomena has you know like sometimes we've done you know
some of our craft have been made to look like ufo's but then the phenomena comes along and then it
starts showing new kinds of ufo's that are kind of making fun of or mocking our version of you
know and so it's like there's this kind of this weird dynamic of like well it's like it's all like
smoke and mirrors you know it's like what's going on you know like how is it that the phenomena
intentionally seems to be um one upping us with its expression of what it manifests as in in direct
relationship to our activities around that you know so it's really you know and then it's like well
there's all fake well maybe but there's a lot of good reason not to think it's all fake well it's
crazy like i think it's only it's less than five percent of the surface of the earth is populated
by human beings and to think about how much of this earth is unexplored and especially the ocean
i think the oceans are like 75 percent of the surface of the earth you know what's what they
could very very easily be that something else is something is hiding whether it be under the
oceans or somewhere that we've never explored that we just don't know about and um you know i heard a
i heard a theory recently about it was kind of just like a fun sci-fi video on youtube i saw on
the wi-files where uh there is a theory that there is a an underwater base that is 100%
runoff artificial intelligence and their goal like they're basically like doing studies and
reconnaissance around the earth and they they manufacture these drones that they shoot up and
they fly around the earth to study shit and basically human beings are irrelevant to it they
don't even pay attention to us we're just like ants in the forest um i forget which i forget
which video was yeah maybe it was a not i remember but anyways it was an interesting story but it was
like you know maybe these bases move but the the idea that it was all artificial intelligence was
quite interesting you know they could make the crafts and they and then when the crafts would
come back to it they would say they would like deconstruct them and then reconstruct them to
look different based on whatever the mission was um and you know maybe those little gray aliens could
just be you know drones or worker clones that you know helped run this underwater ai base but like
even looking at what ai what we've created with ai i mean that's that's non-human intelligence and
we have many times i mean we have literally in the last three years it has changed so many
things about the way industries work it has impacted the economy in in in crazy ways we
there's people people make youtube videos now that are completely done by ai right the voiceovers
the the thumbnails they tell them how to do the titles and there was that recent documentary um
who is the the documentary was on andy warhol and the whole entire voiceover was done by ai and
it sounds exactly like andy warhol and they're basically just recreating andy warhol for a
documentary that's crazy so you know if if there was some sort of other advanced
alien race or if it was a previous advanced version of humans that was before the flood or
like before an asteroid or a solar flare hit the earth and wiped out humanity and
reset us back to the stone age wouldn't they eventually get to where we are now with artificial
intelligence that would be able to survive that or survive any sort of nuclear fallout from a
nuclear war under the oceans yeah there there's just so many possibilities and one of the crazy
things about this phenomenon is like we were talking about earlier it does it it lingers on
the edge of human perception and one things about one of the things about human beings is
we are fascinated about the unknown yeah what we don't know we obsess over and i often think about
like if a ufo was to land on the white house lawn and say greetings earthlings this is what we are
this is where we're from i think that we would forget about it in short order and find something
else to replace that right we would find something to replace the whole ufo phenomenon yeah it feels
like if they landed on the white house lawn and we captured in hd you know like people would just
like dismiss it they still would say like oh that's just that's a deep fake you know like you know
and you know either to like try and preserve the mystery yeah right you know or like you said like
if they did accept that that actually happened then you know then we might go more into the
paranormal aspects and i think you know jock's really interesting because you know he really
highlights in the body of his work that the the high strangeness is the most important and
interesting aspect of this phenomenon right and he's always asking people to kind of look at the
the cases that are weirdest and the most strange right and jeff cry plus this great phrase and i
think mike cleland has also kind of said this that the owl guy yeah that the weirder it is the
truer it is right and so so we have this idea that that if something's weird it's not true
but jeff and mike and others and jock basically kind of point out that like and jeff gives this
example of how you talk to an experiencer you know and they share with you let's say they decide to
come forward and share their experience with you and they do and it's kind of weird it's like oh yeah
that's weird and then um then like two weeks later you're talking with them again and they're like
you know yeah and they share a little bit more and they share this other layer that's like really
kind of odd you're like oh wow like that's that's really weird and then like you talk with them a
couple days later and they're like they're trusting you they're kind of willing to like bring forward
you've shown that you're open and interested you're not getting kind of freaked out by the
weirdness and they're like well yeah i haven't mentioned this to anyone else but let me tell
you this other piece that also happened and then they share that you're just like holy like like
right you know yeah that's happened to me before and and basically crypals saying that like then you
can really trust that person at that moment because you know that they're not wanting to tell you that
part like they they don't even know what they think about that part like there there's a lot of self
they're trying to feel you out well it's it's not that they're trying to feel you out in like some
kind of strategic way it's more like just the organic process of building trust and rapport
and and them kind of metabolizing their own experience and sharing it kind of in chunks like
okay let me let me share the kind of weird part okay now let me show you the weirder part okay
i think i'm going to tell you the really weird part right and that that happens a lot when you
talk with experiencers so i had a very strange experience i i had a guy in the podcast he uh
he made a documentary about the zimbabwe encounters right was it randy randy randy
nickerson yeah i know randy he was at the morrow event with chris and all of us so we did a whole
podcast about about that uh we two hours something like that and when we talked and we stopped
recording and we sat here for like three and more hours after we stopped recording talking about his
oh man experience yeah it's intense and all the surveillance stuff he did not want to talk
he did not want to record any of it he didn't want any of it out there yeah
and it was a lot like what you were just describing and and i've noticed like people like him
who have these incredible accounts of shit happening to them since they were since he was
a kid him and his sister yeah he seemed very distraught yeah it's in the rest of in a deep way
like not in a good way yeah yeah yeah and you know and and jeff also highlights how trauma
is mixed in with the transcendent right in these kind of experiences you have these
kind of world opening mind-blowing experiences that are kind of in some sense transcendental
but often there's trauma there's fear there's overwhelm that's mixed in and so you kind of get
this really interesting mix of trauma and transcendence you know and and that's also why like what
i was talking about before like you have this trauma that happens to the body and people subtle
bodies get knocked out and then they have a transcendental experience of a near-death
experience of seeing their loved ones at the light and then they decide to come back to the body
so often in the context of these experiences you have these interesting mixes of you know
kind of profound spiritual experiences and really kind of terrifying existential realities right
you know in john max research with these you know kind of tracked how people's experiences often
started out more traumatic and then over time it became more kind of spiritual and transpersonal
right so you see a lot of really interesting patterns around this mixture of of trauma and
transcendence yeah john mack wrote a whole chapter on randy yeah it was it was bizarre i didn't even
know about it till after the podcast i was begging him to come back and do another podcast right
afterwards he didn't want to do it but yeah what what do you think the trauma has to do with with
opening up this door inside of people like what specifically is it about trauma i mean because
chris blitzow had a life full of incredible trauma emotional and physical i think the trauma is
often related to like a couple things one that we're being exposed to something that doesn't
fit into our categories of reality so there's just kind of the kind of the mental trauma of
being confronted with things that just don't make sense right so that in itself is kind of
traumatic i think experiences on the cells yeah and then i think the deeper trauma it seems to be
connected to when one sovereignty is somehow violated or taken away right you know so like in
the in the case of abductees right where they feel like this is happening and they don't want it to
happen and they're not able to stop it and they're not able to protect themselves from it right like
that's abuse right if we look if that's happening with you know your dad or your mom
or doing that to you over time we would call that abuse you know emotional mental sexual abuse
right and so when it happens in a paranormal context like it's still abuse and it creates
trauma and it creates you know post-traumatic stress syndrome and other you know so because
it's the same kind of dynamics where you're not able to control your environment you're not able
to protect yourself you're not able to you know you you're not able to say no stop right you know
where you try a bunch of things and it doesn't seem to work right and so i think a lot of the
abductees it's like they get to a point where they they either kind of double down on kind of that
kind of defensive orientation which i think probably perpetuates the trauma or they have
to turn a corner and they have to open up to it and say i don't understand this i don't know why
this is happening to me but i need to move towards it and it's it's like in like lucid dreaming
like one of the techniques to become awake in your dreams is like basically if a monster is
chasing you like a nightmare is happening if you turn around and move towards it then you
will pop into lucidity often right because it's like you're having a fear response you're you're
running from something but if you have enough conscious awareness in that moment to kind of
turn and face whatever it is chasing you then often you will pop into being awake in your dream
and then you realize oh i'm in a dream and i'm awake and that nightmare has just disappeared
so it's kind of a similar kind of choice point when you know we're dealing with the paranormal
right and i'm not saying it always works out good like there's some nasty things out there
but there is something about working with your own consciousness so this comes back to the protocols
how do you work with your own body your own awareness your own consciousness as you're
interacting with this phenomenon um have you practiced lucid dreaming i have yeah and i
practice out of body um techniques i you know kind of along these lines i had an experience many
years ago where i in the dream i was up in um my loft where i grew up as a kid like you know
junior high in high school the house i grew up in and i had a bunk bed and the the top bunk was
kind of twice as big as a normal bed it was kind of this loft and i was up there in the dream
and these three guys came into the room and i could tell they were going to kill me and they
were communicating you know like hey we're going to get you we're going to kill you and i was literally
afraid of for my life in the dream for some reason in that moment and this is like the point of the
practices and the protocols is to help you wake up even when you're totally afraid right and make a
different choice that's not a choice based out of fear so for some reason i decided that okay i
surrendered to it and this is the whole point of the surrender piece so i surrendered i jumped off
the loft into the three guys basically like okay kill me it's fine i'm i'm good with it like whatever
because i realized like i couldn't escape and so when i realized i couldn't escape for some reason
i was like okay i surrendered into it as soon as i jumped off and i kind of landed on them
thinking that they were gonna kill me you know i woke up i became lucid just boom and all of a
a sudden i was lucid i was like oh my gosh i'm awake and then i went flying oh wow a lot of times
people want to fly when they become lucid it's like it's like the most common next move you make
yeah i used to have a lot of crazy dreams and lucid dreams and nightmares when i was a kid
but it stopped it stopped when i got older never tried well yeah so you should go back you should
reactivate those possibilities yeah no i had um so when andrew gallimore was in here he was actually
telling me we were talking about that a little bit and he said um forget the name of the chemical
compound but there's some shit you can buy on amazon right that helps you have uh i forget what
it was i wish i had a bottle of it do you really it's like a powder you mix in water or something
yeah it's powder or you can get capsules and and it helps you uh it activates the REM sleep more
so you can have like more crazy dreams and more of your more of your sleeping time is spent in REM
sleep yeah and he says he practices that which is interesting yeah and sometimes even sometimes
the protocols are that you you set your alarm to wake up and then you take the pill and then
you go back to sleep right you know so it's kind of depending on when you want the dosing to occur
and you know oh really yeah and because a lot of times you know you you break your sleep cycle so
you can go back into REM and you know and in a certain way so so yeah there's a lot of times
people have their most profound lucid dreams in the morning right before they wake up right so
there's like ways to kind of like amplify the likelihood of that happening and sometimes that
involves waking up in the middle of the night so you'll sleep a little bit longer or setting your
alarm for a half hour before you normally wake up and you know so there's all kinds of different
protocols people have developed to play with all this yeah would people like Randall Nickerson
do you think any of these experiences are are happening in sort of like a dream state and not
a physical reality like it's not like people like like beings aren't actually landing in his front
yard and going in there and taking him maybe this is all happening like within a different realm inside
of his mind yeah and you know and I run this program a doctoral program and on integral
sciences which is basically the you know study of consciousness through a scientific lens and
in that program there is a concentration students can do called anomalous studies
and that's the kind of thing we look at and explore and study in that context so I have
a doctoral student who you know focuses a lot on dreams but not dreams in the normal sense more
like you know dreams like you're talking about where there seem to be other realms that people are
in and it's it's not so much a dream but it's what's often referred to as the imaginal the imaginal
is a an objective realm that's kind of initially seems dreamlike um but it's like you know it's
not the objective world as we think of it around us right now but it's an objective subtle realm
that you can get to and you can get to it through different protocols or you can get to it through
the dream space and so there's this and this is another example of the phenomenon being double
like the doubleness I was talking about a lot of encounters occur in what I call the subtle zone
and the subtle zone is what you're just describing as a possibility for Randall is that that it's
it's it's dreamlike it's not necessarily physical but it's real but it's another realm or even the
DMT elves right when you take different you know sacred medicines and hallucinogenics and
you you often go to these realms that are real realms they appear dreamlike in the sense that
they're subtle the subtle realms are much more dynamic than the physical realm but part of what
makes them different than the dream realm is that there's a level of stability and coherence
that usually is not the same as in the dream space right the dream space seems to be you know
it changes much more right it's more kind of dynamic in that sense whereas the subtle realms
like you know because sometimes people talk about they take DMT and they you know they
have an experience and then the year later they do it again and they go right back to where they were
in that previous trip almost as if no time has passed right so you know you don't have that
so much in like the dream space that kind of constancy or you know and so the phenomenon you
know like if you look at abductions it seems like a lot of abductions are physical abductions you
have reports of the spouse saying I woke up and he or she wasn't next to me they weren't outside
their body was gone their physical body was gone and then you know it showed up like boom like that
and was there again right so there are cases and reports enough evidence that lead us to
believe that some abductions are in fact physical but a lot of others seem to be happening in the
subtle zone which is basically they're taking your subtle body out of your physical body
and your subtle body and when you're in your subtle body it's like you're in a dream like you
can see yourself you can interact with things like you're you're in a body but it's just an
energetic body that's able to kind of go into these other dimensions so like when you take
you know like DMT and you find yourself in another realm you're in your subtle body right you can
think of it as your dream body like the body you have when you're in dreams but it's in
fact the dream body is our astral body and we can use that same body to go into these other realms
right and there's other bodies like the mental body and the causal body that allow you to go
into different realms right so a lot of the phenomena is this mix of it's occurring kind of
you know just like we have a lucid dream where you can wake up in the dream the opposite can
happen where you're awake here right now and you're also dreaming right you're also in a dream
state like the subtle realm is kind of bleeding through and mixing with the physical realm so
like when people talk about the Oz factor like they have this experience of an encounter with
a UFO and it all goes silent and you know the cricket stop and this stuff you know like it was
kind of like this eerie silence to me that's an indication that they've likely entered into the
subtle zone where they're in this liminal space that is in part physical because they're still in
the forest or they're still on the side of the road like the physical world that they were in is there
but kind of overlaid and inner penetrating with that world are these other realities and that these
beings sometimes are in that realm they're not fully in the physical realm sometimes they can come
into the physical realm but it takes a lot of energy and effort sometimes to fully manifest
into the physicality of you know what we would think of as material realm and so sometimes it's
easier or better for them to stay in this energetic state and bring us into that energetic state
you know through our subtle bodies and so I think and this is part of what makes talking
about and understanding what's happening so confusing because we have this very strong view
of a physical world and that's the only world there is yeah I think part of what's helpful when
you start realizing these this kind of larger esoteric cosmology where these other realms and
dimensions are around and available and how they operate and how beings in them use them and how
those realms interface with this realm I think you're right that a lot of experiences are occurring
in the subtle realms or in this liminal space this imaginal realm it doesn't mean it's happening in
the mind because sometimes it can be absolutely I mean there's and fantasy and delusion is mixed
in with a lot of this right but in in the authentic cases the person's basically just going into that
realm with their subtle body whereas their physical body remains in this realm and then they're in
that body and walking around interacting with these beings and that sometimes the implants are even
energetic implants into that subtle body so they're not even like physical in the way that we would
think of physicality and then when that subtle body goes back and integrates with the physical
body they have an implant but it's not necessarily a physical implant that you would find in our
microscope it might be like kind of like kind of a technology that's created out of etheric
matter that only can be seen and experienced and in that frequency real implants you've seen
well I haven't seen but I know there's been a lot of good research on real implants physical
implants but I also know that some implants are not physical in that sense but are like energetic
right and somehow they can manifest from whatever other thing our brain is constructing when
we're asleep or in some other state into a physical state yeah what sort of evidence is there like
physical evidence is there of of experiencers having implants um you can feel them sometimes
under the skin um they've been x-rayed they've been surgically removed they're often you know very
tiny you know like Roger Lear Dr. Lear you know studied a bunch of them yeah you know Whitley
Strieber talks about how the implant in his ear moved around and then you know um you know so he
can feel it and you know so there's um sometimes they're scar sometimes they're scoop marks um
you know that appear overnight and it's kind of like I didn't have that yesterday and now
of a sudden I have a scoop mark of a a wound that would have taken two weeks generally to heal but
it's like it's there yeah overnight so there can be body marks um you know so there's a there's a
lot of different kinds of circumstantial and suggestive evidence and there's been physical
implants removed you know I think there's at least 20 that have been documented and studied
and what what what do they determine those things were when they were removed yeah and this is part
of what's interesting with the phenomena is like often when they've been removed the the studies have
been inconclusive or it's that's been um like organic matter um or or just typical metals that you
find on this planet yeah right and so so then that becomes a basis from which to dismiss it right
and maybe maybe that's justified but there's enough other elements to the story that make you
you should maybe be thoughtful about dismissing it because yeah sure we don't understand it
but given all the other bits like it seems like maybe something's going on have you I'm sure you've
heard of um James Fox's film moment of contact from Virginia Brazil yeah it's amazing that was
one of the most fascinating things I've ever heard and all the eyewitness accounts is that he
interviewed around the whole town yeah and they're still they're looking for the medical reports I
know he and Leslie Kane are trying to track down some of the x-rays and the medical reports that
occurred when they took the beans to the hospital and you know and did some initial studies on them
one of the most fascinating things about that story is all of the people in the hospital
reporting the pungent smell of sulfur right and the whole hospital smelled like sulfur for days
afterward that thing left yeah and sulfur's a smell that is associated with a lot of paranormal
events not just and in the biblical context and ancient stories of demonic encounters
smelling like salt like these demons in the bible leaving in the smell of sulfur and the
cloven feet yeah which these these people that's exactly how they described this freaking creature
they saw in Virginia Brazil they had the cloven feet and it has smelled like sulfur yeah Diana
was was pointing that out to me yeah and when you see the drawings of it that were done by I don't
know if the girl young girls did it but it's like it's red yeah with like red eyes and brown skin
it looks like a demon it does look a demon yeah right it probably was not a demon it just is
a non-human intelligence that kind of fits our cultural stereotype of a demon and you know so
you can imagine that there are demons and they probably present in a variety of ways
and then there are et's that sometimes look like demons that then people assume are demons
so like did someone interact with an et that looked like a demon or did they interact with
a real demon right you know and so I think that's part of what happens in these experiences is that
people will have of in their cosmology they'll have demons and not et's right or they'll have et's
and not demons right and then whatever they encounter they kind of fit into that template
and part of my work in research is to say hey look if we really look at all the experiencer
accounts if we really look at all the evidence it seems that there are demons there are et's
there are fairy beings and natures spirits there are dmt elves there are ghosts right and we would
be well advised to not just make room for a few of those and discount the others right like what
is a cosmology that we need that makes room for all these different types of intelligences
because then maybe we might not confuse them with each other as much as we do right and I think the
sulfur smell because you get that also with like bigfoot encounters really yeah bigfoot's often
like that's why it's called the skunk cape right here in florida right the skunk cape is because it
smells like a skunk like a because the sulfur fucking know that yeah so and and ghosts when
people encounter ghosts sometimes they'll talk about the sulfur so it seems that there's there's
probably a number of different explanations but some of it seems to be related to phenomena
associated with the subtle realm in these other dimensions when it comes through and manifests
into our realm in a more perceivable physical way there's something about that kind of transfer
of energy from this other dimension to our dimension that result in a sulfur smell right
and and because when people did encounter negative entities um in like the middle ages and stuff
there would be that sulfur smell yes and so then they would just associate it would become highly
associated with the devil right you know because like yeah I had this nasty encounter with this
bean last night there was a sulfur smell and because it's a a nasty smell and because the
encounter was nasty and the devil's nasty it's kind of like oh yeah that makes sense that it
smells like shit yeah it seems like all these stories are a part of a thousand thousands of
years of playing the game of telephone yeah and so so many things have gotten lost in translation
I want to know what the Vatican knows though I feel like the Vatican has some secrets they
have a lot they probably actually out of all of the players in the game they probably know the most
I think they know a lot more than the CIA and the government and I think part of that is because
they have a religious orientation a spiritual orientation and the phenomena seems to be both
technological and scientific and religious and spiritual right and I think part of what's
interesting about the current ways in which the phenomenon is getting more cultural playtime
and like you know if we do have some kind of disclosure event in the coming years or it becomes
more accepted or like they do roll out the you know downcraft we've recovered I think it's going
to create our science is going to have to up level and our religious orientations are going to have
to up level right and it's interesting when you look at some of the research on how is science
going to respond to disclosure and how is religion going to respond to disclosure science does worse
it has a harder time with it ironically because in a lot of the religious narratives there's room
for other beings there's and the Vatican has proactively came out you know the last 20 years
basically saying like you can't limit God's creativity to earth yeah so they're they're
like trying to get ahead of the curve because they know what's coming right but science because it's
we're so locked into the kind of this materialistic reductionistic view that the phenomena represents
a bigger threat to kind of mainstream science than the phenomena does to religion now of course
the fundamentalists within the religious traditions across any denomination not just Christian
they will have a hard time with it right because they will get be demonized right
so it's kind of like mainstream science and fundamentalist religion are not going to fare
well with disclosure right you know like but but you know religions a lot of religions are
you know kind of and this is kripals point kripals says jeffrey that you know all religions
essentially started with paranormal events they often after a hundred few years into their development
kind of denounce or ignore their paranormal roots or they mythologize them yeah right we're like oh
only moses could do that we can't do that now only moses you know um you know so paranormal
experiences you know or you look at the you know fatima of portugal right that whole event that
happened yeah and how you can interpret it through a catholic blessed virgin mary lens or you can
interpret it through a ufological lens they're probably both valid frames to make sense of it
there's you know because the ufo phenomenon probably has manifested enough times over the years that
it in a sense is the virgin mary blessed virgin mary experiences or in some sense
beings from other dimensions or maybe a very powerful feminine angelic presence maybe the
blessed virgin mary herself right um but there's also enough ufological elements to it that it seems
like it's also that kind of event and right and so it's both in some important way i think one
religion that would probably love disclosure is uh scientology yeah you know i i learned recently
that uh jay allen heineck was hanging out with el ron hubbard and they were like close friends
which is crazy you know well in the mormons too the mormons have this very complex cosmology
right where you can go and be a god on your own planet right you know so they have a very galactic
cosmology right you know or the seventh day avid since i believe actually were founded by
in the founders were having contact with what they described as extraterrestrials and you know and so
so you see these kinds of things that are often not as well known or public um but like if you look
up like you know extraterrestrial and seventh day avid this i think you'll find that their founders
were having like contact and then it was the basis of that contact that inspired them to create a new
denomination you know or even you know again mormonism with the the golden plates you know and
joseph smith right like that you know and him finding the golden plates and that becoming the
basis of you know the tablets um of the mormon religion right so you know religions are just
rife with contact with non-human intelligences you know and so disclosure basically and i think
this is what's interesting about the et hypothesis you had the et hypothesis as like kind of the main
that kind of interpretive framework in the 50s and 60s and then you had like john keel you had
valet you had others you know coming along and saying well look actually i don't know if we're
dealing with extraterrestrials as in flesh and blood because these experiences people are describing
are really friggin weird and i don't know why a flesh and blood et would go through the trouble or
what you know like it doesn't make any sense and so the that's when the extra dimensional or
interdimensional hypothesis started to merge to try to account for the high strangeness
that was happening right and then when that started to be included they started to see
patterns between the high strangeness associated with UFO events with other paranormal activities
and with religion and so forth and so on it's largely the reason that i mean the et hypothesis
is probably not the best explanation for 80 of what we're encountering right like probably the
majority of what we're encountering is not flesh and blood beings from another planet
probably some of it is but probably a majority of it's not and yet the extraterrestrial hypothesis
remains the dominant interpretive frame i think in large part because our culture is still a very
scientific materialist and like for us to accept an interdimensional kind of viewpoint is just it's
a non-starter right so the best they could be would be flesh and blood beings from another
planet and then then you get the argument of like well they couldn't get here it's too far away
like you know but that's ridiculous because that's just based on our assumptions of our technology
right like they seem to be able to manipulate time and space without any problem so why would
you know 50 light years be an issue right or 200 yeah i think it's something we have to dive
inward we have to look inward into the human brain and perception and how do you define
how we perceive reality with our five senses and it's gotta be it's gotta be something
extra something that we just perceive on a different wavelength than what we can normally
perceive right now with our vision and our smell and our taste and our touch totally and well this
is why i am launching this five-year research project which i i mentioned to you before you
know the super experiencer project where inspired by people like chris bledsoe and then this other
woman melinda greer who's a doctor they both have a wide range of anomalous experiences in their life
for chris you know he had some young near-death experiences like when he got shot yeah um and
you often find that that that experiencers even when it starts much later in life they often have
had this near-death experience which again for me is a signal of a separation event that their
sort of bodies and that and that separation event seems to be an activation of these other modes
of perception right and again you can use the protocols to do it or you know other thing
but so chris and melinda both have a wide range of anomalous experiences and i kept asking why are
some people experiencing all these things and some people only experience ghosts some people only
experience nature elementals some people only experience you know extraterrestrials um and
so i'm i'm really curious about the perceptual modes that are available to us and so this study
is to look at super experiencers like people experience a lot of different types of
and the first phase is a survey to get like 5 000 people to fill out a survey of their experiences
from around the globe the second phase would be in-depth interviews and by in-depth i mean
you know like five to eight hour interviews of like tell me as much as you can tell me about
this experience tell me about like just get as much rich data of their experience of those
different events over the course of their life and then doing a variety of psychometric assessments
to establish that their mentally sound and healthy and normal that they're not delusional or fantasy
prone or you know all the things that one would be concerned of so basically to establish they're
just an average person you know um psychologically speaking like there's no red flags and then the
next phase you know a subset of them would go into the the brain study and the subtle energy
study to study their brains like you know building on the work of Gary Nolan you know and kind of
building the work you know Chris showed the you know work he's doing with the Monroe and he had
that picture with him having the cap on yeah you know so kind of like EEG and and Chris is on the
advisory board as is Melissa so they're both part of my research project right um wow and Gary
Nolan is on it oh wow um Peter Scottfish is on it you know a lot of other names that you would
likely recognize um and and so because I want to try and understand like what's the relationship
between the brain and these kinds of perceptions and what's the relationship between the subtle
energies that these people have um and the their relationship to their different bodies and the
different senses associated with those bodies and see because at my university we have two labs we
have a consciousness studies lab and we have a settles energy lab so I want to use the machinery
and devices and instruments in both of those labs to study you know like a hundred people like Chris
Bledsoe and see what patterns do we notice what can we say about um the way you know does the
phenomena develop a particular kind of brain through ongoing interaction or do some people have a
particular kind of brain that enables them to experience this phenomenon how might we better
research and kind of explore those kinds of questions and is it dormant in a lot of people
and it kind of be activated somehow yeah yeah and so by studying their life histories and like if
for instance of um let's say the hundred super experiencers I find that 80% of them have some
kind of what I would call a separation event right of their their subtle body from their physical
body that occurs somewhere between their first 20 years then that's a very interesting data point
like okay there's something about that that seems to help activate and develop access to these
kinds of perceptions right and psychedelics taking psychedelics can be a separation event
because sometimes people take psychedelics and it kind of blows out their chakra system
blows out the meridians and in some cases they've had to take years to rebuild their subtle energy
system because the psychedelics just kind of like brought too much energy and kind of blew it out
like blew the circuits literally um you know so there's interesting examples of people having that
kind of subtle energy illness you know after so like if you took Chris bloodstone and gave him
a bunch of DMT or gave him much of mushrooms you could destroy his perception of this thing
possibly or maybe amplify it depending on like how those ethnogens interact with the system
he might have a more robust subtle energy system because of his ongoing interactions
over the last 10 years where he's able to handle it and this is why the esoteric traditions
they build up your subtle body system right through protocols and you know vegetarianism
and you know vegetarianism often is really yeah that the eating meat the heaviness of
meats often seems to weigh down the bodies the subtle bodies and so a lot of yogis and
sadhanas in india and even in esoteric traditions um will avoid eating meat as a way of making it
easier to get out of body and and go explore these realities through you know whoa that's so crazy we
just had a harvard medical student in here telling us how good meat was for you and how you live
longer right meat and you probably do you just probably won't have as many out of body experiences
that's funny yeah i guess it's a price you gotta pay well shan thank you so much for uh coming in
here and enlightening us with this stuff tell people where they can find your work online or
where they can get in contact with you yeah so two places you can go to the california institute
for humans sciences right so ciahs.edu right so that's the university i'm with you can also go to
exostudies.org and i'm teaching a new course on entity encounters um starting in april um right
now i'm teaching a course on non duality um looking at 10 different traditions and how they
understand non duality um but those would be the two main places to find me and then my business
website where i do consulting and coaching is meta integral m e t a i n t e g r a a meta integral
dot net or com or org all three of those go to the same place fascinating stuff i will link it all
below awesome thanks again yeah thank you all right goodbye world
