And then, another part of this whole Brazil, this recent UFO crash, quote-unquote crash
in Brazil, is this thing right here.
The part of the map, if you go on Google Maps and you go to this exact spot, people are
claiming that, for some reason, this part of the map is completely whited out.
And I mean, it's like the shape of a flying saucer in a movie.
And here's what's funny.
But why is that part?
Why is it blacked out?
Why is it whited out like that?
Well, one of the guys actually said that it's a sun glint.
But what's interesting is...
Like it's a shiny roof that's being reflected.
But you can see there's kind of a flare.
No, it looks to me like it was cut out of there somehow.
Like it's been digitally...
Yeah.
Like they cut it out.
Yeah, literally.
Yeah, because of the pixelation.
If it was a sun...
I mean, if it was like a lens flare or a reflection from a bright, shiny roof or something, it
would be kind of like those upper edges, it would be like a kind of a blurred edge.
Not a pixelated edge with a shadow around it.
Looking like it was cut, literally.
That's Google Maps.
That's Google Maps.
This is Google Earth right here.
Yeah, Google Earth.
Yeah, same thing.
Yeah.
Google Earth, you can see more topographical.
And that's where they're saying that the crash is at.
This is exactly where they're saying the crash was at, yeah.
Right in Fragoso.
Right outside of Rio, yeah.
Right outside of Rio, yeah.
So I don't know how the fuck to explain that either.
Well, I'll tell you what's kind of funny.
And if you look at the shape of that cut, and you look at the shape of the one that
the pilot and the Navy is chasing, they look very similar.
Very similar to that.
How do we see what the pilot and the Navy...
Oh, oh, in the video.
In the video.
In those videos that were released by the Pentagon.
Correct.
Correct.
Okay.
And it looks kind of like a top, but it looks like a UFO, a saucer shape, but it's got that
odd peculiar something in the middle of it bump.
Yeah, that's super strange.
And is this...
I don't know if this has been seen anywhere else on Google Maps on a flip like this, has
it?
They talk about this.
They talk about this in great detail, but again, because they don't really have a whole
lot to look at or to talk to.
Who was talking about it again?
This was somebody on YouTube, but they pulled this up and they said, I'll send you the link
to it.
Okay.
That basically just kind of outlines what they think is going on, because they actually
at some point in the Instagram I'm looking at, looks like they launch rockets, and you
hear them going off in the background.
And again, it's, you know, Brazil is very militant in their thinking.
You know, the White House has actually missiles and buildings around them.
So if an aircraft tried to crash into it, they could knock that thing out of the sky.
I don't see why the Brazilians wouldn't have something similar to that, especially because
we work with the Brazilians a lot.
We trust them.
They're, I mean, listen, at the end of the day that we're all on the same team.
Yeah, it's kind of fucked up to think that if a UFO actually crashed in Brazil, the first
thing human beings do is start fucking shooting it.
That wouldn't put it past.
Listen, with this whole.
Like we are fucking barbarians.
Look at the coronavirus.
Look how many people are buying into the whole mask thing.
And I know there's people out there that hate me for saying that, but I'm like, I got bad
news for you.
All that does is prevent you from giving it, doesn't prevent you from getting it coming
through your eyes.
Right.
Right.
It prevents you from, from like, if you cough or you sneeze, it keeps particles and whatever
germs away from people around you.
And again, looking at this, it was supposed to be 2.2 million people that were going to
be killed.
And I think we're, and I'm, I'm sure in looking at some of the information I've seen on the
virus, I actually saw where Pennsylvania, the hospital there had to deduct 200 people
that they said that had died from coronavirus that didn't die.
So I'm sure there's some skewed numbers out there.
I see that some of the hospitals are getting subsidized by the federal government if they
have had a lot of coronavirus patients there.
Yeah.
I read that somewhere too.
And like Mexico that they're getting paid if they absolutely like high numbers of that.
Well, no, everyone, every hospital is getting paid.
If you, if you have a death from coronavirus, you make, it's something to the effect of
like $30,000 versus a regular death is like 8,000.
Wow.
So from, if someone's sick and a hospital reports that as a COVID, they get 30 to like
10 times the amount of money they would have normally got from the government.
And that's kind of why the numbers are skewed.
Nobody knows.
Nobody really knows any of these numbers.
Oh, 90,000 people have died.
I'm like, listen, I don't want, you know, one person to die.
I think when you start going back and looking at it also, the large percentage of these
are these retirement facilities.
So there's currently 1.6 million cases in the U.S. and today as of what is today's memorial
day, the 25th.
And there's 97,600 deaths total.
So almost 100,000.
And like I say, I don't want to see anybody die.
But it certainly isn't 2.2 million people that came out.
And again, most of the people that are dying are people who have had high blood pressure.
They suffer from all kinds of health issues.
The average age of death from this is higher than the average age of mortality in the U.S.
period.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
When it first broke out, I went to the CDC and I was looking at influenza last year and
it showed 34,000 people died and about 900,000 people were admitted to the hospital.
At this point, I think we were just approaching on this side of the bay with the virus about
30 or 35,000.
But at the time, I said, listen, it's no different than what was taking place last year.
And oh, by the way, if you're not practicing clean hygiene by washing your hands and doing
all the right, right, right.
You shouldn't be doing this a long time.
Yeah.
Well, I went to the gym the other day and I laughed because when I walked inside, the
guy wanted to take my temperature.
And I said, Bob, let me ask you this, how many times have you had a fever and felt like
going to the gym?
And he goes, well, I don't want to get out of my house.
I said, exactly.
And he goes, listen, it's just we're going through the stages.
We have a lot of elderly people also that under under the sneaker program, I think it's
called blue sneakers for the elderly.
What is it?
Silver sneakers and they are allowed to, you know, come into the gym and these are these
are much older people and I would probably say, oh, okay, that's anybody at that age
could be at risk.
But they shouldn't be in there.
I wouldn't say, listen, again, if you don't feel good, don't come in, right?
If you feel fine, come on down to the gym and train and get back to where it was.
Right.
Right.
People don't like to follow other people's rules.
And you know, at the end of the day, it's these private businesses.
If they want to take your temperature or if they want you to wear a mask, they have the
right to fucking tell you to do that.
Go to go to another gym.
If you don't want to do it.
I mean, people just want to like bitch and complain, like it's my constitutional right
to come into your gym or to shop at your store.
No, it's not.
It's someone's business, someone's private business.
Like I say, I mean, I get it.
At the end of the day, if you're at risk, everybody needs to keep that in mind.
Yeah, for sure.
But I again, at the same time, there's something else that's going on because as these events
kind of unfold in the bigger picture, what is really going on?
I mean, you know, you look at, like I say, the Skinwalker Ranch and how all of a sudden
amazing this place has become.
And you know, you go to ancient aliens now on the History Channel and they've got every
guy in the world on there who's talking about Machu Picchu and Tikapu and all the different
places in Peru.
They just found now found some skulls out there that don't have a Sagittarius line, which
separates the center of the skull.
And they initially said that what they do is the inhabitants of this location and they're
going back probably five to six thousand years ago would actually do a thing called binding
and they would tie the head so that the skull became long.
And the the professor who was teaching the class was like, well, why were they doing
that?
They just didn't do that one day because they woke up and felt like, hey, we want to tie
our kids heads and make them real long like this.
He said there were there had there had been extra terrestrials there that had this elongated
skull and that they found these skulls.
These skulls were forty percent heavier, twenty five percent bigger than a regular skull and
had no Sagittarius line that went down the center of the skull.
And he really he oh, he goes, it also didn't have any microchondria DNA because everything
on the planet has that.
And again, I'm like, well, why isn't this big news?
Where is the awe, the shock and awe over these events and these stories?
I mean, are we so used to it now because we've seen every type of, you know, sci-fi show
on TV from Star Trek.
So nobody believes anything anymore.
The thing is there's there's scientists out there and researchers who have had their research
sort of established already.
And when new information or new discoveries come out, these people want to discredit it
because their egos are attached to their discoveries and to what to what is already
accepted.
So if you've devoted your life to one to one ideology, to one scientific ideology and someone
else comes in twenty years later and says, no, you guys are missing something, then it's
sad that their ego kind of gets attached to it and they just want to like discredit that
person or say, oh, that's a pseudo scientist.
Oh, yeah.
And I think I think that's obviously that's a great point because I see that going on a
lot.
Like if you look at the great Spinks in Egypt and they talk about how old the Spinks is
and a geologist actually came out and said, no, it's actually much older than that.
And they said, why is that?
And he said, because what we're looking at was done with water, not wind.
And this was erosion on the side of the actual Spinks.
Right.
Right.
And he came down and said, well, when it's water erosion, it goes one way and when it's
wind erosion, it runs actually lateral to the to the to the ground.
And he said that this isn't this was done by water.
And so if you took the planet and kind of reverse wobble it, they could go back almost
10,000 years to when that area was extremely wet.
And he believes that's when the spink was actually put up.
It was put up before the Egyptians were there.
Egyptians kind of came into it right after the fact.
Right.
So the same thing with Machu, Machu, Machu Pichu and Peru.
Absolutely.
They say that the people there basically came there and just moved in.
They didn't create it because there's no possible way humans would take like 30,000, 3,000 humans
to carry one of those or I don't know how many people they said it would take.
But basically those things are tens, 10 tons, 20 ton bricks.
And neither they came from two mountain tops away.
You know, were they trying to convince me they dragged them, you know, 3,000 miles even
though you could see the other mountain top they came from, but they dragged them that
far.
When I had other guys say, well, you know, the Egyptians used rope and they used these
logs and I'm like, who was making the rope?
How long was that rope?
Was it really that strong?
Like, you know, 3,000 men could pull on it and come on man, really?
There's something bigger going on.
You look at how much they talk today and they really associate the pyramids with astronauts.
Look at the Mayans.
The Mayans had a calendar, a 30 day calendar.
We liked it so much that we adopted that calendar.
And the interesting thing is that the Mayans accounted for the wobble that the earth has.
Yeah.
How do you do that?
How do you understand there's a wobble when you don't get off the planet?
So there's something else that's going on.
Why are there, why are there pyramids?
There's more pyramids in South America than all of Egypt.
There's about 10,000 pyramids through South America.
How did, and South America had no contact with Egypt.
How did they know to make that same type of building?
Right, the same design.
The same design.
You know, using, I mean, whether this was to generate power or it was to communicate
or it was set up as a, hey, this is the time of year that we were going to plant wheat.
You know, the summer solstice is here and marks those because many of the buildings
do mark those.
You know, the summer solstice when it's time to plant, when it's not time to wet season.
And yet everyone wants to take it off at these savages out here that have these, you
know, bows and arrows and rocks they chipped out of them, put these things up.
