Um, so when you take someone, especially from the CIA perspective, because listen, you know,
and I know that every president that has ever gone into the office has asked about UFOs and
obviously there's one rumor that it cost him his life with JFK. Right. So the, the, the people
that came in, even when Trump was in office and they asked him about UFOs, Trump just went along
with, I don't believe in it. Trump just said that. So that blew it off. He didn't have to say
anything else. Didn't he say something else? Didn't he say like, Oh, there's some interesting,
there's some interesting things going on? Or he's, I mean, he may have, I actually heard
him when he just said, I don't, I don't buy it. Really? I don't buy it. He just blew the, I mean,
literally like, okay, next question. There wasn't any, like, were you going to look into it? Are
we going to open files up? Yeah. He's like, I'm not buying it. Not interested. No, not at all. No,
he's not the type of guy. No. But again, I think that, you know, he's a businessman. I think
wherever your interests kind of lie, how can I make money off aliens? That's exactly boring.
Bingo. And at the end of the day, it does nothing for me. So, you know, you take into
consideration that he really wasn't pushing to have any information released, other than what
took place here, like I say in the last probably five or six months, with the, the Pentagon now
saying they're going to release this information, which they need to do. They should have done it
before now. And it's going to open the eyes, I think, of a lot of people. There still be the
people out there that are still going to be hesitant to believe. But obviously humanity's
changing. We're, we're, we're growing. I don't know if it's in a, in a, in a good way or a bad way,
or right now the politicians have figured out a way to make us all hate each other. So nobody,
it's not an open. Politicians in the media. They did. They have, they've done a great job at
making us just despise each other when, when, you know, you look at some of the interesting
things that are going on. I'd rather have a conversation about what I see in the sky tonight
than other than, you know, hating somebody in another country because they don't like our
politics. Right. So it's, I want to keep that door open. You know, again, I like to talk to
other countries and figure out, Hey, what are you guys seeing over there? Is this, is it real?
I mean, you know, when we talked about Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, and that, that incident
that took place with the UFO crashed here. Yeah. That's what we talked about in the last podcast
you came in on. Yeah. And they found more and more information out. Now there's more information on
YouTube that's about it. They were able to move the vehicle though after it crashed. There's nothing
there now, but there was definitely something that crashed there. Brazil has a long, long history with
UFOs and extraterrestrials. Yeah. I've seen a lot of things on TV and a lot of things on the
internet about, about UFOs and, and like aliens and stuff in Brazil, which is crazy because
you know, the day you don't, I don't think about them being there. But you know, when you talk to,
they would go over there and would interview some of these people and talk about their experiences.
You know, it's one thing to sit there and make up a story. It's another thing that,
while you're telling a story to be absolutely terrified out of your mind and in my eyes, looking
at some of the folks that are telling the stories, it just doesn't seem, it doesn't seem like they're
lying. It doesn't seem like it's a fake story. And then like I say, when you take into consideration
different politicians that are getting involved now, for me, again, was more interesting. I told
you when we went through this thing to figure out what had crashed in Brazil, I've got some friends
in mind here that are former police officers from there who deal with a group called Bope.
Oh yeah. And they're the guys that actually confirmed it for us. So it wasn't a, you know,
sort of, hey, we think we've got something crashing. They confirmed it. Hey, now we've got a crashed
vehicle here, dude. And it's not from any place we know. And oh, by the way, America's here also
helping us out. So who was the dude from Bope who you talked to? This is a group here in Florida.
I'm a little adamant to even bring the guy's name up. One of the guys was one of my little CIA
buddies I was telling you about earlier. Okay. They came, they moved here to this country about
five years ago after they retired. And the reason they did that. From Brazil? From Brazil. Okay.
I mean, I think the last, before they moved here, one of the guys had killed 11 people in his
neighborhood. Jesus. So when they came here, we do a thing every year called sniper craft here.
And they came down and would participate. They always took first place. They were guys were
very accomplished shooters across the board. Sniper competition? It was a sniper competition
called sniper craft here in Central Florida. And they would come down every year for that. So I got
to know these guys really, really well. These aren't, these aren't UFO guys. These aren't, these
are all kind of meat eater knuckle draggers, knuckle draggers, meat heads. Yeah, dude. I mean,
they're special operations. Yeah, completely. Matter of fact, they initially, when they won
here, they won the event. The State Department, because he had killed 11 people,
wanted more information on him, thinking maybe he's a terrorist or coming from some sort of other
background other than a law enforcement background. How does he, what is he like?
Does he tell everybody he killed 11 people? Or is that like a, is that like a, like a?
No, I mean, it's just a reality of what it is. His wife, when I went over there,
his wife was actually wearing a gun as she was vacuuming the house. And I kind of made a joke
like, Hey, what's that all about? And she goes,
How did he get away with killing 11 people, by the way?
Well, I mean, he's the first one. He's a police officer.
Okay. There are no civil rights in Brazil. Right. So they give you an order. If you don't
pay attention, they shoot you instantly. So he's a police officer in Brazil. So every
person he killed was documented somehow. Oh, yeah. It's not just him being like yo, bro.
No, no, no, no, no, no, it's, it's, it's, it's documented in the middle of his job. Yeah. What's
going on? Yeah. Absolutely. No, these not, like I say, just killing people. He's not just bragging
about it. Bingo. Bingo. And these are, these are numbers that are necessary for us to know,
because when he comes into the US, the State Department wants to know who are you?
Okay. Why are you here? Because I can promise you, if the State Department gets in touch with
Brazil and the authorities there, and they said, Hey, we'd like to look at his record. And they
went back and said, Hey, you killed 31 people in the last six years. Why didn't you tell us that?
So he just comes here and immediately volunteers that information because they're going to find
that out and they're going to start asking questions as to why you didn't. So to get a green card
here was tough for these guys because of that. They did extensive background on, on six of them
that came here. They were afraid they were going to get killed in Brazil if they stayed there.
That's how bad it is. Just because of all of the trouble. I mean, it's not,
it's not your normal white collar type, you know,
gangs that are marauding around. He always had to worry about his wife getting killed.
Being a cop in Brazil is very good. And these guys just aren't cops. The name of the group
they're with is called Garra. They're actually a real high-end SWAT guys. Boat are above them.
They're more like special operations guys. Okay. So they, they are not liked. They,
when Garra shows up, bad things are about to go left real quick. Okay. So when I started,
when I called those guys, because when I first heard this rumor that this crash had happened in
Rio de Janeiro, I called one of my guys that had, was a retired captain out there. He didn't even
know about it. He's like, no, I don't know, dude, what, what are you talking about? I said, nothing,
nothing. So when I called the other guys and they actually called Boat, and I was told that
Boat was the one that was that kid, the perimeter secure, making sure that nobody else was allowed
to get near it. And they confirmed it. Oh yeah, dude, we're, we're there now. We've got it surrounded,
whatever it is. So it wasn't a, wasn't a maybe or a guess or maybe an airplane. It was some sort of
craft that come down now. You know, dude, was it a satellite? I don't, couldn't tell you that.
How fucking crazy does it have to be if you travel all the way here from another, from another
universe and you're God, you got, you fucking crash your vehicle. Well, I mean, that was unless
it's funny you say that because I was the same way. It was, it was talk of what actually brought
down the Roswell dirt, that crash. And somebody said it was actually radar, new radar they were
using and actually brought it down. There's some now people today that are saying that's not true.
What they did was they believe that every part of the world was given a piece of equipment to see
how fast they could take it apart and figure out what's making this thing really work. This way,
if it's the aliens that are running the show, they'll really find out who the smart people are
real quick. So do you base, you figure out, okay, these people are smart. These people
aren't smart. Do we get rid of them now? Do we start a pandemic? Do we kill off this group right
here? Do we, you know, the black plague? There was some discussions with regard to the black plague
being a blood type specific. Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to
you by our sponsor, Ridge Wallets. For years, society has been shoving dumbass, awkward,
bulgy George Costanza wallets down our throats, carrying around old receipts, pictures of their
cats, and gift cards from 1999. Well, hold on to your hot dogs, folks. This fucking thing holds
like 12 credit cards and even has room for your cash in the back and get a clip.
Or they got like they make like a strap that goes on the back, which is really dope. And this
thing is so goddamn rugged. It comes with a lifetime warranty. Ridge Wallet is so confident
that you'll like their shit. They'll let you test drive it for 45 days and give you a full refund
if you can't handle it. Don't be one of those fuck boys carrying around a big leather sack of
potatoes in their back pocket. Get 10% off today with free worldwide shipping and returns by going
to ridge.com slash concrete. That's ridge.com slash K O N C R E T E and use the code concrete at
checkout. Please don't be a fucking nerd. Get a Ridge Wallet today. Was it blood type specific?
Well, that was the question. And they said because it didn't kill. Well, there was nobody
knew blood types back then. Okay. There was an A B and O. And so they would, you know, they weren't
transfusing blood. I don't even know when that was. But yeah, at one point, I'm sure I don't
can't even remember myself when it's the one that came back. I want to say it was in the
like 1910, 1912. And they started to realize there was some differences in the blood.
Can you pull up like black plague Wikipedia? Yeah, that'd be it. So yeah, so well, and so they
started seeing him. So how come it didn't kill everybody? Why? And he goes, the guy that was
kind of came up with it goes, if you think a flea was jumping off rats and giving people the black
plague, he goes, there was something else bigger going on. And whether these people weren't,
hey, we figured out all this new, you know, this X type blood, these people aren't very smart,
let's just eliminate them. And we'll make a disease that's specific to that. Because what's
interesting with even with COVID, I've heard people say, Oh, if you have type A, well, that was in
the beginning, right? They were talking about that type of blood certain type of blood types,
you get fucked up by a certain types, you're asymptomatic. So it's, it's not talking about
that though, like in March of last year, right? I mean, so is it the people now to that I find
interesting that are getting sick after they've had their shots, they go, Oh, it's the COVID.
I'm like, Well, how do you know what in the shot? Let's go back to Bope and Garo. And then when
that thing crashed, Oh, black, the black death. Does it say from 1346, it was occurring in
Afro Eurasia, Eurasia from 1934, or from 1346 to 1353. The most fatal
pandemic recorded in human history, causing deaths of 75 to 200 million people in Eurasia
and North Africa. Why didn't wipe out everybody? That's a lot of fucking people 200 million.
I didn't think there was that many people. Okay, yeah, all in like, Western Europe,
and Asia, and top in the top of that North Africa. Because I don't think we were really
surprised. Yeah, 1346 to 1353. So everybody started using seven years. Everybody started
using PPE back then and all of a sudden it went away to 200 million people. But where'd it go?
How does it just go away? How did it wipe out everybody? Because back then you weren't taking
baths. You weren't there was no hygiene. I mean, how many people could there have possibly been
in 1343? I certainly didn't think 200 million 200 million. There's what 300 million in the US
something like that. Yeah, right now. It's exactly. I think we're a little over that. But yeah,
you're you're damn right. So that that in itself, it's a weird number 200 million seems like everybody
in 1300s would have been dead. So, you know, again, so is that specific? Are they trying to wipe
certain groups out? You know, when you look at when they went into the pyramids, I was in Egypt
in 1983. When I got to go into the pyramids. Really? Yeah. Yeah, I was there was in Lebanon.
What were you doing there? So I was with the Navy. Okay. So I was actually making a pass through
that one of the groups I needed to train with was there. It was for becoming a gunner's mate.
And so the guys I needed to train with were there. They closed the facility down in South America.
So I ended up there. So I was there. I was like taking full advantage of, hey, let me go on and
check everything out. Oh, so you were into this shit way back in the 80s. Oh, yeah. Okay. Well,
again, when looking at the pyramids, dude, when you're there looking at them and you're like,
is that what sparked this whole thing for you? I think it wasn't before you went there. No,
I've always had a thing for extra treasures. I'll tell you a story. I haven't really told
anybody before, except maybe my wife. I was 13. Man, we were living here in Florida and I got woke
up one night and something was in my room with me. And it was actually more than one. It was five
or six. These little things were in the room that they had put my raincoat on and we're dancing
around the room scared. But Jesus had to be like the strange thing was that I wanted to yell for
my mom. I don't know why I want to scream for my mom, but I could not talk. I was absolutely
stunned. Dude, I was petrified. First of all, the fact that these things were in my room doing
what they were doing. I've never had a nightmare in my life other than that one. And I do that was
13. Here I am. I'm almost 60 now. I'm still talking about it. So whatever it was that happened that
night, my room was not just a nightmare. It was there was something in my room and it was
they were like all head, very short, big heads, but not not big round heads, like almost like a log.
And like a log, like a vertical log, like a vertical log. They were very, had a long head,
but it was again, like a log, like the like the aliens on TV. No, they weren't like doing nothing
like that at all. There was no, no, you know, big head, big eyes, none of that. These were very
short, maybe five feet tall and kind of clumsy looking, walk kind of clumsy and but have these
massive heads that were kind of round, probably, you know, I don't know what that that 36 inches
around, but short, not like your typical alien. I really didn't know about aliens. And I mean,
I really wasn't afraid of ghosts. Yeah. So it wasn't like I was afraid of anything in my room.
I really had never had experiences like that before. And whatever this came in my room,
dude, like I say, changed me forever. As far as, you know, making me think I'm safe or I'm not safe
or you know, what's good or what's bad or what's evil, what's not. And so I started to look at
things like, well, there's obviously something bigger going on here. So you just woke up randomly
and you saw these, dude, they were in my room, shapes, these things, they were dancing around my
bed, shadowy things. They weren't so much shadowy as they they were short and very small. Like I
said, you know, maybe five foot tall, four and a half foot tall color to them or anything like,
you know, it was dark in the room. So I really couldn't tell other than one head. And again,
this sounds so ridiculous. But one of them picked up my raincoat and put it on your raincoat. I had
a raincoat that was on the back of a chair. And he put on the raincoat was kind of dancing around
my bed and it kind of almost like, look, I'm scaring you. You know, I'm like, Jesus Christ,
you're terrifying the shit out of me. Yeah. But again, dude, it's strange because like I say,
here I am this, how long did it last for? You know, it seemed like minutes, maybe 10 minutes,
15 minutes. I don't remember what I did the next day. I don't remember if I told my mom about it.
I don't remember if, you know, but the fact that it happened, like I say, I've never been that
terrorized before in my life ever. I've never had a terror. I've never had a nightmare.
So to still remember that today, you know, listen, was this a UFO event? I don't,
I don't know, but it was certainly something odd. It was definitely something paranormal for sure.
I don't see things, you know, today at my age, oh, you know, I saw things around the house today.
So it's not like one of those events. And along with other, obviously other things that I've seen
that make you go, wait a minute, what, what is, how come I'm looking at this coming home one day?
I saw something at the top of a radio tower. Matter of fact, if you're going over the Ganey
Bridge here in Tampa towards MacDill and there was something at the top of the tower and it was
massive and it looked like a football, but it was gray. And what was interesting was that the cord
that was attached at the top had slack in it. This tower is about 500 feet tall. The tower
still there. It's about 500 feet tall. I know that 500 feet above the ground, the wind is blowing
pretty good. So to have slack between the rope, between the tip of the tower and whatever this
thing was that was floating up there was odd. And I looked at it coming over the Howard Franklin
Bridge. I stared, I'm thinking, this is four o'clock in the afternoon. Everybody can see that.
Right. It's not like I'm the only guy that's seeing this. Doesn't anybody else want to know what
the hell it was? Well, I kind of did what everybody else did. I played it off and drove home,
but I couldn't get it off my mind. I kept thinking, what was that? So here we are. This is, I don't
know, 12 years later now, 13 years later. And they have built in that time they built a condominium
there. Now I could never tell how big this thing was at the top of the tower when I saw it. I just
estimated how big it was. They built a 10 story condominium complex. And what I realized was this
thing was as big as that 10 story condominium complex. So I can still see as you're coming over
the Howard Franklin Bridge. So I can see the tower, the thing that was above the tower that was above
the tower was as big as the 10 story building, which is, it's free. I mean, it doesn't sound crazy.
Yeah. It sounds, I have, when you come over to sometime, I'll show it to you. I actually have
a drawing of it. It was so impressive that I did a drawing of it because I didn't want to forget
what I saw. I even went to the, to the facility where this is. Now there's a big gate around it.
There's a, you know, you have to press a button to talk to somebody about three weeks later because
I was still thinking about it. So I pressed the button and the guy was like, yeah, all the deliveries
around back. I said, no, listen, I just have a question. What do you guys do here? And he's like,
sir, you want to do me a favor? Get away from the fence. Where was this? This is at that facility
right there off Gandy. Oh really? Dude, I was three weeks later, I was still thinking about it.
You find out what this facility did? I have no idea what they do, bro. Is it still there? It's
still there. It's, it's massive. It's massive. Whatever they do on this side of the Gandy. It's
on this side of the Gandy. It's the only 500 foot tower there. There's two other towers are right
down by the, by the beginning of the bridge as you're going towards McDill. Yeah. This is before
that. Still there. You'll see the facility to the right. It's got a huge fence around it. There's
all kinds of cables and they're using lots of power, but I have no idea. And the guy just
basically, I said, listen, I saw something at the top of your tower here about three weeks ago.
And I, I could tell the way the guy was talking to me like, look, you're in nut. Get away from
my, get away. So like I said, this was four o'clock in the afternoon. So I know that people
had to have seen this. There's no way they could not have seen this. And yet whether it was just
kind of hiding in plain sight, you know, those were the things that sparked my interest because
I'm going, what is it I'm looking at? Yeah. Why isn't anybody else doing the same thing going,
what is that? You know, the same thing when, when we saw that ball or whatever was in the video,
I saw it with my peripheral vision. What is it? So I, I, you scratch your head, you try to make
heads or tails of it. Again, when I was in Egypt, one of the things I asked the guy, I'm like,
Hey, man, let me ask you a question. How did they carve all this stuff in here? And he goes,
Oh, well, we're, you know, we're still kind of addressing that. No, no, I mean, there's no lights.
What did they use to be if you go inside the pyramids inside the pyramids? Did you? And what
was really cool about it was because the guy started telling us about the lack of oxygen in
there. Right. So you couldn't, you couldn't burn fire in there then because you'd burn up all the
oxygen. And the funny thing was, believe it or not, it smelled like urine. I'm like, Hey, dude,
why does it smell like peonies? Because a lot of the workers that are working here don't want to walk
all the way out. So they pee inside the pyramid. Because you're looking into an area where most
of the people don't get to go, which is very cool because we were military guys and you just thought,
Hey, we also paid him for this. So it was very, very cool. But again, so you're looking at this,
these 80 to 100 foot walls that are dude, smooth, they go together. You can't get a credit card in
between them. And yet there's no power. It's not like a plug. You weren't in there, you know,
figuring out, Oh, this is how I'm going to carve this out in the dark. Right. And then, then,
like I say, if you throw all the, the other things that go into it, the elongated skulls that
some of the emperors and the priests had within the Egyptian family. And they're trying to say,
well, they did that through binding, where they actually bound their heads and made the skull
long. Right. He goes, Okay, let's just say they did that. Why did they do that? They're trying to
emulate something. And they said, if you look at these elongated skulls, they found three of them
in Peru. The skulls are 40% larger. They're 25% heavier. And they've got no, it's called a sarcasm
line that runs down the center of every sarcasm sarcasm line. And it runs through the top of the
skull. And basically, when you're, when you're an infant, it's a soft spot so that your head
comes together and it forms. Right. There's like a T joint there. Bingo. Well, every human has that.
These skulls, they found do not have that. They also don't have any mitochondria DNA,
which again, is huge. You would think that everybody would know that I think at least it's
huge. Yeah. That proves to you right there. These are not human skulls. They're called the
Maraca skulls. Maraca skulls. Or maybe it's the paracas, the paracas skulls. Could it have been
like some sort of animal maybe? Well, I mean, now you just said that some guys are asking if these
maybe they were big flits. Oh, really? Because of the shape of the skulls. Oh my God. Again,
a whole subject heading to the whole UFO thing. Well,
yeah, I don't know. What do you think about Elon saying he has never seen or doesn't even believe
that you have? He's never seen any kind of UFO. He's never had any kind of any kind of
hint of alien beings. And he's the guy that's fucking scouring the heavens.
Hey, I think that there's a lot of people out there that haven't seen him.
Um, if you're not looking for him, if it's not something you're interested in,
I don't think you're going to see him. Right. You know, now whether he's interested in that or
not. Well, that's a good point. That's a good point. Yeah, I don't know. Is is do you think it's
only Oh, look at that. Dude, there they are. Shit. There they are, dude. Look at that fucking thing.
Dude, they're 40% bigger and 25% heavier. What's that thing called? Go to the top.
Ancient Peruvians gave themselves elongated skulls as a mark of status.
Many heads from pre Inca societies are teardrop shaped. The result of infants
has been bound while they are forming. Wow. You can see on top it does have those cracks in it.
Now this now this goal does if you go through put it in a parochis UFO skulls. Let's get that
pulls up parochis parochis. How do you spell that? P E R A C U S maybe. Yeah.
Because those skulls, the lines aren't in that skull for people out there who are just listening.
We're looking at a picture of this whole, by the way, we got a bitchin new TV in the podcast
studio. So make sure you tune into the video version because we can see everything now.
Yeah, it looks all visual. So when you start seeing this kind of stuff here that goes on,
when you start looking at, again, a lot of the Egyptologists now are starting to turn and look
at a lot of the information now that we talked about the Anunnaki earlier. And the Anunnaki
and the Samarians were the two that were working hand in hand. And when you look at the Samarians,
they're an interesting group because they were for the Samarians. The Samarians are really one
of the first civilizations ever on the planet recorded history. Really? And they are
responsible for the Anunnaki being here. And they worked hand in hand again to go back and to
gather all this gold up. One of the things I always was interesting when I was in South America,
I was obviously doing drug interdiction then, and they used to talk about all the gold they had
there. Where did it all go? Who got it all? And why aren't they still there looking for it today?
There was so much gold that was throughout South America because no one seems to be looking for it
other than when they find these new locations now where they think that the Miami have lived.
They're now using these new, shoot what they're called. They can actually fly over now and it
takes off the first layer of trees and lets them see right down to the ground. What? Yeah.
This is a thing. This is a thing now. They can actually fly over it. I can't believe I can't
think of the name of it. I'll give you a second here. I'll think of it. But they actually can,
it's like taking pictures. And as they fly over it, it removes all of the overbrush. So you can
now see buildings and they can see cities and they see courtways and roads that they could never
see before. And they found like 42 more pyramids. South America has more pyramids, believe it or
not, than Egypt has. Right. And Mexico too, right? Bingo. Bingo. So they're now finding all these
places. And again, they all have some sort of astrological meaning. There's everything is,
facing a certain way or has a hole where the sun shines through at certain periods of time.
Yeah. Well, back then before electricity, the stars and the sun and the moon must have had
so much more of an impact on people. Well, even today, look at our Sagittarius and our
Capricorns and we're still looking all into our horoscopes. Yeah, we still are obsessed with it.
We are. Everybody's just obsessed with it. When you really think about it and you think about
how this the Mayans were the only group that were able to figure out that the earth has a wobble.
Yeah, that's fucking wild. I mean, come on, man. How do you figure that out? And without somebody
helping you to understand there's a wobble, nobody else picked up on it. I mean, and I don't think
that the Mayans were that smart. They're not obviously rocket scientists, you know. So,
so was someone there with them helping them through this time? Fingerprints of the gods.
That's the name of the book, by Graham Hancock that basically told me about all this stuff.
Yes. I've now used that guy's dedicated his life to this stuff.
Completely. Yeah, completely. And listen, there's I'm trying to think of there's another guy
that when he first came out with this, people thought he was nuts. What is this guy? He's a
little foreign guy thinking of his name now. But he he came out initially wrote a book
of the gods values the gods. Anyway, he came out and said that this all started at that particular
point in time with aliens with extraterrestrial beings. And that's how the life is set up.
That's we've that's what we've always been a part of. Nobody can tell us why, though.
I want to know why is, you know, again, are we just a bug here that's producing carbon dioxide
for the planet? Is there a bigger picture for us? I mean, we're so interested in killing each other
and doing harm to each other. And again, I don't know if that's part of the bigger plan.
Isn't that crazy, though? You know, carbon dioxide, you know, all the carbon dioxide
is supposed to be so bad, but it's it's really giving life to all the trees and plans and and
all the vegetation. Dude, the tree is the most important element on the planet.
It absolutely does everything we need to do. You can build with it and keep you warm.
And there's not another product on the planet that does that for you. I mean,
you know, other than some brush and whatnot. But if you're if you're truly looking at trees
for what they are, if you look at the onslaught of trees throughout, especially through South America,
they're clear cutting the forest down. So now are these aliens, these these visitors,
are they watching that? You know, is that why Brazil all of a sudden has this onslaught of
craft? You guys, whoa, now you're connecting some serious dots here. You see what I'm saying?
You're so you're damaging the planet, but we're not going to let you damage the planet. The same
thing with with as we test nuclear devices. There's, well, yeah, there's a book called UFOs and Nukes
that a guy named Robert Hastings. I've been trying to get him on here, but he's he's not in good
health right now and he can't travel. But bummer. He did that whole book basically,
you know, studying and detailing all the events of UFO sightings over the nuclear bases,
shutting down the nuclear bases, completely shutting them down. And not and these guys not
knowing what to do actually have had and it's called Bentwaters in England, where
they had it. They didn't have a crash. They had one land and the commanding officer who was at a
Christmas party was actually this was the second night they had the event. The first night they
had it, they told they reported it, although the security personnel, these are all military guys,
all well trained military guys on a nuclear facility, I might add. So this is just an everyday guys.
They saw it that night, they reported it. They didn't want to say really what they thought it
was. They just thought it was some sort of down via down aircraft. Yeah. The next night it came back,
they went there to go get him and actually brought him back. And they these guys actually touched
it, put their hands on it. One of the other sergeants actually saw it fly above the area where
these said we can't tell you if there's actually nuclear devices there. But it flew over this
one bay, dropped a laser down, went through the roof and into the actual facility didn't detonate
anything. But rendered that that bomb that was in there useless for 24 hours, we couldn't use it
for that period of time. We don't know what he what they did to it or how they did it. So
again, we're looking at military guys who aren't trying to start a story, they were trying to
protect a base and not able to do it. So and now, if you go back and start doing research on it,
every nuclear base has had some sort of extraterrestrial. So again, are we back to the
listen, we're going to watch what you guys do to the planet. We can't have you testing this stuff.
It's not good for the planet. It's bad mojo. Have you ever heard of atomic veterans?
I have not. So I forget what it was called, but it was during that period of time where
over in, I believe, England, as well as here in the US, they would recruit young military
kids like kids like 18, 19, 20 years old, they would recruit them, they would put them on on
like combat vessels like like like aircraft carriers or some some shit like that, some
sort of ships, they would bring them out into the ocean and they were testing nukes. And they were
using, you know, US military kids that had listened military like as young as 18 years old,
putting them on these ships and they were testing nukes. And basically what they would do is before
they would detonate the nuke into the ocean, they would make everyone face the other way and
they would tell everyone to cover their eyes. And there was a lot of people who were a part
of this testing, and it fucked them all up for life. Like lots of them got cancer and died.
Majority of them could never have kids. They all explained vividly like what it was like,
how like they had to take off all their clothes after and like dispose of all their clothes.
A lot of them started losing their teeth. Like when the thing detonated, they described seeing all
the, even though their eyes were closed and they had their hands over their eyes facing the opposite
way, they all could account for seeing, even though their eyes were closed, they saw the skeleton
of their bones in their hands when it happened. And it fucked these people up. Some of them are
still alive and they've done interviews with these guys. I just watched an interview that this
kid did where he, he, uh, it was a documentary he did where he interviewed probably a dozen of
these guys. And it is the most terrifying fucking thing. Well, here's the strange part about that.
On every aircraft carrier that I was ever on, they talk about what happens if a nuke detonates
under the boat and what you're supposed to do. Oh, really? So that's, and they, that obviously
confirms what you're saying because they know what to do because they've already done it and
they understand what happens because the, what initially happens to the bottom of the ship is
the floor's buckle. If your feet are touching the floor, you're probably going to get killed
because the way that the ship comes up, the ground up comes up so quick that it would
shatter the bones in your body. So they tell you to grab the, uh, superstructure above you and get
your feet off the deck. So that would, that would make, would make perfect sense. But again,
listen, when you're in the military, you're expendable and you're part of the deal. We took
shots before going to Spain. They were detonating these nukes like, like, like probably miles away
from the ship. So do that. I couldn't imagine what it would be like if a nuke detonated under
the ship, like a sub or something. I mean, it's ridiculous. It's just ridiculous all the way
around. Do you even think you would survive it? First of all, because we always kind of laugh.
I'm like, what? Is that really going to be the biggest thing on our mind? Like, get your feet
off the deck. Right, right. You know, if nuke's gone off underneath of us, I don't think if we
even heard the nuke, I'd be surprised. Right, right. So we, like I say, to see that go on,
I mean, listen, even when I was on, I was on the USS Lexington, which was a trait training
vessel. It's actually still at a wooden deck, believe it or not, at a Pensacola, Florida.
And we would go out for six weeks and then come back in and all of the pilots came from
Corpus Christi, Texas. So they would fly out there and meet us and they would do all their
landing ops and we would train them how to land on boats. So behind the ship one night,
and I was standing back there, they actually call it phytoplankton that would turn green
and come out from the back of the bottom of the ship. And these big green balls of light
would get shot out of the bottom of the ship. I'd be standing, this has been the very rear of
the ship called the fantail. And I would stand back there at night when I was off and just kind
of enjoy the evenings and these big green balls. So not even today, I'm like, were those really?
What was I was looking at that we're in the water? There's lots of bioluminescent sea life out,
especially far out in the Gulf like that. Well, listen, you've seen along the shoreline,
especially like on heavy waves come in and you see, okay, so it was that color.
Okay, but these were big balls, dude. I mean, like, like three or four cars,
you know, if you put them all together and put a ball around that big, they were huge.
So it wasn't like a film at the top of the water. It was something that was being shot,
almost like something was playing like in the, in the, in the, the draft of the ship.
Like I say, monster, I mean, this is an aircraft carrier. So it gives you an idea. It's a big boat.
I'm sure there weren't any guys like fishing like dragon lines behind the boat.
Cause that's how you, that's how you catch. What's it called?
I think it's swordfish, sealfish. Yeah. No, no, swordfish. Is it swordfish?
Swordfish, you only eat fish for it at night and you drop on your line when you're,
when you're fishing for them, you drop these fucking night sticks. What are they called?
The glow in the dark sticks. Yep. Yep. We actually used to tie our clothes and
put them on ropes and hang it over the side if we had to wash them sometimes.
Cause they would, they didn't have any fresh water in the boat. So they would say,
they wash your clothes on the side. So that's fucking crazy.
That does sound like a very good way to get your clothes clean.
Not unless you like that salt water. At least they were,
didn't stink. So that was the plus side of it.
How far out into the ocean or how, how like far out, far off shore did the boats go?
I mean, we wouldn't see shore. Right. You wouldn't see shore.
So you'd be probably out in the middle of the golf. Okay.
You know, and again, they were trying to have planes were coming from Texas.
Yeah. Well, and they were listening. They wanted to give the guys a full experience.
So, you know, obviously as a ship pitches and rolls,
that's the hard part for the pilot coming into land.
So as the ship pitches and rolls and tries to do what it's doing,
so they would put us in the deepest part of the water to try to get the ship to emulate that,
because we were a small aircraft carrier compared to what they were going to be landing on
once they made the fleet. So, you know, even again, going back and look at these guys that
witnessed these, these UFOs throughout, actually up and down the east coast of Florida.
They were all on there. I think they were on the U S is Carl Vincent.
And they started shooting video of that. Did you give us a video of that one too?
On the east coast. No, no, no, that was the one with the,
that was the one that was on the, on the plane radar.
I think the one that the one that Lieutenant Gray saw was the gimbal. I think there's
some people called the gimbal. Yeah. And that was the one that A tip came out and said,
hey, we're going to show you this one. And we're going to show you the other one from
David Fravor. Yeah. So, and those guys that come out, I mean, full fledged, they weren't,
they've not been told, hey, don't talk about this. He said, we weren't ever told not to discuss it.
And so here we are. We're, we're having this discussion other than now that the Pentagon
has said, Hey, we have been dealing with crashed UFO material. They've come short of not saying
aliens. They just said UFO. So it's unidentified, which just could be anything at that point.
Is it the Russians? It could be, you know, they think that they found one of their bells. It was
called a Russian bell back in the 60s in Pennsylvania. What was it big to do? You know, again, it was
it was like a bell. And they said that it had hieroglyphics on the side of it.
And that some people believe that it was for time travel.
But they didn't know if it was from the Germans, because the Germans,
dude, the Germans were way ahead of everybody when they came out. If you look at their technology,
dude, they were way ahead of everybody. And I think that they even say they even had it.
They've got video of it of an extraterrestrial craft or UFO flying that they're flying. The question
is, is it real? And that was the, you know, it's always the question. It was he goes, the
guys go, well, it looks like it's kind of a heavy populated area. Why would you fly it there?
You know, it doesn't doesn't make sense to where you would. But yet if the Americans got this at
the time that they took, I think that we found the first jet engine there, because the the Germans
had already dealt the jet engine. And we hadn't done that yet. They did it first. They did it first.
Yeah. They and that you know, the flying wing, the like the B 50 and not the B 52 is the new
bombers. Yeah. Stealth bombers. Yeah. They already had that we got that technology from them
from the Germans. They were way ahead of a game on that. So even, you know, there's people that
talk about Hitler wanting the tall, you know, the bond air blue eyed guys. Yeah. So if you look at
the Americans who the Paul Hillier says from from Canada, he's the defense minister there. Paul
Hillier, Paul Hillier, he said that we were dealing with the tall whites. He said that. Oh, yeah.
What does he mean by tall white? What is this tall white thing? Well, supposedly these are very
very tall, very Anglo looking kind of Nordic aliens. And they've been dealing with them for the last
10 years. I've actually heard of these before. And the current sitting defense minister of Canada.
He's not no longer the he's no longer he's not longer in politics. He's out of politics now.
That's why he'll come here and talk about it. It was part of the part of the project disclosure
that came out. And he's the one who said UFOs or as real as the planes flying over your house. No
doubt about it. And America has been dealing with the tall whites for the last 10 years.
And who these tall whites were. I'm like, can you say that today? Really? Yeah. Can you? What's
this guy's name? His name is Paul Hillier. Can you look at this guy? Yeah. It's H E L L Y E R. Paul.
First name Paul. And he's the former Canadian Minister of Defense. H E L L I E R. No, Y E R.
Y E R. Hellier. So he says America's been dealing with the tall whites, which are some sort of
aliens, which are some sort of alien group that says has anybody corroborated this this claim?
I'm sure that they did the same thing even when I was watching it.
That's him as a young man right there. He's an older guy now.
Searched like Paul Hillier tall whites. Yeah. Paul Hillier project disclosure.
Believe it or not, like I said, as we move forward, they're just all these stories can
not. The text is so small. I should have got a bigger TV. It's a great TV, by the way. Thank you.
I just can't read the text. I mean, I can, but it's so small.
When you take into consideration that guys like this who he's not doing this for money,
he's not looking for how old is this guy? When was he born? He's probably in the 70s now.
Yeah, I mean, he still seems relatively with it. He's, uh, he's
he's 19. He was 40 in 1969.
Visitors from outer space, real or not, our focus of discussion in Washington posted March 3rd,
2013. While President Obama was promoting an immigration overhaul in Mexico,
six former members of Congress gathered two blocks from the White House to consider what they,
what they see as the enforced government security surrounding another kind of visitor,
the kind who come from a lot farther away. I don't see anything about this guy.
What was his name again? Hillier. Paul Hillier. Paul Hillier.
Keep going down.
Cause he was in on, he sat in on this when he was with this group. So I would be surprised.
He's not mentioned in there. Aha, there he is right there.
Is that him? No, Mike Gravel, former Senator. That's not him then. Kind of looks like him.
Well, I don't know. But it's just interesting about these tall whites.
Yeah. Like I say, man, it's interesting. And here recently, I just watched a show where they
were talking about the moon. The moon's got some odd things about it. So you can find anything about
tall whites. Yeah. Put, um, put extraterrestrials, just anything about tall whites, anything that
looks legit. That's not on like, you know, the program I was watching last night, they showed
how in 1964, they flew a lunar lander into the moon because they didn't know what the moon was
made of. Right. You know, hey, we're landing. It's just dust. Right. So they crashed a lunar
lander in there and the moon rang, rang like a bell for like an hour or almost two hours.
The moon rang like a bell. Like a bell.
What? And they couldn't understand why that rang like a bell.
Iran says tall white space aliens control America. There you go. Iran.
Holy shit. But this is on Forbes. Documents leaked by the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden
conclusively prove that the United States has been ruled by a race of tall white space aliens
who also assisted the rise of Nazi Germany in the 1930s.
These revelations about our alien overlords might not cost you any sleep, but that part,
but the part that should concern you a tad is that the UFO story was just published by
the Fars news agency, the English language news service of Iran, a nation that may be
very close to acquiring nuclear weapons. This seems like this being a crazy conspiracy theory
naturally. The Russians are behind it. The alleged alien invasion was revealed in an alleged
report by the Russia's FSB spy agency, which was found in controversial proof that the alien
extraterrestrial intelligence agenda is driving US domestic and international international policy
and has been doing so since at least 1945 says the Iranian news service.
I mean, well, I mean, this is hanging out with that guy, though.
No, no, no, no, Paul Hillier Snowden, who has been given asylum in Russia,
leaked documents that are real. Well, Snowden, what Snowden didn't Snowden say that he's,
he actually said that he had like the most most insane security clearance in the NSA. And he said
he never saw anything about extraterrestrials. But now this is saying that he released documents
that talk about extraterrestrials. Well, I think this goes on to with Snowden right now,
because he's in Russia. So he's trying to make sure he stays in Russia. So as soon as he runs out
of information to give them, I got a feeling he'll be back in the US. As soon as the Russians
don't have any more use for him. So he'll continue to let, now again, whether is this real?
You know, is it something he's just pumping out sunshine up their ass to make them feel good
about, hey, check this out. It's the tall white is a, this will not be the last time you've heard
of him. I didn't hear they were running the US, but it's interesting that the Iranians say that
they are. The Iranians have had many, many, many UFO related incidents. Again, which there's some
that are saying that the Middle East really has all the information that we need to figure out
where we really came from, but they don't want us to find that. So we keep the wars going on there.
I think maybe they just have better drugs than we do. I don't know.
Or maybe they've been out of the desert for too long. Well, you know, of course, they,
they sell more heroin than any place in the world. They got all the poppy there. Absolutely.
So maybe that's what's going on at the end of the day. I think it could be.
But, you know, again, when you hear things like the tall whites,
nobody's saying that they're tall white guys. They don't have another name for them. It's that tall
white thing. And why are they tall? They're big. They're big. They're supposed to be bigger than us.
So, you know, then they aren't flying those ships because those ships fit small little,
little. Well, if you go back into the Bob Lazar, Bob Lazar store, yeah, they said
the cockpit of that ship was like tiny, but he also said there was no bathroom. There was no
kitchen. Right. So they were humanoids. Yeah. That was the, that was the big question. Right.
He goes, are these today? He goes, if we could put a robot in something and fly it tomorrow,
she goes, we would do that. Right. We wouldn't want, we wouldn't want to risk lives.
Yeah. Right. Because I think this takes like even nine months to get there. I think too,
the challenges are keeping your bones hard during that period of time because bones get so soft.
Right. Right. Right. So you lose bone density when you're in space for so long. That's why the
astronauts, they have to like work out. That's exact. You see that running treadmill, typically
on there, trying to keep the bones hard. Yeah. Trying to keep the bones hard. So,
I think at the end of the day, when you start looking again at the bigger picture,
we would have done that. We'd put aliens or robots into a craft and send it someplace,
especially if they were that good. So I, that makes perfect sense. Like, yeah,
it kind of makes more sense because what would you eat? Right. Where would you go to the bathroom?
You know, where would you, so yeah, I ideally come up with something along those lines.
Oh, I want to travel. Yeah. So, and especially if you wanted just to make sure that you're
listening, we're just trying to keep tabs on the planet. I was watching a, this is kind of
getting off on a, on a big foot story, but I was watching a story where all these,
these scientists had gotten together and they were in Alaska and they were there just to get
some video or, and these were, again, these were scientists. These weren't, you know, people who
were doing shows or they weren't looking to do a movie or strictly doing, doing this for
the sake of trying to figure out what people are seeing. And in the show, one of the scientists
is in the, in the field and all of a sudden sees these lights that pop up above the trees.
And so he's trying to see what they are while this is going on. And he's like, I'm not saying
these are UFOs at all because that's not what we're out here to look at. We're out here to look at
trying to find a big foot's reel. But what is this thing they were looking at? And they watched it
for probably 15 minutes. And it was just funny that they're out there chasing this, this animal
around that they say is alive, big foot, and that they happen to see one of these things. And of
course that same night they see what they say is a big foot. They actually get it on thermal camera.
Did they really? And they were trying to figure out what they could just tell was big.
Yeah. And so they sent it off to a guy and the guy said, dude, if you were in Africa,
I'd tell you had a gorilla that looks just like a gorilla. Right. So that whole story kind of
manifests itself into, again, back to the UFO thing. Are they here to monitor the planet?
Because I can't think of why else they would be here. I mean, what would be the fascination with
us? Do you think the tall whites are bigfoot? I mean, I would say no, because these are Nordic
style, but it knows. Listen, they weren't like a ghillie suit or something. A big hairy ghillie suit.
I mean, it's just strange, again, to think about that in the bigger picture, but there's so many
things that are so outside of what we understand. When you talk to somebody who's seen a big foot,
dude, they're telling you they saw a big foot. I'm like, you don't have to believe me. So
that story itself is kind of, you know, unbelievable because we're always told there's no monsters.
There's nothing out there that's going to hurt you. And yet you have these events that take
place. The whole UFO thing. Nobody ever thought, I can remember back as a kid and people tell me,
you're nuts to even follow this crap. It's all a bunch of hooies. It's not real. And here we are,
you know, 45 years later on the cusp of finding something out through the Pentagon.
What was the guy's name that bought Skinwalker Ranch?
He actually, I can't believe I can't think of this cat's name. Bigelow. Bigelow. Yes. Bigelow.
Yeah. Mark Bigelow. No, it wasn't Mark. I want to say like John or something. Maybe it is. Yeah.
Matter of fact, the show is getting ready to start up again this month. What's your Skinwalker Ranch?
There's a show about Skinwalker Ranch? Dude, they've got some, you've seen this guy. He's a,
he's a PhD scientist. He's working there. They're trying to figure out
why this place has all these weird energies. And every time someone tries to dig, some of the bad
happens. One of the guys got hit in the head with something and he said it actually separated his
scalp from his skull. And they believe it was microwave energy that did it. So somebody was
shooting microwave energy at him when he was digging this hole out there, making his
scalp separate from his skull. And that's what happened to all those cows. They were skinned
with no blood or anything. They don't understand bingo what was going on. Yet they looked at some
video and there's a something in the air that's above one of the cows when it drops over and it
can't get up. And it just hangs. Oh, there's video of it, dude. Like I said, it's getting ready to
start back up. They were, they brought in ground penetrating radar and found something that was
about 4,200 feet long, about 20 feet under the ground. So they tried to drill down to it.
And as soon as they tried to drill down to it, the ground started to shake it.
And the guys said, Hey, check out that telephone pole. This was on a show. This is on a show.
What's the name of the show? Skinwalker Ranch. The show is called Skinwalker Ranch.
It's on the History Channel. The History Channel. It starts up May 5th. Okay. Dude,
it's great. It's got so much. These are scientists. They're trying to figure out what's going on.
They're not telling you what you're looking at. They're just saying, Hey, that's something.
What is it? I wonder how much of it is like hypersensational as just for TV and how much
of it's actually legit. Well, I'm sure that it's like, it's like everything else, man. I mean,
you always end the, the, you go into a commercial break with not telling him what the answer was
to the, cause that guy Bigelow just did a podcast with Joe Rogan and I watched it because I'm like
super into these, he's there. He didn't say one thing about Skinwalker Ranch. Oh yeah.
That's crazy dude. That's crazy. Cause he's on, he's in the, he's in the video. He's on the,
I was honestly kind of disappointed with that guy, John Bigelow, what he was talking about.
I mean, he's like, he wasn't very lucid. I'll use the word drip. He's a drip. No,
it didn't seem like that. It seemed like he was just kind of like
not that, not there. You know what I mean? It seemed like, it just seemed like
he wasn't as informed as you would like him to be. When you see him in this, like he was,
when he first got there and they, they brought on the two new scientists and he started talking
about digging and he goes, Oh no, there's not going to be any digging here. Every time we
started digging, something bad happens. Yeah. And so he started with all the things. He goes,
we're not going to talk about it right now because I don't know where you guys are at on this. We're
going to look at a few other things. And the scientist that was there actually went down to
this area where this, this energy is coming up out of the ground and the energy got so heavy.
He actually got sick to his stomach. He said, I don't know what's coming up through it. This is
electromagnetic that's coming up through here, but he got deathly ill and all the phone batteries
went dead. They couldn't keep a, they couldn't keep a drone in the sky. They keep seeing something
in the sky. So all these odd phenomenas going on and what he's, they're trying to do now is
are putting cameras up and just about every square inch of the property. So they cover
everything and trying to figure out what's going on. Right. So it kind of ended last season
on a note where they were, again, they had dug down about 20 feet and hit something. He goes,
dude, whatever's down there, I can't get through it. I won't, let me drill down any farther.
And like I said, the ground started shaking because they looked up, he goes, Hey, check out
that telephone pole. The telephone pole was swaying back and forth. What? So he didn't know,
and you've seen this guy on TV before. Once you see him in this flick, you've seen him before. So
he brings a certain amount of reality to the show. Like he's really looking for what it is. He's like,
I'm not telling you it's anything until I see what it is. Right. Right. And because the guy
that owned the ranch before Bigelow said that he actually had material that was from extra
tractor or craft that he has locked in a warehouse. What was his name?
Dang it. I can't think of his name right now. But he, when he sold it to Bigelow,
he told them what was going on with the place. So whether it's, you know, again,
is this a spiritual place because of the earth? You know, is this an earth movement thing? Is it,
is this related to Native Americans that lived there at one point in time? Because
I want to see it to, I have to see this shit to believe it.
Well, see the skinwalker, the whole idea of the skinwalker is this is an individual that can
morph into animals. And he's kind of a spirit. The Navajo really fear him. But for whatever reason,
it's just attached to this. Again, obviously the name skinwalker ranch and has gotten the
strangest coverage because everybody tries to go in there and look at something, but they can't
really do anything because the batteries go dead, the cameras die or the, and then once the camera
went dead, they couldn't record the event that was taking place. But it's going to be back on,
I think was May 4th, which is a Sunday, May 5th. And it's going to, like I said, it's again,
all it's going to do is validate what we're live, what we're talking about today. There's something
bigger that's going on. Right. But the problem though is you can't really validate it because
it's a TV show, you know? Oh, for sure. I mean, it's like so great. It's so entertaining. And it
sounds like you want to fucking believe it. It's so fun to watch and it's so fun to talk about.
But just because it's because of the fact, it's a fucking TV show. Sure. You can't validate. You're
like, Oh, it's a fucking TV. Actually, it's the opposite because it's a TV show. Now you can
actually dismiss it. Sure. So he, like I say, they've done some things that are interesting. I
mean, they can put some power meters on and look at the, look at the, this energy that's coming in.
And when they triangulated it, he goes, it's coming from above us. It's not on the ground.
It's coming from above us. So they were trying to figure out how high it went up. So they actually
made this balloon and attached this EMP device to it that could
measure the amount of electromagnetic pulse was coming down and got it to a certain point
and then it burned up and dropped out of the sky. So like I say, the whole show is full of,
obviously it's something interesting going on at the ranch, whether it's, you know, UFO related,
or if it's some sort of anomaly that the, you know, that the property does because it's maybe
more iron than not. I don't know. But it's, it's, like I say, man, it's coming back out.
There's definitely some weird shit happening there. Oh, definitely some odd things that are going on.
For me, again, that's really kind of the draw for it.
You know, but no, explain that again, explain that again with the guy with the guy who said,
that's bullshit. I'm going to fucking dig anyway. Yeah. Thomas Winnerton is one of the guys on
the skin walker ranch that actually works as a ranch hand. And as he got hired there,
um, each of the ranch hands were told, listen, when you come onto the property, there's no digging.
And he was like, well, why can't we dig? And the guy said, because we don't want you digging.
And he's like, well, I don't understand why we can't, I don't want you digging on the property.
They didn't tell him there was anything spooky about it. Didn't tell us anything that UFO associated.
They said, I don't care what you do in the property, but no digging. So he was putting up
some fence posts. And after he, I guess was with this thing for about 20 minutes to half an hour,
he's like, this is bullshit. I'm going to get the bobcat real quick. And I'm going to drill a hole
down here and put this post in the ground. So he went back and got it, came back up, started to
dig a hole in the ground and got this excruciating pain in the back of his head.
And he said it was, it was nauseated. He didn't feel good. It was almost immediate. So he left,
got back home, realized that there was something bigger going on. So they brought him to the hospital.
Yeah. And when they brought him to the hospital, they took an x-ray of his skull and literally on the
right hand backside of his skull was a knot, but they couldn't figure what that knot was from.
Well, then as they x-rayed it, the scalp was actually coming off of the skull and had looked
like a, almost like an area where fluid had filled up. And the doctor was looking at me going,
I've never seen this before. How did this happen? And he's like, I was on this field digging and
all of a sudden I got a pain in the back of my head and here I am. What's up world? You just
watched a clip from one of our exclusive Patreon episodes. That's right. You can get weekly,
pure uncut content straight from the jungles of Columbia. If you want to watch the full episode,
make sure you go to patreon.com slash concrete videos. Peace.
