We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
Today, my guest is the one and only Larry Lawen.
Larry is originally from the Bronx,
which is where he got his start
and organized crime at the age of 12.
From there, he went to become known
as the most notorious jewel robber
in the history of the United States.
He robbed over 15, I think it's 15 or $20 million
worth of jewels until he was eventually tracked down
by the FBI and hit with four 12-year sentences.
Once he was finally released from prison,
Larry reformed his ways,
and now he helps and inspires young people
to stay out of prison and change their life path.
It's also worth mentioning,
he started his own YouTube channel last year,
which now already has over one million subscribers.
Larry has been through a lot of crazy, scary shit,
which we get into on this one.
This has gotta be one of the most fun conversations
I've had on this podcast.
Please welcome Larry Lawten.
All right, we're live.
Larry Lawten, thanks for coming, man.
Anytime, man.
That RV you got is pretty sick.
A lot better than the other one that went on fire,
which was pretty cool.
I mean, if anybody goes to my channel,
they'll see the fire.
I put a video about the fire.
Everyone thought I burned it down,
because you know I burned my pizzeria down.
For the insurance money?
Well, back in the day,
when I was a gangster,
I was a gangster, and I was a gangster.
I was a gangster, and I was a gangster.
I was a gangster, and I was a gangster.
Back in the day, when I was a gangster,
I burned the whole fucking plaza down.
What? Why'd you do that?
Well, I was making more money in diamonds and pizza.
I said, fuck this shit, and I burned it down.
I was gonna get insurance,
but they ended up not paying.
They investigated me and all that,
but they didn't get it.
People who know my background know
that I was pretty wild back in the day.
So for people on this show
who aren't familiar with your background,
give them a little bit of the story.
Do you have, like, the country's most notorious diamond thieves?
Well, you know, we put thief,
because it was a word that's actually better searched.
I was the biggest jewel robber in the country.
I still am known as the biggest jewel robber in the country.
I robbed 15 to 18 million.
I was hooked up with organized crime.
I wouldn't tell on anybody.
I ended up going to prison for four 12-year sentences.
And then people ask, oh, why'd you go for four sentences?
Because if I win one on an appeal,
I still gotta do the time.
That's why people go,
why does a guy get three life sentences?
He can't die three times.
No, but if he wins one of those life sentences on appeal,
he's still got life.
So that's how they do that.
But I ended up going away in 1996,
and I didn't get out till 2007.
You guys were all young.
Yeah.
And your sound guy and your guy,
he was a kid.
He was still in diapers, yeah.
Actually, when I went to prison, he was even born.
No, he wasn't because my daughter was only 18 months
and she was born in 95.
And I ended up, I have a great relationship with my kids.
But my son was six.
I got out and he was 18.
And my daughter was 15 months old,
and I got out and she was 13 years old.
So, I mean, that's why I do what I do
to try to help people and stuff like that, you know.
But I was a bad guy.
I don't fucking, you know, try to sugarcoat that.
I was, you didn't want to run across me back to my day.
I would lay people's arms on curbs and snap them.
Jesus Christ.
I was the kind of guy you didn't want to.
But I didn't hurt civilians.
We called it civilians.
Okay.
Other people in the business.
Yeah, if you were a drug dealer, you were a bookie,
you wanted to be a criminal,
you didn't want to fucking run across me.
It was that, that's the way I was.
Now, of course, you know, as you know me
and I help a lot of people,
a lot of people say, oh, you know,
you only started YouTube a year ago.
And it's true.
You only started doing YouTube a year ago.
A year ago.
And you have over a million subscribers on your channel.
Your channel is huge.
You do all kinds of really cool videos.
And we're actually trying new things, expanding new things.
We have now obviously the podcast and the TikTok
and everything else.
Yeah, you're killing it, man.
But what we did, you know, and we're trying new things,
you know, we got a great manager and Peter
and a great team with my son and Darian and Teresa,
everybody who's there, we want to try new things.
So that's why I try to tell people, try it.
It might work.
We tried gaming.
What the fuck does Larry know about gaming?
You know, I didn't grow up with gaming.
Yeah.
But what I did was guys wanted it,
my audience wanted it, the followers wanted it,
and we expanded.
And I got into gaming.
I mean, I play it and I'm not good at it.
By any stretch of your imagination.
But, you know, we wanted to try different things.
So, but I didn't start what I do a year ago.
When I got out of prison, I started Reality Check.
And it's a great story on how I started the whole program.
I got out of prison after doing 12 years.
Okay.
11 straight years.
Where did you do your time at?
Maximum security prison.
I was in Atlanta.
Maximum security.
Yeah.
I was in Atlanta, USP Atlanta.
And when I was in Edgefield, I was strapped down naked,
beaten and tortured by guards and pissed on,
and spit on by guards.
Because I was fighting the abuses of the prison system.
Our prison system's broke.
Oh, for sure.
And let me tell you, it's the worst fucking prison system
in the free world.
And people go, what do you mean?
I'm not talking about third world crimes.
I'm talking about France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Canada.
United States is the worst prison system in the free world.
And it's known.
And the most people in...
Oh, by numbers that are...
We have more people incarcerated than fucking China.
Per capita.
More people.
Not even per capita.
Oh.
Straight numbers.
Really?
They got one point fucking three billion people
when we have more prisoners than them.
Jesus.
It's just sick.
Well, they just straight up execute people.
Ah, everybody says that.
And that's not true.
No, it's not true.
Really?
What happens is they actually have a higher suicide rate.
Oh.
They dishonor their family.
And they'll have suicides or they have different ways.
They do certain things.
So everybody's thinking, oh, they just kill them in these...
And that's not true.
I don't know how Iran works or North Korea works.
But as far as the pre-war...
But I was in prison from 96 to 2007.
And I was on Con Air 16 times, that fucking movie.
Did you ever see Nick Cage?
No, he wasn't on there with me.
Damn it.
I actually saw Lou Perlman.
Oh, really?
You remember the Backstreet Boys and all that?
Yeah, yeah.
He was the founder of the Backstreet Boys and NSYNC and all that.
Okay, okay.
Fat fuck stole all that money from them.
And when he was on a plane...
I was getting off a plane.
The plane.
The plane.
And he was getting on it so to have you off to the sides.
And I saw him and I said,
I'm gonna fuck you, Lou, fuck you.
And I was yelling at him and I'm getting yelled at and all that shit and fucking...
Oh my God.
He was like all fucking scared.
So what were you doing?
You said you were fighting the system when you were inside.
That's why you got pissed on and you got your ass beat by prison guards.
What were you doing?
Well, you know, the prison system killed three of my friends.
Literally killed three of my friends.
One guy had a medical issue and he was having chest pains.
His arms hurt and goes to medical.
They say, get out of here.
He ends up going to work.
They have what in prison, you work, you work.
People think you don't work.
You work.
So he works for what they call CMS, which is like they maintain the prison, you know,
like the plumbers in this called CMS.
Yeah.
So he works for CMS.
The guy who works for a guard tells him, hey, get the medical.
You look terrible.
This guy, James Archie, good friend of mine, lived three cells from me.
I used to play oil shoes.
Believe me, they had oil shoes.
Wow.
They took them all fucking yard quick.
Anyway, he goes in there and said, they said, get out of here.
You got Maylock.
You got his Maylock.
You got gas.
He walks into the unit.
He looks at myself.
Another guy named Jimmy Brown.
We're looking at TV sets.
He walks in the unit and he goes, man, I'm dying.
We look at him.
He's pale.
He sits down.
He kills all.
We put him in a chair.
He kills over and dies right in front of us, leaving the medical.
Dies.
Now, I don't know if you ever saw a man die.
I've seen many people die.
The first thing that happens is they, whatever's in them comes out.
What the shit all over themselves?
Yeah, that shit.
There's no nerves holding it and whatever it is.
So he died.
And they're yelling, lockdown, lockdown.
You got to run your cell and all that shit.
And when they picked him up, they come with a golf cart down to the unit.
They were left.
Now, my cell was about three cells from the main door on the bottom floor.
And I'm looking at, we have windows this big.
They're fucking, they're not real windows, you know what I mean?
You couldn't fit through them, you know?
Even you couldn't.
You're a good shape guy.
Not no fat fuck like me.
And they were laughing.
They thought it was a joke.
And they came to every cell in the prison and they said, oh, you sure him hit his head?
I said, fuck you.
You killed him.
I go off on them.
Boom.
They throw me in the hole for 11 straight months.
I was in the hole for three years out of my 11 in the hole.
Is that the same as the shoe?
The shoe, special housing.
Okay.
Hole, special housing.
Okay.
Segregation.
Just so basically you're in a little concrete box by yourself.
Yeah.
Well, sometimes you're with somebody else.
Okay.
Most of the time you're with somebody else.
It depends on how bad you get, how violent you are, whatever.
You don't get to see the light of day ever.
Well, you know, they're supposed to, they call it give you wreck one hour a day.
Okay.
And when you get wreck, it's in a dog cage, a literally 10 by 20 cage, like a fucking
animal.
Now that's when they give you that.
They don't always give you that.
And they have the greatest line in the world to not give you wreck for the safe and orderly
running of the institution.
No wreck today.
Bad and climate weather.
No.
It's all bullshit.
You just don't want to fucking give you wreck.
Right.
So I've been in there.
I was there when they didn't give you a fucking shower or anything for three weeks.
When I tell you, you don't know how bad you smell.
You smell yourself.
That's how fucking bad you are.
No fucking.
I mean, nothing.
I mean, it's just disgusting what they do to people.
I mean, our system is fucked up, but I was in the hole for three years and what am I a
little fucked up?
Absolutely.
Fucked up to a degree.
I think I came out of it pretty good.
I mean, yeah, somewhat normal and I think, but you know, I don't think people, obviously,
I believe in rehabilitation.
I'm a different man.
When I was younger, I was a wild guy.
I never ever said it belonged in prison because I was robbing.
I robbed 15, 18 million.
I was hooked up with all the nice crime.
I was a violent guy.
I didn't hurt.
I was tired.
I never hurt people who weren't in my business, but that doesn't make it right either.
You know, I put fear into people.
You're robbing a jewelry store.
I never hurt somebody doing a robbery.
Never.
When I robbed the jewelry store and I robbed one here, Sarasota.
Did you really?
Yeah, I robbed all over the fucking state.
I have over 20 something stores.
Wow.
And the FBI got me.
But anyway, as I'm going to prison, I go, listen, I get caught.
It was a big deal when I got caught and all that.
So it was mainly in Florida?
You were robbing?
No, no, up and down East Coast.
Okay.
I was known as the biggest Jew robber in the country.
Still am.
That's where I go on TV a lot on those.
And I've been doing that since I got out, actually, in prison.
But anyway, so I never complained about prison.
Again, I don't believe anybody should be tortured.
I don't believe that.
And I think this should be real about patient.
Remember, I went to prison at 34 years old.
I got out of 46.
Now I'm 59.
I'll be 60 this year.
I was born in 1961.
I know you're looking at me like, you old fuck.
And so, so was Ryan, right?
You were saying, mage is my dad.
Yeah, probably.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Most of the time when I do an interview.
You look great though, man.
They say, is it true that they say that most people who go to prisons,
especially max prisons, max security prisons,
you have like God level immune system.
You know what?
You might be right about that.
Because, you know, a lot of people tell you, hey, Larry,
worry about you with your COVID or worry about that.
I'm not, for whatever reason, I'm not worried.
And don't get me wrong.
I tried to say, I'm not going to go to a concert or some shit like that.
But yeah, I don't get sick much.
I don't do things.
You eat.
Listen, you eat fucking garbage.
You're around fucking people.
I mean, they have it and people get sick and people die all the time in prison.
But you're right.
I never heard that.
But I think it's.
Yeah, you're exposed to so much shit, either you survive or you don't.
And when you're exposed to all that shit, it just builds up your immune system
and you just become stronger.
You know, I do believe there's something to that.
You know, I have a bad back, different things,
but not like, like that immune system.
And trust me, I never had a disease in my life.
Right.
And how the fuck that happened in life?
I have no idea.
I was the wildest motherfucking from orgies and this and, you know, you name it.
I did it sexual.
How the fuck I got no fucking disease.
I don't know.
I really don't.
It blows me away.
And I never had even the crabs.
No, never the fucking crabs.
I was in the military.
Damn.
I mean, I was in the middle.
I'm retired military.
Okay.
I was in the Coast Guard and I was actually stationed in Cortez, Florida,
which is in Bradenton.
Yeah.
Brand, Bradenton, you know, the end of Bradenton.
Matter of fact, listen to this.
I was the first boat on scene when the bridge collapsed in St. Petersburg.
You weren't even around.
I didn't.
I had those guys on the podcast, two of the rescue divers that pulled all the bodies.
I was the first one there.
I got newspaper clippings and me picking up kids and babies and all the debris, you know,
a bus went off.
Greyhound bus.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it was crossed.
I got picked.
I even got the newspapers from 40 years ago and I actually have that.
And I'll show it in one day.
I was the first boat, Coast Guard Station, Cortez, which was our area, was on this side
of the Sunshine Skyway.
So we got an alarm, goes off and it says, you know, a boat hits the bridge.
That happened all the time.
We go pick up, fucking boats start sinking and we help.
You know, that's what we did, the Coast Guard.
Uh-uh.
It was the fucking, I think it was the summit venture.
Yep.
It was a summit venture, hit the bridge and I have pictures of the fucking bridge hanging
over the front of the summit venture.
And it was a car on the thing dangling off the edge.
Well, it wasn't dangling.
It was on it like that.
It wasn't dangling.
It wasn't actually over.
But there was a piece that was like facing downward.
Exactly.
And I, you know, and actually when we got there, it was eerily quiet because it was fog.
And we look up, holy fuck.
And then you're seeing debris and all this and of course everything, but it's called.
And we would, it took them 30 days to raise.
Uh, no, that was the Blackthorn.
I don't know if you know about that.
Yep.
The Blackthorn was Coast Guard guys.
And one of those guys, you know, what guy went to boot camp with.
So that Blackthorn was a Coast Guard buoy tender, 180 foot buoy tender that got hit by the Capricorn.
The Capricorn hits the Coast Guard, cut a buoy, they crisscross and the anchor of the Capricorn flips the Coast Guard boat.
And it went down in 90 seconds and 20, 20 or 23 or 25 sailors died.
Really?
Coast Guard.
And they were entombed in there, in the boat.
Oh.
And they couldn't lift them up until, of course, their currents.
And it's very tough.
Well, I bet the guys on here were divers, I'll tell you.
No, the guys that were on here were DOT divers.
So their job was to inspect all the bridges in Florida.
That's what they did.
And they were the first guy, they claimed they, when they first got there, there was one boat.
I think they said it was a Coast Guard boat there when they first got there.
And then like Eckerd College sent a bunch of boats out.
Oh, we actually on Animery Island is where they set up a command center.
But the Coast Guard ran that whole operation.
Okay.
And obviously, and in the waterways, the Coast Guard runs.
And we did all the search and rescue and then the ops.
And then even when they were like doing the breeze, we had to set up perimeters and all that for boats and everybody.
I got great paper articles.
I still got them.
I just looked at them.
I have what they call a disaster album.
Because I was here for the Coast Guard bridge.
Coast Guard cut a black door.
Matter of fact, I was just staying on the Skyway Bridge.
You know, at a rest stop with my RV.
And there's a memorial there for the Coast Guard cut a black door.
And I didn't see it.
It was nighttime.
And but I'm going to go back there and see it.
I saw it.
A sign for it.
And I do know there was one.
Did they move that ship after it sunk?
Or did they leave it?
No, no, no, no, no.
They lifted it up.
That's a channel.
There is a dove.
I'm a diver too.
I dove the black thorn.
I think the boat's out there.
They might have put it somewhere else.
They might have.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It's not under the bridge for sure.
No, no, no, no.
It's way offshore.
It's a couple of miles.
I don't know if they.
Are you sure it's the black thorn?
I'm almost.
I'm 90% positive.
I'm going to look that one up because the black thorn, obviously, it was.
I don't think it is.
I'll tell you why.
There were people who died in it.
They weren't tuned in it.
And I mean, they got them out after they wanted this, but they actually suffocated.
They didn't drown.
There was an airport talking.
But they couldn't get.
Oh, they got the air toxicity.
They died there.
Right.
No air, obviously, you know, and I think 13 or 12 sales in the engine room.
That was sealed and they could.
And they actually wrote stuff on the walls of the black thorn.
Like, you know, I love you on or whatever it was.
And it was kind of sad because we were picking those guys up and, you know, when they came
up and it took 30 days to lift up the currents and everything are very bad under that bridge.
Oh, yeah.
And, you know, you're a diver.
I've never dove under the skyway.
No, you can't.
It's not legally allowed.
It's a channel number one.
Right.
Have you ever dove down the keys?
Oh, yeah, all the time.
Do you ever dive on the not numbers?
That's Fort Laurel.
The Dauntless?
No, I haven't.
I haven't done many ship.
You have to be a master diver or an advanced diver at least.
And I was.
I was a now instructor and because the current is so bad if that you dropped down one side
of the ship down the line.
And when you're going down, you're looking like a flag.
Really?
And if you let go of that thing, you're going to pick you up five miles away.
Geez.
Literally, you're going to stop and they'll pick you up on a sandbar is what happens.
Anyway, there's great diving down there.
Oh, yeah.
And the barracuders.
Oh, it's insane.
It's insane.
I did a lot of diving back when I was in the Coast Guard, especially in Hawaii.
Yeah.
You know, I dove on a Jap Zero that was out there.
You know, Dennis, what they call the blow holes.
Yep.
I've grown up around here, especially over here, always like watching jackass.
We were big fans like Manny Pwig.
Manny Pwig was always like a champion commercial free diver and he would he would enter these
big spearfishing tournaments and win them.
And people were, he was competing against scuba divers and he was free diving.
Wow.
And dude, he's a madman.
He made me those tridents over there.
And now he actually hunts fish with tridents and he kills boars with tridents and shit
and gators.
Crazy stuff.
Fucking psycho.
The so do you do a lot of diving still?
Yeah.
Not not as much as I used to, but I do it as much as I can.
I do a lot.
I mainly do a lot of free diving, not so much scuba anymore.
But but yeah, I'm always.
Yeah, I haven't dove since before the before I went away.
Okay.
And it's just timing and then you're supposed to go get recertified.
It's been sold 20 years.
Yeah.
Not that.
I mean, it's not a big deal.
Obviously it doesn't take a barracud scientist to be a diver.
But you got to know your shit, especially if you're going to go in currents and certain.
Oh yeah, for sure.
You know, we used to do cave diving where we would take our tanks off and get through
the fucking caves.
Yeah.
I couldn't do it anymore.
I became because of prison.
I became claustrophobic.
I'm fucking severe claustrophobic.
Now I can see there's like this.
I can get out that window.
So I'm all right.
Or the door.
But I fucking, I mean, it's got it's like forgetting MRI machine.
Not even fucking close.
They got to knock me out.
I mean, literally anesthesia.
Yeah, I almost died cave diving free diving through caves and came in on us before I
would.
We used to do this thing where we would dive this ship.
We would free dive this ship in Grand Cayman and we would go down the top of the ship was
maybe like 20, 10 feet.
And the bottom was like 50 feet.
Wow.
It's deep.
So diving.
And what we would do is we would start at the bow and we would work our way through the
ship, breathing air pockets.
I was just going to ask you how to be air pockets.
And we would find the air pockets, take a deep breath.
Then we'd keep going to find another air pocket.
Holy.
That's pretty crazy.
That's fucked up, man.
It was stupid.
We used to go into caves in Hawaii and the more I eels.
Oh, yeah.
Teeth.
Oh, shit.
But we were fearless.
And I was a young kid.
I was in my 20s, man.
I didn't give a fucking anything.
And then I was a boss of me.
I don't know if you know what that is.
That's like the guy runs the ship.
Okay.
I came up a boat captain.
You know, not a captain like your full of a ship.
Yes.
But you know those coast guard boats, those 41 foot, 44 foot motorboat.
I was the captain of one of those.
And I used to go out and rescue people 50 miles out, 70 miles.
We used to have to do shit that the kids today didn't have to.
We had to navigate with a sexton.
If you had to know how, we didn't have to fucking hit a button shit.
I mean, you know, we had Loran.
Actually, I was in the coast guard when Loran A went away.
And then there was a Loran C.
You don't even know what that is.
No, I've no idea what that is.
Loran, they had these stations all over would shoot singles.
And that's how you picked up.
Obviously, they didn't have satellite back then.
You know, they didn't have all the communications shit.
Right.
We had actually what they call dead reckoning.
You actually like, if there was someone 50 miles out on the Gulf over here.
Yeah.
And I've been out 70 miles out there.
You know, how do you get there?
There's no fucking traffic like when I come to your studio today.
Right.
Go down, make a left on Oak, you know, Oak, whatever it is, go down.
Yeah.
GPS telling me everything.
Yep.
And back then, you know, you can't, they'll give you a coordinates, right?
And they'll give you, you know, whatever your latitude and longitude is.
And they'll say, we're here.
We're dead in the water.
We need help.
Some of the boats sink.
Whatever it is.
Yeah.
And you fucking boom, you put it on a chart.
You got the fucking balls of the wall out there.
You don't just get out there.
I mean, because if you went that direct line, you would end up 10 miles away and never see
him because the currents in the set and drift would take you wherever.
Right.
So you had to do what they call the navigation.
You had a set drift and all this on a chart.
And you had to know what you're doing today.
These kids had a button fucking take me.
Take some there.
But what if it goes?
I always tell them, what happens if that breaks?
Well, we have a backup.
What if that breaks?
Now what the fuck you do?
You know how to fucking navigate by the stars?
To get home.
Right.
I mean, you go the wrong way.
You're done.
I don't give a fuck who you are.
You're going to run out of gas.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, I don't know.
Maybe it's just I'm old.
Maybe I am too fucking old.
Yeah.
I never thought about it.
I've never even thought about it.
No, it's something I didn't expect.
You know, I've gotten over, like I'm easy going now.
Very easy going.
That's not been too much of my life.
Yeah.
To fucking let things really bother me.
You know what I mean?
Right.
It's just something that doesn't happen anymore.
We all, everyone gets upset, but not much fucking bothers me.
Right.
Go on porn, porn hub or fucking you born or something have fun.
Yeah.
And it's over.
Exactly.
Right?
Absolutely.
Who doesn't go on that?
I don't know.
I don't know anybody who doesn't go on that.
Everyone else.
I don't care who you are, where you've been in life.
I was listening to Howard Stern.
Uh-huh.
I love him.
Oh yeah, he's great.
And fuck, he talks about fucking you porn and all this shit.
He's 65.
Yep.
Who doesn't?
If your dick works, you go on fucking you porn.
Ryan's laughing over what I'm saying.
I'm sure.
He's on you porn.
He said you think he's really working.
Oh dude.
He's really watching it.
He's watching porn right now.
Right.
Let's see.
He's rubbing one out as we speak.
Look at his pants.
Sorry, where are you originally from?
Brooklyn?
Yeah, Bronx and Brooklyn.
I was born in the Bronx and then we moved up in the world.
You want to call it?
When I got out, I was in Brooklyn.
And that's where I really became a gangster.
I was collecting at a card game and that's where I became very...
How did you get into that world?
How did somebody enter the...
The gangster world.
The organized crime world.
Right.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, you're recognized.
When I was 11 and 12 years old, I was doing what they call football tickets.
Football tickets.
Do you ever see a ticket for gambling?
You pick four teams, you put a dollar and you win 10.
Right, right.
I used to do those back in 1972.
72, 73.
I'm born in 61.
And I was doing those football tickets, making about $125 a fucking week.
Jesus.
In 1972.
You were like 12 years old?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Football tickets, football tickets and making money.
Going door to door to the teacher and the...
Who taught you how to do that?
Well, that's where you go.
My dad was in...
My dad was on the fringes.
My dad was a union guy and he built the World Trade Center.
Really?
My dad was the head guy on the World Trade Center.
And the World Trade Center is, you know, when of course they went down and all that.
But I was on the top...
The World Trade Center, the two of them, the twin towers, were built in 68 to 72.
Okay.
I was on the roof when it...
The 103rd floor when it was the roof.
And the construction workers tied a rope to my brother and I and we crawled to the edge
and looked out 103 stories up.
I got pictures of that.
Jesus.
On that build.
That's crazy.
That is fucking nuts.
Fucking, you know, you know.
If you dropped the penny down and you could kill a person.
Oh yeah.
I mean, you know.
Last week I had a guy on this show who was a firefighter in when the planes hit.
The building, one of the first building collapsed on top of him.
He survived it.
Wow.
Good for him.
I lost some...
I lost a friend, not a lot, but yeah.
I know there's a lot of bars in New York.
There's a place called O'Hara's.
And you go in that bar and it's downtown.
Now it's called the Freedom Town.
And the freedom...
It's right near there and it's O'Hara's.
People know it on your show who go there in New York and it's got all the emblems of
so many fire departments from around the world.
Yeah.
They went to the World Trade Center to help, to do things and stuff like that.
And it's a great bar.
It's a bar.
It's an Irish bar.
That's a great place.
Matter of fact, the New Freedom Tower.
You know what's in there?
You know, I have a good memory of the freedom, the New Freedom Tower.
Okay.
Great story.
You know, I started YouTube a year ago.
Uh-huh.
You know how I started YouTube?
How did you start YouTube?
How did you start YouTube?
I get called by Vanity Fair.
Okay.
Now, Vanity Fair, you know who they are, obviously.
How do they know who you were?
Well, of course, I'm on TV about Casey Anthony Case.
I'm on TV all the time.
I did some great fucking shows.
Your audience has got to go look at John Oliver.
Oh, yeah.
I did a clip with The Daily Show.
I've been on The Daily Show three times.
I don't know if you saw it.
Okay.
It's the funniest clip they did that year.
If any audience wants to just Google MBA, masters of business, you know, MBA ethics oath.
MBA ethics oath.
You'll fucking fall out of your chair watching this.
I go on The Daily Show and they build a suit for me.
I rip it off and I yell at these Harvard and MBA students who wouldn't sign an ethics oath.
It's fucking hilarious.
But I've been on The Daily Show a bunch of times.
What'd you say to them?
What do you mean they wouldn't sign an ethics oath?
These guys from Harvard and MIT would not sign an ethics oath.
For what?
For ethics, you know, to be a good businessman.
You want to raise it up a little bit?
A little bit, yeah.
And you can turn this to face-to-face.
Okay, good.
To have ethics.
Right.
And they wouldn't sign an oath.
So they did this skit with me and these kids didn't know who I was.
And I was just out of prison.
I think it was 2000, maybe nine.
Maybe, yeah, 2009, I think it was.
And I'm out of prison.
I got out in August of 2007.
And I kept fucking with these guys.
They didn't know who I was.
I'm talking to John Oliver and the producer and we'd stop.
And they didn't know who I was.
This is all legit.
And I said to them, you know, I just might kill one of these motherfuckers.
These rich ass old fuck.
And I'm telling this guy and they're like, this guy fucking for real.
When you watch the clip, you got to watch the clip.
Okay.
When you watch the clip, look at the time they say, John Oliver says, oh, so you're
calling Larry an idiot.
They go, oh, no, oh, no, you got to watch the fucking clip.
Have your audience.
You'll laugh your balls off.
Is it on your YouTube channel or no?
It might be.
I'm not sure.
You can go on NBA Ethics Oath.
Okay.
Just Google it.
Just Google it.
NBA Ethics Oath.
All right.
You remember, I'll text it to you.
So going back to your early life.
Oh, let me tell you about it.
No, Vanity Fair.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Vanity Fair.
What happened?
Well, how I started the YouTube.
Oh, okay.
Cause I get called from Vanity Fair and they say to me, hey, no, I don't think I've ever
told the story to a talent because this is, this is somebody's going to fucking, this
is going to get crazy because they're going to be calling me.
I'll tell you what happened.
So I get a phone call.
Hey, we want you to come and do a video for us and we can't pay you, but we'll pay your
expenses.
They do all that.
Limo, room, you know, food, all the bullshit, but I'm going to New York.
So it's taking me three days or two, two, three days, whatever you got to do.
You're flying up and all that.
And this will give you expenses or whatever, but we can't pay you.
But if it works, if we get about 150,000 to 180,000 views, we're going to discuss a contract
with you.
I said, okay, I'll give it a whirl.
Right.
Give it a whack.
Yeah, I'm doing my, my reality check program.
The one I developed, we'll get to that.
But so I'm doing that.
I'm working with police department.
I'm working with schools.
I'm working with families.
I'm trying to help court systems.
And I'm struggling.
I mean, I'm making a living, but struggling.
And so they said, I said, sure, I'll do it.
I'll discuss it.
So I go up there.
I do this fucking film.
And now this is why I was talking about the world trade.
What do they have you do?
Well, here's a member of Freedom Tower.
Freedom Tower, the whole 24th floor of the Freedom Tower.
It's Connes Travel.
Connes Travel owns Vanity Fair.
Connes Travel is the biggest, one of the biggest magazine
companies in the country.
Okay.
In the world.
And they own all these fucking magazines, you know,
you'll see the high end boat ones.
All these fucking Vanity Fair, all these shits.
So Connes Travel owns, I'm telling the whole 24th floor
of the new Freedom Tower is all studios.
Man, is it fucking set up?
It is fucking awesome.
I mean, really.
I said, wow, look at this shit.
You know, you walk by one fucking studio and it's a kitchen
and all this.
It's a whole 24th floor.
So we're in a studio.
We do a whole video.
It takes the day.
You know how it is when you're doing production.
You work in that business.
You know what I mean.
So I come back.
I get home.
Now I have friends in the industry, a good friend of
my, Billy Cassara, who is Don Ewitt's son-in-law owns a very
big camera company called Stable Imaging and Don Ewitt
founded 60 Minutes.
His daughter is one of my best friends.
They're great people.
Great people.
Wow.
And to this day, I go to Fire Island.
I don't know if you know Fire Island.
We're here at Fire Island, New York.
Oh, biggest party place in the world.
Really?
Oh my God.
So anyway, we're out there.
But so they, Billy calls me.
We talk all the time.
He goes, yeah, they can offer your time.
And now remember, they wanted 150, 150 to 180,000 views.
And they usually judge views to let you know in about two weeks.
They don't say how many in a day.
Right, right, right.
It goes by two weeks into a month and then two months.
And that's how they gauge a video.
Like in my videos, when I know, when I get 50,000 views in a day,
I know it's going to be a good video.
And some take, never some take, they run the fucking half a
million, a million views.
So this video in two weeks, two and a half weeks gets a million views.
And they wanted 150,000.
And I'm watching the views go up.
I'm waiting for a fucking phone call.
Jesus, when these fucking people are going to call me?
My buddy Billy says, lad, they got to call you.
They got the golden egg.
You know, they figured, man, they're smart.
I mean, they know what they're doing.
They got fucking Larry.
You know, they find, because I did TV shows with Billy.
That's how we met.
We actually did big film like Pilots.
Okay.
So, uh, and he says to me, go, how are you going to call it?
Never call, never call.
Huh.
Then I get so fucking mad.
Now people are contacting me, finding me.
I don't know how.
E-mailing you.
Yeah, everything.
I fucking, I had videos.
I had videos from being on TV.
I opened my own YouTube.
I said, fuck them.
They didn't even know anything about YouTube.
They didn't know what it was.
I started working my balls off.
And I mean, researching, researching, researching, researching.
Just me.
I have no team, nothing.
Right.
I start uploading fucking videos.
I start uploading videos.
That's how my, my editor, who's got himself a hell of a career now, and he's got a really
nice one.
We cast out.
He calls me.
He's 20 years old.
And he's got a hell of a resume to get.
Great guy.
Darren, Mike, people know him.
Great editor.
Good guy too.
I've already flown him to Florida and stuff like that.
But so Darian did work with the Toronto Raptors.
Like he won some awards from high school and then he really knows what he's doing.
Right.
Really graphics and editing.
He calls me.
He says, hey, he goes, uh, I see you, you know, have an editor already.
I'd love to work.
I says, yeah, I can't pay you.
I said, but if it hits, you're going to be taken care of and we'll work something out
and all that.
Right.
Sure enough.
Obviously it hits and all that.
So without Vanity Fair's stupidity, I wouldn't have my YouTube channel.
I would just got to deal with them and that would have been it.
And I wouldn't be.
Wow.
So, uh, but you're going to like that too.
And I'm the past Vanity Fair.
They got two million subscribers since, since, since 2006.
Right.
I got a fucking million, almost a million one in fucking a year, year in a month or two,
whatever it is.
But it's funny because did they ever reach back out?
Yeah.
That's what happens when we did the filming of that video and you can, people can look
at it up online now.
Just go to Vanity Fair Larry Lawton.
It's got nine million views at video, nine million views.
They write me.
It's got about two million treatment, whatever it at the point they write me to go, oh, without
even fucking sending me a bottle of scotch, not even saying fucking thank you, Larry.
We discussed that we can't work with you, but great job, nothing, not a fucking thank
you.
They fucking write me and say, we want you to sign the release for the second video.
And now I got my own YouTube channel, I write back and I don't just write back to whoever
wrote me.
I get on LinkedIn and I find that the CEO, the COO, the CFO, operation, every fucking
everybody you can think in Vanity Fair with a title, I CC them on email, very professional.
I received your email.
Not only do you not have permission to post my video, so that's no, I wanted to say how
disappointed I was in why you didn't honor your deal and you still owed me $491.
They paid that.
They get a check in a week for the $491.
What was that for?
The travel expenses?
It was expenses and stuff like that.
But I said, but thank you very much for doing that because you started my YouTube career.
I'm sure my buddies, people were fired, they had to be fired.
They fucked up.
It's like, you got something in front of you and you see it worked, there's numbers
are there.
I mean, nothing on numbers, numbers don't lie.
And now it's got 9.1 million views, I think it is, some crazy number.
And they could have had that on how many videos I was going to do a deal with them and they
could have made a ton of money.
I was going to accept the deal with good money, but I wasn't going to accept the deal with
the hell I do videos, whatever.
But now I got this going and I love it because the voice gives me an opportunity to help
more people, to do more with a lot of people.
And I think that's important.
And it's funny because we started that conversation, everybody who knows me on my channel, he's
fucking all over the place.
That's Larry.
But that's, you know, things come in your head.
That's what makes you so great.
Well, it comes in your head.
You know what I mean.
Yeah, for sure.
Things hit you, you go, oh, fuck it.
Just fucking ask it.
If I can ask, tell you, just do it, because you're going to forget about it anyway.
Right.
And then you go, what the fuck was that?
Trust me, when you get older, it'll be worth it.
But so I look at it like, listen, it is what it is.
We're going to get to the point.
We're going to get where we're going, whether it's my old career as a gangster, whether
it's how I start a reality check, and that's a great story.
So I started reality check, which is a very, it's got the highest success rate of any program
in the country.
What is it?
I built, when I got out of prison, a guy comes up to me, the officer says, hey Larry,
I need a favor.
I said, fuck you.
You want me to break somebody's legs?
I just got out of fucking prison, leave me the fuck alone.
He says, no, no, no.
He goes, I caught my 16-year-old smoking weed, and he said, fuck you, dad, where have you
been?
Now, I smoke weed.
I'm a believer in all drugs.
Just if you commit a crime to do them, you should be held accountable.
What you do in your own house, man, I don't give a fuck what you do.
Not hurting anybody.
What you do in your own house is your business.
Nobody should ever fucking judge you or talk, but that's not what I believe in, man.
That's why I'm a libertarian now.
But anyway, so he said, I said, your son told you where the fuck you've been.
I'll talk to your son.
You want to talk about having the stars aligned.
I have pictures of me in prison with gangsters, fucking murderers, fucking gang members, everything,
you know, friends, and you can't do that anymore.
So it was just the timing was perfect.
Back when I was in, you could take those pictures.
I'll do that today.
So I take these pictures over to the kid.
Now, he's a big kid, and I'm a pretty big guy.
I could be intimidating if you want to understand that, but you know what I mean.
So I sit down to the kid and I said, I only use two curse words.
I said, you told your father where the fuck he's been.
Let me show you where the fuck I just came from.
Kid looked at me.
I started, I don't believe it.
First of all, that's a great story too.
I don't believe it's scared straight.
It doesn't work because if I yelled at you, you'd look at me, sort of fuck as this idiot,
fucking shut down and I got to get out of here.
You know what I mean?
Okay.
Never understand me, but if I told you a story about a kid who got his anus cut from the
top of his ass to his balls and raped and fucking seminal fluid was found in there, and I read
the articles and heard the screams, you will never forget that.
You probably won't now or audience, but I tell the whole exact story.
But anyway, so I started telling the kid's stories and showing them the pictures.
I was there for about an hour and a half, whatever it was, and I'm just out of prison.
And the father's a golfer, I'm a golfer.
You play golf?
Yeah.
Do you?
Yes, man.
Oh, let's go.
Let's go play golf after this, man.
Let's go play nine holes.
I didn't have my golf clubs.
Now I know you here.
Yeah, I used to be very good.
I used to be a three.
Now I'm about 10, 12.
I suck.
I'm not good.
I should go out and drink.
Exactly.
Oh, you're in.
We're playing golf.
We're playing golf.
Definitely.
Now I have another reason to come out.
Oh, hell yeah, man.
Oh, I love it.
And so we're sitting there and I talk to the kid.
I go out to the gazebo, the guy's a golf pro, and he says to me, he goes, I appreciate
it, whatever, and gives me money, gives me a hundred bucks.
I said, man, I know you just got out of prison, whatever, gives me a hundred bucks, calls
me two weeks later.
Now, you know, I got my law degree from prison and I have the credits to be a lawyer.
I don't have the degree because I'm a convicted felon, but I'm a licensed paralegal.
I did law for 10 years in prison.
So when I get out, I was going to go work with a couple of law firms easily do it.
Now, did you do that to, did you help out a lot of other prisoners in there?
All the time.
Every day.
I hear, like, is that...
Jailhouse lawyers, you call them.
Jailhouse lawyers.
Is the reason that, I've heard that the reason a lot of people do that is so they can have
some sort of value to other people in there, so people won't fuck with them.
Obviously, you might not have been worried about that, but I know...
No, no, I understand what you're saying, you know, did they do it as...
Protection.
Most people do...
The guys who I know who do it, and I have a very good friend of mine who does it, one
of the best in the country, Paul Tolini, and I just did a video with him and he got two
guys out with life sentences in the last month with life sentences, guys the best.
And you know, it's about writing and how to do it.
We understand the laws and the courts.
Most of us do it for the right reasons.
Yeah, you'll get some of it, but they're idiots then, they get exposed for not being good
at what they do.
You gotta love the law, and you gotta love doing it to live in that law library and stuff.
I used to fight the system, I'm gonna tell you, that's when I told you, I went crazy
in the hole and all that.
But anyway, so the kid, the father says, calls me two weeks later, he goes, Larry, I don't
know what you did, he goes, forget your law, forget anything, you gotta work with kids.
My kid said, Dad, I don't wanna go where, that guy, we missed the law, and went, I need
help.
I need help.
16 years, kid's great, Dad, I was 12 years, 13 years ago, kid's 30, married, college degree,
everything.
Wow.
And he goes, can I give you a name out?
Sure.
People give me 100 bucks to talk to their kid, I said, fuck, this is great, man, what the
fuck, you know, but I loved it because you're helping somebody, always love to help people.
And so as I'm doing that, I get a phone call from a lady named Jean Bandish, she's from
the juvenile court coordinator in Brevard County, and she says, hey, Mr. Lawton, Judge
Reimer would like to see you.
I ain't going to see no fucking judge.
She goes, no, no, she wants to, I said, I don't give a fuck, you got a warrant?
You got a, you don't got a warrant, I ain't seen a fucking, I know the law.
Yeah.
She goes, no, no, no, no, she wants to know what you do.
I said, listen, I ain't doing anything illegal.
I'm fucking helping people.
I don't want, no, that's what she wants to know.
I still don't want to build a courthouse.
Who fucking wants to go to a courthouse?
Right.
She convinces me that they just want to talk to me about the program and I go in there on
a Friday.
So Friday comes, I go in there, I don't even know how to fucking work a computer.
I don't know shit.
Now I'm pretty tech, but I didn't know anything.
My nephew who's since passed, he shows me how to do a PowerPoint, helps me put a PowerPoint.
I don't know, 10 slide, 15 slide PowerPoint, the fuck uses PowerPoints now.
I don't know.
But anyway, it's a PowerPoint and I go in there and I show them everything.
And the judge goes, oh, thank you.
Would you like to stay for the rest of the man's?
No.
Get the fuck out of here.
I mean, I don't feel good, man.
I'm in a fucking judge's chambers and every time I'm in front of a fucking judge, I'm
going to prison.
Spent 12 years, 11 years in prison.
Right.
11 straight, 12 year sentences, four 12 year sentences, 11 of, they ran him concurrent.
Anyway, and that's how to 11 years.
So I'm sitting there and I leave.
This is a Friday.
I get a phone call Monday morning.
She says, Hey, Mr. Lawton, how are you doing?
Yeah, good.
She goes, I just want to let you know, Judge Reimann sent us two people to your program.
What fucking program?
What do you mean?
It's just your program, you know, you talked about it was a fucking idea in my head.
I ended up developing the number one program that's been recognized on the floor of the
United States Congress in the country, a four part program that I still have right now.
Anybody can go on my website.
I sell at 35 hours or some shit.
You know, I don't even try to get people out of money or anything, just enough to fucking
keep the internet shit going.
Right.
Right.
And it's a four part program based on my life, what prison is really like, what you're
going to lose and avoiding and dissolving bad association, the four part program.
I developed it.
In fact, I'm the only ex con in the United States who's an honorary cop, really only
man in the country.
I was sworn in and Lake St. Louis, Missouri, and I'm no cop lover.
Let me get that straight cops know me.
I'm I support good cops, right?
These fucking cops that harass and got bully complexes and all the bullshit or hit you
for pot or bullshit drug that crap there, get out of the car, I smell some and they
want to find, but it's bullshit.
That's not what America should be about.
Do I want a cop when my house is being broken in?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
911 help me.
Should you bet?
Don't stop me for some bullshit.
I even came up with a couple of policies that I don't think cops should ever be allowed
to stop you for anything that's non life threatening, meaning if you're going 100 miles an hour
down the street.
Yeah, you're going to hurt somebody.
But if you're going five miles an hour over the limit, you want to give me a ticket?
Give me a ticket.
They can take your license plate with the car, car camera, right?
Send me a ticket.
If you make a right turn, don't put your single light on.
They shouldn't stop you.
All right.
They should give you if they want to take a picture.
Boom.
Give you a ticket because once they stop you, everything happens.
You're you might have a little pot in the car.
Some shit.
Oh, fuck.
Oh, am I going to run?
I'm a bit.
I'm not saying you.
Somebody.
You know what I mean?
And once you're in the system for one thing, it's a vicious cycle.
You can.
It's so hard to escape it because they have you these.
Oh, this guy's already been busted for this, this, this, and this.
We're fucking nailing this guy.
You're a hundred percent right, man.
You are a hundred percent and it's wrong.
You know, they can look you up.
They can do everything from your plate and if you're a fucking, you know, convicted felon
and all that.
Well, you're not even convicted.
I don't care.
I mean, you don't want it.
That's right, man.
Right.
That's where even cops I got convinced now.
I have a lot of cops, but I deal with good cops and go on my channel.
There's a chief of police where we live.
I love them, but then there's a sheriff where he was a fucking idiot.
He really, yeah, I don't get a fuck about it.
He's an idiot.
Fucking.
He's an egomaniac.
He's a fucking nut.
Is it Brevard?
Brevard County or?
Yeah.
Brevard County Sheriff.
He's whack, man.
He's he's so about himself.
He's such a.
He's his head.
I never see him.
Make it through that fucking door.
The wheel of fucking fugitive.
Yeah.
He comes up with fucking fishing for justice with Wayne Ivey and fucking they go and these
people, you know what the people fucking did violation of probation, bad check writing.
So they put you on TV to really make you look like a jerk off.
Is that really necessary?
And then you get hardcore.
Oh, but he's a criminal.
Oh, how many, you know, they did a study.
Did you know the average person breaks the law three times a day?
Hmm.
I'm not surprised.
I did it.
Come walking across the street.
Yeah.
J.
Welcome.
So my point is at what point are we part of the community?
Because he cops should belong.
I'm I guess I support good cops.
Police reform and prison reform are my specialty in police reforms.
Cops should be part of your community.
Right.
And if I have a kid that's so fucked up and they need Larry's help or his help, it's
I don't give a fuck if you go in that house and you find fucking coke or pills or whatever.
Don't arrest them.
I didn't call you to arrest my kid.
I called you to help my kid.
Oh, but he's breaking the law or that's the only way.
No, it's not.
We could try a lot better ways than what you just said.
Give him a record.
Yeah.
It's a the law thing.
So it's become to like now in the country, it's almost just like this mentality of us
versus them.
I don't talk about that every day.
Yeah.
You've got to break down that us against that mentality.
Yeah.
Imagine I was thinking about it and I was like, imagine if we didn't have cops, we didn't
have law enforcement.
What would what would you do?
Well, you would want to have as many friends as possible and you would want to have the
weak, weak people would obviously want to become friends with stronger people and you
would want to be able to be protected.
You would want to feel you have to have that sense of of security or protection.
I'm just like in a hypothetical world where there's no cops.
But they had that.
They could have Roman times.
They had the king and he had his men and they enforced whatever they wanted because they
were the strong or whatever on the week or whatever.
And even back in the old days, the United States in the 1700s and they had they had
a guy, sheriffs in the 1800s and stuff that would and they were usually criminals or drunks
or just the fastest guy with the gun.
You know, whatever, how it worked.
But what has happened is they've gotten so much power cops that a lot of them can't handle
it.
Now, again, there's great cops out there that want to do the right thing, want to help the
neighbor, want to get the cut.
I don't want.
Listen, everyone thinks Larry, you're an ex-criminal, shit, and you were a bad guy.
I don't want to.
I often didn't tell people, listen, me, I was in prison.
We had in Atlanta, we had 2000 inmates.
880 had life.
Think of this, 200 of those 250 fight their case legally, 450 find a lover and they live
their life.
They go to unicorn, whatever the fuck figure though, great.
And 200 are fucking psychopaths.
Really?
When I say psychopaths, never belong being out on the street again.
Ever.
Well, I don't want that guy living next to you.
Can you define what it may, what it takes for a person to be a psychopath?
What characteristics?
How do you tell?
Zero empathy, zero compassion will cut your fucking head off and go to sleep.
I know a guy or stab the guy, his cellmate and went back to bed, killed him and went
to sleep.
There's another guy who cut a guy's head off in prison with a shank.
These two inmates and another inmate, poor guy only had 10 year sentence and he was
getting out as a bank robber, they were in a cell, they put three in a cell.
They put three guys in a cell.
They cut him open.
These two guys had life.
They cut him open.
They took his intestines out and it wrapped his intestines around the door.
I consider that a psychopath.
Is this the prison that you were in?
Yeah.
Holy fuck dude.
I consider that psychopaths.
Now you could look them up.
You could look these since they're very easy.
When I talk about, I always tell people, you don't even have to fucking believe me.
I lived it.
Go look it up.
And you'll be able to Google it.
So the violent level now, again, going back to the psychopath, how does someone become
that?
Do you think they're born with that?
How do you think it's childhood trauma?
I think there's a lot of factors that go into it.
I think what happens is, you know, I hate to say this.
I think I could become a psychopath if I lived in it.
I don't know.
If you did what?
If I lived in that environment long enough or, I don't know, maybe I couldn't.
Maybe I couldn't because there's something deep fucking seeded.
I always, even when I was a criminal, I used to give money to people and I cared about people.
Always did.
Always had a heart.
But, you know, I often talk to parents, you know, and I do a lot with parents and families
and they'll ask me, you know, I want to talk to the kid.
Once I find out certain questions, you know, he hates his parents, he hates his sister,
but you find out he loves cats or loves dogs or something, he's got, he's savable.
He's got that compassion, he's got that empathy in him.
Now you got to get it out.
You got to direct it.
And then you get the really psychos, maybe, you know, like I said, for whatever reason.
No one's home.
Nobody's home.
I'm telling you, I've seen their eyes, their black eyes and what you can almost see in
their soul.
There's nothing.
It's fucking dark.
And those people, I've ate with them, talked with them, hung out with them, and you don't
think I ever trusted them?
Not for a fucking second.
I don't want that guy cutting out and living next to you.
So I'm not a bleeding heart.
Everybody gets out of prison.
Everybody has to be, you know, the right people, but we have too many people in prison who
do change.
You take myself.
And I have to tell young people, when you're 20, Ryan, I think you know it all.
I'm not, I love them.
Then you hit 30 and you say, fuck, I didn't know shit at 20.
When you hit 40, it's going to be, fuck, I didn't know shit at 30.
When you hit 50, you're going to say, am I ever going to fucking learn anything?
I'm going to hit 60 and I'm learning every day because you change.
You change your views.
You change your things.
And I'm, I'm a very, I am a very, I get, I'm very socially liberal, very socially liberal
and somewhat fiscally conservative.
I still don't care what, no matter what, no person in this country should have to eat
cat food.
I don't give a fuck what she did wrong or her husband left her and they didn't put
enough and she still, I don't give a fuck.
Nobody should eat cat food in this country or any country.
We should be able to feed people and I don't care how that has to happen, but I don't believe
we should just give money, just give money for lazy people.
I'm not lazy.
Right.
You're not lazy, obviously.
And I think we need to, that's my views.
That's why I'm a libertarian, but I believe, I think all drugs should be legal.
If done, this experiment is now in Oregon, you know, drugs are now criminalized.
Did you know, LSD and mushrooms and stuff in DC is legalized and it should be.
You're not going to hurt.
I mean, what are you going to do?
Who are you going to hurt?
You're getting to drink a fucking fifth of vodka and go drive down the street, but you
can't eat a magic mushroom.
Absolutely.
See, my point is, if you commit a crime to get the drug, that you should be held accountable.
If you're robbing somebody, do it, be held accountable, but what you do in your own hand,
I have to tell you, you want to go in your fucking bedroom, jack off in the corner up
against it, have fun, do whatever the fuck you want to do with your house, your place.
You shouldn't infringe on other people, but do what you want.
That's what freedom is.
That's true freedom.
And we don't have it right now.
We don't have it.
A lot of people, oh, we live in the freest country in the world.
Wait a minute, 96 countries, 196 countries have freedom, total freedom, much as us.
So it's not, do I love America?
Absolutely.
And then again, going back to 196 countries have freedom, but we have more people locked
up than any other country in the world.
So exactly.
So how free are we?
At what degree are we overstepping our bounds as a country?
Yes, we need government, yes, we need roads fixed.
And the government was originally formed, and I'm a history nut, especially like the
Navy and the military and the Coast Guard was actually the first service ever out is
because we wanted to protect waterways and we wanted to protect free trade.
That's a government function.
We wanted to defend ourselves against another country.
That's what we need, but we don't need government in your business.
You know, like the sheriff who wants to show these fucking people who wrote a bad check
and now they're fucking the biggest villain in their own wheel of fugitive and wheel of
whatever the fuck he calls it.
It's such a degrading thing.
How much fucking things did he do wrong?
That guy.
Right.
If he really wants to be honest with himself.
Now, I'm not saying you can't get in again to get him, but you don't gotta humiliate
him on a fucking bullshit wheel of things.
Now, if the guy's a murderer, a fucking you want help getting a murderer that's killed
a fucking kid, absolutely.
You know, you know, there's crimes that we should all be pissed at what happened at the
Capitol.
Right.
I don't care what people or Trumpers or whatever the fuck they are.
I don't give a shit.
That was fucking treason that that was I'm it's beyond words for me.
I listened to Howard Stern today.
Go off.
Really?
Oh, what was he saying about it?
Fucking thinks he's fucking nuts.
People should be in jail, prison and all this said they're brainwashed and they are.
It's fucking.
It's scary.
Fucking scary, crazy.
And those are the things that that we should be here pissed at.
And we should be pissed at a murderer or me.
I was a fucking criminal.
I'm being honest.
I was a robber.
I was not good.
I belong in prison that I long belong to be strapped down naked.
A guy take his dick out and pee on my face without me wanting it.
But I'm talking, you know, my point is it's wrong.
I mean, I was wrong then.
And and and and those are the crimes that should be held accountable and go to prison.
Yes, the guy wrote the check right and the credit they're wrong, but they need to be
humiliated on a wheel of Fiora to fugitive violation of probation.
What was his probation?
You find out he fucking he fucking got six month probation for fucking driving on suspended
license.
I was just going to say that, you know, multiple drive, but now he's on the wheel of fugitive.
Do we really need to fucking goddamn humiliate people?
I don't believe so.
Now, he's such a good politician as a sheriff and I give him that, you know, but he he only
fucking talks to the people.
You know, the old people, he scares them and he could never get to you.
Fear mongering.
I can't get to a guy like you as an independent thinker who looks for him or or Ryan or people
young, they look and I'm like, who the fuck are you?
You know, I know they tell me in my class.
Right, right, right.
Fuck, that guy's the biggest dick.
Listen, I know the guy and he didn't he doesn't want to help the jail.
You know what he did for years in the jail?
I don't know if they still do it.
They didn't give women tampons.
Really?
How would you like to have a daughter or your wife or a girl or anybody and she's
on a period and they and they don't give them something to help themselves?
It blows my mind away.
How you can go home at night and say, oh, I did a great job.
It's barbaric, man.
It's barbaric.
There's not designed to help anybody.
It's none.
There's no, you know, his, you know, his line is I want my jail to be the toughest
jail and that's not what fucking it's for.
It should be for rehabilitation.
Right.
Well, yeah.
And they and and to hold violent people jails.
We fucked it up and going out there in the public and just saying, we need to be
tough, we need to get the criminals off the street and branding them.
Branding them as these criminals to the public.
It just makes people, especially older people who are, who are more vulnerable to
the media or to advertising or whatever, who have less, lesser bullshit detectors
than we do.
Oh my God.
Yeah, they just everybody talks about young people, right?
You know, my I love young people.
Yeah, I think you guys are fucking smarter.
I think you guys are more informed.
I think you have greater views than we ever did.
And I'm happy about the way it is going with the young people, because I'm only
here to give you my experience, whether it's whatever.
I help young people because there's one thing you can't you're smarter than me.
You got, you know, you know how to do a lot of things.
Yeah, I know what I cue.
I don't know how, but it's not that.
My point is I have experience in a place you don't want to go.
Right.
I have experience because I went through life.
I often tell young people, I say, you're 30, right?
It's 20, you're not smarter than, but you have more experience than them.
So you're up and now you get a guy who's 40 years old.
He's been in your business, whether it's TV business.
He's going to say, well, that's not smart, but he's got more experience than me.
So you're going to listen.
Older people got to know that, you know, most older people.
Let me tell you a great story about young people, people.
I'm on, I was on a board with the Department of Justice up in New York,
Washington, D.C., and at the time, I think I had a Blackberry or whatever it was.
And I'm new, but I'm working with kids a lot.
So I know a lot about young people, kids.
I say young people, you're 20 years old.
So we're at a big, big conference room and one of the people up
this ass, some of these kids we got to give up on.
What? I stand up and I can get pretty, you know, I stand up,
I take my phone, I slam it on the desk.
Everybody looks, oh, fuck, this guy's crazy or whatever.
I go, who in this room can program their phone quicker than a 16 year old kid?
They all assigned.
I said, you know what?
Larry gets the phone, opens the book, hits button one, opens the book, hits.
I get there.
Do you know what my daughter does?
She takes the phone and starts playing with it, reboots it, plays with it,
reboots it, plays with it, reboots it.
Here, daddy, it's done.
She did it quicker than me.
What does that show us?
Oh, look, I said they learned differently than us and sometimes it's better than us.
And when we as adults don't listen and just think it's our way to fucking highway,
we're wrong.
And until we get out of that fucking space, we'll never better this country
or better the young people.
And I'm big on that.
I love working with my the reason.
And I believe this.
My channel is growing so quickly and we were the fastest growing channel on YouTube.
The reason is because I have experience with my partner by manager, Peter, genius.
Then I got my son, who's 30, 31, and I got Darian, who's 20 or 21.
I listen to them.
Now, are they always right?
No, and I make my decisions from there.
For other reasons, for experience reasons or business reasons or whatever it is.
But I listen to them when they say to me, like, I remember, you know,
I started my YouTube channel with an iPhone, really, with a fucking iPhone,
nothing else, literally nothing else.
Then I bought a $30 fucking tripod and a fucking thing.
So I started with you film the videos on your phone.
My bad, not now.
I do. I actually sometimes do three, four camera shoots and whatever.
And I use them still.
I've done this with mega TV companies, iPhones.
This is the 11 Pro Max, because of the front cameras.
So the front camera is amazing.
That's why I did it.
But so Darian and my son, I have flew them in.
We had a meeting and all that kind of stuff.
And they said to me, sit down.
I still had the iPhone.
And I don't know, six months ago, eight months or whatever it was, they go,
my son's pop, Darian goes, I got to get better cameras.
And to this day, I look at the same video.
I can't pick it out, but I guarantee you could and I guarantee Ryan could.
That's funny. Guarantee it.
You guys are in a good space because of your ages, and you just got to follow that,
you know, get your get your older guy, maybe or whatever.
But you guys are in a good space because you know what your audience first,
once you know who you are, my audience is young.
So, but I didn't notice it.
I still don't.
But we got good cameras now.
I got, you know, cameras, lighting, all the bullshit that we all need.
But, you know, they're on me and I got another one here.
And then I'll put this one and I was sound.
We're still upgrade. We're always doing little things.
I don't even know it.
That's great, man.
But I listened to. Yeah.
You're trying to, you're surrounding yourself with some more people
that know what they're doing.
I'm sound, I'm so and, and with the age.
Yeah. You know, that's why I'm very happy to wait as country's going.
People aren't fucking going it.
Bullshit.
What the fuck is wrong with it?
Tell me, because they are independent thinkers and they don't want war
and they want legalized drugs.
OK, why not?
I often, when, when, when they start that shit and I love this,
well, it's going to be anarchy in the streets.
Oh, really? Go to look at Switzerland.
Go look at Norway.
They're all fucking legalized.
Everything. Right. Recidivism went down up, you know,
no lower recidivism, lower crime rates, lower addiction rates,
saving money. Mm hmm.
Tell me why it's big money is fighting it.
Prison system, the private prison system, they're fighting it.
Fucking people, law enforcement.
You know why they fight it?
Because they get money for it.
Right. They get fucking tons of money.
They'll fucking have drug task force and tank fucking task force.
It's bullshit. That's military in our streets.
Law enforcement should be Andy fucking Griffin.
What do you think? You know, Andy Griffin.
Remember, Mayberry fucking R.F.D.
With fucking Barney.
You're too young.
Fuck.
Yeah, I missed out on a lot of that stuff.
Yeah, you. What?
Barney fight.
Well, what do you think, though, is the solution to to all this team
mentality, tribalism, you know, this team red red versus blue?
I mean, that's obviously the cause of, you know, all the angst right now,
everywhere. I'll tell you what, I will give you a right answer.
And it took me and I'll be honest, it took me.
I interviewed and I think you should have him on your show.
I interviewed the president of the Libertarian Party of Florida.
What's his name? Steve.
Nikala is your pronounce.
Great guy, smart, young, twenty six.
Really? Yes.
Family owns the Island Grill and eight Wendy's and all this stuff.
And great guy.
And I'll tell you why he's a great guy, because he's a visionary.
He speaks well.
And the views of the Libertarian Party, I didn't really know.
Now, I was always socially liberal,
fiscally, somewhat physically conservative.
And when he went over the whole Libertarian Party and what they were
and I had him on went, I was in the keys, blew me away.
And then I started researching it.
Then I spoke that they wanted me to speak it.
Then they're what a big event, the state of Florida.
And that, you know, annual event, I was one of the guest speakers.
And I liked them because I told them, I said, you know, I'm going to
fuck them, blast everybody.
He goes, Larry, I know your channel, blast whatever you want.
Yeah. And he didn't, he didn't restrict me.
In any way, they didn't even ask me what I was going to speak about.
So do what you want.
That's liberty.
That's why I like them.
When you ask, what's the answer?
I think the two party system sucks.
Yeah, because they're putting you in a box, you know,
I don't know what your political affiliation don't care.
Your views is what counts.
Right. Now you should have views that represent you.
Now, of course, you're not going to get every single everything of what you want.
But there's things in the Republican Party I can't stand.
And it's things that Democrat, I'm not more OK, but not, you know, same as you.
And I think we need to
get away from, I think another third party is coming because of you,
because of Ryan, because the young people are growing up with more open minds.
And I think, you know, they say this, the Republican Party has fucked up
because they don't believe in the
listen, the browning of America is here.
Love it. We have more inclusive than ever.
I have no prejudices in me. Zero.
I just don't have them.
It's not in my makeup.
The one blessings my parents gave me.
I grew up in a melting pot.
Yeah, we didn't give a fuck.
You black, white, Spanish, Chinese, a Martian.
If you lived on our block, you were good.
If you didn't, what block was that in the Bronx?
OK, yeah, yeah.
If you lived in that area, you were good.
If you didn't, you were no fucking good.
I mean, it's just the way we live.
Right. So we didn't have those specific
always black or white a lot of people from that area, too.
Right. They feel the same way as you.
Yeah, I see a lot of New Yorkers aren't prejudiced at all.
Because they live in a melting pot.
Right. And, you know, I understand it, you know,
growing up in it, but I'm hoping younger people,
even when their parents were fucked up, and they are, some are.
Doesn't don't hate it, but they just grew up that way.
But you have that open mind, younger people.
And I think what's happened with the Republican Party
are not inclusive enough.
Obviously, they don't they every it's
obviously abortion issues and religious issues.
And if you're not a fucking Christian,
you don't want to fucking hail the flag or whatever.
But stop it.
That doesn't make us who we are.
What makes us who we are is how we treat people
and how we are represented around the world and stuff.
Not what you fucking.
I don't give a fuck what people pray to or what they do.
That's their own business, man.
Everybody should have their own fucking say.
And that's freedom and that's liberty.
Right. But they want to say, no, we're free, free, free.
But you have to fucking do the fucking pledge of allegiance.
No, you don't.
Do you want to? I do.
But it's I don't.
If someone don't want to, good.
The guy wants to kneel for the fucking national.
They have fucking kneel.
Well, I give a fuck what you do. Right. Right.
I mean, there's.
Oh, that's the biggest.
If that's your biggest fucking worry in this world.
That pisses so many people off.
And if that bothers you in this world,
you got some fucking issues.
That's what bothers you.
Oh, I fucking fall for the sport.
But if like you're right to do that.
To do that.
Hitler didn't let you do that.
Will fucking let you do that.
That's what the fucking I don't get it, man.
But anyway, I think and then the Democrats,
they want to give every fucking thing in the world
away to anybody who wants free college, free history.
Well, who's paying for it?
I mean, yeah.
Well, we're going to take over the world.
So we got all the fucking money and oil and everything.
No, the education thing I can I can relate to.
I do think that the education thing makes sense
because you want to a degree.
You want smarter people, right?
That's the whole thing.
You want less losers in your country.
I agree if you do, but they have to have it make worth
something.
And let me tell you what I mean.
Right.
When I was doing my program with the court system,
it's in the courts.
One judge said something to Gary.
He goes, no Larry.
He goes, you got to charge for that more.
I go, why are you going?
It's got to be worth something.
Otherwise they won't understand it.
They'll just think I had another fucking thing I had to do.
If you make education totally free, totally free.
Now, here's my agree.
You want to go to, you want to serve the country?
I don't give a fuck if it's in the,
if you want the government to pay for your education,
you should have to serve in a voluntary organization
for a year, two years, or whatever number.
Like, you know, if you go to Israel, I'm not Jewish,
I know the countries.
If you go to Israel,
everybody in that country has to serve in the military
for two years.
Hmm. Everybody.
Two years.
That's giving them a national thing
or whatever they get paid for, other than that.
But I'm talking about, like you said, with education,
I love it.
I do believe in giving free education.
First of all, obviously, if you have the brain power,
I just don't want people to maintain a certain like,
a certain sort of work ethic and a certain amount of grades.
You can't just be failing through college
and get it for free.
That's what I meant.
You have to be a go getter.
You have to be able to have a goal.
Be like, I want to achieve this and you have to.
And my thing is, or they have a couple of things.
If you work for the government, you know,
in, let's say, the Department of Environmental,
if you work there for five years, no bill.
Right.
You have to have something to make it worth it.
Otherwise, like you said, people are just going to,
well, let me go to college and waste another fucking three years.
What's the alternative?
You spent $100,000 for you.
See, I don't like that.
And you can't get a fucking job.
I don't like that.
And I think it's stupid.
And we still need, you know, people often say,
well, that's because they get a degree in history.
Well, it's OK to get a degree in history.
I love history.
You know, you don't know history, you're going to repeat it.
So I agree that you should have, but they have to at least
do something, make it worth something instead of just nothing.
And I don't mean for just for you.
If you're asking the other people, because taxes pay it,
if you're asking the society for pay for your good education,
do something for society.
I don't give a shit if it's volunteering
on the city council boards or whatever.
It's got to be something.
And then I'm all for it, education.
I'm big on education anyway.
Or even if you just have a really successful business,
you're helping the economy.
Right.
Whatever it is, there should be some kind of worth of something.
That's all I'm saying.
And yes, but in the Democrats, they want to just give this.
Or I believe in universal health care.
I do.
I don't think anybody should go broke in this country,
because they got to deal with this.
Right.
It shouldn't happen.
Right.
If you get hit by a car, fucking paralyzes you, you're fucked.
Yeah.
And now you're going to just lose everything you ever
owned and everything else, because some doctors and hospitals
want to make your money.
I mean, I don't agree with that.
But I do think we need a strong defense.
The alternative to that, though, I mean, look at the VA.
A lot of people, a lot of veterans, they want to help.
I'm a veteran.
Yeah.
I mean, a lot of people I've talked to
have terrible experiences with the VA.
I don't, though.
Really?
Love them.
Betrayed me right.
That's awesome.
And I've been retired since 1986.
Really?
I got hurt in the service.
And that's when I went into crime, if they got out.
Really?
But yeah, I went in in 1979.
See, I'm my fucking age and myself.
Fuck.
I went in over 40 years ago.
I went in the service in 1979.
I got out in 86.
End of 86.
It actually December 31st of 1986.
So I was in for seven years and four or five months.
And I got out because I got hurt.
And I'm a disabled vet.
And I get a check.
And I get medical care.
And I get everything.
And they've always treated me right.
Really?
Yeah.
Even through prison.
You don't experience like the long wait times.
Well, you know, if they really came a long way,
I got lucky because, first of all,
I was educated enough and persistent enough.
I do feel for older people, like an 80-year-old man.
And you're asking them to do this, this, and this.
You're obviously very outspoken.
You know how to get what you want.
Right.
You know, I got a little bit more aggressive
if you want to call it that.
Some people are not.
And able to do it.
You know, technology-wise now.
You know, you've got older people, don't you?
Can't they get there?
Put on hold and they hang.
I understand that.
And I do feel for them.
And I think we need more elderly advocates in the VA.
Maybe it's a person that just helps the elderly
that can't do it.
Because I look at my mom.
My mom's alive.
And I take care of my mom.
I don't know if you knew that.
I take care of her.
That's where I live with my mom, to take care of her.
Oh, wow.
I moved back from Fort Lauderdale to take care of my mom.
Really?
Yeah.
Wow.
Because she took care of me my whole life.
Yeah.
When she left for me in prison, now she's 80, she'll be 88.
And I take care of her.
Wow.
Yeah.
Just her and I.
That's amazing, man.
Yeah.
And I won't never not take care of her.
You know what I mean?
Whatever.
And that's why I built the studio and the house.
Right, right, right.
Oh, that's great, man.
I got to come check it out.
Yeah, yeah.
You got to come in there and you got a bar in there.
We could drink.
Really?
Fuck yeah.
Of course I do.
But that's, you know, I mean, my, my beliefs and stuff,
you know, you really love this.
A lot of people want me to run for office, right?
My channel.
They want me to run for Congress office.
And I said, do you fucking crazy?
Do you know how I will get up on that floor
and tell them all who will fuck themselves.
But, you know, we need, we need,
I don't, I think I could do more good behind the scenes
with a bigger and bigger channel and stuff.
Right.
Oh, for sure.
But we totally need guys like yourself who are,
I would guess more of a progressive or at least a person
who wants to do the right thing, help more people,
have fun, live life, man.
Right, right, right.
Too many people.
I work when I rage.
We fucking work.
Yeah, I did too.
But fucking let these guys live, man.
What the fuck?
What do you think about fucking Trump
getting banned on all social media, Twitter?
You know, a lot of people ask me that.
I'm kind of torn on it, man.
Well, I know, because it's a free speech thing.
But not only the free speech thing,
but I feel like it's just going to rile so many.
I don't feel like that's the answer.
No, that I disagree.
You can't let one or X amount of people, listen,
it's a company, they're making company decisions.
Remember this.
Right.
Listen, if it's a bad company decision,
and 70 million people get off them,
they'll go out of business.
They're making that decision that it's not going to be at.
So if you're in a capitalistic country,
don't let the government tell you
you have to go and let them on either.
If you're really free, the market
will determine if it's a good or bad move.
True.
Now, if Twitter fucking goes down,
because it fucking loses people and all this kind of shit,
well, Twitter made a bad decision.
And then some people will say,
well, would you let just the big tech companies run the free?
No, you're not.
The president, if he wants, can get out
and make a press fucking release tomorrow.
He's not being fucking silenced.
He can get on and make a press release.
He can put out a press release.
He can get on national TV.
He can do anything the fuck he wants.
Now, they ban every one of those platforms,
that new platform, whatever they talked about,
the one they call it.
Parler.
Parler.
I went and looked at it.
Did you make an account?
No.
But I looked at the rules.
They can ban anybody at any time for any fucking reason.
Right, right, right.
Well, it's right there.
You don't like that to begin with, don't get on it.
But when they do it, don't bitch that they did it.
Right, right, for sure, they're allowed to do it.
That's not my question.
I know they're allowed to do it.
Do I think it's right?
Do I think it's like, don't you think that both opinions,
both sides of the fucking aisle, no matter how extreme they
are, people should be able to experience them
and make a judgment on if it's right or wrong.
All right, let me give you an example.
I know what you're saying.
The Capitol, right?
People see all these crazy motherfuckers
going into the Capitol with fucking rebel flags
and wearing shirts that say it wasn't enough.
What was the thing they say, they didn't kill up Jews?
These fucking neo-Nazis that are in there, whatever.
People should be able to see that and understand that,
OK, this is fucking crazy.
I need to, you should be able to condemn that or make
a decision about that.
And nobody's question did not stopping that.
They're stopping one person.
Let me take it to the other level.
Is it OK for you to go to a movie theater and scream,
fire, fire, fire, and everyone panics
since fucking three people die when they fucking run out
of the place and there's no fire?
Right, no.
They know that free speech doesn't give you a right for that.
Right.
Is it OK for somebody to recruit fucking psychopaths
that are not so outside the mainstream?
Now, we don't let the KKK fucking do that because of,
you know, that's banned now.
You can't do that.
At what point is creating anarchy stopped?
In 1937 or 1938, when Hitler become stronger and stronger
in power, he shut down so he was the only one that can do that.
If we let one person, whether it's a Donald Trump,
anybody, whoever, crazy, they did it with Alex Jones
because he'd do whatever it is.
If we, and get where you're going to go,
if we let them create more and more havoc without stopping them,
at what point do you, what happens if he says,
I, I'm on Twitter and I want to mobilize half a million people
and I want you to get your arms and we're going to go to war?
Is that right?
No, definitely not.
I mean, that's because people are brainwashed.
Howard Stern said it.
People are brainwashed.
Howard Stern has the biggest audience in the world.
He could 15 million listeners a day.
Think of that.
I haven't listened to this.
How would, how would Stern knows if he wanted to,
he could mobilize or he has a, a percentage of that.
Listen, I have a percentage of people.
I have a discordant.
I have a percentage of people.
I'm sure that would, that are convinceable or whatever you want to call it.
So now I have to be responsible.
I started getting crazy.
Yeah.
Should I be shut down or stopped at least for doing that?
I have to believe at some point we have to keep civility because if you say
nobody's allowed to do anything, I mean you, you can't shut anybody down.
They can do anything they want.
Right.
Then that guy in that fire, that in that movie theater who goes in there
and causes a riot because he says people he shot run, run, run.
Everybody's going to die.
Everybody's going to die.
Everyone died and an old lady gets trampled.
I'm in this case in the thing what's going on now.
I think there's a business decisions by those companies
and let the market bear it.
Let the market bear it.
Right.
Why don't you shut the fox down?
Right.
Because they're spewing this stuff about the election.
Well, you know it's false.
Come on.
Let's get everybody out there.
Yeah.
And there are people who look are going to be listening and saying,
no fucking no, it's stolen 60 fucking courts.
Federal judges said there's no fucking fraud.
The own administration that Donald Trump put in said it was the most secure
election ever in the history of the in the in America.
Did they really?
Yes.
Homeland security and the election commission.
The guy resigned because.
Brunt banner and he did it.
All the money was put in it.
Most secure election in American history.
Wow.
So why are people just inciting people to do something stupid?
That's what that is.
People and people want to be led.
I know that.
People don't like you got people.
I love that's why I like young people.
Look at the ages of most of those people.
Most of them are older.
Yeah.
And I don't mean they're not your age.
They're not 25.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
They're much older.
35, 40, 45, 50, you know.
Look at the guys that sit on the bench.
50 years old, 45 years old with fucked up lives.
Probably didn't do anything in their lives.
Yeah.
And they want to be led.
They want to be led.
And I get want to be led.
We need leaders.
But you need leaders who are going to push us in the right direction.
If that makes sense.
Yeah.
I mean.
And so as far as I do understand at what point.
Let's listen.
The market will bear it out.
Right.
Of course, if it's bad decisions and nobody goes on it.
Because what you're saying, are you going to go on Twitter?
I don't know if you do go Twitter.
Yeah, I'm still going to go on Twitter.
Okay.
So I guess it's not fucking.
It's nothing so bad that you're not going on Twitter.
Right.
So they made that calculation, Twitter.
Trust me.
If Twitter thought it was going to lose 100 million people.
And they're going to lose all this revenue.
Twitter is not fucking taking you down.
Right.
But they made a decision or they made a decision that it was so bad.
We don't care about the money and we're going to lose it.
But not only did Twitter do it.
Facebook did it to an Instagram, YouTube.
Listen, you and I know something.
We're on YouTube.
There's monetization.
You know this.
If I do something and I've been not, I've been demonetized.
Have you been demonetized?
On specific videos.
Yeah.
Well, when you look at bullshit reasons, whatever.
When you look at it, do you all do your thing?
Sometimes it does alter the way you do it.
I do it.
Yeah.
If I look at my Twitter and we put up a video and we put up a video early
and we look at the rules and we skirted them, didn't skirt them, whatever we did.
And we go back and change it because we're going to follow the fucking rule
because I want to be monetized.
Right.
Right.
So they put the rules out.
I either follow them or guess what?
Larry, don't get fucking monetized.
And I can't knock that.
That's the rule.
Do I wish it wouldn't?
I mean, yes, do I think I'm, but then when you look at it
and you look deeper on there and sometimes it's overboard, at least I believe,
but for somebody else, it's not.
You know, a lot of times with content, like movie reviews,
if you make them your own review, then you can monetize.
But I had a person, Russian, take my fucking videos and totally fucking
change the, not do a thing.
Fucking just put my voice in it and was making money or tried to make money.
Really?
And YouTube shut them down.
Thank you.
They protected my fucking thing by shutting them down.
And if you look at YouTube, most things they shut down
is they're trying to protect somebody else's content or something else.
Right, right, right.
So how do you knock that?
That's a business decision.
Yeah, for sure.
And we, you and I, as influencers, what do we do?
We watch what we're doing.
We alter it.
We still want to have conversations like we're having or whatever we're doing.
But we understand there is a boundary of some sort,
because if there's no boundary, then what are we going to fucking do?
Yeah, there has to be a boundary.
I agree.
I totally agree with that.
There also has to be more conversations about things, too.
People just like to make these bold statements,
whether they, no matter how untrue they are,
and people do get brainwashed by them.
And they just, they don't think.
There's no thinking involved.
They just like to repeat shit that they see or they hear.
Well, I don't know if it's that, but here's the problem.
At what point do you believe something?
In other words, you're sitting in front of me,
and I fucking show you a video of a guy shooting the fucking guy.
And it's not altered.
Right.
Do you believe it?
Maybe.
Or do you say?
Not my guy fucking.
No, that's all.
You had professionals.
You had this doing it.
You're doing it.
At what point?
I mean, that's the weird thing, right?
Because people already believe it doesn't matter.
You can't change their beliefs.
You can't change their mind.
I have friends of mine.
They filter it backwards.
Whatever they see out there, they bring it in,
and it either reinforces what they already believe,
or if it doesn't reinforce what they already believe,
it's got to be fake.
It's got to be altered.
100% right.
And it's sick because I have friends of mine.
Now, this incident now changed a lot of people,
totally changed a lot of people.
I'm talking staunch fucking Trumpers,
or because, you know, this incident,
I have a friend of mine know for 40 years,
older guy, said, this ruined his life,
ruined everything.
And he was a big Trump guy.
And we used to debate, of course.
Never hate each other.
I never hate anybody.
You'll ever watch my videos, right?
I don't use the word hate.
I think it's a wasted emotion.
I think if I hate, it hurts me, not the person.
The person you hate, don't give a fuck.
It's just hurting you, right?
I dislike things, and I won't go to them or whatever,
but I don't hate.
I don't give a fuck.
I just don't hate.
And I think what's happened is this incident now
has got people opening their eyes because of seeing it.
I mean, I don't know how you could talk your way out of this.
I don't know how you could talk your way out of this.
But there are people already saying, oh, no.
I love the cup on a murder.
Oh, that was Antiva in disguise.
Oh, I know.
I saw that.
Then they find the guys who were dating.
They got on my date.
They look them up on the social media
for the last six months or whatever.
They're a proud boy of this or whatever they are.
So now they did that one.
So now the narrative has changed.
Well, it is possible that some of the people there
were there to rile it up, too, right?
It's possible that some people were there.
There's always a possibility.
But listen, if you're that,
there's also a possibility that it hasn't been mentioned yet.
But most of them have been.
How do you know there weren't some Russian spies in there?
And they were planting fucking goddamn devices in there?
Totally.
I mean, George Soros paid for all of it, right?
George Soros paid all those people.
Yeah, I mean, it's so fucking crazy.
But how do you fucking come up with this?
No, they're changing the narrative now to switch it
to the Twitter and the, you know, all the Instagram, Twitter.
You, what's the other one?
I can't, I just looked it up.
Instagram.
Parlor?
Parlor.
And they're changing it.
Oh, now it's a free speech issue.
No, it's not.
That's a fucking free country.
To be a free country, that company can do whatever the fuck it wants.
Right.
Why is it a free speech?
Tell me why.
It is kind of weird, though.
It is kind of weird because of the age we're living in,
the technologies we're living in, social media,
dominates everybody's lives to where they have.
Well, somebody sit back and say, wait a minute.
Wouldn't you say most people have more interaction
or communication on their phones than they do
like we're having right now?
Absolutely.
So it's kind of like we're teetering on this little edge where
companies like Twitter and Instagram are almost like a public utility.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
How do you get that?
Because you can, if there was one, that's a monopoly.
If there's two, maybe a mop.
There's 20, there's, how many social media, TikTok now.
Another country's one.
Blow up.
China's.
Fucking TikTok blew up.
And Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, fucking mess.
There's a zillion of them.
Really, if you start really getting down to them.
And you can go to which one you want.
So you're not being totally silent.
So you're not being just because you're not on the biggest one
or you went and built this.
Listen, I have all of that.
And I look at it as a tool, obviously, to communicate or whatever.
Right.
But if it gets shut down, it gets shut down.
I go to the next one.
You know?
Or if I don't like what I did to get shut down,
I change it as of YouTube.
If I do something on YouTube, that's where my main thing is.
So I'll change it.
Or if it's not, maybe I'll get to a different platform.
Maybe it is a podcast.
But everything is sent in its own way.
Something's I don't think, oh, this'll never sense as you.
It's not this bullshit.
They all put it in there so they can't sense it.
Right.
But it's up to us.
You know, we laughed.
I love your logo.
It's kind of a you porn logo.
The Pornhub logo.
The Pornhub.
Yeah.
I like you porn as you can tell.
Yeah.
But I love it.
And, you know, I was thinking about this when you said that early
and we started just talking.
I go, look at the fucking platforms that never have an issue.
Point.
Yeah.
Well, they're actually just recently.
They're actually just recently having lots of issues Pornhub.
They just recently got like a $600 million class action lawsuit
against them.
And they had for what?
I forget exactly what it was for.
I'd have to read the article.
Someone not getting fucked.
But they have the right way.
Yeah.
Something like, yeah.
Something like that.
Are you serious?
Yeah, man.
Yeah.
They're, they're, they're getting, they're under the fucking,
they're getting the screws tightened on right now.
And talk about free speech.
Why should they be?
Because it's probably religious right pushing this or whatever it is.
I don't know.
They, they had to remove like a huge amount of their content
from like people, unverified people uploading their own content
and, and monetizing on their website.
So now they're only allowed to have certain verified porn actors on there.
And it's real.
I don't like that.
Oh no, no, no.
It's fucking them up.
I don't see that what you point.
And I think you, Pornhub owns you.
They're all.
Pornhub is getting crushed right now.
But I think don't they own you too?
You point to, I thought I should.
I think they, I think they're all connected.
Yeah, I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I'm on it enough.
You think I'd know.
But there's a lot of that.
There's a weird thing.
There's a lot of people that are really,
really against the porn industry.
I've had people on here.
Well, that's people who don't want fucking get hard odds.
Right.
Get wet and a pussy or something.
I don't get it.
I really don't because listen, that's talk about free speech.
Porn, porn stars I have met like female porn actors I've met have the most character
out of most people I meet.
I'm not sure why it is.
I met male ones in the same way.
And they're, I think it's because.
They're normal people.
What I've noticed is that to do porn, you have to be desperate, I think.
Disagree.
I think that most.
I knew, I knew a porn star.
I think, but I think.
But a family through college did everything.
Oh, totally.
But most people that I've met or that I've heard about,
the way they got into porn.
First was they were in a situation that they desperately needed to get out of financially.
And when you're that.
They got the money.
When you're that young, say you're a young, hot, whatever, 16, 17, 18 year old girl.
No, no, no, no, please never go under the 18.
Under 18, okay.
I didn't know.
But it happens.
No, those, those to me.
See, I'm a very liberal person.
Uh huh.
But when it comes to a child.
Right.
I don't buy it.
Well, whatever age it happens.
And I don't mean Ryan, you know, let me give you a quick one on a prison.
We used to, you know, child molesters are no good in prison.
No.
Obviously.
But I used to pull.
Chomos.
Chomos.
I used to pull the paperwork.
That means I used to get what charge they were.
Ryan, 21 ever, 21, fucking a 17 or 16.
He had a pass.
That wasn't even child abuse.
We call it.
That wasn't even, that was free.
Right.
You at 30, whatever.
Yeah.
Fucking a 15 year old.
That's not good.
Right.
So I know you look young.
Right.
But your brain should be at least old.
Now.
I know it's crazy.
You have to put a number somewhere.
Mm hmm.
It's 18, 19, 20.
You want to do what you fucking do what you fucking want.
Mm hmm.
It's just, just like the military.
You can shoot.
Well, that's a, that's a whole other weird thing too.
Because now you're, you're letting the fucking legal system decide an age when biologically.
True.
Biologically people are different.
No, no.
I 100% agree with that.
Cause even.
Girl, you full mature fucking adult girls with a giant fucking rack.
At 15.
At 15 years old.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Strip the government and laws away from, from our monkey selves.
And in nature, that thing's fucking.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But since we do have laws.
Right.
Listen, you have a car.
Why can't you drive a car at 16 or 15?
Right.
When you're immature.
Mm hmm.
That's going to even go one better, which drives me nuts.
How can you tell a kid to go to the military at 18 and kill somebody you can't drink?
Right.
It's insane.
It's insane.
If you're 18 years old and you got a fucking rifle and you're in a rack and you kill someone,
you don't think their brains are fucked up.
That's another whole topic.
But why can't they come back and have a drink now to get arrested?
Cause they're fucking underage.
But then you fucking take up rifles and defend the country.
I don't buy that one.
And a lot of countries don't need the Canada.
They can drink at 18 or kind of shit, whatever.
But when I grew up, it was 18.
See, I don't know that feeling of that.
When I was 18, I was in the service at 17.
At fucking 18 years old, I'm in the bars, man.
I was fucking.
Oh, 18 years old.
I was, I was the fucking biggest idiot on the planet when I was 18.
Exactly.
I was still in.
I was.
Me too.
But you know, that's just the maturity though.
Since we have to put a number on it, you know.
And I, you a hundred, and I do agree with you.
You go back to somebody ancient times.
Once the girl had her period, she became a woman.
And, and they had kids and this and everything else.
I don't know what, but that's just the laws that came about.
You know, and we have to have something.
Yeah.
There has to be a base level.
So what do you put it at?
Right.
My, my thought, my original thought I was getting to with, with the porn thing is that
the pattern I see is that, especially with girls, when they're young,
say 18 years old, they're in an abusive situation.
They're living, they're dependent on whatever it may be, an abusive uncle.
Right.
That's the only place they have to stay.
But they got to get, they got to get out of there.
When you're that young, what's the easiest way for you to make the most amount of money?
Prostitution or porn?
Or right.
But that's prostitution and porn are probably the two
most common things.
Probably.
And when you get into there, you can probably make the most amount of money doing that.
Then when you start to climb the ladder and be more and more money,
I'm going to disagree because there's not, not many 18 year olds who could do that on their own.
And what I mean by that is, uh, yeah, when you were to pimp and you're in your construction,
how do you find the guys and stuff, although the internet has changed a lot.
But are they smart enough?
Because if they're smart enough to set that business up, because it's the business.
Right.
And get someone to drive and not get hurt and do everything else.
Because then all it is, then, then they're probably smart enough to do something else.
And there wouldn't have been a situation or, or maybe they would.
And obviously some just look at it like you and I might.
And, you know, listen, I was always a person that sex is sex.
Sex is sex.
It's not the relationship itself.
Right.
You know, uh, I think, you know, I often tell guys, listen, if, if, or a girl, I'll tell it.
If you caught your husband taking, getting a blow job, would you leave her?
Oh, he's fucking done.
I said, well, then leave now.
Because if your husband can go to a bachelor party and get a fucking blow job, and that's
the end of your fucking marriage, then you didn't have a deep relationship.
Anyway, I mean, the sex is the fucking sex.
We're physical.
We, you know, you watch porn hub.
What do you do?
You get a fucking heart on, right?
Right.
Right.
Is that cheating?
I mean, so you got the physical blow.
Oh, but there's that level.
Oh, you stick it.
Now, I often say now, differently, if your husband or your wife is in a relationship,
right, then there's something deeper.
I mean, she wants the, the, the protection, the love, the whatever, the financial, whatever
it is, whatever you weren't giving her.
And that's the whole thing.
But if your husband goes out and gets laid, he's in a fucking bat.
So he's at a fucking convention and he fucking got drunk and he got fucked.
Is it the end of all?
Some people are going to fucking call you, right?
You're maybe me and say, yeah, that is the fucking wrong.
You know, that's your own thing.
Yeah.
To me, it's not.
Right.
You know, I don't believe, I believe.
But you have to have that sort of deal, I think, ahead of time.
Yeah.
And I do.
Yeah.
You have to have a mutual understanding of that.
Well, that's communication.
Right.
It gets back to that and all that kind of stuff.
I'm a believer in, listen, we are all very sexual people and life and a lot of things
that may have fun, man.
Too many people.
Listen, you know, I'm looking at it at my age.
You're young.
You guys are young and which I love.
I do really do.
I'm at the age where I know I'm going to live 20 fucking more years.
I know that sounds morbid.
It's not morbid at all.
I'll be fucking 80 then.
I think you'll go more than that.
I'll take fucking 80 healthy where I can get a heart on or you're fucked or
everything I want.
I'd take 80.
I think at 20 years left, it's not a lot.
You got fucking 50, 60 years left.
Him is, you know, you guys have a lot in technology and everything.
So your brains are different.
I'm a little bit different in the fact that I really understand my mortality
because I've been.
I've been shot.
I've been stabbed.
You've been shot.
I've been shot and stabbed twice.
Where'd you get shot?
I got shot right through the head.
You never, right in a robbery.
If anyone goes to my videos, you're fucking right.
No, not it went right across the top.
Man, blood was coming down here.
And my brother was shot in the back and into the arm.
Yeah, we had a fuck.
That was the getaway.
If they go on my video on my YouTube, go to my play.
Do you know my playlist is the one of the most watched playlists?
Really?
The gangster redemption series on my playlist.
If you go to my YouTube channel and go to the playlist, it's called the gangster.
I'm the only one who's ever took his book and actually
narrated the whole book in chapter to chapter video.
That's what really got pretty amazing.
Yeah, that's what started this whole thing.
Wow.
But that's in it.
When I got the fucking getaway, it was a fucking movie getaway.
The bullets fly in, it's crazy shit.
But so I look at my mortality different if that makes sense.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I think, obviously, we all should.
I mean, let me ask you a question.
If you fucking found out you had six months to live.
What would you do?
Hmm, I had six months to live.
I'd pay the doctor an extra couple thousand dollars to get an extra six months.
Yeah, it'd be.
I wish it was Eddie.
No, fuck.
I don't know.
It's a good question.
I love doing this, man.
This is fun.
No, I know you do.
But think about your life.
What would you do?
Would you?
I don't know.
I hope there's things like I would go.
I would go surf every single wave in the world.
All the best.
Wait, you know, you're a big surf spot.
And I'd travel.
I've never been to Hawaii.
Yeah, I was stationed there.
That's amazing.
And I went body surfing.
I'll never fucking go home.
Oh, fuck no, man.
Fucking kill you.
Rocks in the reef out there.
Oh, my god.
I have a body.
So I ended up 100 yards down the drain.
I was a great swimmer.
Fuck, it's never in there.
But I never surfed.
I used to say they can't put a cool one on that board.
I couldn't do it.
But I ask people that question is because think about what you're doing now
because you could die in six months.
We all could, obviously, you know, something can happen.
But if you're not at least trying to obtain something,
you know, a lot of people ask you, you know, what is success, right?
And I was a multi-millionaire when I was a criminal.
I had my own limousine, multiple houses, boats, horses.
I was fucking multi-millionaire because I was robbing it.
I fucking didn't give a fuck.
I was robbing millions of dollars a year.
So I fucking robbed 15 to 18 million.
Once you're given a bunch of it to the mob, though?
No, a percentage.
Percentage.
And not a bunch of it.
Not a bunch, OK.
No, and I made a lot of money.
I mean, I'd live.
I lost $3 million.
The casino was gambling.
I lost a quarter million dollars in two weeks.
Oh, my cash.
Fucking cash, right?
I think I'm stupid.
I am fucking now.
Now I'm working.
But my point is I think people need to look.
It's not just money because money doesn't make it.
It really doesn't.
Things make it or feelings or adventures or whatever it is.
You know, I had the houses, the homes, the boats.
And my one sister says, you know, you're always searching for something.
And she was right because I didn't like a horse.
I bought two horses.
I didn't want this house.
But another house.
But another house.
But another boat.
What a big boat.
What a big boat.
At what point is the thing?
I like that you want to go surf somewhere and go do something.
Or, you know, me now is more, I like interacting with people.
I like to help people.
I want to go see the country.
I'm doing that with the RV now.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I'm going away for five weeks, going up to South Dakota,
Mount Rushmore, maybe the Badlands of Wyoming.
So I'm going to do a few bunch of things, take videos and stuff like that.
I enjoy that.
But I think everybody's got to look at that and say, what's there?
What are they going to do in their own life that if they died?
Like, if I died right now, I went home and you heard.
You want to leave something behind, right?
No, if I, no, I want to make sure, you know, leave something.
I don't give a less weight.
You came into this fucking Earth naked and fucking nothing.
Give us a shit if you go out naked and fucking nothing.
No, I think, you know, if I lived, if I went home and you heard Larry had a car accident,
holy shit.
I hope you get on the fucking thing.
It's a man.
I had a great interview with Larry and you know what?
He lived a good life because as much as I had the hard parts of my life,
which I did, obviously in prison and all that, I also say I lived a great life.
I didn't leave much behind.
You know what I tell people and you can equate it to sex to life to anything.
Don't ever lay on your death bed and say I should.
I will never lay and I won't.
And I mean, I should have had sex with this.
I should have tried this.
Don't ever lay on your death bed and say I should.
I don't mean like Marilyn Monroe.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Trying something, doing something.
I never want to lay on my death bed and say, you know, I should have.
Oh, and I tell people, don't wait till you're too old.
Like you're 30, young, good-looking guy, have your life by the ball.
Now's the time because there'll be a time when you can't.
That's why I'm still lucky.
I'm healthy.
I can do things.
My back hurts.
I have a very bad back.
I back surgeries and stuff.
Really?
So I'll show you from the whole bottom.
I got to zip up my whole back.
Really?
I had a 12, 15 vertebrae is done in my back.
Oh, fuck.
15.
What the fuck happened?
Yeah, look at it.
Fucking crazy shit.
Was it an injury?
Yeah, I crushed my spine in the service.
And I had that.
Here's for you, camera.
Jeez.
That's just the lower part.
I have five vertebrae to brace my neck.
See if they can see that.
God damn.
Yeah, hold it back like where your face is so it's in focus.
Yeah.
Damn.
It's pretty fucked up.
That's brutal, man.
And, you know, so, and I've done a lot.
So I'm a little pretty good about that.
You know, I've done everything.
Can you still golf?
Yeah.
A little hurt.
I hurt.
I can't.
I used to hit a pretty good long ball.
Now I'm about 225, 230, whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm OK.
You hit Xanax after on the ninth hole.
Oh, fuck.
Drugs the whole fucking way.
What do you want?
Well, we'll bring.
We'll walk and bring Xanax, weed, coke, a little.
Like it in.
Somas.
Like it in, whatever you want.
Yeah.
Eight ball.
Oxy's and eight ball.
There we go.
We're in.
Absolutely.
The I saw.
I'm a believer.
That's why I'm a believer in free sex, free drugs, free stuff.
Right.
Meaning.
And again, responsibly.
Right.
I never say, you know, everything in moderation.
Protect.
Absolutely.
I mean, you can't be stupid enough to kill yourself.
You know, as I say to people in all dictions and I and anything,
you control it.
Don't let it control.
Right.
No matter what it is, could be fucking eaten sex, drugs.
I don't care what they're all saying, money, money.
Don't let it control.
You control it and do it.
Live your life.
I'm a big believer in that.
And until and then live your life.
I mean, again, then don't wait till your 70s.
I'm fucking all I should have did that.
I could have tried that already.
I could have did that.
Then you fucking too old, you know what I'm saying?
I mean, and I was always lucky where I'm a pretty free
thinker and free spirit, if you want to call it that.
And I don't give a fuck what people think, as you can tell.
I'm saying it on the air.
So I don't give a fuck.
I really don't.
Cause unless you're paying me, whatever fucking money you judge me.
Right.
You know, I don't believe in judging anybody.
I really don't.
In anything.
I am no better than any man on this earth or no worse.
I don't care who they are, how much money they make or how good
looking they are, how big their dick is or whatever the fuck it is.
We're all the same.
We all put our pants on the same way.
I've met mega celebrities, mega people.
Nothing impresses me unless the person impresses me.
Because of his smart.
You guys impressed.
You do.
I was happy to see you guys.
I watched a few of your videos.
I didn't know how this would go.
Thanks man.
But you know, you're working hard.
I love it.
Keep doing it.
And do your, do your thing.
And I love that.
I love them.
People do that.
Because now you're making something.
Now you're going to look back.
We had a great time.
We did this.
We tried this.
Whatever.
I've done it my whole life.
And I always was for my, I always worked for myself.
Whether it was a mobster or not.
But it just, I didn't have that mentality to be constricted.
You know, creative people can't be constricted.
Right.
If they are, then they're never going to,
they're never going to be truly happy.
And you could be broke and happy as a motherfucker.
And I, and I appreciate that.
And I've been, I hung out with some dude, man.
He's fucking, he had an old, old RV.
I mean, 70 something, a little fuck.
The happiest fucking, we were smoking ash.
What a fucking good time I had with that guy.
I mean, and boy, the stories where he went and this and,
and he was truly happy.
I sat back.
Well, if I was fucked up.
And we're sitting drinking, drinking and smoking.
And it has your fucking, that'll fuck you up.
Oh fuck yeah.
Well, and, and I was so, I thought about that for a while.
I says, it's the happiest guy in the world, man.
He didn't need, see, that's another thing.
I don't need the, I had it, the houses, the homes, the big,
my own limo and a driver.
I don't need that anymore.
I'm happy with the RV.
That's an old RV.
Well, pretty nice, but it's not as nice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You got it when it opens up.
It's huge, man.
Inside it.
Good.
Oh, it stands out like the side.
Both sides.
Like a full living room in there.
Oh, it's a full living room.
Really, both sides.
Both sides.
Yeah, it's big.
Holy shit.
Yeah, it's big.
We'll have to go out one day or fucking.
Yeah, man.
We'll do an interview.
I'll have you do an interview in my RV.
Oh, hell yeah.
And, and then that's what it is.
You ready to?
Before we wrap up, no, I want to get you to tell,
what was your craziest jewelry robbery story?
Well, the one with, we got the shot, you know, got right,
you know, the guy come shot and fly as bullets come and fly
and then class break and then to get away.
Can you walk?
Can you walk me through it?
Like how much planning was involved?
Like what was it like?
Who like first cut?
Does someone come to you and tell you where to go?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
How does it work?
Well, my first robbery was a setup.
But after I got good at robberies, I would get an area.
And I would know the area and I would literally case
a hundred, a hundred and fifty jewelry stores
to make sure I got the right one in an area.
And it usually took.
Case and means make sure the right.
Just to give you an idea, you don't just rob a jewelry store.
I would know where the sun rises and sets.
So if there's glare in the window, they couldn't see in
what people would be blinded.
So that was an important thing to get away.
How close it was to other places, how many people.
I used to like to rob in plazas when there was a public
or a grocery store.
I don't know where people are around the world.
Pathmark, Publix, Winn-Dixie, of course, the more people going,
you can sit and watch that story without looking at conspicuous.
So I would make sure and people are so fucking oblivious.
They'd walk by and I'd be fucking in the middle of a robbery.
But again, I knew that the sun so they can't even look in.
Did the jewelry store put display cases that blocked where I can look in?
You know, they make difference.
I do that now.
Sometimes I help jewelry stores, jewelry prevention.
You know, to help not get robbed.
How is the back entrance?
Can you get in and out?
Can I park a car there?
Where, what time are the people coming?
What time is the mailman coming?
Do police ever come by the area?
What time every employee and what car they have?
These are all things that I would know before I even did a jewelry store.
And then know where the cameras were, where the buzzers were.
Did they have what they call it?
They had buzzers in their pocket that if they hit the buzzer and a part and a long
we go up is the door have a lock on it.
I love those.
I like those.
Really?
Oh, absolutely.
Because then nobody else is going to come in.
They want me in.
I'm coming in with a Rolex watch and a suit and they're going, man, this guy's got money.
Let him in.
But I would get to know him beforehand and know where the jewelry was in the store.
There's so much to it.
That's a whole show.
But when you case a jewelry store, as a professional, you know, it's so crazy,
people ask me to this day, could you do it?
There isn't a fucking question in my mind.
I can rob a jewelry store tomorrow and get away with it.
Really?
I see them all the time.
Really?
All the time.
I can rob that fucking jewelry store.
No question.
Because all the knowledge, I mean, I did so many.
I've cased over a thousand jewelry stores, well over a thousand.
And that means going in and out, knowing every fucking little detail.
I go into a jewelry store now and it's like fucking sensory overload.
Really?
I can imagine.
You know, and I go, oh, man, this guy could be hit.
You ever just walk into a jewelry store and casually just looking at watches?
That's got.
I usually go with somebody, you know, for some reason.
And because, first of all, they're the biggest cons too.
Jewelry stores are the fucking biggest racket there is.
And I remember one jewelry store.
They were a lot.
I went to the GIA Institute, which is the Gemological Institute of America,
just to know about diamonds so they can't rob me.
You know, my fences couldn't rob me.
I used to go into a jewelry store like I didn't know what I was doing.
And that fucking owner would be fucking lying to me, so fucking bad.
One guy was so bad, I said, I can't wait to rob this motherfucker.
This fucking guy is really bad.
He must have fucking stole more money than I ever stole from people.
You know, there's a few things I tell, tell your viewers here is the first thing you want to do
is don't don't ever go to a jewelry store that doesn't have a 10 powered microscope on the desk.
10 powered microscope on the fucking counter where you can look at a diamond the right way.
Okay.
There's certain things if they don't tell you about.
See, everybody knows the four C's, but they don't know what the cut is.
That's the most important part.
Not not.
And I don't mean the cut.
Is it a round or a marquee or a pear shape?
I'm telling the geometrics, the geometry, how light reflects on diamonds, what makes them better,
where you can get a really good cut diamond and the light will reflect better.
So it'll be a less color diamond, but it'll be a better diamond because it'll glow or shine more
a bit more brilliant because of the cut and how it extracts light.
I love it when they show you a diamond and go, look at that and it's under a fucking light.
I'll make a piece of fucking glass look good.
Take a diamond and put it under the table when there's very little light and see how it reacts.
So when you would rob a jewelry store, were you picky of the shit that you took?
Oh, no, no, I wiped the whole fucking store.
But I didn't rob the store unless it had certain things.
Oh, okay.
There always would be a loose box of diamonds.
Now, a box would be about that big, like a card box, you know, like cards.
And it'd be all fucking diamonds and they're all loose.
So it could be a character.
Were they calling it melee, melee diamond?
I forget the word is melee.
Melee, no.
Never heard that?
No.
Maybe I got that from the pawn business.
I got a friend who owns a bunch of pawn shops.
Well, yeah, he's robbing people every day.
Oh, yeah.
They're all in the Caribbean too.
Oh, God, he's really robbed them.
Guy gets off a boat.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
But so, yeah, so that those loose stones are what I'm literally calculating that thing in my head
when he shows it to me.
Then I'm looking in the store and what I have in display cases, watches.
I used to get Rolex.
I loved Rolex.
I used to get $2,000 of Rolex, the $5,000 like presidential.
Right.
$2,000 everyone.
I robbed 50 of them.
It's 100 grand.
Wow.
Well, I'm blinking.
They don't even find, okay, put them in a bag.
I used to give them away as presents.
That's amazing, man.
That's fucking amazing.
But then the diamond, so I'm literally, then you watch where they don't put that box.
A lot of times they don't put the box in the safe.
Goes to a back room, another safe, a false floorboard.
That's their money.
That's what I want.
I want that because the first question I would ask them, I'm looking for a ring, maybe a little
carry.
First, I had a whole line of stick.
I'd say, oh, I'm in the area.
I'm a contractor.
I'm in the area.
I had nice suit, Rolex, gold chain, nice diamond bracelets worth fucking $25,000.
And I'd say to a guy, I'd say, yeah, I'm in the area.
I'm a builder and I'm just looking.
I'm married 10 years now.
When I first got married, I got my wife a little ring.
So I want to look at some good rings.
He's like, oh fuck, I got this guy.
He's got money, he's in the area.
And I said, what do you have anything?
I want to maybe have it set.
Do you have any loose stones?
Oh, hold on.
After the season, they break out that box.
I said, well, let me start at the one carat.
Maybe I'll see how small it looks.
And I'm watching where he picks it out of that box.
So if he picks it over here, he shows it to me.
I look at it and all these bullshit me with the price and the range.
Then he goes, and I go, let's make it a little bigger.
If he goes this way, then I know these are all shit.
But if he goes the other way and he only goes up a little bit, then I know all those
are bigger than two carat.
So I fucking, my brain is already calculating that fucking box.
Oh, there's a quarter million.
My quarter million.
Where are you putting that?
And my brain is working so differently as a criminal than your brain would work.
Right, right.
You're not looking and saying, oh, I can rob this place.
I mean, it was just, it was like, holy fuck.
It's like.
So how did it all go wrong for you?
What was like the final one?
Didn't, the FBI were great fucking.
Oh, really?
They caught me the FBI.
Well, the last store robbery.
The guy got out.
We think a robbery happened.
We didn't notice.
They robbed an air conditioner off the unit.
It was a plasma.
Yeah.
Anyway, so some lady heard some commotion came up to the window and looked in the
window and saw us.
Then we knew we had to go.
Go, go, go.
Yeah.
And we had a plan.
Everything was planned.
But the guy, the only got out of his flex cuffs.
And I already stole six guns out of him.
His flex cuffs.
You know, like the wire cuffs, you know.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Electrical wire things.
Okay.
He got out of him and there was another gun.
The fuck was a gun nut?
And he said, we're running out.
All of a sudden gunshots in the glass is breaking in front of it.
We're running out in his class.
He's shooting at us.
So listen, we get, now it's already planned.
I mean, I had every detail planned.
I get in the car and he levels the gun right at my fucking head in the windshield
because the car was pulled in straight.
I ducked.
As I ducked, the bullet goes through the windshield, gets atop my head.
And I didn't even feel it.
But then I see blood coming down my face.
But another bullet, he shots twice or that bullet went.
My brother ducked and it went in his back into his arm.
It's still in his arm to this day.
Holy fuck.
We showed it online.
Anyway, and he goes, I'm hit.
I'm hit.
Oh yeah.
And I didn't even know I had the blood trickling down my head until I looked in the mirror.
I go, I'll drop you off the hospital.
He goes, no, fuck that.
Fuck that.
We went back to Brooklyn where this is in Pennsylvania.
So we went back to Brooklyn and in Brooklyn, we had an apartment, you know, like the mobs.
There's above the fucking bar and we had people who changed the glass out of the car.
We fucked a patch my brother up.
We cleaned me up.
But we everything was good.
Everything was all good.
And after we did that, we got him back.
But we little did we know the FBI flooded the area.
See, I didn't know the FBI was on me that big.
Oh, they're already on you, huh?
Yeah.
If it's six years, the guy was on me.
Matt Mullin, six fucking years.
Good guy, too.
Nice guy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No hard feelings.
And he fucking, they flooded the area.
They got me and they ended up getting footage.
They even had footage of me buying a cup of a fucking coffee at a while.
That's how much they confiscated every camera within like a mile or two miles of that fucking area.
You know, every gas station I might have went to every fucking thing.
They went to every jewelry store that I might have cased and they got a lady go,
oh, there was a nice guy in here.
And I got his plate number because I was going to sell him a ring.
I didn't even rob that store.
And then they, and they still didn't have me because I had the guy who worked for me,
was a fat, fat guy.
Yeah.
He was 350 pounds.
Yeah.
I wasn't 350.
So fucking, that's not him, but I was a co-driver.
And then they looked my name up and I was organized crime.
I already got pinched for having 35,000 cash in my glove compartment and six grams of coke.
That's when they got you?
Well, no, that was another time.
Okay.
Oh my God.
So what do they actually charge you with?
Racketeer.
Rico.
Rico.
Hobzak.
Rico.
Damn.
Rico is a, Hobzak is interfering with interstate commerce under the Rico Act.
Now you can, now you could have murder under the Rico Act.
Robbery, like mine, robbery under the Rico Act.
Murder, yet murder.
Well, robbery.
I had a guy on here too that said that he was like close to John Gotti security guard.
John A. Light, he said his name.
Oh, John A. Light.
You had him on this show?
Yeah.
You know him?
No, I know of him.
Okay.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
He came here?
He spends a lot of time in Tampa.
Yeah, he came, he's sitting right where you're sitting.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He ended up ratting.
Okay.
Yeah, he ended up telling.
Yeah.
Now, who knows why in this?
I used to, you know, you never rat it?
No.
See, a lot of people, there's like, I feel like I got mixed emotions about that.
I feel like, because he, what this guy said, John A. Light said,
I know what he's going to say.
He said like, there's no loyalty.
Everybody rats on everybody.
That's not true.
It's not true.
But, but he is right.
A lot of them are ratting.
Oh, a ton of them are ratting.
But that doesn't make you, why should you?
He doesn't your word.
Listen, I told you today.
He said, basically, if, if 20 guys went out, went on the fucking stand
and ratted him out and put him away, why the fuck wouldn't he?
I know, but that's, that's just a way to justify what you did.
Let me ask you a question.
I told you today, I'd be here at 11 o'clock.
Yeah.
Was I here?
You were here.
Because my word means something.
Right.
I went away for four, 12 year sentences and I was off at three years.
And I had a 15 month old kid, a six year old son, and a lot of money.
And I lost it all.
You know why?
Because my word meant something.
To this day, I used to look into that.
The, the, the, uh, fucking stainless steel.
That's what it is in prison.
You don't have glass stainless steel mirror.
And no, with nothing.
Remind you, they took every dime from me, everything from me, but my word was good.
To this day, I'm going to die with my word being good.
When I told you I would be here, I would be here.
Now, obviously, if the RV broke or something, I have a phone, I would call you.
That's why I even asked my son, I said, make sure you get his number.
Right.
I don't, I, I, I think a person's word should mean something.
Now, I understand why.
They do it.
That don't get into business.
Right.
Now, and I understand, listen, I don't consider, listen, first of all, civilians can't rat.
That's another thing I tell you, or if you're a civilian, you see a crime.
You should go pick them out of a lineup.
You should do everything the fuck you're supposed to.
It's not ratting.
Rating is you and Ryan fucking selling coke.
You getting caught and saying it was fucking Ryan to get out of the problem.
That's ratting.
I don't believe in that.
Right.
I don't believe, I did crimes.
Nobody went to prison on my case.
Nobody.
Really?
No offense, nobody.
So he, he can't say everybody's ratting.
Right.
Are a lot ratting?
Absolutely.
They're back stabbing each other.
Sammy Gravano did it.
He knows, he probably told you all this.
I don't know what you got out of it.
Learn that.
We didn't, we didn't talk much about Sammy Gravano.
He, he was with John Gotti Jr.
John elite and he worked for the ball.
John Gotti himself.
Right.
And they were all murderers.
They did this shit and everything as they cut the shit, hit the fan and one rats after the other.
Oh, he ratted on me.
He was going to rat on me.
I know he was going to rat.
So I ratted first.
Listen, why you did what you did and why you even got in that business.
Yeah.
Listen, I sleep really, really good at night.
Yeah.
It's not because I was the rough guy.
It's not because of that.
I feel, I, I, I sleep good at night because my word meant something.
I'm okay with everything.
Yeah.
I caused a lot of damage.
I didn't, I didn't, uh, I guess I never heard anybody.
It was in my business or any, you know, that kind of, I've never heard somebody just to hurt them or
anything of that nature.
So you want to call that a justification.
It's still not because there were people in the jewelry stores that were scared for their life and
all that.
And I feel for that.
I really do.
I mean, it can't change it.
It's not like, Oh, okay.
You know, you can never change that.
But I feel good.
Let's cause I know if I tell somebody and, and, and they call that face in the devil.
I faced the devil and stood up to him, meaning the courts in the day.
You know, I faced them and stood up to him.
Now I could have fucking ratted everybody out.
My fences, everybody out and got three years, probably less and been home.
Kept money and whatever.
But you know what?
I have a great relationship with my son, you know, and my daughter.
I'm not married or anything like that, but, and I got a really good relationship.
And we were all, wow.
That's got to be like the hardest decision for a lot of people.
Absolutely.
It's got to be such a hard fucking decision.
Yeah, but it shouldn't be, if you know what-
Kiss my family goodbye.
Or tell on, keep my dignity or just tell on the scumbag and get my life back.
Yeah.
But see, you're making it a scumbag now.
Yeah.
I'm just saying, but there's, there's different ways of looking at it.
Yeah, but what happens if it's someone who's close to you?
Right.
I don't know who's close to you, but whoever's close to you, are you gonna put them away?
Right.
So at what, at what point?
It has nothing to do with them.
It has nothing to do with them.
I see what you're saying.
Dan, it has everything to do with you.
Nobody took care of me when I was in there.
The mob don't take care of that.
That's right.
That's all bullshit.
Right, right, right.
But it meant me when I looked in that fucking stainless steel.
I did it for me.
Right.
I didn't rap because of me.
Now I, I used to hate them.
You know, oh fuck, I don't give a fuck what they do.
Yeah.
They gotta live with themselves.
Right.
They could justify it all they want.
They could lay in bed and justify the murders they committed.
I had a guy on here tell me a story about how when he was in, he was in federal prison.
He was in there for like 15 years.
He told me a story about how he was walking the yard with some guy who basically got life
and he was confessing all of his shit where he hid money.
He took the information and went and gave it to the feds and got money knocked up,
got time knocked off.
Yeah.
He's like, I would cut anyone's throat I could find.
It's like anyone gave me something I would cut their throat instantly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
To save him.
They call that jumping on the boss and they call, yeah, it's called a rule 35.
Mary told you the law.
Yeah.
You get a rule 35 post conviction.
You know.
Yeah.
And it was just never my thing.
And I understood that first of all I used to teach you.
You can thought shut your fucking mouth because you don't know what you're dealing with.
Right.
But yeah, I mean, that's just being stupid.
Right.
But I think that all goes to the person that like I said, I could leave here, have a car accident
and you're going to say, you know, Larry was a good guy, whatever.
And I know the people around me know that.
And I have very good friends that know Larry tells you to be there.
He's gonna fucking be there because his word means something.
How much is it?
Would you ever get into business with a dude who rat it?
Fuck no.
How do you trust him?
Yeah.
If anything goes wrong.
Trust is everything.
Trust is everything.
If anything goes wrong.
Oh, he was gonna fucking steal the money anyway.
He's in it.
He's the one who did the tax fucking thing.
How do you trust somebody?
Now, listen, again, I used to hate them, but I don't give a fuck about them anymore.
I just do your things.
Yeah.
Someone asked me, are you going to interview Sammy Gravano?
Right.
Asked you to do it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because, you know, I got a million.
He's got 150,000.
But he's up and coming.
He was a big mob.
You heard who he is.
Oh, for sure.
Of course.
I said, no.
And you know Michael Francis?
Who's that?
You should get him on your show.
He's got 300.
Good show.
Really?
And he's legit.
He didn't rat.
He took a plea.
Like we all did.
Uh-huh.
But nobody went to jail in his case.
That's all I can say.
Okay.
And you gotta do.
He's a great guy.
Okay.
He's a good guy.
Anyway, so, and Michael and I talked about that.
Because we're both in the mob.
Right.
You know, we're both with the mob.
And we, Sammy Harris, I was 10 years after him.
He was born in 51.
I was born in 61.
Okay.
But I knew of him.
He was the richest mob server.
He robbed 200 million a month.
A month.
50 million a week.
Had the biggest gas scam in the world.
What kind of scam?
They were stealing gas taxes.
What?
Good. Look it up.
Just put gas scam.
Holy shit.
Put Michael for a gas scam.
Just mob gas scam.
Okay.
Michael Frense's mob scam.
Whatever you want to.
Anyway, so, and we talked about that.
He even, I said, you know, Michael,
I know every excuse they make for why they ran it.
Everybody makes it.
He was going to tell me first,
oh, he was going to kill me.
Whatever.
Oh, they were scumbags anyway.
Everybody was doing it.
And that's their way of justifying whatever they did.
And however they, and they do that to live
because they never took,
they took the oath to never fucking,
or murder to never do that.
So they took this great oath,
lived by it, killed for it.
Yeah.
But then when it came down to,
they couldn't face it.
That's what I looked.
They couldn't face that demo.
Right.
Now I could have did that.
I just didn't.
And again, it has nothing to do with them.
Something to do with me,
the way I was raised by my dad,
don't tattle tail.
You know, when you were a kid, don't tattle tail.
You know, it was just the way I was.
And I do believe everybody has to make that decision
for themselves.
Now, I'll do research everybody I work with.
And anybody had fucking did that.
I just don't work with them.
Right.
I'm not going to kill them.
I don't give a fuck what they do.
I don't go live your own life.
I live a good life.
Right.
Very happy.
A very happy life.
Like I said,
Pornhub.
Yeah.
Well, whatever I want to do.
I just, I just think it's,
everybody has to,
that face their own things.
And what happens to me,
I think Dan is,
people are making justifications
for everything they want.
And I don't know your word.
I believe a person's word is all we have.
All we have.
Money comes and goes.
I'm telling you,
whether you struggle now or you don't,
money comes and goes.
I know of millionaire,
bro, millionaire, bro,
comes and goes.
And I mean broke where you're fucking everything.
Can't fucking afford anything.
I mean credit cards, everything's done.
Right.
Then you make it.
You think good and things great.
Then it goes.
Comes and goes.
But my word is never went.
People who know me will do business with me
because of my word.
People who understand me know that
he's going to tell you the fucking truth.
He don't give a fuck.
You know, I'm very honest about that.
You know, who I am or whatever.
I mean, I'm the private to a degree.
You know, cause I'm a public figure,
if you want to call the foundation of who you are.
It's extremely important, man.
Yeah.
And when you lose that,
then what are you laying your hat on?
Right. Exactly.
What are you,
what are you going to say that?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Like you said, I ratted,
but he was going to write on me everybody.
And he's right about all that.
I'm not saying he's not right.
I know who he is very much.
Yeah.
I just, he did what he did.
I wouldn't deal with him.
I wouldn't do business with him and make it, you know.
For what?
Right.
You know why?
Cause something goes wrong.
There ain't nobody got your back.
So why do you want to live like that?
Yeah.
Do you want, I don't want to live like that.
Yeah.
I mean, you're going to suffer to an extent,
depending on where your moral compass is,
you have to live with yourself at the end of the day.
You got to look in the mirror.
You got to tuck yourself in at night.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you got to also like, you got to like,
every decision you make, then it's going to be,
is it right?
What's he going to do?
How's he going to do it?
You know, oh man, we shouldn't do this.
It's almost the same thing as a lie, right?
If you're a liar, you're always having to navigate your way
through other lies and not get caught.
You know, people ask me all the time about my,
going on shows and you can go back and look
him shows for 10, 12 years.
Do I prepare or what the fuck?
No, I don't lie.
Right.
Ask me anything.
What I tell you, did I ask you that?
You can ask me anything to fuck you want.
Anything.
Because it doesn't matter to me because I'm not going to
sit here and lie to you and have to worry about a lie.
Right.
Or lie right now.
You're going to look at him up a zillion times.
I don't give a fuck.
And that, well, that's what makes my life easier.
Right.
Of course.
You know, and people who can, he's like, oh, did I tell
that guy or did we kill that guy and it feds this or not?
You know, that's, that's not the way I want to live.
Right.
And people, again, I respect you guys for your age and
coming up and getting experience and doing it right.
If there's any advice I give anybody is this, just be,
listen, you don't have to be true to the public and you
don't know what I mean as a public figure because you are,
you know, obviously as an influencer.
Mm-hmm.
But be true to you.
Does that make sense?
Oh, for sure.
I don't give a fuck what the public knows about you.
But when you look in the mirror, right, be you.
Right.
To yourself.
Yep.
It's the most important thing.
Obviously, you don't have to tell you everything because
you're the headaches of it and society and business or whatever.
That's one way.
But as long as you know who you are.
Oh, yeah.
And then you're going to live a great life.
And I think everyone should know 100%.
And I think that's important.
Well, thank you for coming on and telling this, man.
This has been a fucking amazing conversation.
I'm going to say straight out, I didn't expect this to be such
a fucking amazing conversation.
Why?
I don't know.
You're a fucking amazing guy, man.
You're so fun to talk to.
So easy to talk to.
I appreciate it, man.
You see that, Ryan?
He thought it was going to be a shitty interview.
I didn't say shitty.
I knew you're going to be.
I knew you're going to be interesting just because of your story,
but I didn't think we'd be able to have such a great conversation.
I try to be just who I am.
That's awesome, man.
I enjoyed coming here.
You got to come on my show.
I will.
Absolutely.
Tell the listeners where they can find your stuff.
If they don't already know, which I'm sure they do,
but in case they don't, tell them where they can find you.
Sure.
Larry Lawton.
Just go to Larry Lawton YouTube.
YouTube, Larry Lawton, or Reality Check Program, obviously.
But you'll find all links and all of our videos,
all that kind of stuff.
Just go to Larry Lawton and go on YouTube, Larry.
Just Google Larry Lawton.
That's all you really got to do.
Perfect, man.
Thanks again, Larry.
Thank you for having me.
Goodbye, world.
Take care.
