Billy Carson, ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much, man, for coming here.
Thank you.
You are one of the most fascinating people to follow on Instagram.
Your videos, all the things that you look into and talk about are just so, I mean, out there,
a lot of it's really out there for me, but it's just so fascinating and I've often fallen
down many rabbit holes watching your videos and following your content.
Thank you, man.
How did you get into all this stuff?
You know, it's a real amazing story.
We were living in New York.
I was born in Queens, New York.
Oh, no way.
Yeah.
Queens General Hospital, 1971.
And my parents, you know, were having some issues there.
My father was having some issues with drugs and alcohol and they decided, you know, they
had a great idea.
Let's move to Miami.
A lot of people from Queens end up down there.
Yeah.
So they went to the cocaine cowboy capital and we get in Miami and we live, we're living
in the hood in the ghetto in Opalaca.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hardcore back then, too.
We lived in the Vermuter Triangle part of Opalaca, which was the steel gate that they
put around the city to keep the crime on the inside.
And as you know, there's Opalaca Airport nearby.
It was in the movie with Martin Lawrence and Will Smith Bad Boys.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It was Bad Boys 2 or something.
Yeah.
It was the airport in the movie.
But anyway, I would go outside because back then in the 70s, right, 1977, there's no cable
TV, there's no cell phones, no screens, no tablets or anything.
You go outside and you play.
I'm outside looking at the airplanes, just observing how long it took for them to go
from horizon to horizon.
Like, you know, that was like the exciting thing of the day back then because we couldn't
go and play out in the neighborhood because it was so much crime and killing going on.
We could only either play in the backyard or in the front yard and we couldn't leave the
gate parameter left or right.
If we pass that, we get in trouble.
So I'm out there watching and I see this object go across and I'm like, it cleared the horizon
in seconds, not minutes.
It literally just, and I know I saw it.
I'm like, I know I just saw something, but it was more of an oval, almost like an egg.
It didn't have wings or cockpit, didn't have a tail fin, didn't have anything look like
a plane.
And I'm just looking, looking, looking, I'm searching, I'm scanning the sky for this thing
and it comes back.
But this time when it comes back, it's lower.
It's about maybe now I can estimate about 200 meters above my head and it's completely
silent and it stops.
It comes to an immediate stop and then it just stays there for like three or four seconds
and it just takes off the way that it came in.
And I was blown away.
I was like, what did I just see?
Now, back then the word UFO didn't exist for me, flying saucer didn't exist.
Aliens didn't even exist in my vocabulary yet.
All I knew was I saw something that wasn't an airplane.
So the next day I went to my school, Rainbow Park Elementary, we left four, four, four or
five houses away from the school.
I go to the school, I tell my teacher, my dad wants me to do a report because my dad
always made me do book reports.
I said, I need to go get some encyclopedias from the library because I'm researching something.
She sent me to the library.
I get the encyclopedia Britannica on aerospace.
I'm looking at Swip Wing, Delta Wing, ballistic intercontinental ballistic.
I'm looking at all these different types of projects that we had for planes between United
States, Russia, submarine, missiles that were sent from the ocean.
I'm trying to find whatever I could see and I saw nothing close to what I saw in my backyard
and that started me on this entire rabbit hole research and investigation.
I started with aerospace first.
No way.
So that's what sparked this whole thing.
How old were you?
Seven years old.
I had just turned seven.
You know what's crazy too is there's a lot of reports of UFO sightings in your schools.
I think the most of them are in your schools and I'm sure you're familiar with the Zimbabwe,
or was it, no, where was that?
There was an Africa.
It was in South Africa.
There's one in Russia by school.
You're right.
They were by schools a lot.
There's one famous one I was just talking to a guy about that happened in Africa.
I'm forgetting the name of the actual name of the school, but there was an actual whole
report of beings coming out of the craft and telepathically communicating with the kids.
In broad daylight.
In broad daylight.
I remember that.
There's many, many accounts of UFO sightings in your schools.
You said you were seven years old, eight years old?
Seven.
Wow.
So what was life like growing up down there?
That's pretty tough.
I mean, I can remember seeing the yellow chalk in the streets, you know, people getting
shot, killed, stabbed, coming home and the cops would be all around because somebody
stabbed somebody, a neighbor would rob another neighbor.
It was just, it was wild.
What does that do to a seven year old growing up?
Like, how does that affect you as you're maturing and entering your teenage years and
all that?
That's pretty tough.
You know how it really, for me, my brain was able to process things a little differently.
I always thought I have to get out of here.
I need to get an escape.
My brother on the other hand, for example, who was only one year younger than me born
in the same month, just a few days later, you know, he ended up going down the other
fork in the road, life of crime, ended up doing 10 years in prison for attempted murder
and robbery and stuff like that.
My sister, I saw how it affected her.
She ended up, was headed towards the Olympics, was a great runner, ended up, you know, getting
pregnant at a very early age and then moving out like I did at 16 and just kind of lost
that, but she still became very successful later on, fortunately.
But I just saw how it rocked us.
It created a dysfunctional family situation and it really messed us up mentally.
For whatever reason, for me, I never let it affect my school studies.
I was very studious.
I was always looking and digging for more information and more knowledge.
Studying and researching and reading books was my escape to another dimension pretty much,
you know.
Oh, really?
That's how I escaped.
I remember the encyclopedia salesman came to the door and, you know, he used to go door
to door back then and offered my mom an entire set, like no credit, no nothing, and she just
paid 30 bucks a month.
She didn't have the money, but she took the set.
The guy came back one time, never came back again.
So I had this whole set of psych-repeated botanicals.
I had biology, psychology, physics, economics, that was for me, that was like my escape.
And I knew that one day I would get out of that neighborhood because I realized one thing.
I had sold some toys that I had, some broken toys and went door to door asking for donations
because I had no money for the ice cream truck.
Everybody was going to, I just wanted bubble gum.
I couldn't get bubble gum.
We couldn't even afford bubble gum.
We were eating Kyro Serpent Toast.
And you know, if we get some donations or some things from some neighbors, we'd have
some food to eat.
It was pretty tough pickings, eating like, you know, cereal with water and stuff like
that.
And so I went door to door selling my toys and I took this famous picture that I have
with like the change in the money in my hand that I had gotten.
And I realized at that moment, I had an epiphany, like that was the moment that changed me because
I realized I was going to save myself.
I just knew it.
I said, there's nobody coming to save me.
It's going to be me that's going to get me out of this situation.
And from that moment on, I was only seven.
That was it.
I realized I started putting plans in place, things in place and working on ideas and concepts
that would help me in the future to escape that, that location, that place that I was
in, which I eventually did.
Were there any, was there any sort of mentor figures in your life that you could follow
or follow in their footsteps or help guide you along this path and figure out the steps
to get out of the situation you were in?
Unfortunately, there was no human mentor and third dimension person.
It was just the books that I was reading.
I was reading books.
I was devouring books like you wouldn't believe.
I was, you know, reading, you know, real books, not like see Jack run and stuff like
that.
I was reading novels.
You know, I remember as a very young age reading Jack London, The Seawolf and books
like that.
So just, just understanding the perception and the concepts through some of the psychology
books I was reading from, you know, and stuff like that.
I was like, okay, I was getting it at a young age, fortunately.
And one thing that my father did do, he made me do book reports every single week since
I was little.
And so those book reports, it's not like you read something and you just, okay, a lot
of people forget they have no comprehension or reading comprehension, but when you do
a book report, it forces reading comprehension.
So I was comprehending.
So that, that regiment of doing all those book reports for all those years, every single
week, it developed in me this ability to comprehend what I was reading and be analytical and
be able to ask questions and then be able to ask myself a question and then go research
my own question and find the answer to that question.
So that really helped me.
I was one of the best things he ever did for me, which is why I dedicated my second book
to him.
At what point did you become so fascinated in like ancient civilizations and cosmology
and, and all of this kind of stuff?
It's really interesting.
So I really, at an early age, I was interested in it.
I wasn't fascinated yet.
I was like, the pyramids and, you know, the seven wonders of the world cause I was reading
books about it.
And I was like, well, I'd like to see these one day, but it wasn't this burning passion
desire yet.
It didn't really happen for me until much later.
I think it was, uh, I see Justin right now, my younger son is 20 going to be 23 soon.
So it was in 25 years ago.
I was looking into, you know, pyramids and the structures and I realized that these things
seem technological in some kind of way, the way that they're constructed.
I started really understanding that we could, we didn't have the tech technological capability
right now to duplicate some of these things.
So I said, I got to go somewhere.
I need to go somewhere to see something that's ancient, that's built.
And that's not going to cost me that much money because I didn't have a lot at the time.
And it was kind of close.
The first time I'm leaving the country, I went to Mexico, I went to Chitzenitza in the
Yucatan Peninsula.
Uh, and so I flew into Mexico, uh, and I was, I thought I was rich because I converted 500
bucks American back then into, uh, Mexican pesos and I had all this money.
And then a sandwich cost like a hundred bucks and I said, Oh, I'm not rich, but I went,
I went down there in that bus through the jungle to get to Chitzenitza.
And then this whole, you know, incredible place opens up when you get there and you
see it.
And I was just like blown away.
I climbed the pyramid of Kukukam, which you can't do anymore.
They've stopped people from doing that now because unfortunately something has happened
with some tourists defecating up there or some crazy thing.
Jesus.
But I took a picture, a famous picture of myself at the top of that.
And I just realized, wow, this is what I really want to do.
I want to travel to see these things much later though.
And about 2010 I had this very strange experience, which it took a long time to talk about it
because it's such a, it was a bad experience for me in some ways and some ways it was good
and some ways it was bad.
It was like one of the catalysts for my divorce, maybe one of my sons is still kind of, uh,
you know, um, standoffish because of it.
But I had this experience in the house where from my perspective, sitting there watching
ESPN sports, not nine o'clock PM, the room turned lavender.
I look over my left shoulder, the TV shut off too.
I look over my left shoulder.
I thought my boys were playing a trick on me when I turned back to what you would describe
as gray aliens were in front of my face.
And, uh, I didn't know what to do.
I tried to scream, no sound was coming out of my throat.
Uh, they, whatever they were doing was making my brain shake in my skull.
And then as fast as that happened, they just turned around and they kind of dangled away.
They don't even walk like a regular walk.
It was like a dangle.
I can't really explain it.
And then the lights came back, the TV came back, I ran around the house frantic, nobody
heard or saw anything.
It scared the hell out of everybody, especially my wife at the time.
Uh, she had just about had enough.
That was like the last straw.
I didn't talk about it for a long time.
I never went public with it until probably, I don't know, maybe a couple of years ago
or so, because I really got nothing out of it, but negativity.
But I felt like it was a time for to start explaining this.
And the reason why I'm bringing it up now based on your question is because one thing
that the part that was good out of that situation was this phrase worldwide telescope was burning
in my mind over and over again.
It just came out of nowhere.
Worldwide telescope, worldwide telescope, worldwide telescope.
I get up, I go on my computer, I go to excite.com cause back then Google wasn't the main one
yet.
What year was this?
This is a 2010.
Okay.
Worldwide telescope and then worldwide telescope.org is the first search result.
I almost fell out of my chair.
I click on it.
Back then you had to download the software and install it.
Now you can just use it without installing.
It's an option because it was HTML5 was out now.
So you can do both.
But anyway, I installed the software.
I opened it up.
It gives you the sky view.
You can go into two mess and for red mode, all these different satellite modes.
It gives you all the space probe data for all the missions that have ever gone off in
the space from Earth.
And it gives you access to the data and also the rover images, but from the perspective
of the rovers on Mars, and it's all publicly available.
Taxes paid for all this.
And so you log in, I saw Mars, let me click on Mars.
Then from Mars I go and I see Panorama.
I go, okay.
Then I see rovers.
I go rovers.
Well, the rovers are in here.
I click on Opportunity Grover.
Now I'm on the mast cam and I'm zooming in, zooming out, pan left and right.
And I started seeing anomalies.
But the anomalies that I was seeing to answer your question are things that look similar
to ancient structures on Earth.
And I go, wait a minute, wait a minute, is this really Mars?
So I start downloading these images and screenshotting them and analyzing them.
And they're really Mars images hosted on Caltech servers, some are on washington.edu.
And I'm like, this is incredible.
So I start comparing to now I've got a really crazy passion for this because now I'm hunting
down every ancient site and trying to see how do these sites connect to what I'm seeing
going on on Mars.
And then I came across the Enuma Elish in the seven tablets of creation from ancient Samaria.
And it talks about they had beings named the Egg, living on Mars, running a concurrent
civilization that was on Earth and both on Mars.
And that just blew me away.
And from there I just dove head first into the whole thing.
So this was immediately after you had this encounter or sighting in your living room?
Yes.
Yes, it was.
And so you had just this idea of what was it called?
What's it called?
Worldwide Telescope.
That's it.
Burning in your mind.
That's it right there.
Yeah.
So what do you think?
Do you think that they were trying to communicate this to you to go find this stuff?
That's the only thing I could think of.
They didn't give me anything like a telepathic that I could understand in terms of words
like the English language, but my brain was shaking in my skull like it was it was painful.
And then it just stopped and then they just left with that phrase just over and over thousands
of times.
Now, when you said the the room turned a specific color and the TV went off.
Yeah.
Turned lavender.
Turned lavender.
The TV went shut right off.
Did anybody else hear the TV go off or see the color change?
The house was full.
I had two daughters in two rooms on the East Wing, three boys on the West Wing and their
rooms upstairs.
It was a split floor plan.
Wife and the time in the master bedroom first floor behind the living room on the other
side of the wall that I was sitting in a family room and nobody heard saw anything.
Nobody came out of their rooms.
Nobody saw anything.
All they did was get frantic and scared and it caused all kind of problems, arguments.
They got frantic and scared because because you told them about it immediately.
Yeah.
And I was I was like I was hyped.
You know, I mean, I just happened to me.
What had just happened was totally unreal, like a real close encounter of the fifth
kind and it just freaked everybody out.
It was a it was a, you know, it's still today.
My son says my son Giovanni says, you know, I'm afraid to go to your house and that's
the he's 27 now.
Is this the only time anything like this has happened to you besides the using that UFO
in your front yard when you were seven?
That's it.
The only time it never happened again.
Yeah, but I've been on this path of discovery into ancient civilizations ever
since based on what I saw on there.
And since I've come across that worldwide telescope, I put together a team of anomaly
hunters and we actually hunt space anomalies through most of this data.
And we've downloaded now over one million images from NASA, Caltech, Washington,
IEDU and all the other space, European Space Agency, India Space Agency and
the Russian Space Agency.
And we've cataloged cataloged over 60,000 space anomalies.
Most of which a lot of them have made the new CNN Fox, you name it.
They've been on TV and everything.
To you, what are the most astounding anomalies or photos that are on Mars
that that really blow your mind?
There's so many.
But and is there a way we can see them on here?
Yeah, maybe you can probably go in.
So if we go to part of this brief interruption, but I want to take a
minute to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been using for over
a year now after it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist Dr.
Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast, I take Dom's advice when it comes to
anything related to nutrition, diet and longevity, because as we get older,
these things become more and more important.
That is why I started using Verso.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being this one right here, which contains nicotine amide
mononucleotide or NMN based supplement paired with naturally derived,
micronized, trans-resveratrol and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotanamide
iodine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD.
And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity.
If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten
that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity is because your body is
activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes.
The downside is as we age, NAD declines.
When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of
sirtuins and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold.
And it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save
15% on your entire order.
That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get 15% off your entire order.
Or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
It's linked below back to the show.
Hey, we're on Mars, we're on Mars.
Now you see that rock on the right, right there?
Yeah.
Let's zoom in over there.
Yeah, zoom in pretty close to that one.
Let me see if this is, oh, to the right, a little bit more to the right.
Okay, zoom in over there.
Wow, this is pretty incredible, the resolution of this.
Yeah, it's pretty cool stuff.
You'll see an anomaly right there, first of all.
You see this one on the left, right there, by the next left at X, of the plus sign,
I'm sorry?
Yeah.
That is not a rock.
Sitting on top of the flat one, you mean?
Looks like a seagull almost sitting there.
Well, no, you see that big triangular shape?
Yes, yes.
That's not a rock, it's got symmetry, it has three open places on it.
If you zoom out just a tiny here, I don't know if you can see it.
So you can see, now, look at the surrounding terrain outside of this,
what looks like debris up there, that particular object doesn't appear to be
a rock from the surrounding terrain.
If you look at it, I've never seen a rock, so you have to compare what rocks look
like to an earth.
I've just never seen a rock that just stands up like that and has that type of
shape and has that type of structure to it.
If you were able to take that and pull it into a photo program and really zoom in
and close with an actual magnifying glass, because when you look at it,
you don't lose the resolution like you do when you're zooming in with computer
zoom.
And so all of a sudden, you begin to see all the aspects of the anomaly.
So that's something that we would catalog as an anomaly.
Now, if you zoom out, let's see if I can find one more in this area,
because I haven't been here in a long time.
There's like a whole cluster of...
All that's all debris.
Right, exactly.
All that stuff there is actually artificial.
A lot of that stuff is not rocks.
When you say artificial, what do you mean specifically?
Otherwise, I think that some of that stuff is broken pieces of something.
There was a global flood on Mars.
And the evidence of this is a lot of the things that we do find appear to be partially
submerged in some of the sand, which looks like wet sand.
We know that there is mud there.
And now we also know that there's billions of tons of liquid water,
because they've announced it officially.
Could any...
Could not be fragmented parts of a comet or an asteroid?
It's possible.
It's possible, but it's very hard.
Looks like there's kind of a crater behind it.
Well, that's actually not a crater.
That's just a little bit of an area behind the hill.
That's like when you come up that little hill,
it's actually not even that steep of an hill.
And that area behind it's not that large.
There's a measuring tool that you have in there, too,
that you can measure a lot of the sizes and stuff.
That thing right there is only like four or five feet tall, that piece there.
But if you scroll to the right more, there's a piece sticking out of a hill.
Let me see if I can find it again.
It's been a long time.
Look at that little shiny area, like white.
That's water and frozen water, basically.
How much water did you say there is on Mars?
They've now found billions of tons of liquid water,
and they've officially announced it.
Is this underneath the surface?
No, they found a surface lake, 12 hectares lake.
They've also found other pools of water,
and they even showed on a NASA press release,
on video during the day, I think it was about four years ago,
water coming down the side of a mountain.
Really?
Yeah, so there's a lot of water there.
I'll keep going a little bit more.
I'm just going by memory.
Zoom in right there where your arrow is, where your cursor was.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, right there.
Yeah, right on that thing.
Zoom in there.
Now, that's interesting.
Yeah, it's in a similar rock to the other one, right?
It looks almost the same.
It's pretty similar, but it's something that's sticking out of the side
and hanging over the ledge of a hill.
Now, if you look at the back piece on an image program,
you can see that it's connected.
It's just really, really dusty.
But there's something that connects that whole piece at the top on that hill.
Again, just another anomaly.
Again, it's hard to find rocks that are shaped like that.
It doesn't match the surrounding terrain.
You can see the front piece of it to the left,
almost at the edge of the screen at the top left.
Right there.
Yeah.
A little bit more over.
That's the, it's one connected piece.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Now, is there any objects that look like they were man-made or anything?
What would you say on here resembles things that we have on earth?
Besides these rocks?
I mean, all these, these just look like rocks to me.
Yeah, we got to go through a whole bunch of over images.
So if we go back out and we'll have to go find another panorama.
What is that?
Is that Bigfoot?
It's a weird thing.
What is that?
Yeah, if you click on it, you can probably hope that they get big
when you click on them.
Oh, that was a small, but that's an object that is really bizarre.
Again, you look at the surrounding terrain.
It didn't seem to match.
It went viral.
This one made the news and everything.
It made all the mainstream news channels.
And what happened?
So go to that link, that NASA link to the right.
I want to see what this looks like.
Yeah.
So this is the source photo of that.
Yeah.
And this is an area zoomed in.
So somewhere in here, where's Waldo and you can see that.
Yeah, you'll have to zoom and find it and send there.
I mean, this will take us forever.
We don't, holy crap.
That's crazy.
Look at that resolution.
Yeah, no, it's crazy.
That is incredible.
It takes us hours to find the anomalies
because we literally scan centimeter by centimeter.
You know, we take an image that big and you go centimeter
by centimeter with your magnifying glass.
Yeah.
Go to some of the other photos on the Facebook.
To you, what stands out the most out of all of these anomalies?
Okay.
Go forward.
Go forward.
Even that's a four mile wide face, but these tubes are amazing.
They've been on the news.
These tubes run for miles.
They're huge.
They're massive.
They, they, they actually are these tubes that run in and out
and all around the planet in certain areas.
And they're hollow on the inside and they're not rocks clearly.
And what's interesting is if you see where that arrow is down
from the arrow, you see where two tubes kind of almost run
into each other.
They have these ribbed type things that are keeping the tube,
the structure open.
So it's hollow on the inside.
The purpose of it, nobody has a, nobody has a clue.
Huh.
Yeah.
And they run for miles.
What do you speculate they are?
I think they're just a transportation or navigation underneath.
Everything for me, I think it makes sense to build underground there.
Really?
This is the first thing that I found.
This is my very first anomaly.
Now look at this.
All I did was I just pulled out the anomaly and blew it up.
I just, you know, spread it out.
There's no enhancement.
There's no anything.
But I'm labeling them.
One looks to be on the left, looks like technology.
The other thing looks like a sphinx type of an object.
And the other thing looks like, again, more technology.
Just in my eyes, what I see there in the background, it could be a pyramid.
I don't know.
But to me, these things don't look like they belong in that area.
There's even something to the far right underneath that left arrow
that is also anomalous.
If you go to another one, what's that?
Doing on Mars.
That's not a rover.
NASA, when we emailed them, they said they don't know what it is.
They said-
Is that the actual size?
Or is it supposed to be magnified in that circle?
It's magnified.
It's up there in the right corner.
See it up there in the right corner.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's sitting right out there.
Yeah.
Okay, okay.
Hang on.
Pull up that NASA link in the description, Austin.
See if we can find this one.
Okay, it's right there.
You got to zoom in a little bit more sometimes.
You can't zoom in any farther?
No.
Your technology won't allow you?
Yeah.
2022.
Wow.
Yeah, that is strange, isn't it?
That's strange.
Now, anybody who sees something like this for the first time,
they're going to go crazy and they're going to dig into this stuff.
And this was one where I got to show you before we go on.
We can extend this.
We have to go down.
Yeah, absolutely.
Go down, right there.
Click on above, up, up, right there.
Now, what's that doing on Mars?
That's the last image taken by Spirit Rover before it went offline
and never broadcast another image ever again.
When was this taken?
That's Spirit Rover's last image.
That was probably about maybe almost 10 years ago now.
Click on the, let's look at the source link from NASA's website.
Oh, they took it off.
Oh, wow.
It's not on there anymore.
It took it down.
Yeah, that is incredible looking, right?
It almost looks like a DeLorean with a camping traveler thing on top.
It's weird.
And if you see the shadow out of the back,
you know, I can only relate to a turret, a gun turret.
Yeah, that is wild.
Yeah, and that's huge.
There's even a thing up here that looks like an airplane,
which is on this same photo file.
So, like, I'm so fascinated by this stuff,
but the problem is you could spend so much time on these websites
looking at this stuff and finding this stuff,
but you can't do anything with it.
All you can do is just like blow people's minds,
but no one will take it seriously.
Well, you know, I think it's actually has been taken seriously
because now there are literally millions of people following us
on the anomaly pages that we have in anomaly groups.
Some groups have 140, 150,000 people in each group,
and these people have now become researchers
and digging into it.
But what it does for me, it verifies the fact
that anomalies are there that are unexplainable,
even though we're not there.
They don't look like rocks.
Even NASA says they don't know where they are.
If you read the Enuma Elish in the Seven Tablets of Creation
or the Artra Hasis Epic,
when they talk about the EGG occupying and living on Mars
with advanced technology
and visiting and going back and forth from Mars to Earth,
this to me verifies that story in the ancient Sumerian tablets.
Okay, those tablets that you just...
I don't even know what you just said, but...
The Enuma Elish and the Seven Tablets of Creation,
one of the most...
Enuma Elish.
Okay.
The Bible is plagiarized from...
The Old Testament is plagiarized from the Enuma Elish.
A lot of the Old Testament is coming from there,
but they kept out a lot of the stuff talking about,
you know, beings living on other planets.
In the modern day Bible,
God is actually mistranslated as God's singular,
when in true reality,
when you go back into the ancient text,
it's really God's with an S.
They took off the S to make it the monotheistic mindset.
And then you realize that it's...
When you read the Enuma Elish and the Artra Hasis Epic,
you realize that they copied all that ancient text
and put it into...
A lot of it into the Old Testament of the modern day Bible.
So is this all written in stone?
Yes, all written in stone.
These are literal stone tablets.
Stone tablets.
Cuneiform stone tablets.
I've done lectures on this stuff.
I've done a 12-hour lecture just on the Enuma Elish,
12 hours just on the Artra Hasis.
Now, how did you get your hands on these things?
Or did you just read them from images of them?
Or how did...
Now, here's the beautiful thing.
These have been translated since the 1800s.
So Cambridge and the British Museum have translations.
And then UCLA did an amazing thing.
There's over a million tablets that have now been out there
and they've got hundreds of thousands translated.
UCLA cataloged all the tablets digitally online
and made an online tablet translator
called a UCLA CDLI Cuneiform Digital Library.
And you can go there and take a tablet off the shelf
and drop it into a translator and read it for yourself.
No way.
Yeah.
That's pretty wild.
Oh, yeah.
And you did this.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I've done this.
I've been to the British Museum in person as well.
I've been to the Ashmonian Museum in Oxford, England as well
and looked at these tablets with my own eyes.
And I've got pictures of me obviously standing next to them.
But they're real tablets.
And I've done lectures on this for the last,
I don't know, four or five years.
These tablets are amazing because this is as close
as we're going to get to the truth.
And they're talking about beings, living, and other planets
coming to this planet, engaging mankind,
teaching mankind about weapons, war,
genetically modifying humans for the purpose
of turning us into slaves to do a lot of the labor for them,
and living on Mars.
How many years ago were these tablets created, apparently?
Or supposedly?
The last, the most recent version is back
around 6,000 to 7,000 years ago,
which is why there goes a translator site,
which is why the Bible, people who believe in the Bible
believe the Earth is only 6,000 years old
because the story is copied from 6,000 year old tablets.
That's when, that's the beginning of the creation
of the Earth is in the Enuma Elish.
That's actually the creation of our entire solar system
is in there.
The Earth is just a small part.
What civilization was 6,000 years ago?
Sumerian.
The Sumerians.
The Sumerians.
And those were, those were the first humans?
No, they weren't the first humans, but it was the beginning of.
The beginning of, of like, of organized civilizations.
It wasn't even really the beginning, beginning.
It was just as far back as we can go.
Now we can go back a little further as a recent
because it go back to Tepe and Derun Kuyu in Turkey.
We know now 13,000 years.
But like the official narrative of the history humanity
was around 200,000 years ago, is that right?
And that was supposed to be the Stone Age.
Homo sapiens shows up all of a sudden out of nowhere.
And then within a short period of time,
obtains and learns all this knowledge.
According to the book of Enoch,
which is one of the apocrypha books left out of the Bible,
but he's important because he's mentioned in the Bible.
Enoch, Enoch of the book of Enoch.
These beings came from heaven to earth.
And then they even named, they have names.
They taught them how, taught human beings how to technology,
how to make weapons, how to, how to even create, make beer
and all this other crazy stuff.
And then they took Enoch on a trip to the earth's atmosphere
and beyond.
And he saw the earth and the shape of the planet as a sphere
and how he saw that he was living on a giant ball
and then brought him back.
Yeah, this is all in the book of Enoch.
The only Bible that has the book of Enoch in it
is the Ethiopian Bible.
It's the only Bible in the world that actually incorporated
the book of Enoch into their canonized text.
The rest of the Bible's omitted the book of Enoch.
The wars of these gods can be found in the book of Deuteronomy.
The wars of the gods, these are the Atlantean wars
that everybody's trying to figure out.
What happened?
It's in the book of Deuteronomy in the Bible.
So all the wars are right there.
But you say a lot of this was omitted from the Bible, right?
Yeah, but the Deuteronomy is actually in there.
The Deuteronomy.
So what is the Deuteronomy?
It's a book in the Bible.
It's a book in the Bible.
Okay.
The modern day Bible, anybody can go open their Bible
and go, Oh, Deuteronomy, let me read this.
They don't read it, especially in Bible study.
But the reason why is because you have God,
which is actually God's plural,
going to war against other gods in other towns and cities
and other regions of the planet and sending human beings
to these places to go to battle and sending angels with them
with battle gear on to fight and kill.
And the words are, go there, get in, kill the women,
kill the children, kill the animals if need be.
And if you see any women that you like, you can rape them.
These are the exact words used.
I want you to get a Bible and look it up.
And if you decide you rape them, if you decide you want to keep
them as wife, you can take them, but bring the spoils of war
back to me.
This was these internal battles going on from,
from one region of the world to another region of the world,
stealing and fighting over humans and resources.
These people have become so evil fighting against each other
and utilizing human beings as chattel.
And that's all in the book of Enoch.
So God is good and loving and all,
and he's all the same all the time,
but all of a sudden you read the book of Enoch and you go,
what's going on?
The book of Deuteronomy, you read the book of Deuteronomy,
you go, what's, what's going on here?
These aren't exactly the stories that, uh, you know,
described that don't think it's talking about the creator of
the universe in that book.
So, okay, I want to kind of like, I want to kind of unpack
this in kind of like a linear timeline of your personal
discovery of this.
So you had that experience in your living room.
You decided to go on the telescope website,
the global telescope and find all these things.
At what point did you become aware of these ancient texts
and go translate them and learn about them?
When I started Googling and trying to find,
if anybody was looking at these anomalies,
I came across information about the Anunnaki.
That's the name of the beings that,
according to the ancient texts,
came from heaven to earth.
And in the Egyptian culture, they called them the Natiru.
And they said they came to earth and turned mud into a kingdom.
In the Bible, they call them the Anak.
They have these names in all different cultures.
They all show up around the same time in every culture.
And I started going, I started finding more instances,
more instances of them in every culture I looked into
around the same time period.
And I go, these people really came here at some point
in a distant past.
It seems to be now around 450,000 years ago they arrived.
And about 200,000 years ago, according to the texts,
not me, they started genetically tinkering with human beings,
saying they were adding their essence to them
to get us to do the labor for them.
So around 200,000 years ago, they started tinkering with us.
And there's a famous cylinder scroll and with some text
at the British Museum with Isis, the goddess Isis,
who was one of the original Sumerian pantheon,
not Egyptian, Sumerian.
And she's holding up a baby and she says,
the first Adamu, which means first man,
my hands have created it.
And she claims to have taken in the text,
taken this baby to term for 10 months in her own womb
to create the more modern version of homo sapien sapien.
Okay, so what is in your description, what was the Anunnaki?
The Anunnaki, well, the term itself means those who came
from heaven to earth.
And these Anunnaki are beings that came from outside of earth
to earth from many different places potentially.
Just like if you were to travel to Mars,
and you met a Mars and they say, where are you from?
You say, I'm an earthling.
You wouldn't say I'm from Tampa, right?
So it's the same thing, it's a generalized term.
And so, but these Anunnaki, these are the original
Atlantean people.
They created an Atlantean civilization.
How do I know this?
The tablets, the Emerald Tablets of Thoth,
which is my first book is about the Emerald Tablets.
It's the best seller right now.
It's number one out of 3 million books on Amazon.
Why?
Because it's talking about the gentleman
that ruled over the land of Cam
before it was called Egypt for 14,000 years.
He left behind these tablets that he authored himself.
He didn't have a scribe right then back in the day.
It was typical, if you were considered a god,
you would have a scribe write your work.
He wrote them himself.
He talks about the Great Flood.
He talks about civilization declining
and having to be brought back to a high level.
He talks about all this stuff in the Emerald Tablets.
And he covers everything from A to B.
He talks about having technology in the Emerald Tablets.
He has a ship that doesn't sail on the ocean.
It flies into the sky until the earth disappears
until he gets to the place appointed
and then it descends from the sky back down to the land.
This is 36,000 year old text.
And what's interesting about this text
where Jesus is talking in the Bible,
you know, quoted as being saying things
in the New Testament of the Bible,
I have side by side the verses from the Bible
and the verses from both the Atlantean.
Guess what? They're the same.
But which came first? The chicken or the egg.
One is 2,000 years old.
The other one is 36,000 years old.
Yeah. Well, you know, the fascinating thing,
I've had Randall Carlson on here.
And he told me all about the great flood,
the younger driest cataclysm that happened.
I think it was like 12,500 years ago.
Yes.
Which was a series.
There's actual scientific geological evidence
of a series of cataclysm that happened
that could have been comets, could have been volcanoes,
because there's a multitude of things.
But I think the evidence points to mostly it was comets,
series of comments from the Torrid Meteor Stream
that came and wiped out a majority of living species on Earth.
And you can see that through not only geological evidence
with the black mat layers of ash that are frozen underneath ice,
but there's also evidence from when they look at the climate
on Earth throughout history.
Yeah, you can look at the ice cores.
The ice cores. Right.
I think they drilled like miles of ice cores in Antarctica.
Yes. You can see several global floods that happened.
Several.
Yeah. So the younger driest is just one.
Which is apparently the most recent one, right?
Most recent one is the younger driest.
It decimated the entire ice sheet, sending water and mass of ice
into the oceans, creating a global flood,
which would have been the most recent flood that we've had.
Even all the way down to Africa, to the tip of Africa,
this thing created floods, which is why I believe
the Sphinx is much older than we think,
because the Sphinx couldn't have been built 12,000 years ago.
It had to be built prior to that younger driest era.
Another fascinating thing going back to evidence of this,
evidence proving that the timeline,
the official narrative of the timeline of these civilizations,
especially when it comes to ancient Egypt, is way off.
There is, I had this guy, Ben Van Kirkwick.
Ben Van Kirkwick, he has a YouTube channel called Uncharted X.
And he goes to, he basically discovered this evidence in Egypt
of these basalt rocks and these pieces of granite
that have been clearly machined with there's like core drills,
like perfectly circular cores taken out of this rock.
And on the Mohs scale of hardness of the hardest and softest rocks on Earth.
These are the top three hardest rocks that exist on Earth.
And even today, it would be extremely difficult
for us to carve these stones with the tools that we have today.
And these like perfectly, there's these giant like eight ton rocks
that look like they were cut with,
it looks like it was a hot knife cutting through butter
with how perfect they are and how perfectly symmetrical they are.
Some of this evidence is astounding and it can't even be explained.
In addition to that, there's pottery that is made out of these rocks
that is perfect.
It looks like it was pottery that was thrown on a wheel.
But it's the hardest stones that exist on Earth.
Yeah, incredible.
Because those stones can only be cut with those stones or diamonds.
Right, exactly.
I know.
And that's the first time I became aware of actual physical evidence
that cannot be explained by modern science or academia.
And they don't really entertain the conversation
when people try to talk about it
or people try to confront them about it.
Yeah, because it goes against the standard quote,
the theory or the theme that they've already set up
and this the way we want to have it,
this way we want to say it because if we change it now,
it's going to create so many questions
and it's going to also destroy a lot of careers.
Yeah, that's the problem with it, right?
There's a lot that's tied up when it comes to money,
especially when it comes to like governments that rely like in Egypt.
I know that a huge part of their revenue stream is tourism.
And that relies on telling the story of the ancient Egyptians.
How many times have you been to Egypt?
Four times.
Four times.
Yeah, I just took a tour of there, 70 people.
I just got back.
Wow.
Yeah, so I had the largest tour ever taken through those sites.
We had VIP access.
I was the tour guide.
I'm the speaker.
They gave us access.
They cleared Giza out.
Everybody out, forbidden knowledge is here.
We had private access to the Grand Gallery of the Pyramid.
We're in there meditating.
We're going underneath the Pyramid, going in shafts,
going into the Queen's Chamber.
Private access to the Great Sphinx military guards to go down there
and actually got to some of the underground shafts that exist,
that the Sphinx that people don't even know exist.
They're there.
I've seen photos.
It's pretty wild.
Wild stuff, man.
Why they go way down.
You can't even see the bottom.
And then we'll be able to stand in the middle of the Sphinx
as Paul's in touch to Dreamstella.
You know, it's pretty cool.
So I took my whole, the whole crew.
Everybody who came, we took them down there.
They had a great time and took them out into the desert to Dendera
into hidden crypts that were never opened before.
I took them to a temple of Isis on the property of Dendera,
which has been locked for 30 years.
And the temple priest gave me the key to open it and let my people in.
And we saw technology on the wall,
jet pillars with cable, electrical cables connected to what looked like light bulbs
and pristine condition.
Not the ones underneath the underground crypt at Dendera,
but that everybody knows on TV,
but the ones that nobody's ever seen before, they're in there.
So we had a great, great trip and we,
I showed him evidence of technology all over the place,
including the temple of Seti at Avedos with the helicopter, the tank,
you know, the airplane and the, and it looks like a submarine in the hieroglyphs.
And it just bloated, blew everybody away.
Yeah, Austin, maybe you can pull up some of the uncharted X photos
of some of the, some of the stones that are out there.
But I mean, he was talking about in some of these pyramids,
I think he was talking about one of the main ones was the Sakura.
Sakura, yes.
Sakura, yeah.
And there's like these eight to 10 ton granite boxes that are in there
that are like perfectly symmetrical and smooth.
Incredible.
Incredible.
One of the things that he said that really stood out to him was on these giant granite boxes
that are, that looked like they are created by some sort of super advanced technology.
The hieroglyphs look like it was kindergartners that just found this
and just started carving stuff into it because it looks like stone chisels
were used to carve these hieroglyphs.
But it's not the same way of, it's not the same technology.
Somebody found it much later and started playing around with it,
which happens a lot of, a lot of the stuff in Egypt
in the dynastic era was already there when the dynastic,
in that dynastic era started.
So a lot of the things that are really super megalithic and really old were there.
They inherited those things.
If you go to Mexico, where the Teotihuacan complex is located,
which is a mirror of the Giza plateau with the three pyramids lining with Orion,
the pyramid of sun, pyramid of moon and so forth.
Though that's, those structures were there before the Mayans got there.
And even the Mexicans will tell you that the Mayans inherited what was art.
They, they built nothing.
They even teach that in the university.
They built nothing.
Matter of fact, the Mayans didn't know who built that stuff.
So they named them Teotihuacan.
That's where the name came from.
But when you go to the ancient texts, you find out who built it.
Thothi Atlantean, who ruled over the land of Cam, ancient Egypt,
he left because he was battling with his brother, Marduk, in the Bible.
But Marduk is also known to the Egyptians as Amun Ra.
This is why people say amen at the end of every prayer.
He's the one who said, at the end of every thing, giving thanks, you say my name.
That's where amen comes from.
He left because of battling with his brother and he went to Mesoamerica and he took all mixed with him.
And they kickstarted and built the Teotihuacan civilization.
So the evidence is all there.
It's all in tablets.
So what was his name?
What the Atlantean?
Thothi, Teotihuacan, Thoth.
Some people say Toth or Thoth.
I call him Thoth.
In Sumerian, he's known as Niggazita.
In the Mexico or the Mesoamerican area, like Teotihuacan and Chitzenitsa,
he's known as Cucacan, Lord Pacal, Pericocha.
He's a flying serpent, all these different names.
Just like in Greek, Greece, he's known as Hermes.
In Rome, he's known as Mercury, Odin.
If you go to the Library of Congress, there's two gigantic doors.
And they have Thoth, the Atlantean on one side, and Odin on the other.
They know who this guy is.
And how many years ago was he, apparently, according to the texts?
Oh, 54,000 BC is when he was ruling over the land of Kim.
Which is how many years ago from today?
Oh, that's a long time, man.
We're talking about 56,000 years ago.
Yeah, 56,000.
56,000.
In his text, in his tablets, he says he went to the land of Kim
to re-kickstart civilization after the flood,
meaning it was already at a high level before the flood.
Or wherever disaster happened, the temple was coming up out of the mud
and he went and rebuilt.
Then he said, I built the Great Pyramid, pattern after Earth's force.
So he takes claim to building the Great Pyramid.
It wasn't Khufu.
Right.
It wasn't Khufu.
Yeah, it definitely was not the dynastic Egyptians that built that.
They inherited it.
Why don't you think that modern academia and people in the quote-unquote Egyptologists,
why don't they entertain any of these conversations?
It's just now starting to be entertained by Egyptologists.
When I go to Egypt, I'm famous.
The Egyptologists flock to me.
Really?
They ask for autograph.
They take photos with me.
The photos are all online.
I'm like, everywhere I go in Egypt, I'm famous.
Because I'm saying the things that they want to say.
We did a live podcast on the Nile and the Egyptologists was there.
And she said, we love Billy because he's saying the things that we can't say we'll lose our jobs.
And we believe everything he's saying.
We know this for a fact.
We grew up learning about this thing, the real truth about our history,
but we can't speak it to the general population or we're in big trouble.
And so that's what they love me there.
But they've already adopted it.
The Egyptologists, the homegrown ones, have already adopted this information.
The foreign ones have it.
But the big problem with this information
is that it's detrimental to the system and the status quo.
It literally would break down religious systems overnight.
You're talking about a multi-trillion dollar system
that generates a lot of money for a lot of people.
And those religious systems donate a lot of money to polytricks.
Polytricks, yeah.
And I'm talking about millions of dollars a year.
All right.
And so all of a sudden that goes away.
A religious system collapse globally
would definitely affect the global economy almost overnight.
But that will go away because people realize
the information that they have been brought up learning
is actually severely inaccurate.
And that the information is based on plagiarized tablets.
And the real stories are in the tablets.
A full, unedited, undocked human.
Well, I'm going to change these words around here and there.
You know, that's not done in the tablets.
So tablets, what it says, when you come to the Bible,
all of a sudden you get to a lot of texts
like Jesus saying honor your slave master as you would honor me.
Do you think that just guy would really say something like that?
If he's all this light and he's a light being
and he's all about love and salvation.
And then he's telling you now, no, you better obey that slave master.
Come on.
That's not, that's somebody, you know, let me write this in there
because it's going to benefit us when you write this in.
We can tell the slaves, hey, you see what Jesus said?
You better listen to Jesus.
So this is a lot of twisting and turning.
The Bible is a remix is what it really is.
Yeah.
And so all of a sudden you bring this real information.
All this stuff collapses overnight.
We're talking about a multi-trillion dollar control system gone like that.
Yeah.
I mean, do you think it's sort of similar to what happened
when the dynastic Egyptians found these structures and carved new
pharaohs faces in them and changed the name?
Right.
Same thing.
If we sat in here, if we say, hey, we had 10 more people in this room
and we sat in a circle and I whispered something into one person's ear and said,
take it around the entire when it gets back to my other ear.
Right.
The story ain't going to be exactly the same.
It'll be close.
Classic telephone game.
Right.
Wow, man.
Wow.
That is fascinating.
That's why I love the tablets because I know I'm not saying they're 100% accurate,
but they're as close as I can possibly get.
I'm taking all these other steps in between that have happened
between Islam and Christianity and Buddhism and all these other religions
that have taken from the same tablets.
And now I'm getting as close as possible to the original source as I possibly can.
So I'm reducing some of the error effect there.
Yeah.
What do you think would happen if people became aware or if people suddenly realized,
like hypothetically, one of these UFOs landed on the quote-unquote White House law,
like they say, what would happen to society?
Would it really fall apart?
What would be the implications of something like this happening?
I wonder.
I think at this point now, they've conditioned us so much with movies and stuff like that.
There's two ways it can go.
One way it can go, finally, where you guys been.
We need some help here.
The other way it can go is people become worshipers right away.
Because we have this gene in us, this worship gene,
which was inserted into the human genome.
We know this now because scientists have actually found the worship gene.
You can turn it on and they can turn it actually off.
What?
Yes. This is, we have a worship gene.
Worship gene.
That's right.
And so it makes us want to worship something outside of ourselves,
when in true reality, we should find the power inside.
And this was inserted by the Anunnaki.
This is my opinion.
That's my hypothesis, I should say, on this one.
But this gene has been found, but it's happened around 200,000 years ago.
Now, something else happened around that same time.
Chromosome number two in the human body was pulled out, fused together,
and then two telomere caps are put on each end.
Telomere caps have our genetic material that allow us ourselves to replicate.
It has the biological buffer material in it.
Now, when the buffer material runs out,
that's when your body starts the death process.
Now, around 200,000 years ago is when the tablets say this occurred
at the Tower of Babel Incident,
which made it into the modern day Bible, the Tower of Babel Incident,
where in the Bible it's God who comes back Yeshua.
I mean, Yahweh comes back and he sees the people building a tower into the heavens
and he gets pissed off and he destroys the tower.
And he said, that's it, man's years will be 120.
They'll never live more than that.
And I'm going to confuse their languages and separate them
and spread them out all over the planet so they can't talk to each other.
But in the Sumerian tablets, it was actually in Lil, who's Yahweh in the Bible.
He comes back and sees us and he goes, oh man, these people are getting too smart.
They're going to realize they don't need us to rule over them.
So he confused your language, broke everybody up, made different languages.
There's only one language at the time.
Then the years will be 120, shortened to lifespan.
Before then, people were living for hundreds of years.
Now the maximum lifespan that they found out at Harvard at a human being could live,
on average, would be 120 if it wasn't for the poison and everything else going on,
you know, toxicity in the foods and atmosphere.
And they discovered they started experimenting with mice
and they were able to stop the degradation of the telomeres
and got the mice to live three times their normal lifespan.
All this information would be mind-blowing information to come out
if this truth was really told about our ancient past and what really happened.
People would realize we've been altered, genetically modified.
Our lifespans have been shortened so that we can be subjugated and ruled over.
We never live long enough to really figure out what's going on.
But by the time we figure it out, we're gone and another generation starts over from zero again.
And so we're at this precipice now.
We need to be able to pass this information on from generation to generation
and teach them the real true ancient history so that we can break this cycle that we're in
of this of this being a boot on our neck and being ruled over by a small handful of people.
Less than 100 people on this planet control 8 billion people.
Less than 100 people run the lives of 8 billion people worldwide.
They know what you smell, eat, taste, touch, hear, think,
make control of everything you do, where you can go, where you can't go.
And so for us to take back control of this planet,
we need to know this ancient information.
We need to know what happened in the past so we can make a better future
because the past is prologue.
We can't take control of this planet until it happens.
And so the answer to your question is this.
Once people understand this fundamentally,
the true reality is we'll take back control of our planet.
These beings, they don't land and walk around.
They're waiting for us to grow up.
I think that the ones that had subjugated us have been long gone
after a last pyramid war that happened about 5000 years ago.
And the ones that are looking at us now that we see these UFOs,
UFOs, UFOs flying around, not all of them are there, some of them are ours.
But the ones that are from other places, they're watching us and they're looking
and they're saying, you know what, they're still crawling.
They're not ready for us yet.
When they learn how to walk, when these 8 billion people,
I'm sorry, when these 8 billion take back control of their planet
and stop allowing less than 100 people to put a boot on their neck
and divide them and all these divide and conquer tactics,
they don't love one another, they don't respect one another,
they don't respect even themselves.
When they grow up past that level, they almost show up.
Because then back in the ancient times, they would show up.
People were so, the IQ wasn't there yet.
We were just country gatherers living around
and we didn't even have a weapon to fire back at them.
Now, somebody shows up, everybody wants to try to take it out of the sky,
we want to get this technology, we want to co-opt it,
we want to reverse engineer it, we want to weaponize it.
Territorial apps with thermonuclear weapons.
Scary, you know, that's another thing real quick before we go on.
They look at our planet and they go, okay,
they know how to split the atom.
Interesting.
Oh, they've got weapons.
Let me check out the codes on these weapons.
We know this because UFOs have showed up at military bases
and deactivated nukes in broad daylight,
as testified before Congress by actual military officers
and nuclear physicists.
But they say, okay, well, they've got all these nukes
aimed at their own planet.
While they're still on the planet, we know escape hatch.
So right there, it tells you, they're saying, you know what?
God, it's so dumb, isn't it?
It's really bad.
So they're saying, you know, we're going to just keep looking.
You know, we have to just monitor and look at the situation
and just keep seeing how long we'll be before they wake up.
That's what I think is happening.
So that's why they don't land on the front yard.
Well, you know what?
The crazy thing is, is they hang out on the fringe of being observable.
They obviously have the ability to make themselves completely invisible.
But they're choosing not to.
Right, right.
Like if you look at the incidents with the fighter pilots
witnessing them talking about, there's multiple fighter pilots,
Brian Graves and David Fraver, talking about their reporting,
flying by these objects, seeing them with their own eyes,
additionally to seeing them on radars.
And we're obviously very aware of it, even like the New York Times
is talking about it.
So they're making themselves visible to the extent that we can see,
holy shit, these things are so much more advanced than we are.
Right.
But they're not actually like landing and saying, aha, here we are.
Nice to meet you.
They're not saying hello.
Yeah, I think there's a sort of a prime directive that they have,
just based on the observation of what's been going on all this time
with all this sound of like, we're here, but we're not here.
We're hiding in different spectrums of colors,
or we might be a cloud.
We might not be the cloud, you know.
And it looks like a prime directive as if they have some type of a base law
that we don't understand or know about,
where they're not fully engaging us in a way that like you're talking about.
Because we know when we went to the Bikini at all in the,
I think this was the late 40s, early 50s,
and started testing weapons, nuclear weapons.
We took all those islanders and we moved them.
And these people had never seen airplanes or other people before.
Forget seeing airplanes.
They'd never seen anybody but themselves, right?
And all of a sudden they created a cargo cult.
They took reeds and sticks out of the bushes and created airplanes out of them,
and they worshiped the planes.
They tattooed USA on their chest.
You got black guys walking around in the bush with USA on their painted on their chest.
They make fake guns out of sticks that look like, you know, AK-47s and so forth,
automatic weapons.
And then they sit down on these man-made runways that they've dug out,
and they look at the sky for hours,
waiting for the sky gods to bring them back more cans of spam.
And I think the same thing would happen if a lot of these people,
beings would just engage underdeveloped cultures,
that, you know, we're not ready for certain levels of understanding and technology
yet in certain ways.
You know, you still got people running around,
you know, trying to steal stuff at the checkout at, you know, at Walmart.
It's just a certain level of IQ and maybe understanding and unconditional love
that we need to have for ourselves and the planet,
maybe before they just fully engage.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's so many problems there, right, with humanity.
Like, there's so much desperation on Earth in different parts of the world
that breed all these, you know, all these things, like crime and corruption and death
and all the stuff.
But I mean, going back to the UFO conversation,
I don't know if you've ever heard of Dr. Robin Hansen,
but he talks about this idea, this concept of grabby aliens.
And he talks about if there are, if there is another alien civilization,
there's two options that it would choose if it was, you know,
say millions of years ahead of us, it would become a grabby,
a grabby civilization, meaning it would do what us humans do, expand, control,
as much as we possibly can out into the universe and into multiple star systems.
Or they would come to the conclusion that
if we want to let these explorers go out and colonize other stars,
we have to, we'll be essentially letting go or letting go of control of them.
And they can do whatever they want.
They could come back and take us over.
We have no control.
So they would either choose that to let them go,
or they would choose to control everybody or keep everybody on the planet
and have like a one world government and govern the whole entire world
and somehow have some sort of security guards,
quote unquote security guards there to make sure no one escapes the planet
or no one, if there are explorers that go out,
have fail safes in place to make sure they don't colonize or become grabby.
And what his idea of what these,
or one of his theories to what these modern day UFOs could be,
is it could be one of these other civilizations
that are just here to make sure we don't become quote unquote grabby,
or we don't expand beyond our solar system, something around that.
I believe that's pretty accurate.
I wrote the, you know, I did a documentary,
The Black Knight Satellite, Beyond the Signal.
It just aired.
We had a big movie premiere aired in some theaters, actually.
And now it's on my TV network, Forbidden Knowledge TV.
And it's our number one documentary right now.
It's actually up for three film awards right now.
Oh, wow.
And there's this object orbiting Earth that is estimated to be there for 13,000 years.
And how we get this number is the NSA analyzes a signal from it.
A couple of astrophysicists analyze the signal
and some ham radio operators back in the 50s also got the same signal
all independent came up with the same translation decoding of the signal
that it was saying it was from the Epsilon-Bottis constellation.
Now, I heard about this about 10 years ago,
and I got really, really interested in the story.
And I realized it was even deeper than that,
that the article about this came out in Time Magazine
by one of the astronomers that was researching this thing and decoding the signal.
And I said Time Magazine picked this up in 1960.
Then I saw some reports of it following Sputnik
when Russian sent Sputnik to orbit the moon and come back.
And I said, this thing has course correction.
Then they discovered that it was in a polar orbit.
It had changed course and went into a polar orbit,
something we couldn't do until just recent times.
We didn't even know how to get a polar orbit orbiting from pole to pole.
In order to create a lot of the megalithic structures
that you've seen, like the pyramid complexes and everything else,
you need a polar orbit.
How come we haven't been able to have a polar...
You're saying something orbiting the Earth from an up and down vertical.
Yeah, from pole to pole. So this is the Earth.
Instead of going around the equator, it's going the other way, it's going...
We just got that.
Maybe I think we ended up getting it official like in the late 1980s.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
But this thing has been orbiting in a polar orbit from the 1950s.
Everybody was looking up at the sky and tracking things in the sky
as we were trying to go into space race against Russia.
And especially when Sputnik launched in 1960,
everybody was looking up to the sky.
All of everybody was scanning the sky.
We had some mercury stuff going on.
And the Black Knight satellite, the object itself is interesting
because Epsilon-Botus comes up individually several times.
So I looked into Epsilon-Botus and I'm like,
well, let me research this place.
Found out there's something called a void there.
This void is called a Botus void.
It's the largest known void in the universe.
It's not even dust in this area going on for about 250 million light years
or some crazy spanning number like that.
And so I saw Michio Kaku, the famous theoretical physicist, talking about it.
And he said that in that void, it looks like lights being bent around that area.
And he says that we think that it's a potentially,
it could be a cloaked advanced civilization.
And I was like, that's pretty interesting
because the Black Knight is giving up this location.
Now you're saying it might be a cloaked advanced civilization
based on theoretical physicist hypothesis.
So I looked into it a little bit deeper
and discovered that Botus is owned by Enlil from the ancient Sumerian tablets.
These beings own planets and moons and some even owned constellations.
So I'm like, wow.
So there's, in these tablets, it says there's a guy named Botus who owns-
Enlil owns Botus.
Oh, Enlil owns this Botus void.
And Enlil was the ruler of the earth at that time.
And guess what Enlil had in his, in the tablets?
He had the all-seeing eye, the eye of Sauron,
which has made it into the Lord of Rings.
He had the all-seeing eye.
They copied that from the tablets.
The Lord of the Rings copied it from the tablets.
So he can see, now listen to this.
He can see population densities on the planet.
He can see who had crops, who didn't have crops.
He can see weather patterns all over the earth.
You can only do that with a polar orbiting satellite.
Because as the earth spins on its axis, the satellite's orbiting this way.
And so as the earth is, and as, so as the satellites orbiting this way,
is taking swaths, I'm sorry, swaths of data.
Right, right.
And it's scanning topography, it's scanning patterns,
it's scanning everything you need, right?
For a very much of pressures and all that kind of stuff,
you can see scanning densities, you know,
you can scan for population densities.
All that can come from one satellite orbiting the planet in a polar orbit.
He had that.
He knew what was going on.
And he would, unfortunately, he was a pretty evil dude.
If humans were getting too outrageous in one area overpopulating an area,
he would just have them killed.
He would just, this is in the tablets,
just kill them, kill 100,000, kill 200,000.
He would dry their crops out.
He would spray stuff on their crops and to dry them out
so they can starve to death, all this kind of crazy stuff.
This guy was just ruthless.
He saw us just as animals.
He didn't see us as real sentient beings.
With this guy owned boaters.
So I said, wait a minute.
So the more I dug into it, I realized that the black night satellite,
just object that is still orbiting our planet right now,
NASA, it's on NASA servers, they call it space junk.
Space junk.
Yeah, they call it space junk.
They don't know what it is.
It's been there.
The STS-88 mission did a fly by and caught a great HD image of this thing.
It's about estimated 15 tons.
It's in our orbit.
Oh yeah, it's in our orbit.
So it's not far out.
It's not outer space.
No, no, it's at Lagrange 4, Lagrange 0.4, I believe.
Okay.
And it's orbiting out there and it's still there.
They won't mess with it because it makes no sense to mess with it.
You don't know what type of self-defense system
or mechanism this thing may have.
But the reason why I think it's important,
based on what you were telling me about the gentleman,
is because I believe that this thing is watching us.
That's what the whole documentary is about.
And I have 20 incredible researchers in the document,
including quantum physicists in the documentary
with me and astrophysicists.
I think it's watching us.
And I believe that it's using quantum entanglement
to transmit everything in real time,
what's going on on Earth, back to home base at Boatess.
And that this could be the grabby civilization
that you're talking about that is watching and making sure
we don't get too crazy because they don't want us to be a threat.
They talked about us becoming a threat
in the Sumerian tablets.
In the myth of Adapa, they talked about it.
They talked about it in the Atrahasis Epic.
They talked about it in the Epic of Gilgamesh.
All these tablets, they talk about us potentially rising up
and even superseding them and making sure
that we never found out that we don't need them.
This is an ancient tablets.
And now finding out that the constellation of Boatess
is attributed to Enlil.
And this thing gives off the signal to Boatess.
Even in the NSA document, which is read in my documentary,
it all comes together like, wow, what is going on here?
So I think your guys' theory about grabby civilization,
I believe it.
I believe it 100%.
Yeah, it's a fascinating concept and it makes a lot of sense.
Another weird thing is, which I find fascinating,
is the trans-medium aspect of these UFOs,
being in the water and going in and under the water,
it makes a lot of sense because the oceans are one of the things
that we have explored very little of.
Yes, absolutely.
You look at Christopher Columbus in his actual captain's log.
He documents, now think about this,
you're talking about the 1400s, there's no light pollution.
Something comes up out of the ocean, a bright light,
a gigantic bright light comes up out of the ocean
and goes off into space.
It's documented in his captain's log.
You only write down things in the captain's log
that are important.
Right, right.
And that's in there.
So something came, yes, an anomaly.
What is coming up with this?
No light bulbs back then.
So what is it that came out of the ocean by the ship
that can light up the sky?
Yeah, that's pretty fucking crazy.
What I heard you mentioned before,
I wanted to talk about this,
but I've heard you talk about in the tablets,
there's a different depiction of Adam and Eve,
how they were created and how that relates
to the Anunnaki specifically.
Can you explain specifically how that was described
in the tablets?
So in the tablets, they don't actually make a human being
from dirt and dust like it says in the Bible.
Like they didn't create no dirt
and just make a human being like magic.
What they did was,
there was an existing hominid already on this planet.
So the EGT was getting ready to go to war.
There was going to be a coup against the kings of earth.
So they came from Mars to earth.
The gods, they fell from heaven.
Not really, they were the angels.
Because they were a lower class than the level
of Enki and Enlil.
They didn't call them gods, they were like angels.
They fell from heaven to earth.
They came from Mars down to earth to go to war.
In the Atrahasis, they encircled the camp in Africa
of Enlil and Enki and Anu, who was their father.
And they get ready to go to battle
because they're working conditions are harsh.
They've been working for 250,000 years on their own.
They called the years in shards.
So it was a lower number, but each one shards 3600 years.
So what you added up is 250,000 years.
No women was one of the biggest complaints.
And the biggest complaint was no women.
And they felt like they were becoming slaves,
even though they were volunteers for this breakaway civilization.
And so the war almost happened.
But then Enki, who's and little brother says,
I have an idea.
There's an existing being here.
They're talking about our cousin, not homo sapiens.
Something else was here already, our cousins.
We can add our essence to it and get it to do our labor,
to do your labor.
And an agreement was made.
This is in the Enumilish and a totally separate tablet
called the Atrahasis Epic.
Two separate tablets saying the same exact thing,
which is interesting because it correlates the story.
It cooperates the story.
And so this was done.
And so what they did was they first started
with taking genetic material and then making these clones.
But the problem with the clones was
they couldn't reproduce on their own.
You know, if you take a horse and a donkey,
and you get a mule and a mule can't mate with anything.
See what I'm saying?
So they had added their essence to us.
We were then a mule.
We weren't able to mate.
They had to keep trying to recreate more and more of us
the hard way.
Eventually, and they were doing this in a place called,
it was in South Africa called Adams Calendar in Africa,
which they discovered recently
where the first 200,000-year-old gold mines work.
They were putting us to work right away, mining gold.
But anyway, so from there, they said,
okay, these clones are here,
but it's not working out properly.
And that's when in her sag, aka Isis,
they said, I'm going to take one of the terms.
She took an egg out of a hominid,
clean out some of the genetic material,
added their essence to it.
In other words, genetically modified the egg in some way.
This is what we call a modern scientific terms
making a zygote.
And in vitro fertilization, in her own womb,
10 months later gave birth to Adamu,
which means first man.
And the famous cylinder scrollers in the British Museum
of her holding up the baby saying,
my hands have created it, the Adamu.
And that was Adam.
And then after that, there was this tablet
that came out called the Myth of Adapa,
which is also Adamu in a different way.
But it talks about the fact that we are created in a way
where Enki, for whatever reason,
it pissed his brother off.
He added something a little extra to us
that he wasn't supposed to do.
He gave us the capability of having in the future
of superseding the Anunnaki themselves.
And it made the Anunnaki relatives of his jealous of us
and angry with us because he had created something
that even long term could be better than them.
Extra strands of DNA and all this other stuff
that he incorporated into our genome
that would allow us eventually one day to rise even above.
And nobody knew why he did it,
but it got him into a battle against his own brother.
This is all in ancient tablets.
Wow.
You know, one of the craziest things to me
is that if these beings were so much more advanced
than we are now, why would they have emotions
like jealousy and anger and all these primal sort of emotions?
I mean, these sort of things with our species
are like the worst thing.
They're the reason we go to war and kill each other
and people starve.
Yeah, and that's a great question.
So when you read the beginning of how they started out,
it appears that there was a galactic war millions of years ago
in the Pleiadian star system.
Planets were being destroyed.
They had weapons called the Brahamanda weapon,
which would destroy any man on three worlds.
They had these tablets of destiny,
which whoever had control can destroy people's planets and moons.
Debris, imagine in this solar system,
debris going everywhere and hitting planets,
destroying civilizations.
We would flee if we could.
People started fleeing these star systems around the Pleiades
millions of years ago, creating breakaway civilizations
in other parts of the galaxy, different sector all together.
The Anunnaki people, these Atlantean people,
they went and started off in another place.
They had risen to a high level there.
They had done away with the weapons of,
then this is interesting, weapons of mass destruction.
They had a weapon called a WMD.
Wow.
Yes.
And they had done away with them.
They were forsaken.
But when a small group of these people broke away
and came to kickstart a civilization here on earth,
they stole some of the WMDs and brought them with them.
This is an ancient tablets.
They hid them in a mountain and didn't and swore never to use them.
But when they got here and they started doing what they were doing,
and they started breaking all their own rules,
they began to realize there's nobody here to guard us.
There's nobody here to stop us from doing this.
And they said the creator of all is going to get us for this.
They even believed somebody was higher than them.
They realized that they were acting like the Wild Wild West here.
And they started off very strict,
and then they gradually, with nobody overseeing them really,
they started going back primal.
In other words, the thoughts of war and this and agreed,
and all that kept crept back in.
And eventually, somebody went and got the weapons,
and they started fighting each other with the weapons.
So it was this gradual process over 100,000 years or so
between them coming in with a very strict set of rules
and of engagement and everything else,
and ideology until it just collapsing over time.
And realizing, who's going to stop us?
Who's going to tell me I can't do this?
Nobody's going to come here and stop me from doing it.
There's no law here.
And then they just went rush out.
They went crazy.
Backwards, kind of.
Yes, they went backward.
They backslid hard.
But it took a couple hundred thousand years
before they fully backslid.
Wow.
It's like raising a kid,
and then all of a sudden you're a teenager.
Now your mom says, OK, you can go out tonight,
and you go out, and you go, wow, I'm out.
You know what?
Well, no, my mom ain't here.
I could do this.
Nobody's going to tell me to stop doing it.
So it's kind of like a teenager that gets left out there
and with no guidance.
And that's what happened.
When you create all the content you create,
the documentaries, the videos, and produce all these movies
and stuff, do you have run into trouble
when you try to recruit mainstream scientists
or cosmetologists or people?
I've tried to recruit James Webb
to do the Black Night Satellite.
And initially he said yes,
and then he looked a little bit deeper
into what I was talking about.
He ran away quick.
And then I had another astrophysicist
from the university at Nova in Davey, Florida.
And initially he was in,
and then he dug a little deeper,
and he said, oh, no, no, no.
You know, so I've had situations like that.
Fortunately, I've gotten on the travel channel,
the history channel, discovery channel,
the science channel, Gaia TV.
Now I'm on my own TV network.
And so I've got so much popularity
talking about these types of topics, these fringe topics.
And so now, and a lot of it
have been done in a very professional way.
You know, now I'm coming up,
I'm going to be on Ancient Aliens TV series,
which is like the longest running series
on history channel right now.
And so it's added a little bit more credibility.
The fact that more people are opening up
and talking about it, and it's on mainstream TV,
it's giving people a reason to ask questions
and talk about it versus it being
some hidden conspiracy thing.
And so it's become a little bit easier.
When I did The Black Knight,
I got probably about five or six notes,
maybe seven, actually seven notes.
And then, but the rest of the other people,
they were eager to come on board
and share the knowledge and, you know,
participate in the documentary,
and many others that I'm working on also.
Yeah, they get a lot of backlash from people
and the other people in their universities
and their colleagues
when they even entertain discussions like this.
Yes, yeah.
They think they're going to lose their funding,
their grant money.
It's all about the money.
And it's never about the truth of what really happened.
It's all about, well, if we do this,
they may pull the funding and, you know,
it's all about how can I pay my bills, you know?
Yeah, I remember even Avi Loeb,
the guy who discovered the Amua Mua,
who talks about this a lot.
He had a lot of people who were very angry with him.
And, you know, a lot of it is also just jealousy
because there's so many people that dedicate their lives
to studying these things and they're in the universities.
And then one guy decides to just step outside the line
a little bit, you know?
And then they get all this attention.
The guy's got a book, a really super popular book.
He's all over the internet.
Yeah, he's going to be on my network soon.
Have you ever talked to him?
Not yet. No, my producer's been talking.
What do you think about that Amua Mua object that he found?
I think Amua Mua is an amazing artifact anomaly.
I don't think it's a rock or a stone
or any type of comet or asteroid.
I think it's an actual remnant of an ancient galactic war
that existed.
To me, it ties into the ancient war theory that existed.
There was another war that happened here
that extended from Earth to the Moon and then even to Mars.
That Amua Amua, to me, is a relic of an ancient war.
It even had, to me, might be still operational.
It kind of used the Sun as a gravitational assist
and shot itself out deeper into deep galactic space,
into galactic space.
And the shape of it, to me, and everything else,
to me, it spells artificially made, artificially constructed.
I remember a comet 67P.
I took images of that comet.
Which one was that?
That was the one we sent a mission to, to land on it,
and we landed on it about five or six years ago.
Find this one, 67P, comet 67P.
And what's interesting, there were some openings on the comet,
or there are some openings on the comet.
And some of the images, now, the images were coming
in real time every single day from the satellite
that is orbiting it, and actually a lander went to the surface.
That's it there.
And what's interesting is, on some days,
the openings looked like something was in them.
Not anything we can recognize, but we don't know
how an opening can close, and how an opening can be opened again,
and how it can be blocked by something,
and how it can be opened again.
So just, I think there's a lot of stuff out there
we just can't really explain.
There's a lot more going on that we know,
and there's a reason why they went to this comet
and rendezvous with this, because this thing,
really, to me, it had something miraculous going on,
and they wanted to take a closer look.
I think that's why they spent the money
and the resources to go to this comet.
Was this comet part of the torrid meteor stream, or?
No, it wasn't.
It's just another one of these objects
that seems to just be floating around on its own,
kind of a rogue comet, and we rendezvoused with it,
and it's got weird things going on,
weird gravitational fields that shouldn't exist.
They landed something called the Filet Lander on it,
and they misjudged the gravity,
because based on their calculations,
it has a certain gravity, and it didn't have it.
Look at that, Austin, blow up that picture
where it says the comet in relationship to Los Angeles.
Click, no, yeah, right there.
Right there, yeah, that's it, yeah.
Holy shit.
It's a big one.
That's a big one.
That thing is enormous.
Yeah.
I think there's one below it of it, next to it.
Okay, there you go, yeah.
If that hit Earth, we'd be done.
We'd be finished.
Oh, my God.
There's another comet out there called Apophis.
Apophis is the size of Texas,
and it came by about 10 years ago,
and then it came by one more time,
and it hit a gravitational keyhole on the last swing
by right between Earth and the moon.
Nobody, they didn't say anything about it until it left.
It came closer than the moon?
Yeah, and then it hit a gravitational keyhole.
Now, what's interesting about it?
What is a gravitational keyhole?
Well, when you're on an orbital mechanics,
if you hit a gravitational keyhole,
that means on the next approach,
that same object where it is in space,
when you're next approach to that object,
you potentially can hit it.
So you're looking at 2036 or something like that,
we could potentially have a collision with Apophis,
which is why Obama, when he was in office,
he knew about this.
They briefed him on this.
Apophis?
Apophis.
Okay.
He set a mission to start landing on asteroids
and learning how to shift their orbits,
because something like that, you can't blow it up.
If you blow it up, it'll destroy the planet
even faster, because it'll be giant chunks
hitting the planet all over the place,
versus just one impact.
But you have to learn how to shift the orbit
by landing something on it and turning on
some type of a rocket propellant
to shift it out of its orbit,
to take it into a different Lagrange point
so it doesn't hit the planet.
And so that's what they just actually successfully did that.
I think it was actually a few months ago.
Really?
We were on the boat.
The mission was started when Obama was in office,
they just landed.
No way.
That's how long it took to get to it.
It was an executive order he signed to make this happen.
To make sure that we knew how to move
comets out of the way from hitting our planet.
And we actually just did it.
And so they're hoping that they can rendezvous
with this apophis if it's going to be on an approach
that's going to be a collision course
so they can maneuver it out of the way.
How big was the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs?
Do you know?
I don't know.
Who knows?
When you're dealing with that kind of speed and impact.
Well, the crazy thing too is a lot of them
blow up in the sky, like Tunguska.
That thing exploded, I think, five miles in the sky
and just created like a shotgun blast.
Flatten everything for miles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Crazy stuff.
So these things are these, you know,
there's just so much stuff out there.
There's another object that orbits our earth
with the moon, with the moon.
So we actually have two moons.
There's another object that's flipping around out there
in its own orbit around earth.
It's not as big as the moon, but it's our second moon.
Really?
Yeah, it's been there for, you know, since forever.
And it's on this weird orbit around earth.
It orbits earth, along with our moon orbiting earth.
You know, there's a lot of people have some very
strange theories about the moon.
What do you think about the moon?
Well, I can only go by data points,
because you know, I'm a data point guy.
If you go to usgs.gov and download the satellite
radar imagery of the moon, anyone can do this.
Pull it into your computer.
Radar, ground penetrating radar is going to let you see
what's 30 meters beneath the surface.
And what you see is what looks like structures
beneath the surface of the moon.
With the naked eye, no editing, no photoshopping,
just looking at it.
There's videos on YouTube.
You can pull them up all day long.
You can find videos about the moon.
There's one guy, Mars Anomalies, Chris Moroney.
He was actually in my documentary.
He's one of the top anomaly hunters in the world.
He did a great video with the official images
and all the source links on the substructures
that appear to be in the ground penetrating
radar images of the moon.
And as you know, the moon rang like a bell
when they crashed the lander into it.
Right.
And so, in my opinion, it's hollow.
Now, I have something else.
In another documentary I was in about the moon,
but I think it was 2013, there is a...
We got the Freedom of Information Act, the FOIA,
on the black box for the Apollo 11.
Now, we have the audio and we have the redacted,
printed document.
And in the audio, which we play in the documentary,
one of the astronauts was looking down
as they're going across the moon, looking for a landing site.
And he says, look at those convex domes down there.
And then Neil goes,
I bet the people down there never get out.
And that's on the black box audio.
And it even made it into the redacted document.
They didn't redact that statement.
It's still on the redacted official black box written statement
from the Apollo 11.
Really?
Yeah.
I bet the people down there never get out.
Pretty interesting.
And how did you find this?
That's now available to the public, a FOIA,
Freedom of Information Act.
Oh, really?
It's now available to everyone.
Anyone can download it now, the Apollo 11 black box audio.
And then we also have the declassified documents
from the Clementine mission,
which was a low lunar orbiting satellite
that the military sent up to the moon,
very close to the surface.
When I saw the name Clementine,
I knew right away, I said, oh my God,
this thing is not coming back.
I bet I found out it never came back.
And at the end, I found out it never came back.
But it transmitted a lot of data
and images that show anomalies on the dark side of the moon,
on the back side of the moon.
That's primarily what they were after.
Clementine, because, oh my darling Clementine,
you were lost and gone forever.
That's an old country song.
So I knew that song.
I knew right away when they named the Clementine.
They never planned for it to come back.
They claimed it crashed,
but I knew that was part of the plan to leave it there.
But it transmitted some amazing footage
that's available actually online.
Anyone can download an HD resolution,
unophyscated of things that don't belong
on the backside of the moon.
So just a lot of crazy stuff that just goes on.
Yeah, it is.
The craziest thing too,
is that we can't freaking get back to the moon.
It's been 50 years since we've been to the moon,
and we can't seem to get, I think right now,
I don't know, did the Artemis mission ever happen?
I know it's, they postponed it like three or four times already.
Yeah, there's so many postponings about it.
And I don't know if it's,
now I know if we do have that,
they've left that dish up there
in one of the Apollo 14 or 15 missions.
And every single day,
they transmit a packet of data from Earth to that dish
and buy laser every single day.
What are they transmitting to that dish,
and why are they transmitting to their dish?
Yeah, that's an interesting thing
that Randall told me about too.
He was like, if we're to do anything,
he's like, we should at least be,
like if Earth got destroyed, right, tomorrow.
There would be virtually nothing left in a couple thousand years,
literally building cities, New York City would be dust.
The only things that would be left are the pyramids, I think,
and what is the structure called?
Mount Rushmore, like Mount Rushmore,
like these things will still be there,
these big giant stone structures.
But everything else, like computers,
everything else will be dust.
And he's like, one of the things that we should be doing
is saving or digitizing everything
on a hard drive on the moon somehow.
Maybe that's what they're doing,
because they're transmitting data like you wouldn't believe.
That's probably what they're doing.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
Yeah, it would be a smart thing to do.
It would be a smart fail-safe.
Right, because you have to get back to the data,
that's the only way to understand how to recreate a cell phone.
We know how to use a cell phone,
but I don't know how to make a cell phone.
And if I learn how to make one part of it,
how do I get the other parts to it
that need to be done like the towers
and all the technology for a tower
and the satellite communication?
You have to have a place, a storehouse of information,
almost like a chamber of knowledge
that one can tap into and open up.
And all the schematics and all the plans
and everything else is right there for you.
Makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, and there was an article,
I forget how long ago now the article came out,
but maybe about six months ago,
but I think it was a Chinese rover spotted,
like some sort of black box on the surface of the moon.
And it was going to take them,
they were going to go check it out,
but the rover was so slow,
it supposedly was going to take them months to get there.
Well, that was the second one.
The first one, which was years ago,
it got stuck in debris.
It got tangled in debris.
What is debris doing on the moon?
They sent one image back
and it had these things that looked like...
Maybe it meant rocks or something.
No, they sent the image in the image.
It looks like bent wires and stuff all over the place
and they couldn't get free of it.
And so this was just the second one.
Oh, no way.
Yeah.
Now, India sent, the India University,
they have a college there.
They raised $3 million, not $3 billion like we do,
and they created a satellite center to Mars.
And the first image they sent back
was of Mars, blue light scatter in the sky, not red.
You know, what looks like to be water beneath
and mountains and everything else,
not dark red like NASA does.
They call, NASA calls those images, by the way, false color.
They actually add that red color.
Really?
Yeah, and you can look it up
and they tell you why they do it
because they say it makes image transmission better.
No, it hides a lot of stuff.
It's not red.
It looks like you're walking around Arizona
when you go there.
And that image came back from Indian Space Agency
and it blew everybody away
because it was like, holy crap, it looks like Earth,
but it was Mars.
Yeah.
So these images from the Indian Space Agency,
they're online right now?
Yeah, they're up there.
And so let me see if I have one here.
Austin can probably Google them.
Yeah.
Look up the Indian Space Agency, Mars image.
Now, what's interesting is Bolden,
who was the head of NASA at the time,
a week later, he flies to India and signs a deal with them
with the Space Agency with NASA.
So pretty interesting.
That is fascinating.
Yeah.
Why would he do that?
As if they probably keep it moving
to maybe even cover it up or take over the data
or who knows what they do?
Excuse me.
Now, this is an image that I took of Mars
from my Celestron 130 home telescope.
Wow.
That's Mars in the summer.
Anyone can get our Celestron SLT 130.
Go out and...
That's incredible.
Go out in February, aiming at Mars.
So you can find Mars on the app.
You can get the Space app and show you what Mars is at.
Tells you where to point it.
And you'll get this image.
OK.
So what are we looking at here, Austin?
Oh, it's a, yeah, some sort of news channel.
Oh, OK.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't know who that is.
Carved into a golden surface.
These are the first images taken by a satellite
by India's maiden Mars mission,
released by the country's space agency on Thursday.
Scientists tweeted, the view is nice up here,
under the Twitter handle at Mars Orbiter,
which has a mass more than 108,000 followers
since it's set up on Tuesday.
The satellite, affectionately called MOM,
by the mission's acronym,
will spend six months in elliptical orbit
collecting atmospheric data from as close as 365 kilometers.
And as far out as 80,000 kilometers
from the planet's surface.
Have you seen that new Space Force logo?
They came out with the triangle.
Yeah.
You see how they put the sphinx in there?
Or it was like a Pharaoh's head.
It's crazy.
It's Pharaoh's head.
Yeah, they got it looking real ancient Egyptian.
What?
I feel like, what are you guys, they're trolling us.
Now, you want to know something else?
When we went to Egypt,
the entrance or the access to the Grand Gallery,
the Grand Gallery inside the Great Pyramid,
that's the chamber leading up to the King's Chamber.
That's the, like this little alley,
it leads up to the King's Chamber.
Right.
NASA owns the rights to the access to that.
To the King's Chamber.
Yes.
Nobody's ever been in the King's Chamber, right?
Yeah, I've been there, yeah.
Many times.
Up into the top part?
Into the, no, the King's Chamber's not at the very top.
It's inside this area.
So you go up,
about, I don't know, maybe 40 or 50 meters,
and then you enter into the shaft.
And from there, you're able to climb up a series of channels
until you get to the Grand Gallery.
And the Grand Gallery,
you have to bend and kind of pull yourself up.
Right.
It leads you into the King's Chamber.
You have to duck your head and go underneath this giant slab,
this, I don't know, 100-ton slab.
You can grant it, you get inside the King's Chamber,
which I've been in there many times.
It took a hold of people and we were in there meditating.
Oh, wow, really?
Yeah, yeah, it's incredible.
But...
I heard about it.
I heard that there's areas of the pyramid
that no one's ever been into.
I heard that there's like doors or something
that you can't go through where no one's ever been through.
There are.
There's tons of places.
There's an area right above the Grand Gallery
that was taken by a Muwan scan,
right exactly where Thoth says
he hid the Hall of Records in the pyramid.
They found it three years ago,
this gigantic area above the King's Chamber.
That's there.
It's authenticated now by modern science
that what was said in the tablets is real.
Click on that giant diagram and blow that up, Austin.
So, okay, go up, yeah, right there.
The big void.
That's the Hall of Records.
So you've been in that King's Chamber.
Oh, yeah, many times.
But not inside the void.
No, no, nobody's been able to go up there.
Not yet.
And they're probably cleaning out
all the ancient knowledge and wisdom
and records and all the stuff that's in there.
What do you think of the whole Giza power plant theory?
I believe it.
Can you explain the basics of what it is?
So if you look at the,
if you do a rewind on the geological clock of Giza,
you find out that the Nile ran right up next to the pyramids.
Okay, so after the last war,
that's why Giza is nothing but sand.
That's the remnants of an ancient war.
That's why some of the sand has balls of glass in it.
That's 3,000 degrees temperature.
That's vitrified sand turned to glass.
But anyway, so the Nile used to run right up to the pyramids.
Now, underneath the pyramid,
we know that's true because we see the dried out aquifer areas
where there's these gigantic shafts that run,
not manmade, but natural forming areas
underneath the pyramid where the water would run.
Now, when you take magnetized crystal granite,
which is the base,
and you use running water underneath it,
you create physiostatic electricity.
Then the granite will pull the ions up into the pyramid,
send them up the grand gallery.
Now, the grand gallery has these slots on each side
where the hypothesis by engineers,
mainstream engineers too,
is that they could have been resonating wrong.
Something to amp up, step up the electricity
as it went up into the king's chamber.
In the king's chamber, here's what's interesting.
There's a box in there that they try to say
it's a sarcophagus.
It's not a sarcophagus.
I'm six foot four.
I can't fit in that box.
Circophagus, when you go to the museum,
you see what a real sarcophagus is.
These things are massive, not this little tiny box.
The box is the exact dimensions, though,
of the Ark of the Covenant.
The Ark of the Covenant used to sit inside of that box.
It was technology.
It was a capacitor.
And that would then give the extra boost
and send the electricity up through the apex,
where there was a gold capstone.
The obelisk, which are crystal,
magnetized crystal granite,
would capture that ambient wireless electricity
and then pass it on to what they call jet pillars.
D, J, E, D, these jets.
They had these jets.
They're depicted in many hieroglyphs.
People holding them and connecting them to light bulbs
and electroplating devices in hieroglyphs,
which I took everybody to go see.
Pause one second.
What did you say was inside the box?
The Ark of the Covenant.
What is the Ark of the Covenant?
If you look into biblical texts, for example,
there was this Ark that Moses stole.
He took, he had this box.
He claimed it was given to him by God,
but I think he stole it from the Egyptians.
That's why they fled after him.
An Ark.
Yeah.
So it's this box with these cherubim's on it,
but these cherubim's are really,
it's really a capacitor.
This generates a lot of electricity.
Inside of this box is something
that has so much radiation.
That's what it looks like there.
That you had to have on specific type of clothing,
which is well described even in the Bible,
rubber boots, gloves, this type of suit
with this breastplate of metal on it to,
this all to prevent the radiation poisoning.
When somebody didn't have it on in the Bible
and they touched the Ark,
they would become very sick.
Their hair would fall out.
Their nose would bleed.
Their eyes would bleed.
Their fingernails would fall off.
Radiation sickness.
This thing was generating some type of radiation power,
some type of a generator of power of some sort.
And it was connected to the Great Pyramid.
It was in that box.
Evidence for this, for me,
that box has a gigantic piece of the granite
missing off one corner,
like an explosion happened from inside the box.
If you look across the grand gallery,
I'm sorry, across the King's Chamber,
there's a wall about maybe 30 feet away.
The impact from that giant piece of granite that snapped off,
it cut that granite on the wall
the exact shape of that corner piece.
Wow.
Something explosive happened there.
For you to throw a piece of granite that heavy that far
and impact that way.
So there was energy in there.
Now, if you go back to the story of Moses,
it really was Pharaoh Akhenaten.
Moses is not the real name.
That's the made up name.
Pharaoh Akhenaten, who was ushering in monotheism in Egypt.
While he was a Pharaoh,
worshiping Amen Ra, the Great Amen.
Amen Ra was one of these Anunnaki people said,
look, from now on, there'll be no other God but me.
That made it into the Bible.
When you say thanks, you give, you say thanks to me.
You say amen.
That made it into the Bible.
Teach the people only to worship me,
not any of my other relatives.
I'm the only one and true God.
And he began to do that.
Then he made an order to go start defacing all the
hieroglyphs and all of these statues around Egypt.
That's why the noses and the ears are chipped off.
That's why the faces are chipped off everywhere you go.
Bodies are chipped away.
It wasn't done.
The hypothesis on the streets is that
it was done because white people back then
didn't want black people to know
that they were black people in Egypt.
That's actually false.
The true reality is this was done in ancient times
and it was carried on by Coptic Christians
long before Jesus was even born.
They were still following that same
monotheistic religion.
And to them it was offensive
to have these faces of all these gods around
because it's only one true and only one God,
the great amen.
And that's why all these things were done.
But Moses, when he was kicked out,
so they said, look, this guy has to go.
We got to get him out of here.
They kicked him out of Egypt.
They kicked the Pharaoh out of Egypt.
He went and took that Ark out of the great pyramid
and he fled with his new followers.
They weren't slaves.
They were followers of Akhenaten.
They crossed the Sea of Reeds, not the Red Sea,
which they tell you in the Bible.
Nobody ever crossed the Red Sea.
It's a mistranslation by accident on purpose.
They crossed a much smaller, much easier to cross
Sea called the Red Sea, which is also in the same region.
And then when the Pharaoh realized
the power source of Egypt had been stolen,
the new Pharaoh, they sent the chariots
after him and everything else.
His son was left behind.
He didn't want to go.
That's Tutankhamun.
But Tutankhamun, they started worrying
that maybe when he got a little older,
he would say, I want revenge for my father.
And so they decided to kill him and kill his girlfriend.
And that's how the story ended that way.
But anyway, that's what happened.
So what was the purpose of this powerful Ark?
Like, what was it used for?
Like, how are they used?
They used these pyramids as giant power structures
and this Ark was like the reactor or something.
The reactor, right.
So what were they doing?
Well, in the desert, when they had it out in the desert,
it would give them power.
It would give them power to power
something called the manna machine.
And the manna machine would generate this food
for the masses of people that followed him
out into the desert.
And so it had this capability of generating food.
Also, when they were out there,
they saw enemies were trying to attack them.
I don't know who these enemies were.
They never clearly says who they were
and why they were attacking.
But they would then use this thing as a weapon
and would send a beam out and kill these people.
This is technology.
And that's in the Bible.
Wow.
That's fascinating.
It's not magic.
It's not a sky daddy with a magic wand.
It's like real hardcore tech that was used.
And they recreated this at a university in America
using the exact instructions that are in the Bible.
Really?
What university created this?
Google it.
I can't remember the name of university,
but Professor recreates the Ark.
Or you can look it up.
Several people actually have done it as well too since then.
It generated so much power, he had to shut it down.
It was pulling power from everywhere.
Yeah.
Crazy stuff.
From the exact instructions.
And he made one.
The engineer who said the Ark of the Covenant.
This is a good motto.
A group of college students made a replica of the Ark.
That's one.
There's quite a few now,
but there's one that was a while back where...
Replicas.
Yeah, they made, you know,
just recreating it from the actual instructions.
There's a ton of...
And where were the instructions?
The instructions were...
They were in the Bible.
They were in the Bible.
Yeah.
Wow.
One of the...
There was a few arcs.
There wasn't just one.
One of them was discovered in Ethiopia
at an Ethiopian church about nine years ago.
And someone who did a documentary on it
claimed it was there.
And then right afterward,
within a year it was stolen from the church.
They didn't have the military or security
or anything like that.
And somebody came and just took it.
So it's gone.
That one is gone.
But there's others.
But I'm pretty sure if you go on videos,
you'll find there's videos of this stuff
being turned on and everything else.
It's real tech.
That's the problem with this stuff, too,
is it's so hard to find a lot of it online.
I know Google curates a lot of the searches.
And I don't know how it works
or what they push to the top
or what they suppress.
But a lot of this stuff is very hard to find
when you look for it.
Have you...
I'm sure you have.
I'm sure you're familiar with the story
of Bob Lazar, how he describes the crafts
that he was recruited to back engineer.
And he explains how the reactor,
explains the reactor inside some of those crafts,
was basically when you hold two magnets together,
two opposite of magnets that repel each other.
And there's that invisible force that pushes them away.
He explained that's what this reactor was like
when you tried to get close to it.
It pushes you away like that.
Wow, interesting.
That's what this reminds me of.
I believe Bob was our story.
He talked about element 115 20 years ago.
Yeah, his story hasn't changed in over 20 years.
And now what happened eight years ago,
or not even seven years ago maybe,
they discovered element 115 finally,
which to me vindicates him.
And they've named it now...
First they named it Unimpentium,
then they named it something else,
Muscovium or something like that.
But it's still on the periodic table of elements now.
And he talked about this element
and they said,
no, this impossible doesn't exist.
Now all of a sudden it's on the chart.
So to me, now I have to listen to the guy
because something he talked about 20 years ago is real.
Do you think that our government has the possession
of some sort of technology
that they're not sharing with the rest of science and academia?
They're not sharing with the public?
Oh, absolutely.
The incident that happened at Roswell,
it wasn't just that one craft, multiple craft came down that day.
We were using something called a scalar weapon.
We were aware of these craft.
We use a scalar weapon.
We realized early on that different frequencies
were affecting the navigation of these craft.
And we use that weapon, it wasn't really a weapon,
but use it as a weapon to bring them down.
And then we recovered those crashed UFOs.
See that sort of troubles me.
I can't imagine if there was this other civilization
that had vehicles
that are able to do the things they do.
Like the way these pilots describe them,
how would we be able to take them down?
I don't, that just doesn't compute to me.
Well, you know, space travel is very dangerous.
So, you know, going to Mars,
and which is right around the corner,
is a deadly mission.
Like anybody who gets up enough gall to go there,
they understand that they might not even
might not even leave our atmosphere.
And even in a hundred years from now,
traveling to Mars is still dangerous.
And imagine you're a civilization
that's taking your first trip to the earth solar system area.
And you come out here and you got your ship,
and you know, that ship could be 30 or 40 years old
in your timeframe, wherever the case may be.
It's already an old bugger.
You made it out here.
And now all of a sudden,
there's this something you didn't anticipate.
You didn't anticipate this particular type
of a frequency beam being pointed at your ship,
disturbing your navigation.
Just like we went all the way to the fillet lander
to that gigantic comet 67P.
And we thought we had the landing programming all set.
And all of a sudden, we crashed into it
because the gravity wasn't what we thought it was going to be.
After spending billions of dollars,
we crashed the lander.
We couldn't land properly.
So I think that space travel is really dangerous.
You know, so we finally break out of this solar system.
We want to go to another solar system
and we want to go there.
There's going to be unforeseen things that can happen
that we may never make it back.
You're really going to be in a real explorer
when you go out there like that.
Space is dangerous.
Do you think that it's...
I mean, what do you think is more probable
that they traveled through space to get here
or they traveled some other way?
Like they are either through another dimension
or that they're here already,
maybe living under the ocean or living somewhere that we...
We have all three.
Everything you just said is accurate to me.
I think we have under the ocean
that there's people living here
that have been here for a very long time.
I believe that they have their own breakaway civilization.
The oceans are pretty much mostly undisturbed and they're there.
I think you also have multi-dimensionals.
Beings that are in higher dimensions or other dimensions
that know how to match their subatomic frequency
to our particular dimension
and they can walk right in or fly right in
or come right in in some type of way.
And then also I believe that you have beings
that are light years away that can travel here.
And I don't think that they're using typical space travel
they're probably using something like a warp drive
where in a warp drive what really happens is
you actually shrink space in front of the ship
and you expand it from the back.
So in essence you're like you're sitting on a tablecloth
and then somebody's pulling the tablecloth
and so you're riding the tablecloth.
You never really go anywhere.
A warp drive, you never really move
and we've tested the warp drive now.
We've actually got a functioning
and working warp drive in the laboratory.
Oh really?
Yeah, so the technology is real.
We've created a real warp bubble.
Is this similar to what they explain
when like traveling through black holes
you take a piece of paper and you just fold it in half
and you're traveling from here to here?
That's different.
That's portal travel.
So that's hyperspace where you actually
use something called an Einstein-Rosen bridge
is a technical term used because Einstein and Rosen
to you know, theoretical physicists came up with the idea
that we can go through bent or warped space
and you can get there quicker.
And so which is great and I believe that happens too.
But again, the exotic energy you would need
is pretty extreme.
You really have to be in a super advanced civilization
to be able to do that.
But traveling multiples of the speed of light
without breaking the theory of relativity
is possible with a warp drive.
Without breaking the theory of relativity.
Yeah, in other words saying that.
General relativity.
General relativity.
Saying that we're going faster than the speed of light.
How can you do that?
Well you can do that because you never moved.
Only space moved.
By that method, you're not breaking the law.
Now some of these anti-gravity examples of technology
that Bob Azar talks about, this stuff would sort of bypass
general relativity.
But the thing is like for example,
some of those crafts are moving like 6,000 mile an hour
making 90 degree turns.
You have to realize that they're in a bubble.
So the anti-gravity, it clicks this bubble around the vessel.
Right.
And anything inside is not affected by those movements
because what appears to be erratic movements inside the bubble
is like if you're driving in a car that's moving 80 miles an hour
and there's a fly in the car with you,
we know flies can't fly, you know house fly,
they can't fly 80 miles an hour.
Why is the fly in the car flying around
while you're moving at 80 miles an hour?
Because the fly has already picked up the speed
of the moving car.
Right.
And now the fly itself is moving at 80 miles an hour
as well.
And so, you know, it's kind of that scenario.
Yeah.
The way he explains it, which is I think makes a lot of sense,
is essentially whenever those things are moving,
the way they're described is like they're falling.
They're falling in that direction.
They're just bending gravity around them.
Yeah.
NASA just found X-points around Earth.
They call them X-points.
These are naturally occurring portals.
They say they're natural.
They're open and closed every day.
X-points.
Look it up.
I just heard something.
I forget who.
I think it was Jeremy Corbell posted on Twitter
that there was a guy around in Arizona.
I think it was somewhere near site S4.
He was doing something, studying rocks.
This guy's like was not into aliens or any of that stuff
over at like S4 area 51.
He was and he was camping there for a while.
He knew he's in restricted area,
but he really wanted to take some photos of some rocks.
I don't know exactly what he was doing.
I'm probably fucking this up, but he basically explains,
he saw a fucking door come up out of Papus Lake.
Just appear like a floating doorway in space.
Come up out of Papus Lake.
Is that similar to what you're describing these X-points?
Well, the X-points, they're at the upper atmosphere.
They're like upper atmosphere just outside the,
but not too far out where they're in the Lagrange point.
They're like right at the top surface,
right outside the atmosphere of Earth.
And they, they're these diffusion points they call them
that at certain times of the day, portals actually open up
and they even leave have direct paths to the sun,
to the moon, even to other planets and other parts of space,
which is pretty crazy.
And they're saying that they're artificial,
see hidden portals in an Earth's magnetic field.
And they're, so now scientists are working on
how can they create a stable X-point and control
when it opens and closes and where can it take
them too, things like that.
Wow.
Mingling lies in magnetic force from the sun and the Earth,
crisscross and join to create opening X-points.
And where the crisscross takes place,
the X-points are where the crisscross takes place.
The sudden joining of magnetic fields can propel jets
of charged particles from the X-points,
creating an electron diffused region, electron diffusion region.
Yeah.
Whoa.
That's pretty nuts.
Yeah.
So many crazy things, man.
So many fucking wild.
It's a lot going on out here.
There's a lot going on.
It's hard to keep up with all of it.
How do you keep up with all this new stuff happening
all the time?
And a lot of it doesn't, you can't like,
if you're just the average Joe who's not really,
you're doing your nine to five,
living your life, taking care of your kids.
It's so hard to manage and keep track of all this stuff
that's happening, especially when it's not in the mainstream
surface level of the media.
It's an absolute lifestyle.
It's a lifestyle.
And fortunately for me, from the way my brain was trained,
once I read something, I can retain a lot of it
for a long period of time.
It's hard to forget a lot.
Like I haven't, the X-points,
they came out in 2012 or something like that.
And I'm still remembering all the information
about the X-points.
So my retention has been fairly decent,
which helps me a lot.
How did you come to learn about,
or have such a complex understanding
of different dimensions and how they work?
Like the fourth dimension,
I think you said there's up to 11 dimensions,
or scientists have discovered that somehow.
I started studying quantum physics.
That was after that incident.
That was the other thing that happened
after that incident that encounter, if you want to call it.
I started having a heavy thirst for quantum physics.
And I started delving deep, deep, deep into it.
I even created a quantum physics group on Facebook.
And then I started studying with Khan,
K-H-A-N University,
which is a free university that a lot of people
don't know exists online.
And they have a quantum physics course.
I started studying that too.
And I was able to understand a lot of this stuff.
And so I dug real deep into it.
And I got to the understanding
that we're living in a multi-dimensional universe.
And there's at least 11 dimensions,
otherwise the universe would collapse.
Each dimension is a 90 degree angle
right above the next one, compactified.
So they're sitting right on top of us.
So within less than a plonk unit of space above you,
there's another dimension that actually exists
with a whole another universe happening
simultaneously while we're sitting right here.
Wild.
That's hard to fathom.
It's hard to fathom.
So right here where we're sitting right now,
there's a whole another dimension of a whole another universe
happening, life taking place.
Yes.
Right in the same space that we are.
Right here.
Right here where we are.
Right here.
Vast too.
Vast.
Just as vast as ours is vast.
And from higher dimensions,
they experience time differently.
If time really doesn't exist,
the past, present, and the future happen all at once.
So somebody, for example,
from the fifth dimension would look at us
and they'd be able to see.
So imagine us in this building here,
but imagine when I first walked in
and imagine us in here
and imagine me like in the bathroom or something.
They'd be able to see us in all the different rooms,
the different rooms,
represent different time frames
of existence within this structure.
So they could see the past,
present, and future at the same time.
You know, so it's pretty cool.
Weird stuff starts happening
the higher the dimensions you go.
So is the idea that when you're in a higher dimension,
you can only,
you can see below lower dimensions,
but you can't see dimensions above you?
Exactly.
Unless you have the capability of matching.
First, you have to obtain the frequency
of a higher dimension
and then match that frequency
to be able to walk in.
So match the frequency.
Yeah, so for example,
okay, my hand is stopped now by this table, right?
Why is it stopped?
I'm not really touching the table.
There's repulsion going on.
Electromagnetic repulsion
between the electrons in my hand
is repelling the electrons in the table.
You don't really touch anything.
Now, if I can match the subatomic frequency
of the atoms in this chunk of wood here on this table
with my hand,
I would be able to pass my hand right through this table.
Unscathed, why?
Because atoms are 99.999% empty space.
Nothing is really here.
Everything is only a light wave
slowed down to a particular frequency.
And so if you can match frequencies,
you can merge with things.
You can walk through walls
and all that kind of stuff.
The things that are seen paranormal
could be advanced beings
have tapped into some type of understanding
of how to match different frequencies
in our dimension
and appear apperishional
or paranormal.
But in true reality,
they could just be taken a peek in.
And how do we come to the understanding
that these higher dimensions exist?
Like, what is the most basic evidence
that we have of this?
Quantum physics proves it.
See, when we look into the quantum world,
everything changed.
In standard physics is where we are right now
in the large side of physics.
But the smaller you go,
the more weird things get.
We find that particles transface
in and out of existence.
And they go to different dimensions.
We even know now that
some of our synapses
of our thoughts in our brain
phase out of this dimension
and they go somewhere else.
And then they come back again.
And this has all been tracked and traced
through the understanding
of quantum mechanics and quantum physics.
And understanding that dimensions exist.
The biggest way that we made a model of this
is we figured out
how to create something called quasi-crystals.
Now, these quasi-crystals
are these multi-dimensional crystals.
We actually created an eighth-dimensional quasi-crystal.
We created this.
Yes, we created it.
How did we create it?
We created a laboratory
using different technologies.
And then from that eighth-dimensional quasi-crystal,
it casts a shadow of itself
down to a fourth-dimensional quasi-crystal,
which then casts down a shadow
which creates a sphere.
So we know that the universe
is most likely the shadow of a higher dimension.
It's crazy stuff.
Yeah, that's kind of mind-bending.
We're living in a light matrix
which is actually a light matrix
which is a shadow of a much higher dimension.
And so we know this because they created these crystals,
these quasi-crystals.
And when they put them at different angles,
they cast shadows sometimes.
What do these crystals look like?
You look up the quasi-crystals, yeah.
They look like...
Have you ever seen adinkra codes?
Adinkras?
I think I've heard you talk about this before.
They look like adinkra symbols,
mathematical symbols,
but in the third-dimensional time space.
And so if you take them and pull them out
into a third-dimensional time space,
they look like these lines
that are connected with these nodes like that.
You see?
Quasi-crystals.
This is a quasi-crystal.
And so...
It's an ordered structure, but it's not periodic.
And it's got a crystalline pattern.
It's formed atomically in a manner
somewhere between the amorphous solids of glasses,
special forms of metals and other minerals,
as well as common glass,
and the precise pattern of crystals.
If you put eighth-dimensional quasi-crystal,
you should see some research that come up on that.
It looks like what you look into a kaleidoscope.
It's a fractal.
It's all about...
We live in a fractal holographic universe.
The quasi-crystal is a fundamental basis
of the fractal holography that we're living in.
We're fully immersed in it so we can't detect it,
but we're living in a light matrix.
And that's what the adinkra codes also prove.
Okay, explain the adinkra codes.
What is that exactly?
So, Professor James Gates Jr. and University of Maryland,
former scientific advisor to President Obama,
just to give you this guy.
He's not just like a jackpot or something.
He's like a real dude.
And he put together a team of the most incredible
supersymmetry and theoretical physicists in the world,
like the top brains in the world on this.
And they started analyzing what is the ether or spacetime?
What is this soup that we're living
and they were inhabiting this universe?
What is it made of?
What's powering it?
They discovered something called adinkra codes,
which go back to the ancient Dogon tribe from Mali, Africa.
The original inhabitants of the land of Cam
then moved to Mali later,
after they were thrown out, taken over at one point.
But they still kept this ancient knowledge in Mali
about these adinkra codes and they would draw these patterns.
Well, he discovered that these patterns
are actually mathematical codes.
And these are not just any mathematical code.
There goes one there.
They're actually the codes that describe
the ether of spacetime itself.
They're error-correcting codes,
the same exact codes that run our search engines
and web browsers that we're using right now to look at the image.
There's coding behind that screen that runs this,
what we just did.
And guess what?
It's the same code that runs the universe.
So we discovered that we're living in a programed light matrix.
There's a software programmer that has written this code.
Austin, pull up more images of this.
There's all different types of images.
There you go.
You see that right there?
Right there.
That's a quasi.
That looks a lot like a quasi crystal.
If you were to shrink it down and put a whole bunch of them
in one location, it looks very similar to a quasi crystal.
So these adinkra codes, and you can see the color
for one that was up there,
these are depicting the nature of reality.
Wow.
And they actually are mathematical programming codes.
They're a special type of code, though.
They're error-correcting codes,
the same type that Google browser is running on
is the same thing that runs the universe.
Error-correcting codes.
And what do we gain from all of this knowledge?
Like, what does this tell us, and where do we take this?
Obviously, this is foundational knowledge for us,
but where do you see it going?
Well, if you understand it,
we're living in a fractal holographic light matrix.
It doesn't mean we're not real.
It just means that there is a creator, or creators,
that we're living in something that was created
just like the ancient texts and all the scribes
and biblical texts and everything else says.
But it tells us, wow, this is the method of the creation.
Now we're getting closer to understanding what we really are.
We understand now that consciousness
isn't made inside this avatar body.
That the avatar body doesn't even exist.
That consciousness is a stream of something
coming from somewhere else,
and it's being picked up in this matrix with this coding.
If you took all the humans on Earth,
there's eight billion humans on Earth.
If I took all eight billion humans
and removed the empty space between their atoms,
I can fit every human into a sugar cube.
One sugar cube can hold all eight billion of us.
Really?
Yeah.
All the atoms of eight billion people on Earth.
You can see atoms are empty space.
So if you take the empty space out,
you collapse it into one sugar cube.
All eight billion can fit in one sugar cube.
So what does that mean?
It's wild.
What's here?
There's only one consciousness, it seems.
And it looks like a radio station
that's transmitting out a frequency from a higher dimension.
Our avatar bodies pick up that frequency.
You're 99.1, I'm 99.2, he's 99.3,
but it's still coming from the same source.
And so we're all coming from the same source.
It's like the universe has found a way to live subjectively
through multiple entities, but not even through entities,
even through objects that we consider to be man-made.
Because every atom we know now in quantum physics
is also conscious.
Does this give any credence to the simulation theory?
Absolutely.
Yes, we're living in a simulation.
This is an actual simulation.
And what we've done now with the video game No Man's Sky,
it's got 80 quadrillion worlds in there.
That's a never-ending game created by, I think,
12 college students, fits on one DVD,
and they're going to add AI into it,
which means that the beings and the animals
and everything else in there,
they're going to become conscious.
Also, the other video game that they have,
where you have the people walking around
and everything else, so we've got the name of the game now.
The Sims.
The Sims.
Yeah.
The Sims, they're talking about adding consciousness
to the Sims and adding AI in there.
So eventually, these Sims are going to start asking questions.
Who are we? Where do we come from?
What is this that we're living in this construct?
Is there a big bang?
Yeah, the big bang is when we hit the power button
and turned you on.
That's the big bang.
That's when everything went out.
Yeah.
So, you know, they could then maybe even begin
to write programs in the Sims program
to create their own universe.
So there's multiple layers of reality.
I don't think we're even close to base reality.
Isn't it so crazy that it was only 30 years ago
that we only had that pong game
with the two balls and the two sticks?
Oh, my God.
And now look at what we have.
30 years.
Crazy.
I got the original Atari 2600.
My uncle bought it for me.
He came down from New York.
He was a police officer in New York.
The only most expensive gift I ever got,
which is why I still have it today
in the closet in the box.
He bought that thing and I played that thing,
the pong and Pac-Man.
Yeah.
And I played it for a couple of weeks
and I got the little callus in my hand
and I was like, okay, I'm tired.
But it was cool, you know?
Connect to a VHF TV.
And then look where we are now.
My son turned a video game on.
This is a couple of years ago.
I was at his apartment
and I thought it was an actual NFL game.
I didn't know there was a video game.
Yes.
I played video games all the time.
And I play Madden and NBA.
And these games literally look like,
if you haven't seen those games before,
they look just like the real game on TV.
It's indistinguishable.
Wild.
And then now with VR, like the Oculus
and the stuff that Facebook's doing,
it's pretty wild and augmented reality.
If you, yeah, if you, like Elon says,
if you assume any rate of advancement compounding
over time, just in 100 years,
there's going to be less than 100 years.
Oh yeah.
The video games are going to be completely
100% indistinguishable from reality.
Yes.
That's true.
And so the human mind is so easily fooled.
It just takes program input.
So the human mind is encased in darkness.
It doesn't even know what's going on out here.
But it has friends,
sight, hearing, smell, touch, feel,
all those five senses.
It sends the friends out.
The friends collect data.
Now my friends, my brain's friends touch.
Doesn't know what this is.
Doesn't know what's going on here.
But it combines with the data from the eye.
The eye sees it, doesn't know what it is.
But the eye and the, and the hands send a signal
back to the brain, send data packets back to the brain.
The brain then sorts it out and then creates a hologram
of what's here.
And then I'm navigating through the third dimension
based on a hologram from data packets.
Right.
And the universe is doing the same thing.
There's one consciousness, which has divided itself
into Googles of entities, me and you are one of them.
And it's experiencing stuff.
We are the sensory perception for the universe.
Well, we have, we only have eyeballs, nose, mouth, skin.
We can only, our constructed physical bodies
can only observe so many dimensions.
Right.
Well, wonder what it would take for us
to be able to observe a different dimension.
Well, we can.
Are we thinking about it the right way?
Would it be a physical alteration to our body?
Or what?
Well, it would be scary
because we can't even see,
we only see 1% of the light spectrum here.
If we saw more than 1% of the light spectrum,
we'd freak out.
There's so much going on, all the,
and the multi-spectrum and the ultraviolet
and the infrared and the gamma ray range
and the X-ray range.
We would freak out.
There's stuff going on all around us as we speak.
Billions of waves and frequencies moving around us.
So we would be able to see if we had the eyes for it.
And I think that 1% is all we can handle.
That's with you.
Yeah.
More than 1% would be a lot.
It'd be cool to have some X-ray vision or something like that.
But you add it all together at once.
Now you're talking about multiple dimensions.
Well, the human avatar body can't even get to the dimension
because we're a third-dimensional substructure.
We'd have to create the technology to phase shift
into a body of some type,
whatever type that would possibly be,
to even ascend to a higher dimension.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, going back to the simulation theory,
like if we were in a simulation,
of course, only people like Elon Musk would believe that
because if you were playing a character in a simulation,
you would want to play somebody like Elon Musk.
You wouldn't want to play Joe Blow working at the hardware store.
People with fascinating, interesting lives,
doing crazy things with unlimited money that could do anything they wanted,
that would be the most enticing player to be in a simulation.
It's pretty, but what I think is happening here,
the reason why it's not specific,
like again, you can control it in a certain level.
But what's cool, I think,
is that the universe itself is using us to figure out
what it's like to be Billy Carson,
what it's like to be you,
what it's like to be this microphone,
what it's like to be a person that's living in poverty,
what it's like to be a person that's living rich,
what it's like to be an inventor or an explorer,
what it's like to be all these different things,
what is it like to be a blade of grass?
What is it like to be a rock?
And I think all that data is being transmitted back to source in real time.
And what is, what is, what do you think the source is?
Is you think the source is like,
are we a simulation inside of a simulation inside of a simulation?
Or are there actual biological beings that are controlling the simulation?
That's a great question.
I can only go by hermetic principles as above so below.
And so if you look at the way the universe or the multiverse would be set up,
it's almost like cells in a human body.
Because you look at the cells in our body,
it's like a multiverse inside of us.
And so it's like we're living in also a multiverse,
which is full of cells.
Each universe could be a cell.
It's just really amazing.
So it could be biological.
It could be that we're in a biological body.
It could be that we're in a software program.
I mean, there's so many possibilities, it's almost endless.
But I do know that this fundamental basis of what we're living in is light.
Because everything, if you take an atom out of this phone,
and then smash it, it's going to give off light.
It's just slow down light waves to a slower frequency.
Everything that exists.
I mean, everything in the third dimension,
everything you could think of is only a light wave.
Matter of fact, due to wave particle duality,
everything only exists as a wave first,
and then collapses into what we appear to be the illusion of solid matter later.
Like right now you're here.
Your home exists as a wave of potentials.
It doesn't even exist as a solid structure.
Now if somebody sees it, it collapses instantaneously into a solid structure known as your house.
Your house has a specific frequency because of the way the atoms were stacked.
So it always collapses into the same structure.
When you get around that corner and you finally make it home and you see it,
that's when it collapses back into your house again.
Everything you can't see exists as waves, just like in a video game.
The next frame only appears when you need it to.
If you go this way, the screen doesn't go anywhere.
It's the same screen.
The next light matrix moves into your view so you can play the video game.
You go back this way.
Again, it just keeps moving.
We're living in that type of a simulation.
Where do you think human existence is as far as tech?
Where do you think technology ends up in the next 100 to 200 years?
Do you have an optimistic view of this?
Or do you have sort of a dystopian view of this?
Or where do you think we go?
What do you think happens with artificial intelligence and machines and the human species?
I'm pretty optimistic, actually, just based on what I know from research and cycles.
It looks like we're in the Tetra Yuga, according to the Yuga cycles.
We're on the beginning of a silver age, heading back toward a golden age.
We got a few thousand years ago to get there, but it's going to be a great ride.
We're on the side of the circle of the cycle that we're going to see a lot of advancements,
lifespans extended, great technologies happening.
Right now, in private space, they are 300 years ahead of the civilians, 300 years ahead right now.
Right now?
You're talking about private companies like Raytheon and Lockheed and Boeing.
And Tesla and all those, Spacex.
So how do I know this?
I own a company called First Class Space Agency.
Look it up.
It's a company in Florida.
It's now almost 10 years old now.
It's a tech company.
And we don't launch any vehicles, but we are doing R&D.
Research and Development and different types of propulsion systems, different types of generators,
radiation-hardened computer circuit chips and all that kind of cool stuff.
Deep space communication devices, these kind of things.
So with that, I get access to the space symposiums.
Now in the space symposium, I get access to private space.
And in there, those talks are non-disclosed.
However, I can tell you 300 years ahead of the general population.
Okay, that's my company right there.
Wow.
300 years ahead.
And so whatever you could think of has already been done.
The problems are locked up in these private projects.
But what I see that's going to happen is within the next 200 years, 300 years,
a lot of that stuff is going to become more publicly available, publicly accessible.
A lot of these systems that we're under now, these old systems that should be done away with,
are going to fall apart.
Nothing can persist forever.
I've studied history for so long.
I've never seen an empire maintain and sustain forever.
Right.
Rome had almost a whole planet.
Look where they are now.
You see?
And we're just going to visit your old coliseum now.
United States, I love you.
Now the space is the first of its kind too.
Yes.
Not going to persist forever.
There'll be something else that'll come that'll be better.
But it won't be this.
You think it'll be better.
I think it'll be better.
I think it'll be better.
And so I think we're moving.
Look, 100 years ago, we were a horse buggy in carriage.
Now we're putting remote control cars on other planets and moons.
We even have a voyager out in intergalactic space now, left our Kuiper Belt.
Right.
I think that within 100 to 200 years, you're going to see advancements and
an awakening on this planet of human beings to the point where we'll realize this technology
is a free the burden of mankind.
And then we are then free to not be homeless and not be struggling and financially because
we lost our jobs.
But we are the robots and the technology freed us to be who we are.
To work in places because we want to work there.
No income.
Your status in life is how good you are at what you do.
How well you help others.
People will be free to travel, to do arts and crafts and learn and study and research.
And you'll have people working because you're passionate about what they're doing.
One of the things Robin Hansen, I don't know if you've ever seen the movie or the
show on HBO called Westworld.
Yes.
Oh, I love it.
One of the things that he said to me about that show is one of the main downfalls of the
idea of the show is that if we got to that point where we could create these human like
robots that had human cognition, we wouldn't be using them for theme parks.
We would be using them for work, for labor.
There's like the biggest part of the world economy is labor.
We would use them to like take these jobs.
Absolutely.
That's exactly what we would do.
It just makes sense.
It just makes absolute sense.
And you free the world up.
You free mankind up to then be the best that they can possibly be as a human being.
And I think that's where we're headed eventually.
Yeah, it just seems like it's just hard right now where we're at right now.
Like it's such a weird time we're in where everybody is so wrapped up in like politics.
I know.
Oh man, it's crazy.
No one can think outside of the fucking the politics left versus right versus.
Too much.
I was a little kid.
Jimmy Carter was the president and the voting was coming up.
This is how I'm aging myself now.
And I'd say to my mom, I said, how long are you adults going to fall for this trick?
And I start laughing and she goes, what are you talking about?
I said, this voting trick, she goes, well, explain it.
I said, okay, look at where we live.
Do you really think that this guy didn't change anything?
Do you think the next guy's going to change something?
The guy before him didn't change this.
This was the same way it was.
Now Jimmy's here.
As to wherever else is coming next, it's going to be the same thing.
The hood is going to be the hood is never going to change.
So I saw right away, man, something is a disconnect between the politics and real
change in the world.
It's not happening.
And I think that we'll see the poly tricks poly tricks just fall away.
The system we have, it just can't sustain forever.
It just won't.
It can't.
It's impossible.
And something new will arise eventually at some point in the future.
It just seems like it's such a distraction from what could make life better.
It seems like if that wasn't there and the problem too is the incentives, the money.
There's so much money in it.
The money, you see, you have to first to move forward as a species on this planet.
We have to take capitalism out of a lot of things.
And that will scare a lot of people, but it's the truth.
We have to do it.
We have to, we can't have capitalism in politics.
You can't have capitalism in health care.
You can't have it in, in the prison system.
You can't have all the, you know, you can't have it in the school system.
All this stuff that's driven by capitalism is failing tremendously because it's
the people second, the money first.
And we'll do whatever we'll manipulate them however we can.
Even locking people up that don't even deserve to be locked up.
We've proved that already.
One, one judge just got, what, 40 years for, for putting, I don't know,
100 kids in jail for taking it for money.
Right.
And he's just the tippity iceberg.
You know, so we have all this going on because capitalism is involved.
You can't have capitalism in health care.
I mean, come on.
And so it's destroying, it's destroying everything.
Health care is one of the biggest fucking problems.
When you start to dig below the surface with insurance companies and big pharma
and all the things that are going on, it's just disgusting.
It's horrible.
It's atrocity to mankind.
But what's one of the most foundational things, one of the most foundational
aspects of human beings is greed and lust and, and competition.
And, you know, it starts with programming though, you see.
So right now we have epigenetic programming inside of our bodies.
Me and you, the last 15 to 20 years of our ancestors, their memories and their
coding is in our body through epigenetics.
And the epigenetics came out about 20, 30 years ago and they laughed at Bruce
Lipton for this and now it's taught in every university that it's real.
They've done real scientific studies showing that we're operating and
thinking and functioning off past memories from ancestors.
Right.
And so all that programming needs to be, begin to be rewritten.
We have to start first rewriting our own DNA and our own epigenetics and
clearing our past traumas and then teaching the next generation the proper way.
That's what's going to begin with the future.
So it's a big process, it's a big process.
But you know what's happening?
More and more people are waking up.
I remember talking about the aliens I saw or the UFO.
I saw in my backyard in the bushes with two friends because I was afraid
for anybody else to hear about it.
Years went by and then we started exchanging VHS tapes.
Then from VHS tapes with conspiracies and UFO stuff on it,
then it went to cassette tapes, then it went to CDs, then it went to DVDs,
then it went to web forums, then it went to blogs.
Now it's on TV and I'm on TV talking about this stuff.
And I'm on big podcasts like yours talking.
So I've seen the gradual acceptance of this.
And now the Pentagon saying, oh yeah, these things are real.
And NASA saying, yes, water on Mars.
So eventually there's going to be a point.
Now we have short lifespans.
To us, it seems like it's taken forever.
But from a geological standpoint, that timescale,
we haven't even been here for a blink of an eye yet.
So and if it takes a thousand, two thousand years, we're in the beginning.
We're the pioneers of the movement for awakening on this planet.
You know, and even just allowing me to even come on here
and talk about this kind of stuff is just massive
because you're going to give me a voice and let other people hear something
that maybe not everything they agree with,
but there may be something I said today
that's going to make them want to go look something up.
And that triggers the spark and that drops the seed.
And exponentially over time, what was happening here
is we're traveling into the future.
When I speak on these kind of shows
and I do these TV shows and documentaries,
I travel into the future with my consciousness.
And I also the future reality in the third dimension
by things I'm saying right now,
because the outcome is going to be the outcome
that I'm trying to collapse into reality.
And so I really do believe that long term,
there's going to be a significant change.
Right now, human beings are crawling.
And eventually we're going to learn how to walk.
But even when we start walking,
it's going to look bleak for a month because we're going to fall.
We will fall down, the baby will plop on its butt,
and the parents go, oh, you know, and the baby cries,
but it gets back up again and it walks.
Eventually, it learns how to walk.
What is walking? Controlled falls.
That's actually the definition of walking.
It's a controlled fall.
And when we learn how to control our fall,
that's when we get to the golden age.
Wow. Fascinating.
Billy, I very much appreciate you coming on here
and talking about this stuff.
Thank you.
People that are watching and listening,
where can they find more of your work and what you're doing?
Just go to ForbiddenKnowledge with the number four.
ForbiddenKnowledge.com.
Everything is there on my social media,
my website, my YouTube, my TV network,
all the work that I'm doing currently and everything else,
all the tours and everything I'm doing,
it's all on ForbiddenKnowledge.com with the number four.
That's incredible, man.
And your Instagram and page, again,
is one of my favorite Instagrams to follow.
I sit there for hours and watch your videos.
Thank you, and I appreciate it.
Incredible.
All right. Well, thanks again.
All right.
Goodbye, world.
Peace.
