So, how did you get into this whole world of esoteric stuff and religion and the history
of all of this?
How did you get into this subject?
Well, I've been studying the occult, the esoteric, the conspiratorial for about 15
years now.
I'm 28 years old.
I started researching this stuff when I was about 13, 14.
Keep that thing a little bit closer.
Yeah, 13, 14.
But prior to that, my entire life has pretty much revolved around this stuff.
I've had a lot of experiences all throughout my life that have led me on this path, primarily
being the fact that I grew up in a religious family, both Christian and Catholic.
So as a kid, I never liked church, still don't like the institution of it or anything, but
I was always fascinated by the Bible itself and the stories and everything.
And so I always had that fascination for legends and the mysticism behind religions.
And that fascination led me down this path as a kid.
And also as a kid, I was always rebellious.
I was the youngest of four, so I was influenced by my older brothers listening to a lot of
classic rock, gangster rap and stuff like that.
And with just a rebellious kid, never liked authority.
It was always an independent thinker.
And then so when I started smoking cannabis and doing psychedelics and all that kind of
stuff around 13, 14.
Oh, what a young.
Yeah, that's a whole other thing too.
And while I was doing that, I was listening to a lot of underground hip hop that spoke
about a lot of this stuff.
And so it was just all came together at that moment, you know, 13, 14, I started listening
to the stuff, having experiences and already had previous experiences as a child.
And so I really started digging into the stuff through books, through articles, through documentaries.
And another experience actually real quick that led me on this path as a young person
was when my grandpa, who used to be a pastor, told me that he had seen a UFO and I was about
eight years old.
And he was always off in the corner, you know, smoking cigarettes ever since I was a kid
to this day.
Still love smoking his cigarettes off in the corner.
And that was always like a running meme for us, you know, like, oh, there's grandpa, you
know, just smoking his cigarettes.
And I never understood why he was, you know, always out to him, always off with himself.
And so one day when I was like eight years old, I asked him, you know, like, hey, grandpa,
like, why are you always smoking cigarettes and looking at the sky?
And he told me the reason was because he had seen a UFO and he was always kind of wanting
to see another one.
And he was always questioning existence and everything because of that.
And so I remember asking him, knowing that he used to be a pastor and that we grew up
in a religious family, well, then what do you think about God?
And he kind of just took a drag and looked up at the sky and said, I don't know.
And so that kind of blew my mind as a kid, you know, being in a religious family and
all this and that.
Now the possibility of aliens was real.
So I've had a lot of weird experiences throughout my life.
And again, just just getting into it as a young person, researching, reading, I've been doing
this ever since, you know, pretty much all my life, but more specifically the past 15
years.
And again, my name is Eddie, but I go by esoteric Eddie online.
But that incarnation as an artist is only about a year and a half old.
I've only been doing this for about a year and a half under that name.
My YouTube channel, my books, all that pretty much launched at the beginning of 2022.
Prior to that, I had other incarnations as an artist, different names, different projects.
And so I've always been trying to get this information out as an artist through different
ways, but it's just redefined.
And now through esoteric Eddie, through that name, through that brand, everything's kind
of been finally, you know, being received well and gained some popularity and stuff
like that.
And it's just, it's been awesome to see where it's, where it's, you know, flourish and how
it's blossomed.
Yeah.
I watched your documentary about Lucifer this morning, which was wild.
It's a great documentary, by the way.
And it's crazy how like all this stuff from psychedelics to the different translations
of all these religions, you know, come to be, and there's so many different translations.
It's like, it's, it's easy to get sort of like lost in the sauce of what is what and
all the different interpretations of it and how it relates to history and, and, you know,
it just, to me, it seems like there is just a variety of different cultures who interpret
things that just happen in the world, possibly a different way, such as like the floods and
stuff like that.
Yeah, man.
Yeah.
So what I'm here to talk about is pretty much my newest book, which is On Consciousness.
But before we get into that, I want to talk about my other two books, which is The Lucifer
Mystery Revealed and The Anunnaki Theorem.
And that's kind of like my expertise in the truth or community, if you will.
You know, a lot of my friends and the people in the community come to me for information
on like ancient religions and ancient cultures.
So that's what I do.
I kind of deconstruct and deprogram institutional narratives of religion and, and now consciousness.
And, but I approach everything from a neutral, unbiased, you know, perspective pretty much
just like a historian.
Yeah, it's funny.
How come the history channel is like synonymous with talking about the Anunnaki?
I just don't hear about it from like my crazy stoner friends, but now it's just like, it's
like mainstream conversation for people who watch cable TV.
Yeah.
And it wasn't always like that.
Like the funny thing is too, like I remember being a kid and my grandpa was always watching
unsolved mysteries.
Like that was like ancient aliens before ancient aliens, you know, unsolved mysteries.
That's all they really had.
It was always the same stories like the Betty and Barney Hill story of the first UFO abduction.
And so I remember, I remember being a kid, like watching that stuff too.
But to your point, I was talking about the Anunnaki stuff like that way before ancient
aliens, the TV show.
I was like a freshman or even an eighth grade, like talking about the stuff because I'd come
across the work of Zechariah Sitchin who made all this possible through his books in
the 1970s.
But I was talking about this stuff and trying to educate my friends and they always thought
I was crazy.
Like, man, you're fucking crazy, whatever.
But I remember being in ninth grade sitting on my friend's couch, smoking cannabis, you
know, just chilling.
And then the first episode of ancient aliens airs and I was just freaking out like, what?
Like, yo, I started calling everybody over to the living room like, yo, this is the stuff
I've been trying to tell you about.
So I remember that moment and I stopped watching after like the second season when I saw the
agenda or whatever.
And yeah, it's just, it's a money machine now and they kind of play the same narrative.
And so in my book, the Anunnaki theorem, I kind of just looked at everything through
my own perspective, through a clear perspective.
Do you think, what do you think it had more to do with your interest, your early interest
in this stuff?
Was it, like you said, trying psychedelics at a super young age or was it your early
indoctrination into religion and your religious family?
I think it was the indoctrination part.
You know, that's where it all started.
Like one of my earliest memories, one of the earliest core memories that I have, I must
have been like four or five or something.
I remember my mom dropping me off at the kid section at a Catholic school or Catholic
church.
And I remember walking into this auditorium or whatever and I was small, so everything
looked bigger to me.
So I remember walking in there and being just like overwhelmed by how big the room was.
And then there was this huge painting of Jesus just staring over us.
And I remember just freaking out like, who is this guy?
You know, and so like that image just like was in my mind.
And then when I, as I grew and learned the teachings and everything, so it all started
with religion and specifically with my, you know, authorities and elders telling me that
the devil was real and that demons were real.
So as a young kid, I thought demons and the devil were real and like they were out to
get me and stuff like that.
And that played a huge part in how I viewed the world and played a huge part in my fear
and in my traumas.
But as I, as I said, I was always rebellious too.
So I never liked authority.
And so that rebellion is what saved me because I always thought for myself, you know, like
I remember listening to Pink Floyd and Bob Marley and stuff like that when I was like,
you know, third grade, you know, so I had that rebellious and like independent spirit.
And so when I came across these books and these videos and stuff and like eighth grade,
ninth grade, it just shattered everything and it all made sense in that moment.
Like, oh, wow, I could see it.
I could see like all the indoctrination and everything.
There's something about religion is that when we're young and you get, it's forced on you.
Like when I was young, I was, my parents dropped me and my brother off at Sunday school and
we would have to go to church and stuff like that.
And it was just like, you know, when you go home and you start listening, you see like
Black Sabbath and Marilyn Manson on TV, like this is way fucking cooler.
But like when you get older, people start generally, I feel like people start to accept
it more or understand it more and embrace it more.
But there's like a, there's something that happens, like as we age, where we kind of
we understand it better and we're not so opposed to it or inclined to rebel against it.
I feel like maybe it's something like we get closer to, we're getting closer to death.
Maybe that has something to do with it.
Like we're not, because we're getting closer to death, it's kind of like, it's not a closed
loop, right?
There's like, it's an open loop.
So we're not sure what's going to happen.
So it's, it's easier to sort of like accept it, maybe.
Yeah.
Well, it's part of the human process.
You know, we've been worshiping things since the beginning and it's, it's all been developing.
And that's kind of part of what I'm going to talk about today is, is how this idea of
worship and God has developed over the millennia.
It just became, it's just gotten more and more complex and in some cases for the wrong reasons.
So we've always had to cope with death and stuff like that.
And I feel like way back in the day when we were more primitive, we had, we had a much
more healthy relationship with that.
It was much more beautiful and more accepted.
And it was like, we accepted it.
It was beautiful.
But like now we have all this like weird religious stuff and weird like laws and morals and
ethics that get in the way.
But I think actually that we're starting to move away from the Abrahamic faiths in a, in
a sense, not that they're not good for us, but it's just that we're starting to see that
there's so much more to life.
And that's also part of what I'm going to talk about today.
In my third book, which is about consciousness, it's like we can view life through these Abrahamic
religions, but they're just very specific set of perceptions and philosophies.
And there's a whole another life outside of all of that.
Do you think that God and angels are just aliens?
I mean, to a certain extent, I used to believe that a lot when I first got into this stuff,
like 13, 14.
And the reason being is because of Zachariah Sitchin, you know, he's, if you don't know,
it's a Zachariah Sitchin.
He's the guy who brought all of this Anunnaki stuff to the forefront in the 70s, you know,
he, he wrote the first books on the Anunnaki.
And so another word, in other words, without Zachariah Sitchin, there would be no ancient
alien TVs, there probably would be no Billy Carson's, none of that, you know, at all,
you know, without him or Eric Von Daniken.
So I read his books and he was a prolific biblical scholar, too.
You know, you could say like he, he didn't try to disprove the Bible.
He tried to like bring even more veracity to it.
But saying that, you know, we're looking at it in a, in a skewed way.
He's the one who said that these angels and these beings are actually these ancient
astronauts and stuff like that.
So and his books are fascinating.
They're very detailed.
He goes hard or whatever.
But I have my own critiques about him and like most people do after they read his works
after many, many years.
So I kind of just like put all his stuff to the side and kind of looked at all this stuff
myself and for what it is and came to my own conclusions.
But to answer your question, are angels and demons just aliens?
I mean, we could perceive them that way.
But I go further than that, further than that.
And I say that these archetypes never really existed.
And that's what my first book is about, The Lucifer Mystery Revealed.
You think they were just sort of stories that were told to keep society in line,
just to be like, here's the difference between good and bad.
In order for us to operate as a society, don't kill, don't steal, don't rape people.
Like that's not a good way to live.
And you develop these stories that people can read and become fascinated by.
And even whether you know it's whether you believe in it or not, it's still sort of
a way for society to operate sort of like boundaries.
Yeah, basically, in simple, but it's it's more complex than that.
And I guess we can kind of just get into it.
Let me explain why it's more complex.
And the reason it's complex is because the three Abrahamic faiths, Judaism,
Christianity, Islam, they're all based on even more ancient mythologies.
And they've kind of just borrowed these mythologies for their own purposes.
And monotheism, primarily through Judaism first, was created for the purpose
of of controlling the populace.
And so that's a simple way to put it.
But let me let me give you some deeper examples.
And also, apart from that, a lot of this religious stuff
has just come about through mistranslations, misinterpretations and exaggerations.
Charlatans.
Charlatans as well.
And for example, Lucifer, right?
So Lucifer plays a huge role in Christianity and in just in Western
pop culture, this, this and that, right?
You know, the occult loves Lucifer, the Christians abhor Lucifer.
But Lucifer never existed in the Bible.
And the reason why we created that archetype was because we had misunderstood
and mistranslated the Hebrew text.
So the entire world learned about Lucifer through one verse in the Torah,
which is Isaiah 1412.
And that's the famous verse that goes, oh, Lucifer, how art thou fallen, etc., etc.
And we we translated the word Lucifer into the English as an uppercase,
noun, a name with the with the big L.
But we got the English from the Latin.
And the Latin is where the word Lucifer is first shown to us because it's a Latin
word comprised of two root words, Lucis, light and fere, which means to bring or to
hold. And that's where the occult got the idea of Lucifer being the light bearer
or light bringer. But we got the Latin version from the Greek version.
And in the Greek, where we would see Lucifer, we would see the word phosphorus,
which is equivalent to the Greek Latin, or sorry, which is equivalent to the Latin
Lucifer, which means light or fire or quite.
But we got all of those from the Hebrew, which which is Helel Ben-Shahar.
And Helel Ben-Shahar means Helel, son of Shahar.
And the word Helel means bright or shiny.
And so that's where we got Lucifer, son of the morning, Helel Ben-Shahar.
Because Shahar also means morning.
Right? Okay, yeah.
But there's a reason why that is used in the Torah.
Isaiah was a royal prophet and a royal scribe, and he was writing during the
time of the Babylonian exile when the Babylonians were descending upon the
kingdom of Judah and taking them all into captivity.
And so he was writing a prophecy about the downfall of the Babylonians, saying
that they are like Helel Ben-Shahar.
Helel Ben-Shahar was actually a Canaanite deity belonging to an old
mythology before Judaism.
And in that mythology, Helel was a younger God who tried to rise to the throne,
but failed.
But it gets even deeper.
The word Helel, the Greek word phosphorus, the Latin word Lucifer are all
words that could be used to describe or denote Venus.
And Venus is the brightest celestial object in the sky, preceding the sun.
Right.
And so Helel was another version of an ancient
Canaanite deity known as Ahtar.
And Ahtar was a male rendition of the female Ahtarte, who was also Ishtar, who
was also Inanna.
And all of these goddesses were also represented by the star or the symbol
of Venus.
And so Isaiah was prophetically and poetically saying that the Babylonians
are like Venus.
They are like Helel.
They think they are something bright and shiny, but they will soon be
overshadowed by God or the sun.
The sun, yeah.
So that's what he was really saying.
So the early Christians kind of looked at this and were like, oh, wow, like
he's talking about some person named Lucifer, but we totally just took that
and ran with it and exaggerated it.
And so there never was a Lucifer.
And so we took that, ran with it.
And primarily.
So we said there never was a Lucifer.
Well, they mentioned Lucifer and what the L wasn't capitalized, meaning it
wasn't a person.
Yeah.
So what, it was a symbol.
Well, Lucifer is a Latin word and it was a, it was the translation of Helel Ben
Shahar.
So there never was a Lucifer character.
And when I say there's, there never was a Lucifer character.
What I mean is there was never this right hand angel that was the leader of
some choir who rebelled against God and then was cast down to earth.
That's the whole Lucifer mythos.
That was put together over hundreds of years by Christians, but it all started
with the mistranslation of what Isaiah was saying.
Oh, okay.
So Helel Ben Shahar was a source of, of what we created.
Yeah.
And it's kind of like, okay, so what, but the reason that's important is because
if you, if you break down what Isaiah was doing, then it kind of opens up a
whole other discussion because what he was doing was he was referencing even
older Canaanite mythologies.
And this is what this whole Anunnaki thing is based off of.
The whole Anunnaki thing is based off of the fact that Judaism, which is
basically the first Abrahamic religion is all based off of the Anunnaki tales.
And, um, I can give you, I can give you an even crazier example.
For example, um, in Genesis 126, right, when man is being created, you
can open up any English Bible to this day and go to Genesis 126 and it will
read and God said, let us make man in our image after our likeness.
And there is plurality there.
If you were to ask any theologian or whatever and be like, you know, why is
there a plurality there?
They would give you some cute answer like that's God talking to himself or God
talking to Jesus or whatever, but that's not the truth.
The reason there's plurality there is because the word that was using in the
Hebrew text, the original was not God.
The word that was used was Elohim.
And Elohim is a plural word, meaning the powerful ones.
So if you go back and read Genesis 126 with that in mind, now you're reading
the powerful ones said, let us make man in our image after our likeness.
So who are the powerful ones?
Well, the powerful ones are the Anunnaki.
And the reason that that is so and how we know that is because the people
who wrote the Bible, they were from the Middle East.
You know, they lived in that area.
They lived closer in time to the Babylonians, to ancient Sumerians and all that.
So the Sumerians were their ancestors.
They knew those tales by heart.
You know, for example, the Sumerian Anuma Alish was reenacted every year in Babylon
at the Akitu New Year Festival.
So these were their ancestors.
They knew these tales.
They implemented them into their new religion.
What is the Anuma Alish?
The Anuma Alish is the Sumerian cosmological tale, the tale of how the universe was created.
OK. And there's a I get into that in my book, the Anunnaki Theorem.
And also real quick, if anybody's interested to learn more, I have free
documentary versions of both my Lucifer book and the Anunnaki book on my YouTube
channel that you can check out.
But yes, what I'm saying is the Bible, the Torah, whoever wrote it, and we still
aren't even clear on as to who wrote, really wrote it, whoever wrote it was
writing it with the Anunnaki stories in mind and not just their stories in mind,
but a lot of the other religions around them in mind.
And when we look at the text, they're still fascinating.
You know, for example, the oldest piece of literature known to us right now is
the Sumerian text known as the Keshe Temple hymn.
And it's a strange text.
It's about, I don't know, something somewhere around 4,000 to 3,000 years old.
But it's a strange text.
When you read it, it's basically just these gods and they call them the Anunnaki
in the text, these Anunnaki putting together some kind of ritual or ceremony.
That's all it is.
It's like they're like getting these like instruments and like these smoking devices
or whatever, and they're like putting together a ritual.
And this is one of the, this is the oldest text known to humanity.
So it's like, what is that about?
You know, and so in my book, I conclude that these people, these Anunnaki,
weren't aliens, they weren't interdimensional travelers.
I don't doubt that possibility.
But the reason I think that is because if we read the text for what it is,
they tell you what's going on.
And so right alongside the Keshe Temple hymn, we have the Enky and World Order
text, which is just as old, one of the Enky and World Order.
Yeah, the Enky and World Order text.
And what it is, is the God Enky constructing society.
He's kind of like appointing all these other gods to their positions in society.
Like, OK, you're going to take care of this farm.
You're going to take care of agriculture and this, this and that.
And in the text, he also devises the calendar.
And so if you're reading this, you would think that they're doing this for the first time,
that these are the magical gods of creation, you know, creating everything.
But what tells me that this isn't them creating this for the first time is,
is a simple passage in the text where it is said that Enky noticed that there
were these nomads on the outskirts known as the Martu nomads.
And he noticed that they were, that they were without resource.
And so that he hooked them up with resource, whatever, like a house, some animals.
And so if these are supposed to be the gods of creation, who are these
Martu nomads on the outskirts, right?
So I'm reading this as if these beings are reconstructing society, you know,
they're having to reconstruct everything and build everything from the ground up.
And on the outskirts, there are these disenfranchised people.
So if we look at anthropology, geography and all that stuff,
we know that there have been cataclysms in recent history.
Right.
And so we don't need to go deep into that.
But so what I think is that these beings were just survivors.
They were survivors of the cataclysms, and they were savvy and clever enough
to rewrite themselves in history as the gods.
And the Sumerians were when were when
was the ancient Sumerians?
When were they?
Approximately like 4500 B.C.
4500 B.C. OK.
So like I so I believe that the most recent world ending cataclysm
was the younger, driest impact hypothesis, which was 12,500 years ago, roughly.
Yeah. Yeah, man.
So it wasn't that long ago.
It really wasn't.
Our current timeline is like 7000 years.
You know, all the entire history of humanity on this globe right now,
or flat earth, whatever you believe, is only 7000 years old.
Like that's puny, you know, and to think that that's all we've ever known
is is arrogant because we already know that's not true.
Because we have places like Gobekli Tepe that are like 9000 to 14000 years old.
So there was obviously civilization before this current 7000 years.
Right. And it's crazy that the that the people don't take it seriously.
Like it's it's still considered not mainstream.
It's like underground sort of like, you know, it could be classed as like
can some people classify it as conspiracy.
But there's like this war going on between like people on YouTube
researching it and people like Randall Carlson, Graham Hancock.
And then fucking colleges like people at colleges who like or people
who throughout history have like written books and been published about this stuff
and have, you know, they don't like to be have their ideas challenged.
Yeah, man, I'm kind of in the middle of all of it.
You know, I'm just kind of just reporting it all as like a historian.
I try to look at it all from an unbiased, neutral standpoint.
And so like getting back to the Lucifer stuff,
because this is just one part of what I want to talk about.
You know, this is the first book that I dropped.
But I just wanted to lay the groundwork for what I'm really going to get
for what I'm really going to get into, which is consciousness and the simulation theory.
But what we need to understand is that, for example, these religions, man,
they're they're built off of fallacies, you know, in some cases lies.
But a lot of times they're just based off of human error.
For example, this whole Lucifer thing, Lucifer never existed.
You know, Isaiah was referencing an old Canaanite myth
and he was using it poetically to talk about the downfall of the Babylonians.
But it was the early Christian writers like Oregon Adamantius,
specifically in the second century AD or common era who took this and ran with it
and exaggerated it and just been exaggerated ever since.
You think it's like the game of telephone over like history?
Yeah, man, it was definitely like telephone.
And it was mostly just human error.
Like we just weren't understood.
You know, it was a bunch of it was a bunch of
Hellenistic Jews and Greeks.
Yeah.
Looking at I wonder if it was air, if it was an intentional error.
I don't think so.
Like Oregon Adamantius, he was one of the dudes who like first looked at this
and like created this archetype of Lucifer.
And he was a wild dude.
He was later deemed a heretic because of his writings.
He was really wild, like the way he thought about things.
But this didn't go unnoticed.
For example, Martin Luther, the famous, you know, reformist, he spoke about this
and he spoke about how there was never a Lucifer.
He was smart enough to read this with the historical context in mind.
As I'm explaining, like Isaiah was he's an ancient dude who was closer
to his ancestors, the Sumerians, but the early Christians were just so fanatical
and reading it from their mind state of the New Testament or whatever.
But this didn't go without this didn't go unnoticed.
You know, Martin Luther, he picked up on it like, oh, there's no Lucifer.
This is an error.
Like we're reading this wrong, you know, and even the occultist, the famous
occultist like Eliphis Levy or Helena Blavatsky.
Who are huge players in the occult, the modern occult, they knew this too.
But still, even though they knew that, they still played on the Lucifer
archetype and philosophy and blew it up and which just made things even worse.
Because it is a beautiful philosophy.
If you think about it, you know, Lucifer being this bright angel who fell
and all he's trying to do is give us knowledge and an upgrade our consciousness.
You know, that's the whole story.
But we're just putting all these puzzle pieces together that never really never
initially were meant to be put together.
He was trying to upgrade our consciousness.
Yeah. So is he telling us to do drugs?
Basically. Yeah.
Really?
Well, basically, because so you have Isaiah's verse with Hillel Ben-Shahar.
And then Christians like to couple that with the Garden of Eden story,
which there's no there's no similarity there at all.
There's no connection.
You know, they're just always piecing these different things together.
So they'd like to take that and the Garden of Eden and use it as evidence
for their being Lucifer archetype.
But in the Garden of Eden story, we find this being called the serpent, right?
And in the word used, and it's always about the word.
That's a thing these Christians don't understand is like we have to look at
the Hebrew, Middle Eastern contextual history and the word and everything.
The word that was used instead of serpent or, you know, originally was Nakash.
And Nakash is a double meaning word.
It can mean serpent, but it can also mean wise one.
And the whoever wrote the Bible, they did a lot of this on purpose.
They used a lot of words that could be playful and there was a surface level
understanding and a more mystical esoteric understanding.
So the word Nakash again means serpent and wise.
And that person, as I relate in my book, if there ever was a Lucifer,
who was a fallen angel who tried to like uplift us, it was that person.
And in the Garden of Eden story, of course, a serpent, you know,
tries to convince Eve to eat this apple or whatever it is, you know,
consume this drug so that we will become like gods.
That's what the Bible says, you know, eat of this, you will become like gods.
And when we did eat it, again, in the Bible, there is a plurality.
After we eat it, God says they have become like one of us.
Go back, open your Bible and I don't know what verse that is, but it's in Genesis
one, God says they have become like one of us.
And again, if you know, if you understand the ancient historical
context, who they were talking about, these us were the Anunnaki.
Because that was the first religion, the first religion on earth, according
to the current seven thousand year timeline, the first religion,
the first gods were the Anunnaki.
Those who, those were who our ancestors worshiped.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about
our sponsor, Verso.
Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know
how obsessed I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite
guests to have on the show is nutritional scientist and neuroscientist,
Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this stuff.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold a potential to increase longevity.
The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells or old damage
cells that linger beyond their useful life.
These zombie cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging
process, causing things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer,
dementia, and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy,
meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with
new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a powerful
blend of cynolytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup
processes like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health,
supporting lower inflammation and natural cardio protective functions.
While boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermidine, lutolyn, and
dehydrocorsatin, which play key roles in the control of gene expression and
are essential for cell growth and proliferation, specifically when it
comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function, skin health, vision,
and the immune system.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to
save 15% on your order.
I linked it all below.
Now back to the show.
So all of that got condensed into one God as I can get into, but getting
back to the garden of Eden real quick, Enki, the Sumerian God, he has always
been known as the, the wise serpent.
His symbol was always that of a snake or a serpent.
And he's, he's always been known as the God of knowledge and wisdom.
For example, Henry, Sir Henry Rawlinson, who was considered the father of a
syriology, the guy, he started studying all the stuff after we pulled it out of
the ground in the 1800s.
He concluded that it's clear to our ancestors that Enki was the God of
wisdom and the God of the serpent and the snake.
So again, whoever wrote Genesis was compacting all of this ancient mythology
into this simplified version.
And that's important.
It's important because it's, it's a maybe deliberate erasure of our history, of
who we really are, where we really come from.
Especially when we look at how monotheism was formed.
And I'll get into that a little bit right now.
So monotheism came forth through Judaism primarily.
Some people will say it started with Akhenaten and the Sun worship or whatever.
But primarily it started with Judaism and it all started with Abraham.
Right.
So all three of the Abrahamic religions, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, they all
claim that, that Abraham was the patriarch, the father of all of these religions.
So without Abraham, you wouldn't have the seed or the bloodline or the lineage of
any of these religions.
Okay.
So it all starts with him, right?
And if you open up the Bible and read Abraham's story, you learn that Abraham and
his father, his family were from Or-Kazdim of the Chaldees.
So, and there's a lot of debates within academia as to where it is.
Where was he really born?
You know, was it this or or was it this or?
And what's interesting about that is or was the capital of Sumer, which is modern day
Iraq.
Right.
So the Bible is telling us possibly that Abraham was from Sumer.
And the Bible tells us that prior to Abraham, his father, Tara, worshiped other gods.
We are told this in the Bible, in Joshua 24 specifically.
We are told that Abraham's father worshiped other gods.
So this whole idea of this one God was new with Abraham.
And who were these other gods?
Well, if we look back in history and listen to our ancestors, they tell you who these
other gods were.
They were the Anunnaki by name.
They say that.
And and Inki, so was Inki Lucifer?
Yeah, basically, yes.
He was.
Yeah.
And Inki had a brother, right?
Yeah.
And Lil and Lil and Inki.
And what was the difference between those two?
So Enki means Lord of Earth.
And then Enlil means Lord of the command.
And basically Enki was this more whimsical God who was always kind of creeping behind
the other gods back to to impart knowledge on us, impart wisdom on us.
He had an admiration for us, whereas Enlil was very vindictive and he didn't like us.
And he wanted to drown us in their flood story as well.
But it was Enki in the Sumerian version who went against his brothers back and warned
us about the flood.
So there was always this like contention between the brothers having to do with us.
OK, so back to Lucifer.
Yeah.
So so there was no Lucifer per se, you know, but again, if there ever was a Lucifer, it
was Enki in the contextual story of the Garden of Eden.
You know.
And so that's just important to know because it just shows how as humans, we can take
something and exaggerate it and create this whole thing out of it.
I mean, there's a TV show now called Lucifer.
Right.
You know, it's popular TV show is all these things, man.
And it all started with just a misunderstanding.
The crazy, like I mentioned before we started the podcast, that guy, John Marco
Allegro, who spent most of his life, he was a linguist studying this stuff, studying
the debt. I think he spent a few decades just studying the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And if I'm not mistaken, the Dead Sea Scrolls were like the original source of
everything, right?
Kind of sort of.
So the Dead Sea Scrolls, we found them in the 1940s.
And what makes them interesting is that they have some of the oldest versions of
some of the stories in the Bible.
Right.
OK.
Some of the oldest remaining versions.
And where did the Dead Sea Scrolls come from?
I always get those mixed up with the Nakamadi Library.
But it was because I think the Nakamadi were found, they were found at the same
time and they both have like very ancient and weird versions of the Bible.
But I think the Nakamadi was found in Egypt and then the Dead Sea Scrolls were
found somewhere also in between the Middle East and Egypt.
But I don't know exactly.
Yeah.
But what John Marco Allegro came up with after all of those years of studying
those Dead Sea Scrolls and deciphering them, you know, because it's such a
it's such a sketchy thing when you're actually trying to decipher the words
and figure out the meanings.
Yeah.
And that's what this guy's specialty was.
And basically what he concluded was, was that these religions were ancient
fertility cults and that they were consuming loads of psychedelics.
Yeah, man.
And there's a lot of that, you know, for sure.
The Nakamadi.
What is this?
The, the Kerbet Kwanram.
Khumran.
Khumran.
Dead Sea Scrolls are ancient manuscripts that were discovered between 1947 and 1956
and 11 caves near Kerbet Kwanran.
Khumran.
Khumran.
Dyslexia as a bitch on the Northwestern shores of the Dead Sea.
Okay.
They are approximately 2000 years old, dating from the third century BC to the
first century CE, BCE to the first century CE.
They, they have very strange versions, along with like the, the Dead Sea Scrolls
too, or sorry, the Nakamadi library, which are the, the Gnostic texts, the
very psychedelic.
But again, these were just, these were just people basing their versions off
of other versions and just off of mythologies that go all the way back to
the Anunnaki.
And what were those ancient tablets that Billy Carson was telling me about?
I did watch the video, but it's been a while.
You're telling me he went to a play, a library where he was able to actually
look at and read some ancient clay tablets.
I don't know what he's referring to, but, but we uncovered Sumer in the 1800s.
So prior to the 1800s, we, we didn't know about Sumer.
Sumer was already forgotten.
There were some references to it in like Assyrian and Babylonian texts.
And it was known in the Bible as Shinar.
But in the 1800s, we found it in Iraq and started digging up all these clay
tablets.
And to this day, it's been reported that we've found about like half a million
if we're being conservative.
But even out of that half a million, only like maybe 10% if that has been
circulated throughout the public.
And so these clay tablets are, are, they're texts from our ancestors talking
about these Anunnaki and these beings and some other clerical and boring stuff too.
But what I want to get into, if we can, to kind of just shift is monotheism and
how that came about and how it was based off of the Anunnaki as well.
Okay.
So monotheism, again, it all pretty much started with Judaism, right?
That's where this idea of Yahweh, the one single God came from.
But Judaism was formulated not that long ago.
It all formulated around 500 BC, around there, 500 to 600 BC.
And it came about after the Babylonian exile, which was a true occurrence in history.
So what happened is the Babylonians descended upon all the neighboring kingdoms
and started subjugating and taking the elite captive.
They didn't take any of the common folk, just the elite, that was their practice.
Take the elite captive and hold them or whatever.
And during that Babylonian exile, the elite, they were, they were mingling, you
know, they were being influenced by what was going on around them, right?
And what happened was King Cyrus, the Persian, he came through and he destroyed
the Babylonians and luckily King Cyrus was tolerant towards other religions.
So after he freed the Jews, he said, you can go back home if you want or you can
chill here.
And some of the Babylon, some of the Jewish priests decided to stay.
And that's when the Babylonian Jewish priesthood began in Babylon.
So there's two different priests.
And then some of the other ones went back home.
But prior to the Babylonian exile, the Jews were losing their way.
They were losing their footing.
They were, they were reverting back to their polytheistic roots and the Anunnaki
worship. And we're told this in, I believe, Jeremiah.
In Jeremiah, we are told who was a prophet.
He was alive during that time.
We are told that the Jews, the people, the Israelites were reverting back to the
days of their fathers and that they are worshiping as many gods as there are
street names, as there are streets.
So they were reverting back to the Anunnaki worship.
So because of that, they weren't fortified.
They weren't unified.
Everything was just, just a mess.
And that's why they were easily, easily controlled and taken over by the Babylonians.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
And so during the Babylonian captivity, the, the priests, the elite were like, man,
we can't let this ever happen again.
How are we going to like, you know, come together?
And the Bible tells us how this comes about.
The Bible tells us why the Torah was written.
We are told that the prophet Ezra was given command by Arduxerxes, one of the kings of
Persia to go back to his kingdom, to go back to his people and give them a new law, a new
law to follow.
And that new law was the Torah, the Old Testament.
And the reason they did that was so that they can control them, put them together, be
unified.
So basically, monotheism, Judaism came about after the Babylonian exile as a way to do
away with the Anunnaki worship, to do away with polytheism.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
That's incredible.
So it was a way to basically have security against people taking over your town.
Yeah.
Keep everyone together, unified under one God.
Yes.
Not divided.
Yeah.
That's wild, man.
Yeah.
And it gets crazier real quick.
So Judaism is all based off of the worship of Yahweh.
That's his name, right?
Yahweh.
But what's interesting is that the worship of Yahweh historically goes further back than
the Jews.
The earliest inscription of Yahweh that we have is actually found in the Sinai Peninsula.
And there was a band of these nomads known as the Shasu who were worshiping Yahweh in
the Sinai Peninsula.
And we know this because there's an Egyptian text that we found where I think it's
Amenhotep the third.
He subjugated some of these Shasu and took them in as slaves.
And he claims that these are the Shasu of Yahweh.
And there are inscriptions in the Sinai that state, you know, this is our God, Yahweh,
and his consort, Asherah.
So these Shasu were worshiping multiple gods.
To them, Yahweh was just a part of their polytheistic pantheon.
And that's interesting because in the Bible, the first time the name Yahweh is given to
us is in Exodus to Moses in the Sinai Desert.
So the Bible is also reflecting history.
The Bible is telling us that the name Yahweh, this one God was given to Moses in the Sinai
Desert, where these people were already worshiping Yahweh.
And so it's just more proof, more proof that all of this is just based off of the
Anunnaki worship, the Anunnaki mythology, and it was just slowly fortified, slowly
perfected until after the Babylonian exile, when they, when all of those kingdoms were
gone anyway, where they said, you know what, let's take all of this and let's create our
own thing, our own kingdom, our own religion, and let's go forward.
Because at that time, the Sumerian kingdom was already well, was way gone.
The Akkadian kingdom was gone.
The Babylonians had just fell.
The Assyrians were gone.
So all that was left really were the Jewish, the Jews and some of the neighboring
kingdoms and then the encroaching Greeks.
And then slowly through time, after that all fell, it was the Christian empire and the
Jewish empire.
Everything else had already pretty much crumbled.
Right.
And at that time, the Christians utilized the same blueprint because they were dealing
with the pagan religions.
All the pagan religions, this, this and that.
So they said, you know what, let's, you know, get rid of all of that and let's just all
make it one thing, Christianity.
And what they did is they created a power shift.
They said, instead of having to go through Jesus, you know, to find God, you have to
now go through the Catholic church.
They created a mediation, you know, because before the original Christians, they
didn't go to these big churches or anything like that.
They just worship together, communal.
They were hippies.
But the church came through and stamped its boot and said, no, now you have to go
through us.
We are the mediators between heaven.
I wonder who the first person to come up with the church was.
Yeah.
Well, technically, they say it was the first church.
It was, I believe in Syria.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But technically Paul was like the first one.
Paul was the first one who created, he's the one who created the Catholic church or
the church.
And then after him were the apostolic fathers who followed after him in line.
Kind of the same way that the Jews do with the rabbis.
There was like an original rabbi and ever since him, it's been like a secession.
Right.
But basically all this stuff, man, all of this stuff is just based off of the
Anunnaki.
It's just based off of the Anunnaki and it's slowly just morphed and changed and
condensed and become centralized.
And here we are.
Here we are.
I just saw a video the other day of Vladimir Putin, you know, doing some kind of
cold plunge baptism or something.
Cold plunge baptism?
Really?
Yeah.
Something weird like that.
We got to find that.
Yeah.
What was that all about?
I don't know.
I don't know what it was.
You think he knows about the Anunnaki?
Well, what I was going to say is that before he did it, he like did a little
hell Mary cross, you know, because he's Eastern Orthodoxy over there.
Right.
Right.
So I'm just saying, like, this is how pervasive this has become.
Oh, wow.
Look at that.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look at that with a big cross right there.
Look at that.
Is that him?
Oh, who's that guy?
Yeah, that's a big thing in Russia.
Yeah.
And they wear the wool hats when they do it.
They do the cold plunge and the sauna.
It's a big Russian thing.
But it's this is all for Jesus Christ.
Wow, dude, I didn't know this.
Yeah.
So it just shows you how pervasive all of this is.
I mean, religion is still a huge part of our world.
I mean, he's what, you know, one of the leaders of the not so free world with a
finger on the nuclear button.
And here he is still indoctrinated by this stuff.
Could you imagine seeing our president doing the cold plunge?
Oh, man, he probably wouldn't get back up.
We're like, oh, um, yeah, man.
But like, what do you think about the?
What do you think about the fact that the only one people that are talking about
the Anunnaki are people like yourself or the history channel?
I mean, it's weird, man.
I think it'll eventually catch on.
It means to who though?
How would it?
Well, who would it catch on with?
Like it's catching on because it's making money.
Yeah, that's the reason it's catching on.
And that's the reason a lot of people even start thinking about it and reporting
on it or doing things like you're doing.
They get inspired by shit like these shows on the history channel.
So it's not a bad thing that they're making money.
You know, people like, oh, the history channel, they're just fucking, you know,
they're monopolizing this fucking shit and making it more fringe.
But in reality, what they're doing is they're creating an economy around it.
And they're creating more people like yourself who get fascinated by it
and just dive into it and find out even more things about it.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's their focus for the most part is the money, right?
And they're not telling the whole truth because they're always
leading you to those cliffhangers of like, they were aliens and this and that.
And it's like, you know, like, OK, that's fun.
It's entertaining, but like, let's get to the real truth.
Like what's really going on, you know, and that's what I try to do.
And for me, I started doing this because I was indoctrinated.
I was indoctrinated.
Like I'm telling you, like I used to really believe demons were real
and the devil's out to get me and I played a huge role.
You don't think demons are real?
No.
Really? Why not?
Not in the.
Are you sure they're not real?
Well, let me say this.
I don't think they're real in the way that the Christians perceive them to be.
How do you think they could be real?
Well, that's that's what I wanted to get to with my new book, per se,
because I just want to make sure there's nothing else I wanted to say on that
with the Anunnaki and stuff, because we're going to get into like consciousness
and the possibilities of things like that being real.
The reason I say demons are not real is because that's a perspective.
For example, again, with the words, the word demon comes from the Greek word
daemon and daemon never never meant like an evil being.
It was just a word that meant a God, a demigod.
So the daemons were they could be good, they could be bad.
And a lot of times in the.
Who the fuck missed that translation?
A lot of these people.
And why?
They just weren't as we need.
We needed a devil.
I mean, maybe maybe.
OK, here's a lot of this is just human error.
That's what I'm starting to find, man.
That's what I'm starting to find out.
A lot of this is just human error.
Like even in the truth or community, for example, whatever that means,
there's a lot of stuff is still exaggerated.
Like I did a video recently on my channel about the famous Albert Pike letter.
Right. I don't know if you know that is.
But Albert Pike, he was a Confederate general from Arkansas.
And he's the only Confederate general, I think, that has a statue in Washington.
And but he was a Freemason, a very prolific Freemason.
And he wrote like what is considered the Freemason Bible.
It's called The Morals and Dogma.
Right. But there's this there's this rumor that's been circulating for almost
two hundred years now, for almost two hundred years is a rumor that's been
circulating about him having wrote in a letter that predicted World War Three.
Or not just World War Three, but the two World Wars before that.
And that's been a big thing.
And I just recently sat down being, you know, the researcher that I am
and dug into it, like, is this real?
It took me hours, took me hours of digging through and researching, reading
only to find it was never real.
There was never an Albert Pike letter predicting World War One, two or three.
It was, again, a game of telephone.
It all started with with this dude by the name of Leo Taxile,
backing like the eighteen hundreds who started this rumor.
But it never had to do with war.
Is that to do with him and Lucifer?
Again, the whole Lucifer thing.
And slowly over time, it progressed to this thing having to do with the three
World Wars and in the truth of community, people swear by that, you know,
this letter is real, this letter is real, but it's not.
A lot of this stuff is not real.
It's just us playing games with ourselves.
And and that's why I had to write this book about consciousness.
And I didn't mean for these three books to kind of follow each other,
but they kind of just did.
The first book is about Lucifer, how that never existed and how we just kind
of play these games with ourselves and create archetypes.
And we base our lives off of these archetypes.
And in the second book, the Anunnaki theorem is about how money, how
monotheism was formed out of the Anunnaki stories and how it was used
just to control us.
It's all these like petty things, right?
But then outside of all of that, we still exist.
We're still here.
There's still a beautiful life to be had.
There's still there's still an earth.
And so so what's up with all of that?
What's what's up with life outside of these institutions
that we dictate our lives through?
And that's what my third book is about, is just getting
outside of the institutional narratives, you know, not looking at things
through a Christian mindset, a Judaic mindset, an Islamic mindset,
but just as a human.
Now, what is going on?
What is this all about?
And so when I say there are no demons, I mean, that that I don't
believe in demons in the way the Christians think about it, because if
you believe in it in the way they believe it, and then you're just falling
back in line with all of these these fallacies and these different philosophies.
But I do believe I do believe that the paranormal does happen.
I've had experiences in the paranormal.
I've had experiences in the paranormal.
I've seen some weird things.
I've had friends tell me some crazy stories.
And yeah, well, let's get into it.
I'll get into that.
What kind of experiences have you had paranormal?
Well, I've had a lot of experiences as a kid that I thought something was
happening. But to this day, I look back and I'm like, I don't know.
That was probably just my mind playing tricks on me.
But I've also had experiences where even as an adult, I'm like, no,
like that actually did happen.
And I just before or after the 14 year old mushroom trip after.
OK, five minutes after one hour after.
No, no.
Like, for example, as a kid, like I would just have like weird things,
like, you know, hear, hear noises or thought that I saw something.
But I think that was just my mind playing tricks on me because I
like really, really believed demons were around me and shit like that.
You know, I messed with my mind.
And before we get into that, let me tell you a quick story.
The mind does that shit.
Like before we die, the mind like the pineal gland opens up and we fucking
hallucinate before we die.
That's what those near death experiences are.
The studies into those near death experience experiences are about.
Yeah. Yeah.
There was a funny moment in my life where when I realized in full circle
that I was just tripping as a kid because I was having a I was having
a conversation with my nephew who was like, I don't know, like nine or
something at the time.
And he was telling me that he was seeing clowns at night.
And he didn't grow up religious.
You know, he didn't grow up like I did.
He didn't know the Bible or anything.
He was not religious at all.
So but he was telling me like, hey, uncle, like I'm seeing clowns at night.
I can hear them. They're in my closet.
I'm like, you know, typical kid stuff.
And I think at that time is is when the whole clown thing was happening
where people were dressing up as clowns, like 2011 or something.
Do you remember that? Yes, I do remember that. Yeah.
So I think that was messing with his head with his head.
And I just like listening to him that, oh, yeah, what's going on?
Tell me, you know, just playing therapist.
And I'm like, look, listen to me.
And I told them, you know, I'll give him a whole thing.
Like there's no clowns in your closet.
Nothing's going on.
And I gave him the same Bible verse that my mom gave me
when I was a kid and it was Psalm 27.
And it's like this empowering verse about, you know, having confidence or whatever.
But when I was hearing him talk about this, I started laughing,
like not at him, but like internally, like, wow.
Because when I was his age, I thought I was seeing and hearing demons.
But that was my trauma.
That was the thing that I grew up being afraid of.
So it made me realize like how powerful the mind is, how powerful the imagination is.
And we create these things.
So to get into my third book, which is titled The Crystal Lattice Mind Illusion,
I'd like to start with a quote from Carl Jung, right?
But before we get into that, I just want to also recap this whole Sumerian thing.
The reason that's important, again, is just to understand that our entire world,
the entire institutional world that we live in, the corporatocric world that we live in,
which runs off of religion, government, the entertainment business,
all of these different corporatocric industries are based off of just allusions.
They're based off of allusions, narratives.
And that's evident in the history, as I've briefly pointed out
through this Lucifer and Anunnaki monotheism stuff.
So starting this conversation, I'd like to start with the quote that I opened up my book with
with from Carl Jung, the famous psychoanalyst.
And I don't know the exact quote off the top of my head.
But basically what he said was that archetypes are to consciousness.
What the crystal lattice is to the crystal.
And what he's saying is that just as crystals are formulated off of these
microcosmic structures, right?
So is our entire reality constructed of these intricate inner symbolisms.
Basically what he's saying is our entire reality is constructed off of codes.
But the codes to him were archetypes, major and minor.
For example, in tarot, when you pull a tarot card, you're pulling an archetype.
It could be the archetype of the hermit.
And when you pull that card, immediately that card comes packed with all kinds of
philosophies and things and this and that, but it's just a card, just an image.
Right.
And it's the same thing about reality.
He stated that when we are born, our mind is downloads the archetypes of our reality
so that when we're born into this world, we know what a tree is.
We know what a sun is.
And Plato talked about this too in his theory of forms.
Plato talked about the fact that everything in this life is a facsimile from the
source, the original.
For example, there's a sun in the sky and we can draw it.
We can take a picture of it, whatever, but all those representations are
facsimiles of what he called the essence, the sun.
That's the only real sun there is.
And he believed that all of life is like that.
Everything is just a shadow bouncing off of what the mystics of old have always
called the source, heaven.
Time and time again, the mystics have talked about life being like a dream of
shadow coming from somewhere.
And in my book, I talk about the mind illusion.
Now, the mind illusion is the fact that we believe for the most part that we're
just one unit, we're just a body.
I'm just a person.
I'm just Eddie, but that's not true.
Because the body itself is made up of billions of components.
If you want to count all the moving cells and all the intricacies within us,
just the body alone is made up of billions of parts.
But the body is just one part of who we are.
The other part is the mind and even the mind like the body has compartments.
We know this to be true in the conscious and subconscious.
And with that spirit machine that we toggle through in this reality, we have
central reality, central reality is the narrative that is told to us through
the central networks, the central institutions.
And central reality, for example, would be told to us or we would be indoctrinated
through for it or to it through like the TV networks, right?
The TV networks, the health industry, the entertainment industry, the education
industry, the governmental industries, all of these centralized institutions that
make up the globalist network are what dictate the central reality.
So money dictates reality.
That's one part of it.
And sex.
Yeah, yeah, that's one part of it.
But what I'm saying is that there's a central reality that we all agree is true.
Right?
And but we also have our individual reality, the way that we think about
ourselves or the way that we think about life.
Well, how do we fit into that?
Well, it's a crude system, really.
And it's actually a genius system, right?
Because this world is pretty big, actually.
I mean, it's small, but it's as vast, you know, for one person to move around,
right?
So the the rulers that be per se, they in order, like, as I just mentioned,
they have to find clever ways to control us.
And one of the earliest ways they found was religion, right?
So the central reality of Judaism is the Torah, right?
The central reality of our world is the government.
No matter where you're at in the world, the government is always going to be
the core of what regulates everything.
Right.
And that's becoming more and more globalized.
And religious.
And religious.
Politics are becoming religion.
Yeah, exactly.
And so we have that.
Really?
No, yeah.
Like even like there's two religions in the US right now.
It's crazy.
What do you mean?
As in left and right, both sides of politics.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yeah, see, exactly.
So those are central realities.
They're creating like these, but it's all just, again, narratives.
They're just perceptions.
And they're based off of fallacies, illusions.
Yeah, but at the same time, people, we're, we are social animals.
And we like to be grouped into, we like to be in our groups, right?
We feel we, that's how we get security.
There's this pyramid.
This guy explained to me called the creation of a state.
And the way he explained it to me was interesting.
He says there's, there's three main levels to the pyramid.
There's the first layer, which is individualism, right?
Well, we're all out for ourselves.
The second layer is tribalism, where like you and me can be in a group
and those people can be in a group.
We're both in our own tribes.
Maybe I'm a good, I'm a good farmer.
I'm a good gardener and maybe you're a good hunter.
So I'll do the gardening and you'll do the hunting.
You'll bring, you'll share the meat with me and I'll share my vegetables with you.
And we are, we're a tribe.
That way, if this guy tries to come in and club my wife over the head
and steal her, you'll help, you'll help me protect my, my wife, right?
Above that, there's a creation of a state where, you know, now these tribes
become so big, you have to incorporate things like taxes and everyone kind of
throws into a pool to help each other, you know, to run all of the things
that keep our state intact.
And, you know, it's like, that's how society runs.
And it's like we're at the point now where we're too big for our own good, right?
This works up to a certain size, like a small tribe.
It makes sense where you see everybody, you interact with people, you, you,
you each have value to each other, right?
There's trade-offs.
But like right now, we're so fucking enormous.
It's like we have to almost faction off into these smaller tribes, you know,
like politically even.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, we sure, that's the way it should be.
You know, that's the way it used to be.
You know, we used to have our tribes, our little corners, you know, and we were
just friendly or whatever.
But over time, specifically in during the 20th century, the institutions try
to globalize everything and have that monopoly on everything, like just have
that net over everything.
And I have a documentary on my channel about the committee of 300 that shows
a timeline of the globalist philosophy and how that developed and how we got
from like, for example, Cecil Rhodes to Klaus Schwab, you know, how we got
from there to this.
And so these institutions, yeah, they're trying to turn us into something
that we're not naturally.
They're trying to turn us into this one centralized, autonomic, just
governmental one-world system.
When, as you said, that's, that's not how we are natural.
It's not how we act naturally.
You know, we have our family systems and this and that are our family morals,
our realities, but they're trying to make central reality the one thing.
Well, it's also like, it's almost like religion is, is meant for a smaller
group of people.
It's not meant for billions and billions of people.
You know, it's almost like we're too comfortable.
We're, it's, it's too easy for us now with technology, the way technology
has evolved, you know, communicating over social media through a computer,
people staying at home all day, doing meetings through the screen, not
interacting with people.
It's, it's like it's breaking down society almost.
Yeah.
And I don't think that the interconnectivity is like an evil thing.
Like it could be a beautiful thing, you know, and that's like the whole
thing and the truth of the community is like.
No, the interconnectivity is, is the foundation of what we are.
Like that's what we need to be, to thrive and live.
Yeah.
We were like moving out of this Cali Yuga per se and back into a golden age, right?
Like as they say, like the Atlantean age when everything was advanced and
interconnected, like we could live on a very beautiful place where everything
was, was more benevolent and more efficient.
But unfortunately, the people that are running the world, they just don't have
that in mind, you know, like they just, they just want to produce and they want
to keep us as them versus us and stuff like that.
You know, for example, like, like Jeff Bezos, you know, he's got this monopoly
on, on the production system right now and then slowly it's going to probably
become even bigger and bigger until maybe there is just one giant company that
takes care of all the production, you know.
People like him are so, are so weird to me.
Like I understand, like I understand wanting to like have this enormously
successful, maybe just because I've never been there, I don't understand it.
But like I understand like creating Amazon, you know, creating, becoming a
billionaire even, but like to get more ambitious, ambitious than that, like
you're a billionaire, you have more money than anybody else.
Now you want to fucking, you want to monopolize the earth.
Yeah.
Like how do you get there?
Yeah, I can't even fathom that mindset.
In a sense, we've always been like that too.
Like all history shows that there's always been Bezos and guys like
and Klaus Schwab's, you know, like Nimrod, you know, Sargon of Accard.
Like we've always been like that.
Even the Sumerians, the Sumerians were a warring faction.
You know, they were always warring against each other.
We've always had that flaw in us.
But I don't think we're destined to just be that.
I think we're destined to be more than that.
And that's kind of a part of what I'm here to talk about.
But there's something else you mentioned, sorry to interrupt, but there's
something else that you mentioned that I will probably mess up when I regurgitate
it to you, but maybe you can expand on it.
But there was after the gods created us in their likeness, they created us
as like a worker species.
Can you explain that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So even in the Bible, you know, we're told that we were basically made to till the ground.
You know, we were made to take care of the Garden of Eden.
We were made to till the ground to take care of the animals, to take care of God's creation.
But, you know, we mashed it up after, you know, partying with the serpent or whatever.
But again, that's based on the Sumerian tales, because in the Sumerian tales, there's at least
three texts that talk about us being created.
And each of those versions, we're always created through an admixture of their
blood and what is called clay, whatever it is.
And the Bible obviously reflects that with Adam being formed out of the clay.
And so the Sumerians tell us we were created out of an admixture of their blood and clay,
but we are specifically designed, and the texts tell us this, we are specifically designed to
simply just be worshipers and workers of the gods.
They want us to build something?
Yeah, we were, it just, I don't know the exact word, but I'm paraphrasing.
One of the texts says we were meant to basically be there to serve them, like just to serve them
and worship them and appreciate them.
That's pretty much it.
What do you think about that?
I think it's pretty, it's pretty wild, it's kind of weird, you know, and I think it's plausible.
For example, it's plausible because for one thing, whoever the Anunnaki were,
whoever they were, they weren't human by definition, because what a human is, is what we are.
Right.
And even what we are, which science would say, we are Homo sapiens sapiens, which is weird.
Homo sapiens sapiens are a new creation.
We're like, at best like 150 to 200,000 years old in this current skeletal system and
hominid form, but prior to that, we were a whole different thing.
There was a whole different thing.
And you think that whatever we were, the Cataclysm wiped us out and we started over?
Well, what I think is, okay, if we were to go based off of our ancestors,
what I think is that the Homo sapiens sapiens was probably at the very least
like a genetic experiment done through selective breeding, at the very least.
I mean, at the far of the spectrum, you have Zechariah and ancient aliens saying,
yeah, you know, aliens designed us in a lab, but even our ancestral texts in the Sumerian text
tell us that we were created through an admixture of DNA, of the gods and whatever clay was.
And even in anthropology, we are told that the Homo sapiens sapiens is a fairly new creation.
And we haven't been around that long.
So if you take all that together, what I think is, yeah, we're pretty new.
We're pretty new.
And we were probably designed at the very least through a selective breeding,
in the same way that we do with plants.
In the same way we do with plants and even animals.
Like certain dogs weren't around 100 years ago, 200 years ago.
Yeah, the lab or the golden retriever was created by humans.
Yeah.
So it's like we are the slave species that are just here to be born,
work and die and build and create.
And that seems like what we're doing.
Yeah, man.
And that's pretty much all we do, right?
But I don't think that's all we were meant to do.
Like if you think about AI and like the evolution of AI,
all we do is just compete against each other, whether it be through companies or individuals,
we compete to develop better things.
Like look at the iPhone, that's a great example, or consumer electronics.
It's a great example.
Samsung and Apple, they are competing to create more innovative advanced technology
to sell to consumers, right?
And it's just underneath that is just this labyrinth of workers,
whether it be legitimate slaves in China, mining lithium or whatever it is.
And or the people that are sitting behind the desks creating the applications that go on these
phones.
Yeah.
It's like there's a famous quote, I forget who it's from, I forget where I heard it,
but it's always stuck in my mind is that I think it was an AI person who said this,
that we are the sex organs of the machine world.
Yeah, I heard that quote, yeah.
Yeah, actually I wrote an essay for a subtle body press based out here in Florida actually.
Really?
Yeah, and it was titled Technology on the Other Side and it was just about that.
Like we're just bees creating this hyperintelligence.
That's exactly the metaphor I use.
We're like beavers, we're like bees, we're like butterflies, it's in our innate-ness,
our nature to just create technology and we might not even know why.
We don't know why, but we're creating it.
Yeah, and it could be for AI.
And the majority of it too, it's weird to think about it, but if you really distill it down,
it's all about sex and money.
It's reproduction and money, which goes back to fucking sex.
People want money so women will like them and they can fuck.
Yeah, I was going to get into that a little bit here, but yeah, getting back to the consciousness
thing and this kind of goes with it.
We have the consciousness and the subconscious and as you're saying, there's this drive that's
pushing all of this and it's subconscious.
The subconscious is what drives most of this.
And what's interesting is that the subconscious is where the program really begins.
But just to close what I was saying about central reality, we have this central reality.
The governmental globalist institution that tells us what is what, but that's just an illusion.
It's just a program.
And then we have the subconscious program and in the subconscious is where all of the programs
individually or collectively begin.
And we know this because it's difficult for us to change our lives, whether that's eating better
or not doing drugs or whatever it is that you want to do that you feel bad about neglecting
every day.
The reason it's difficult to do those things is because you can't just do it consciously.
You can't just rely on your conscious mind to say, if it was that easy, we would all be
living our high selves.
If it was that easy to just say, I want to do this and I'm going to never do this again.
Then we would, but it's not easy because our subconscious mind is where the program really
is.
That's what Freud was all about.
Right.
He started talking about subconscious mind.
And then his, what was his, and who was Edward Bernays?
I think it was his cousin.
Nephew.
Who's his nephew.
Right.
That was a fascinating documentary from, what was the guy's name?
The BBC guy who did the documentary.
Adam Curtis, all about Edward Bernays and Freud.
I think he did this.
He created this.
He worked for, I think one of the biggest, he created the advertising agency.
He created advertising in America, right?
Consumerism.
And he was doing these focus groups for, I think it was Betty Crocker, I don't remember,
Betty Crocker maybe.
And he was doing focus groups because these cake mixes weren't, they weren't selling,
right?
They were selling these like boxed little instant cake mixes.
And they did a study group with these housewives.
And they were, he was studying their mind and asking them things.
And they were feeling inadequate at home because they didn't feel like they were
contributing enough.
They did, they felt worthless when they were doing, creating this cake because they didn't,
like it's not, like they didn't create it, right?
They felt like they didn't, they didn't contribute enough to it.
So what Bernays thought of for Betty Crocker was, we'll just say on the instructions,
you got to add an egg.
So now they feel like they're making this thing and they felt more fulfilled as housewives.
Yeah.
Such a weird thing about the subconscious mind, how it works and how it sells.
And it all goes back to consumerism and money.
Yeah, it sucks how simple we are, you know.
And even, have you ever seen this show, Westworld on HBO?
I haven't, but I know about it.
There's a great quote in that movie too, where he's talking to the guy who creates Westworld.
He's talking to one of the ladies that worked for him.
And he talks about human consciousness.
And he says, look at the Eiffel Tower.
Look at the Mona Lisa.
Look at Mozart.
And it's, all it is is peacock feathers.
The human consciousness is just an elaborate mating call.
All of these brilliant creations throughout humanity.
That's all it is, peacock feathers.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can see that.
That's pretty amazing.
Um, yeah.
And I get into that into the book too.
It was like, we have these different facets.
And as the ancient texts tell us, like we were designed to just be these simple,
biological AIs who are just here to eat, sleep and fuck, you know.
But I do believe that we can be more than that.
And I'll get into that.
I think that whatever created us, like the Grand Creator, had it in its mission for us
to eventually evolve and upgrade.
And we weren't always meant to just be these little things.
But it's the rulers of the, of this world, the controllers of this world that want us to
stay in that role of simply just reincarnating through Samsara, just to be these little,
you know, biological automatons.
But we're meant to be so much more than that.
And the universe and nature tells us that.
I'll give you an example.
So, so we have the mind illusion part of all of this, right?
Again, so we're, we're not just a body.
We're obviously a mind as well.
But both of those compartments have their own facets too, which are complex.
But apart from the mind illusion, we have the crystal lattice part of this.
Yeah, what is crystal lattice?
So a crystal lattice in physics is basically just the most minute three dimensional unit
that makes up a crystal.
Okay.
So it could look like a cube or like a tetrahedron or something,
but it's just, it's an actual like minute formation of particles, the most minute unit.
Okay.
Right.
And that's what Jung was saying in that, in that quote that I, that I said earlier
about reality is that all of reality, all of reality, the physical reality and the mental
reality is made up of lattices as well.
So it's all a simulation in that sense.
So the crystal lattice part of this physical world is the fact that even nature is built off of these
micro cosmic structures that are systematic and geometric.
For example, we have the Fibonacci sequence, right?
And the Fibonacci sequence was, was founded or presented by Leonardo Fibonacci in his book,
Libre Abacus.
And basically he just came up with this like cool,
a fun equation.
And through that fun equation, he founded the Fibonacci sequence,
which is a sequence of numbers that are the sum of the two previous numbers.
But what scientists found later is that when you input those numbers or that sequence into nature,
we find that all of these natural growth patterns that are around us run off of this system
and they run off of codes, very specific codes.
And, and so nature around us may look like it's flowy or it's random or it's chaotic,
but when we really study nature and how it grows from seed to full form, it's all growing off of
a system of codes, a system of very set rigid codes.
And that's evident in the Fibonacci sequence, but it's also evident in the golden ratio.
And the golden ratio, which is 1.618, is the ratio that all of the Fibonacci sequence numbers
harmonize to.
And when we input the golden ratio, again, into like nature or whatever, we find again
that that equation, that those numbers, that set of numbers and equation is all around us.
It's in our face, it's in our body.
So the human body is weird and oblong as it may seem, for the most part, is actually carefully
designed through these these code systems.
So the moment a woman gets pregnant from conception to being birth, the human baby is
being formed through a system of codes and geometries.
And the example of that would not just be the Fibonacci sequence and those numbers,
but also the fact that when we become an egg, we're like this little circular egg thing.
And then the circular egg duplicates and duplicates, and that's geometry.
Those are sacred, those are sacred geometric symbols.
For example, the flower of life is actually a symbol of that, of the symbol of the egg
duplicating into all these other little circles.
And the fact that it takes a baby exactly nine months, give or take, to be born is another
example of how all of life is based off of systematic numerical codes and geometry.
The codes would be the equations and the numbers and the dates that it takes for things to form.
The geometry would be the abstract final form of what these equations are.
Example again.
Did you find like a diagram of this Fibonacci sequence?
I feel like that would be a good thing to look at while you're talking about this,
because this is hard to wrap my head around.
Yeah, so originally he started off by talking about rabbits mating.
So that is the Fibonacci spiral.
So if you input the Fibonacci numbers or the sequence into nature,
it's going to create that spiral growth pattern.
That first one on the left?
Yeah, so if you input the numbers, the sequence into nature, it'll create this growth pattern,
this fractal growth pattern that we see in a human fetus.
A human fetus starts off in that form, curled up in a fetal form.
Galaxies, for example.
Galaxies follow this sequence.
Wind patterns, everything.
It's almost everywhere.
Right.
But he started this up.
That's what a hurricane looks like from above.
Yeah.
Yeah, if you go a little bit down, see that pyramid right there?
Yeah, so that's like an actual representation of the sequence.
So every number is the summation of the two numbers before.
Every number is a summation of the two numbers before.
Okay, got it.
Right.
Wow.
Yeah, and so that is the lattice.
So who came up with this?
Leonardo Fibonacci.
Oh, Leonardo, you said that.
Yeah, in his book, Liber Abacus.
Yeah, so this is the lattice that is in nature.
Right, so you look at a tree and it just looks like a flowing tree.
It's all chaotic.
It's got branches going everywhere.
But it's actually beautifully designed that way through a code system.
And so all of life around us is built off of code systems.
This is apparent in technology too.
We ourselves encode things.
You know, we know how to do that ourselves.
You know, a laptop, a computer, this microphone,
it's all built up of smaller components.
And then the more and more you go into it,
you just find that it's particles,
lattices of particles creating the stuff.
So that's in part the crystal lattice mind illusion,
the fact that we are more than our body.
We are also a mind and that all physical reality is comprised of these lattices,
these codes that create it.
And we are also pieces of a bigger piece, right?
We're also little particle lattices.
Or what is the word again?
Yeah, lattice.
We're lattice to something bigger than us.
Exactly.
And I wonder what is that?
Yeah, that's the big question and we can get into that later.
But before we do, I want to talk about DNA for a little bit.
So there's a recently new theory about DNA.
For the most part, people thought that DNA was what created genes.
That DNAs were the cause of genes.
But Rupert Sheldrake, if you want to pull him up, Rupert Sheldrake,
he talked about what are known as morphogenetic fields.
And morphogenetic fields is a new theory for how DNA and cells are formed.
It popped up.
The suggestion popped up when you clicked on his name in the search.
And you know how it suggests things?
Yeah, morphogenetic fields down there.
Yeah.
So he simply looked at a cell and said,
DNA can't be the constructor of a cell because DNA comes as a part of the package of a cell.
You see what I'm saying?
It's like the DNA is already a part of the cell.
DNA simply decides what traits the cell is going to give off.
Okay.
So he theorized that there's a whole another force or field that is actually
creating cells.
And he called that the morphogenetic field.
There's an invisible field, an invisible field that actually resonates cells into existence.
It's kind of weird.
But if you were to imagine, if we were to go to the microscopic world,
into the world of cells, cells more or less sort of just resonate into appearance from somewhere.
And that's what he called the morphogenetic field.
And I want to start with that because it's not far-fetched,
because even everything around us already operates in that way.
In physics, we have what are known as the four fundamental forces,
the electromagnetic force, which is invisible, but we know it exists.
Right?
You can get a magnet.
You can see it push things around.
Right.
That's one force.
And then we have the strong nuclear force.
The strong nuclear force is what holds things together.
It's what holds atoms in place.
And then we have the weak nuclear force, which is what causes things to decay.
So it causes emissions.
It's what causes combustion in the universe.
And then we have the fourth, which is the gravitational force.
This one is still theoretical.
Einstein is the one who kind of like came up with this.
But gravity, we can't measure gravity yet.
We can only measure it through its effects on other things.
We know it's there, but we can't see it even with our apparatuses yet.
And what gravity does, it sets everything into motion.
It's all about mass.
It's in the mass.
But what it does, it sets everything into motion.
It's what actually sets the clockwork into motion.
So the three forces were probably created first, right?
After physicality was formed from whoever or whatever.
And then gravity was the last thing.
It was like, all right, well, let's start it.
Let's get it going.
You know, let's press the start button, right?
Because it's the clockwork force.
It makes everything start moving.
Right, gravity and time are very intertwined.
Yeah, exactly.
But scientists have been looking for the fifth force for many, many decades.
And so the fifth force is this theoretical force
that scientists think interlinks all forces.
And it expands all across the universe and into everything,
whether it's a particle or a planet.
And some scientists think that they have found it.
Gravitational time dilation occurs because objects with a lot of mass
create a strong gravitational field.
The gravitational field is really a curving of space and time.
The stronger the gravity, the more space time curves.
And the slower time itself proceeds.
So the stronger the gravity, the faster time moves.
There you go.
Yeah, man.
And I am not a scientist, man.
That's why in the movie Interstellar, when they go to that other star,
they go to that other planet on that other star,
there's very little gravity there.
And that's why time, when he comes back, he's the same age
and his daughter's like 90 years old.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's wild, huh?
But yeah, I'm no scientist, man.
Like, I just love researching and reading and stuff.
So I had to read so many thick pieces of material
to just barely wrap my head around some of this stuff.
But I started to see the full picture, right?
I started to understand what's really going on here.
So yeah, this fifth force, scientists have been trying to find that.
It's also known as the unified field.
And some people think they found it.
Like, for example, in 2022, we found a new particle
called the X-17 particle.
And they think, oh, that might be the fifth force
that's actually like interconnecting everything.
But we've still yet to find it.
But what's interesting is when we read all the ancient texts,
we kind of get an idea how all of this began, right?
What we know for sure is that we're here, right?
We're here.
Things are physical or whatever.
We're here.
But how did we get here?
Who created us?
If we go and read all the ancient texts,
we find three key similarities,
whether we're reading the Anuma Alish,
the Egyptian Creation texts, or the Rig Veda by the Hindus.
They all say that it all began in a watery darkness.
There was some kind of watery darkness.
And then from the watery darkness
sprang forth the first mind, the first consciousness.
And it was a self-created androgynous mind.
And then that mind then created the physical world.
But it created the physical world through sound, through resonance.
For example, in the Torah, God said, let there be light.
And in the Nasadi Asukta and the Rig Veda,
we're told that this God basically spoke life into existence.
In the Anuma Alish, we're told that nothing had yet been named.
Right?
And in the Egyptian texts, we're told that Atum,
the first created consciousness, spoke life into existence.
So this idea of word bringing life into existence is important,
because all word is, is just vibration coupled with meaning.
So we started off in this etheric field of watery darkness, a force field.
And then the first mind, and that first mind
then created everything through the imagination and word.
So whoever the creator is, is so powerful that it can create
through just thinking and stating.
And we have a microcosmic attribute of that.
We have imaginations, we can think things,
and we can create the things we think.
So we're a reflection of our own creator.
We have that power to think and create.
What is the story about the Atlanteans?
So that one, again, it's one of these telephone things.
Okay.
So Atlantis was told to us through Plato, Plato.
So what is known as his Timaeus and Critias texts.
And we learned through Plato's texts that his uncle,
or some Greek by the name of Solon.
Solon, right, God of the Sun.
Yeah, Solon heard it through an Egyptian priest.
But the moral of the story, people think that the story has to do with this big city or whatever
that had flying cars and golden buildings or whatever.
People think that Atlantis has to do with this lost golden age.
But the moral of the story, if you actually go and read Critias and Timaeus,
is that this Egyptian priest was telling Solon that the Greeks are infants in history,
that they don't even know the vastness of their own people.
And this Egyptian priest tells Solon a story that they don't know.
And the story is about this island nation, the Atlanteans, who used to be benevolent.
They were like benevolent, high moral, but got too rich and snooty and kind of like
destroyed it all and decided to venture out to the neighboring kingdoms
to go subjugate them and kill them.
But it was a band of ancient Greeks who actually drove them back to Atlantis
and fought them off and saved all the neighboring countries.
But those warrior Greeks unfortunately fell with Atlantis after it sank.
And so what the Egyptian priest was saying, the moral of the story was,
you Greeks are arrogant in thinking that you're some high civilization,
you're an infant compared to my people, and you don't even know the history of your own warriors
who fought back against the Atlanteans.
That was the moral of the story.
Basically, it was just don't be arrogant in thinking that you know everything and that
your civilization is the greatest when you haven't even studied your own history,
let alone the history of those around you.
Don't fly too close to the sun.
Yeah.
Have you seen the videos of people talking about where Atlantis is, like the eye of Africa?
Yeah.
They got Jimmy's work course that he talks about it a lot
and he shows the evidence that that was Atlantis.
Yeah, that's cool stuff.
I mean, I did a little video on Lemuria, which is always coupled with Atlantis.
And Lemuria, again, a telephone thing, like if you go into the spiritual truth of community,
there was like, oh, I'm a reincarnated Lemurian or whatever.
But Lemuria was hypothesized by a zoologist in the 1800s who realized that there were
similar lemur bones off the coast of Madagascar in India.
So he postulated that there might have been a land bridge at some point in the Indian Ocean
and he called it Lemuria because of the lemur bones.
So it's like, I just thought that was funny.
Like you got all these people call themselves Lemurians,
but it was all just named after lemurs.
So it's just fascinating stuff.
People are like exaggerated, like they like to get all into it and all that stuff, fanatical.
But yeah, it's so interesting to me how all these ancient stories and stuff tie back to
cataclysms. It's so fascinating to me.
Yeah, man. Yeah. And that's the real, that really happened.
This earth has shifted many times. If you want to believe in plate tectonics or whatever,
the formation of the countries right now is fairly new.
There used to be a Pangea.
There probably were several Pangeas.
There probably will be another one at some point.
What is this? The land bridge?
That's wild. So this thing follows all the way.
That picture, that little map they show, that's what they predict it will look like.
Dude, that's insane.
That's wild, yeah.
Yeah, I see people, you know, a thousand years from now will be like, oh yeah.
Click on the one on the bottom right.
Like I'm an ancient reincarnated Ethiopian or whatever because it'll be under the ocean.
What is the, there's like a statistic of like the number of species that we still
haven't discovered that are under the ocean.
Oh, I don't even want to know dude, the ocean freaks me out.
You know, and then if like back in the day, they would, you know,
they think in the times of antiquity, they thought that there were sea monsters.
Now we have names for them because we study them. We were more advanced, you know.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's kind of what I do too, man.
It's like, is study these quote unquote archetypal monsters as things that we fear,
you know, like Lucifer and stuff like that. It's like the more you just really study things
unbiasedly, the more you can, we can mature as a whole people, you know.
Yeah.
That's my goal with this, man. It's just, it's just to like, look at things maturely.
Like what's really going on? What's the real history? You know, what's the real definition
so that we can move forward? I want to bring up Alfred Wallace.
Okay.
So Alfred, a lot of people know Darwin, for example, right? Everybody knows Darwin,
Darwinism, theory of evolution, but very rarely do you come across somebody who knows Alfred Wallace.
And Alfred Wallace was actually the co-founder of the theory of natural selection and basically
Darwinism. He was friends with Darwin. He helped Darwin create this theory. But Alfred Wallace later
renounced his belief on evolution when it comes to the mind. He realized that there's the evolution
does not explain how the human mind came into existence. It's way too complex and it's way too
abstract to have been a necessity for just some like, you know, hominid, you know, like the fact
that we can imagine things and create them and create languages and symbols and all this stuff,
that's not useful for somebody who just needs to hunt and fuck, you know. So, and he was going
to seance parties too. He was kind of a trip dude. He was going to like seance parties and
was witnessing the most weird shit. What's a seance party? So, these were big in like the
late 1800s where people would come and like they'd basically try to summon spirits and like demons
and shit. Oh, damn. Yeah, like the Ouija board stuff like that. So, he was going to these seance
parties and he was seeing like tables levitate, like people talking in tongues and like actual
phantoms. So, what made him decide that we're not a part of evolution? Well, after going to
these seance parties and just kind of like, you know, analyzing the human mind a little more,
he just concluded for himself that evolution doesn't explain the human mind, you know, how it
developed. Because evolution only explains how like rudimentary necessary things in nature evolve,
adaptations. But the human mind is not necessary, you know, like it's not necessary to just eat,
sleep and reproduce in the complexity that we have it today. And the thing is too, is even
anthropologists today state that the current consciousness that we have is new. You know,
according to how we analyze art and everything, like it's only about 50,000 years old.
Prior to about 50,000 years ago, we didn't have consciousness in the way that we have it today.
So, it's almost like something upgraded it. And that's kind of what I'm saying is like,
yeah, we might have started off as like these slaves for the Anunnaki or whatever,
these Neanderthals, but something caused an upgrade. And Terrence McKenna would say that
that upgrade was mushrooms through the stoned ape theory.
The stoned ape theory, yes. Explain the stoned ape theory for people who don't know what it is.
So, the stoned ape theory, you know, proposed by Terrence McKenna is that at some point in our
caveman history, we started following around certain animals who were pooping and through their poop
mushrooms were growing. And as we followed them around, we started, you know, getting curious
and started eating the mushrooms. And after we had these like very potent psychedelic trips,
we started to formulate language. You know, we started to speak and we started to see things
in a new way. And the mushrooms helped us create abstract thinking. And apart from the stoned ape
theory, and also in that theory, Terrence McKenna states that our brains doubled in size.
Our brains doubled in size, which caused a consciousness upgrade.
But even in anthropology, just mainstream anthropology, we are told that our pre-homo sapiens
sapiens ancestors were non-linguistic hominids. What separates us from our ancestors, from our
caveman ancestors, if you will, is that we are linguistic, symbological hominids. We create
languages, we create symbols, we have abstract thinking. And we don't really know why. That
there was no need for that, per se. Maybe there was. One of the theories for it is that it actually
helped us create a better memory system. That the way we have consciousness today actually helped
create a better memory system. That's all the only reason why we developed that way,
so that we could remember things. Like, for example, like, don't go into that forest, there's
cheetahs in there. So we create a symbol for that, like cheetahs in here, beware. You know,
so we created it for survival. So there is that theory, too. But all in all, Alfred Wallace,
the co-founder of Darwinism and the theory of evolution, concluded for himself that
evolution does not explain the human consciousness experience. It's too complex. Something else
must have created it. And the mainstream theories for consciousness basically state that we're just
a computer. You know, there's four main theories. I don't have them in front of me right now, but
the four main theories basically state that all of the working components in our brain,
working conjunction to create the false illusion that we're conscious. The fact that we're constantly
sensing things and that we're constantly experiencing things, that culmination of all
those experiences, for example, I'm sitting in this chair, I'm smelling things, I'm hearing things,
all of those come together and create this like three-dimensional illusion that I'm conscious.
But it's just really me just sensing all those things at once.
Okay.
That's the mainstream theory. We're just a computer. We're just computing things. And because we're
computing at such a complex and fast level, it creates a simulation of consciousness. Hey,
I'm a person, I'm thinking, I'm doing things. But we know that's not true inherently. We know
that's not true. Because we have abstract thinking, we have what is called the self,
this individuation. Because if that's all we had, we wouldn't have a self, there would be no reason
for a self or abstract artistic thinking. We would just be like animals or bugs who have
autonomic thinking. Not to say that they're not conscious, I think they are, but I think that
they have a different form of consciousness. There are different levels of consciousness.
And this is taught to us through the mystics in like the theory of reincarnation or the belief
of reincarnation, I should say. I read a book, which is where I gained my knowledge on reincarnation.
And it was written by A.C. Bhaktivedanta, a very prolific Swami. And he states that
reincarnation isn't a good thing. A lot of people think that reincarnation is like this
like cool belief system, like, yes, I'm going to reincarnate one day. But if you listen to the
actual yogis and gurus and stuff, it's not a good thing. You don't want to be stuck in Samsara.
It's a bad thing to continually come back. Why? Well, because the goal of the human being,
the goal of the human soul is to elevate out of this, to go to the next step. If you can believe
it or not, there's actually another level of conscious living. Okay. And so there's different
kingdoms of consciousness. He says there's the plant consciousness, the animal consciousness,
and the human consciousness. And you can read. Isn't there evidence now that plants are
conscious? Oh, yeah, they are. Actually, there was a study last year, I think that came out that
mushrooms, for example, certain mushrooms have a language. Right. They speak up to like 50 words.
That's insane, man. Yeah. So everything's fascinating. And it does have consciousness,
but it's different levels of consciousness. And reincarnation teaches us that we have the
privilege of having the highest form of consciousness on this kingdom of Earth.
But there is higher consciousness. And all that means is when you gain a higher consciousness,
all that means is that your awareness expands. For example, you know, if you were to feel heat
coming from over here, right, your consciousness now expands, you're like, oh, there's something
over here. And right now, we don't, we can't perceive what happens to us after death. We can't
perceive that. What happens after death? Because our consciousness isn't expanded that to that point.
And I can explain that in another metaphor. For example, if there was a door right here,
and we didn't know what was behind that door, we would just sit here and wonder and wonder,
what's behind that door? And we would just run wild. Is it heaven? Is it samsara? Is it this? Is
it that? But if we were to go to pass that door and see what's behind them, oh, cool. It's a nice
chill couch and there's beautiful people here. It's all good. Suddenly our consciousness expands.
Our conscious awareness expands. Now we know it's over there. So right now we're in an illusion,
in a game, in a program where we're limited to only know and understand what is here.
But I think it's in our creator's plan to expand our consciousness to a point where we will be able
to see more than we can see now, hear more than we can hear now, feel more than we can feel now,
and know more than we can know now. I think that's in its plan for us, and that's evident through
all the evolutionary stages we've already gone through.
So what is that higher consciousness? What do you think happens after we die?
Well, as I was explaining earlier in the beginning, according to the ancient text, there were three
main components, the cosmic ether, that watery darkness, the creator consciousness, that first
consciousness, that first mind. The cosmic ether, that watery darkness. Is that the idea that when
we die it's just black? Everything just goes away and it's just black, nothing. Kind of sort of.
I'll get into that. That's scary. That's the scariest thing.
Okay, for me, yeah, yeah, yeah, that is kind of freaky, yeah. But it's also kind of peaceful,
because I mean, I guess you won't really feel it. The way I cope with that is I don't remember
not being alive, so it's all good. Yeah, but isn't that sad to think about just
you just evaporate, you no longer. I guess the scariest part is if your memory fades to nothing,
if the memory of yourself fades to black. If your body, if you die and your body dies,
that's one thing. That's fucking frightening. Just to think that there's nothing after this.
But at least we have our legacy and our memory that we know will outlive us.
Well, the good thing is I'm here to give you some scientific evidence that our memory might
actually last. Scientific evidence. Hello, scientific evidence. Yeah, so we're getting back
to the darkness. I think that darkness that you just spoke of, that spooky, that fearfulness,
I think that's an illusion too that I'll get into. And I think this whole entrapped
assimilation we're in is meant to keep us coming back and to just stop at that darkness
to return back to here. And I'll explain that. But real quick, again, in the beginning right,
there was that watery darkness, which I call the cosmic ether. And I think that was the mother,
the mother of all wave channels, right? Like the ocean is a representation of her.
Radio waves is a representation of her. Air is a representation of her. The breath that we breathe
is a representation of her. Whatever she is, however that looks like, our ancestors understood
that in the beginning there was just this watery darkness and ether. It all started with the ether,
which is what we would also call the spirit. And then there came the consciousness,
the creator consciousness, who we can call God, the monad, the one. And then after that, together,
they created physical life through the spoken word. And the spoken word is just vibration.
And science teaches us, quantum physics teaches us that all particles are vibrating,
and that the vibration of particles is what makes physical reality. This table right here
is comprised of a lattice of particles that are vibrating right now. So our ancestors understood
that this is the series of how life was created, how everything was created. And it's all
reenacted all around us every day. And in our birth, it's reenacted. We are inside the water,
right? We are given a mind, we come out, we come out yelling, we come out greeted,
we come out with our voice, right? It's all reenacted in all these different ways. These
three elements is what I call the ancient matrix. Those three components make up everything and
they're just re-represented or they're represented in fanciful expressions all around us,
just that watery darkness, the mind and physicality through vibration.
Yeah. And so as I was explaining with the four fundamental forces, and the four fundamental
forces again are just the cosmic ether through different expressions, electromagnetic force,
the strong and weak forces, the gravitational force, those are children of the cosmic ether,
the grandmother, their first one, right? And consciousness is the children of the first
consciousness, right? We are given, we are just fragments of both of those. And so scientists
have been trying to find what this underlying force, this fifth force, or even trying to find
the gravitational force that interconnects everything. They've been trying to find that for
decades. And two scientists, for example, Vernon Nepp and Ed Close came up with a theory,
I have it here, it's a weird theory name, by the name of the triadic dimensional
vertical paradigm theory. They came up with this in 2011 and these guys are well vetted,
you know, a bunch of publications, real scientists have been around many, many days.
And in this theory, they realize that the current model of physics can't explain our world.
It can't explain our world because when we start to look at things at the quantum level,
there are anomalies that the current model can't explain. When you look at things at the
microscopic level, at the particle level, they start to break the laws of physics. So how can
the things that make up the physical world break the laws of physics? It's an illusion,
right? It's our illusion. And so they came up with this theory and realized that we live in
nine dimensions. They think that we live in nine dimensions, but those nine dimensions are inside
of an infinite dimension. So the, the- This is what Billy Carson was talking about, the nine
dimensions. Yeah. So these guys are the ones who came up with it, Vernon Nepp and Ed Close.
Okay. Yeah, old dudes, you know, been doing this for decades. And again, I'm not a scientist,
like I had to reread like a few of their papers to like even begin to understand why this makes
sense. But what they realized is that the modern model of physics can't explain quantum physics.
It can't explain how things work at the particle level. So something else needs,
needs to, a different model needs to be constructed to explain this.
And what they realized is that there was at least, I think, like 48 anomalies that the
current model cannot explain. And one of those, one of those, the only one that I could really
wrap my head around was the Cabebo angle. I don't know if you want to look that up.
What is the Cabebo angle? So the Cabebo angle, from what I understand,
is this weird anomaly having to do with particles. So when we look at particles,
they bounce in a certain way. And when they, when they bounce in this, in this angle,
they disappear for a second, like a, like a fraction of a second. So they're like phasing in
and out of reality, from what I understand. And so this was one of the anomalies that, you know,
Vernon Nepp and Ed Close were looking at. Like this, this angle can't be explained with modern
physics. So they looked at everything. They, they redid the entire model and came up with their
super long names model and realized that we lived in nine dimensions for whatever reason that,
that was their conclusion. But what's interesting about their theory is that they came up with
another aspect of it stating that in these nine dimensions, there exists a field
that they called the Gimmel. And the Gimmel, I don't know why they called it that, but the Gimmel
is this fifth force that interconnects all the dimensions and extends outward to the infinite
dimension, the infinite plane. And the Gimmel is how all things are interconnected. It's like the
cosmic internet that allows everything to exist. It sustains everything. Right. And this goes back
to the ancient matrix with the, the watery darkness, the cosmic creation and the vibration.
You know, there are those three elements exists inside of everything. And they stretch across
everything and they sustain everything. And so these two scientists realized that there was an
internet inter interspersed in throughout all these dimensions that they called the Gimmel.
And that's important because this goes against materialist science, you know, Einsteinian science.
Einsteinian science states that all this is just physical. This is just a table. I'm just a body.
I have a brain. My brain makes up my mind. But scientists like them and another scientist
are starting to realize that it's actually, actually the other way around that it's,
it's consciousness that is creating all of this. So that fifth force, that underlying force that
we've been looking for is consciousness itself. That's what we're starting to realize. There's a
vast internet of an etheric consciousness that we all tap into. And it's that internet of consciousness
that allows us to toggle into this reality. So basically what I'm saying, what I've been saying
is, is this reality here, right here is a simulation. This isn't really what we are.
We're simply experiencing this from wherever it is we actually are.
And we can, we know this, for example, because our brain isn't real either.
Science tells us this because science tells us that all physical objects, the entire physical
world is made up of lattices that are resonating and phasing in and out. So they're holographic.
So if all physical objects are phasing in and out and are holographic,
then our brain, which is also a physical object, is also doing the same thing.
So our brain is simply the physical representation in this simulation of, of what we are. It's what
we designed to be the avatar to represent the complexity of what we really are. That's what
we're starting to realize. And with that, again, we have the conscious and subconscious mind.
And again, in the subconscious mind is where the program resides. And there's a new theory about
consciousness that was proposed last year in 2022, primarily by a guy named Andrew Budson,
a scientist. And Andrew Budson realized that all of life is basically deja vu.
That, for example, if I were to move my arm over here, my subconscious mind told myself to do that
like a split second before. But when I actually do it, I'm simply experiencing the deja vu of it.
But that's, that's his theory on, on, on life is that everything we do is being reenacted or
enacted out like a split second after our subconscious mind actually tells us to do it.
Right. So what that is saying, what that tells us is that our subconscious mind is the real driver
of all this. But where is it? Where does it reside? It doesn't reside in our brain. That's what
Alfred Wallace was trying to tell us, the co-founder of Darwinism, our mind, the brain doesn't produce
the mind. That's what he was saying is evolution didn't create the mind. The mind came into the
body at some point, right? We've been around for millions of years. But for some reason,
about 100 to 50,000 years ago, the Homo sapiens sapiens was created. And about 50,000 years ago,
the current style of consciousness that we have, the abstract style that we have was,
was upgraded. So it was integrated into us. Have you ever heard of Dr. Andrew Gallimore?
No. He's in Hong Kong. He's, he's been studying the induced effects of DMT, long sustained effects
of DMT. So I don't know if you've ever done DMT, I haven't, but there's apparently there's this like,
there's a different dimension that you see when you're on DMT, where like people have similar
experiences, right? There's been a vast amount of people who've done DMT that recount seeing like
little elf creatures, like shapes, lots of different geometric shapes. And what he's,
what they're trying to do scientifically is keep people, because DMT, when you do it,
whatever you take it, whether you smoke it or whatever, it only lasts for maybe like 10 to
20 minutes, right? It's very short. So what he's trying to do is keep people in that state for
a long period of time so they can study what's going on there. Yeah. Which is fucking fascinating
to me. Yeah. And what is that? What is that state? You know, it's all in your mind, doing
something chemically to your mind, where you basically enter another dimension.
Yeah. So if we understand, right, that we aren't our body, right, we are simply experiencing the
simulation through the body, then it all starts to make sense. Yeah. The body is our, it's our
lens to seeing whatever this is. It's constructed inside of our brain. Yeah. So good. And it's
different for everybody. Like people like vision, vision is very different for different people.
Like how do you know when you're looking at me that you're seeing the same thing?
Like we could be seeing completely different things, but how would we know? Yeah. There's no
way we would know. Like we describe, we have the same words. Like we use our language to describe
things. And people like, we reference that. Like I see that mic arm, whatever. Yeah. It's this black
plastic mic microphone arm that's holding your mic. But that's how my words describe what I'm
seeing. But we have no way of knowing really what we're each experiencing individually.
Yeah. Yeah. And words create reality. Getting back to the central reality real quick. You brought
up money before. You said money is like the central reality. It's what dictates everything.
It is. Yeah. Yeah. And I brought that up in my book because money is just, it's a,
it's an institution. It's, it's a concept. It doesn't actually exist. We created it.
Right. You know, everything that we need to survive on this planet grows out of the ground.
The food that we need grows out of the ground. It runs around. It's free. You know, we constructed
this central reality of money as a way to whatever, just run our lives, you know,
but we could run it off to so many other different systems. So, and money is just a language.
Money is a language comprised of terminology, right? Dollars, banks, transactions. It's a language
with its own terms and its own symbols. The dollar, the paper is just a symbol. It's just,
it's a reality. It's a reality tunnel, a central reality. And so we create reality through language
and that's what anthropologists say or anthropologists say that our consciousness upgraded
when we started speaking in metaphor. Once we started speaking in metaphor and having abstract
thinking, that's when it all kind of like doubled for us. Yeah. But the concept of money has,
is even evident in primates. Yeah. Like we just have a proxy for money, like these dollars and
different yen and different, you know, monetary, these different types of money. But, you know,
the concept of it is, is clearly evident in apes. There's been studies where like,
they've found the prostitution is real in monkeys, right? Let me ask you this, man. Do we want to
be like monkeys? Prostitution, evidence of prostitution of primates. Researchers observed
chimpanzees in the Thai National Park, TAI National Park. I don't know how you say that,
Tae, Thai, and concluded that a form of prostitution exists among chimpanzees in which females,
okay, the females offer sex to the males in exchange for meat, right?
Smart monkeys. And it's the same way that human beings are, you know, it's the,
it's the exact same thing. Females are attracted to males, not just for physical features, but for
being able to provide security and create a family and to raise kids.
Amen. They got the only bananas. Yeah. Yeah. Only bananas, right?
Yeah. Well, that's what I'm getting at, man, is like, do we want to be like apes, right?
No, we want to evolve. We want to get better. Yeah, we want to get better. And so right now,
we're starting to realize that we're more than this body, you know, we're more than just Anunnaki
slaves, right? And that's evident in quantum physics. And it's evident all around us.
And to sidetrack from consciousness real quick, let's just talk about the energy,
the energy grid around us that I think we are meant to tap into, right? So right now,
there's this whole craze going on with UFOs. We're seeing them all over the news, which is wild.
I never thought I'd see the day where UFOs were normal on national TV, right? And we're being
told that these tic-tac UFOs, whatever are defined the laws of gravity, whatever they are, whether
they're manmade or not, they're defined the laws of gravity. How are they doing that?
Well, anti-gravity technology has been experimented on since the 50s.
This guy doesn't know what he's getting into, does he, Jordan?
We just did a fucking four hour episode with the physicists talking about this stuff the other
day. Oh yeah, blew my fucking mind. Hell yeah, was he saying it's like real or like what, like
anti-gravity? Yeah, yeah, it's been being studied for a long time. He has lots of different theories,
but it really took my fucking head for a whirlwind. He's talking about light propulsion too. So it's
like he's really going deep on this stuff. But there's like levels and levels of psyops and
government cover-ups and dark research that's going on. But anyways, sorry to interrupt.
No, no, you're good. Well, that's fucking dope. I can't wait to watch that. But yeah,
I mean, as you already know, studies on anti-gravity have been going on since the 50s.
And primarily, they started with George S. Trimble, who was the head of the Research Institute for
Advanced Study. And he put together a research team back in the 50s, some of the top scientists in
the country to study this stuff. You're talking about ARPA? Oh, DARPA? Yeah, well it was first ARPA.
They changed it to DARPA later. No, this is Raius. Okay. Raius. Okay. But anyways, so George S. Trimble
with Raius and that whole group eventually became Lockheed Martin and Skunkworks, which is like
these people at the head of all the stuff right now. And one of the former heads of Skunkworks or
Lockheed, Ben Rich, he was the guy who said that, you know, we now have the technology to take ET
back home. And he was asked, well, how does this technology work? How does anti-gravity technology
work? And he kind of just slyly said, well, do you know how ESP works? And the interviewer said,
all points in the universe are connected. He said, exactly. So this is kind of what I've been trying
to build up to is like, everything in this physical world and this material world is connected through
lattices, smaller lattices that fractal out into a larger lattice, and they're all interconnected
through an internet of force, a force field. And if we tap into that force field, then amazing
things can happen. It would be like driving a boat through the ocean that runs off water.
It could just run forever, because it would just be tapping into the water that it's using.
It's the same thing. If we found a way to tap into the four fundamental forces of the universe
or light, like this guy said, if we found a way to tap into the space-time metrics that are around
us right now, existing as invisible fields, which are energy sources, we could create propulsion
systems that could take us from here to the other side of the universe, no problem.
What do you think those Tic Tac objects are that the pilots are seeing?
I'm going to just go with a false flag on those ones. I don't actually know.
What do you think it is, tin foil hat? It's either China or it's
Bluebeam holographic. Yeah, I think so too. There's lots of different top secret projects
that have been worked on by those companies and from DARPA. But even if that was anti-gravity,
saying it wasn't hologram, saying it is like some sort of anti-gravity technology,
like that guy, Bob Lazar, claims to be real. If it was aliens, how do they get here? Even if
you were moving that fast, it would take you hundreds of thousands of years to get here from
another star. Yeah, we'll see. That's my thing. I don't really follow the usual narrative with
the aliens anymore, with the greys, the little bulbous guys, bulbous headed guys. I used to think
that the greys were real, right? But I kind of view them differently now.
Why do you think they're real? Well, okay, I think they are real, but I think
they, and this is going to be conspiracy tin foil hat shit, but I kind of believe they're,
if anything, they're from the future. If anything, I don't think they're interplanetary or interdimensional.
I think they might be from the future. And the only reason I believe that is if I'm being honest.
So they're time travelers? Per se, yeah. And I don't have no evidence to back that up. The only
reason I believe that is because I follow in line with what Kredo Mutwa told us. And Kredo Mutwa
was the last Senusi of the Zulu tribe. So the last wisdom keeper of the Zulu tribe passed away,
like in 2020, at like 90 something years old. And it was through him that we all learned about
like the reptilians. David Eich interviewed him back in like the early 2000s and did this
explosive three hour interview. And that's like where this whole reptilian thing blew up.
You think the reptilians are real? Not really. No, I used to-
Not really?
Not really. I mean, it's because it's fascinating stuff to like believe. Like it's fun to believe.
But I don't really think so. No, I don't believe, you know, I don't really think that they're real.
George Soros could be a reptile.
He looks like one. You know, he looks like one. But I kind of side with David Eich and the fact that,
you know, I mean, there's so much more to life on the visible spectrum and the light spectrum.
So what he was saying was basically was like, if you were on psychedelics or if you were on higher
states of consciousness and saw things with a different perception, people might actually look
different to you. You know, so some of these guys like George Soros to us on this playing field
might look like an old ugly dude. But if you had like a higher perception and you could see like
more energies or whatever, he might actually look really fucking demonic, you know, because of the
energy he carries and stuff. You know, but as far as the UFOs and aliens, I think if anything,
the grays might be from our future. And that's what Kratos taught. Kratos taught that these beings
are from our future and they're coming back to punish us. And that's why a lot of times the
abductions end with like this weird brainwashing of the world ending. A lot of people purport
that for whatever reason, these grays will like show them like images of the world ending.
Right. That's what the Ruiz and Bobway encounter was. There was an event where there was over 60
school children on the playground that all witnessed the same thing. They all came running
to their teachers saying that they saw a ship or a craft that landed outside of the playground.
And there was these little gray beings with big eyes that walked out and were projecting images
into their minds. Like these images of technology is bad. Yeah, I remember that one now. Yeah.
Yeah, so Kratos was saying... And like it seemed that one's always
boggled my mind because how hypocritical is it that you're coming down in a spaceship
telling kids that technology is bad and technology is going to destroy the earth?
Yeah. Well, let me break this down because it's deep, man. It's not vertical, right? It's like
horizontal. Like there's not like one thing going on. It's like a lot of things going on and
just in that one story alone. And actually, Carl Jung, and I talk about this in my book,
Carl Jung has a book about UFOs. And he states that UFOs strangely started appearing for the most
part in modern times right around the world wars. And he thinks that they came through as mass
hallucinations. Right? That's what Jung thinks. Yeah. Because we all have, again, a central reality
which our collective conscious interfaces with. But we all have a collective subconscious
that also interlinks. We don't realize that. We don't realize that all of our subconscious are
interlinked as well. And sometimes if that subconscious hysteria is powerful enough,
it can shoot out and project a hallucination. And so he thought that these UFOs were hallucinations
coming out of the collective unconscious because at that time our world was ending. We hadn't seen
something like that ever. You know, I mean, everything around everybody was just was dying. I
mean, there was, you know, bombs, airplanes overhead. So for everybody, the world was ending.
And so there was such an unrest and such an unease and unconscious that for whatever reason,
it projected these UFOs. And he thinks that another reason for that is that
our minds were expecting a messiah. And we're always expecting to see a messiah in the skies,
coming down from the skies. And that might explain why these these crafts are like strange.
They don't interact with us or anything. They're just moving around. Some people claim to get
inducted though. Yeah, that's a whole that's a whole other thing. But and I'll get into that.
But strangely, recently, I tried to make a compilation video of UFOs. Right? I was like,
let me let me go out and make a cool compilation of UFOs. If you go out and try to find any video
of a mechanical craft that you can call legit, you won't be able to find probably more than five,
if then. Right. What you will find is hundreds, if not thousands of videos of these light orbs.
Right. These strange light orbs. And that's been going on for hundreds of years. There's a report
in the medieval times of exactly that of like hundreds of people witnessing these like light
orbs dancing in the sky and like fighting each other. So they thought they were. So whatever
these light orbs are, they've been around for a long time. The mechanical crafts, I think for
the most part are Syop, if not hallucination. But what are real and even more strange than the
mechanical craft are these light orbs? What are those? And so getting back to the grays,
if they are real, which apparently they are, because a lot of people have seen them and
been abducted by them, I think that they're probably from the future. And I only side with
Crato on that because he was more wise than me and had an actual experience himself.
And he said that they're from our future because again, yeah, they come here and they warn us and
they reprimand us for what we did to ourselves. Because we look like this now, but if we keep
on the trend of like social media and technology and becoming more transhuman, we might shift and
change into something a lot less human looking and might end up looking like them.
Well, if we could genetically engineer ourselves to be able to travel across massive distances
through space, we would want our eyes to be big so we could see more, see maybe
different types of light. Yeah, I don't know. Man, this is all just conjecture and speculation.
I've never had an experience. I've never met anybody that's had one. And it's a strange
thing, man. And what's even weirder for me is like, I haven't heard anybody bring up the
grades recently. That was like the huge thing in like the nineties and eighties, like where are
they at now? Where are the grades at? So that's just kind of like strange to me.
But again, all of this is possible and starts to make sense once we realize that we're actually
consciousness. We're actually consciousness, we're an experience in this as a simulation.
But getting back to the propulsion systems and the unified field. NASA, for example, has a paper
coming from the seventies titled Field Resonance Propulsion Concept. And in that paper, they talk
about exactly this. If we can find a way to tap into the energy field, we could create propulsion
systems that can shoot us across the universe, this, this and that. And the Defense Intelligence
Agency has a paper from 2011 on the same thing called the quantum tomography of negative energy
states in the vacuum. So they've been studying this for decades and decades, as this guy probably
told you, you know, how can we tap into the energy fields around us and utilize it as a vast ocean
and sail through it like a boat in water continuously running off the water it's moving
through. Right. And so we're starting to realize that this is probably how these UFOs are doing
that, if they are real to begin with. And again, there's so much there, right? Because some of
these could be mass hallucinations, some of these could be future travelers or just demons
coming in and out of dimensions. And to get into the demon part of it real quick, there was a CIA
paper titled Analyzation or Assessment of the Gateway Process. Have you heard of it? No. It was
declassified in the early 2000s. It was written. What was the paper called? The Assessment of the
Gateway Process. Assessment of the Gateway Process. Okay. Yeah, it's fascinating stuff. So it was
written in the 80s, analysis and assessment. Oh, look, CIA.gov, baby. Yeah. So I recommend
every... Can you zoom into the top of it? To read this. I think everybody should read this. It's
only 30-something pages, 30 pages or so. Okay. I did a documentary on this too on my channel.
And basically, what this paper was written as an assessment of the work of Dr. Robert Monroe.
Dr. Robert Monroe used to be a radio broadcaster who realized something significant. What is this
brain? What is this? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Basically, this paper tells you that our entire universe
is a hologram. That's what it says. It says our universe is a hologram. Our body is a spirit machine.
What was... Okay, so I'm sorry. What was the premise of this study? What was the reason they
studied this? So they put this together as an assessment of the work of Dr. Robert Monroe.
Okay. Dr. Robert Monroe was a radio broadcaster who realized something strange about our brain
and how it responds to frequency. So our brains have two hemispheres, the left and the right,
but they both respond to stimulus differently, stimuli differently, and frequency differently.
They're basically working individually. So they work individually. But what he realizes is if you
can get them to harmonize through sound healing or sound frequency techniques, if you can get
them to harmonize and work together, then your entire body starts to work in this very unified way
where now you start to tap into these energy fields around you. And you can induce lucid dreaming,
you can induce astral projection, and you can actually leave your body and start to traverse
these other dimensions that exist around us. Whoa, look at that, bro. Make that bigger.
The consciousness energy grid. The left hemisphere consciousness energy. Wow,
easy for you to say. The left hemisphere consciousness grid acts like the mind's computer
software to reduce input from right hemisphere to verbal symbols and concepts. The right hemisphere
reduces three-dimensional holographic images to two-dimensional. Go slash no.
Now pause here for a second. Let me explain this, because so this is about infinity here.
So hang on. Go back to that last one one more time. I want to
can you go to the right a little bit so it doesn't cut off the end of that?
Oh, it's cut off in the paper? Okay. Reduces three-dimensional holographic images to two-dimensional.
There's a lot going on in there, man. Sorry to cut you off. Now you're good. So this is
where I wanted to give you the evidence about our memory existing after death. Okay. And to help you
with this idea that after we die, it's nothing. So okay, again, everything vibrates, right?
Everything is vibrating. Everything is resonating. Our consciousness is resonating. That's just
how this stuff works, right? It all started with the cosmic ether, the watery darkness
and the own vibration that brought all this into existence. All right? But every waveform
has two rest points, which is at the top and the bottom. And those rest points would constitute
a death because when things are not resonating, you know, when particles aren't moving,
they secede from this reality. But they don't just disappear. They go back to source, to infinity.
Because in this reality that we are contained in is where time and space exist. Time and space
is a program. But the opposite of time and space is not death. The opposite of time and space is
infinity. And infinity, if we were to look at infinity on an oscilloscope, it would look like a
straight line. In this reality, everything vibrates. You know, it's chaotic, it's movement,
everything's shifting. But infinity is tranquil. It's where everything exists for all eternity,
whatever that looks like. So what Robert Monroe realized was that if you can get your brain waves,
which do exist, to vibrate at such a high level that the rest points at the top
converge to the point where if we were to look at it on an oscilloscope, it would just completely
dissipate into a straight line because of how fast it's resonating. You could transcend this
dimension and go into infinity. And this is where meditation comes into play. And this is the point
of meditation, of sacred astral meditation. You get the brain waves moving so fast that you don't
have the ups and downs. You have a straight line. And that's when you go to infinity.
This sounds like some Scientology shit, bro. I mean, yeah, but this is really how it works,
man. This is reality, man. We have a brain. I mean, it's a fucking CIA research paper.
Right? Because we have a brain, right? And for past 100 years or whatever,
Einsteinian science has been telling us that we're just a physical body with the brain and
our brain is a computer and it creates the illusion of consciousness. But that's not true.
We're now realized that it's the opposite. Consciousness is who we really are. And we
create this reality and we interface with it. And this has actually been proven. This was
proven last year in 2022, October of 2022. Three scientists won the Nobel Prize in physics for
proving this. And how they proved it was through proving that quantum entanglement is real.
Yeah, describe quantum entanglement. So quantum entanglement is the phenomenon of when two
particles become interconnected to the point where if you were to place them on the opposite ends of
the universe, they could send instantaneous information to one another. That's quantum
entanglement. And according to the laws of physics, the Einsteinian laws of physics,
that would be impossible. But this was just proven real last year. And these three scientists
have been trying to prove it for decades and they finally perfected their experiment to the point
where it was infallible or whatever. It was 100% correct. Yeah, Michikaku has a new book about
this called Quantum Supremacy. Yeah, so we're realizing that the universe is not locally real.
I saw Joe Rogan post this and this is what led me down researching this. He posted the article,
the universe is not locally real or not real. That's what everybody was saying, what the universe
isn't real. But it was kind of a play on words is the whole telephone thing thing again. Yeah.
Because the actual headline is that the universe is not locally real. And locality is a physics
term, a quantum physics term. So locality is the Einsteinian science. It means that, you know,
everything's physical, we just were just a brain, that's locality. Non locality means that
anything's possible, that consciousness is the driving force of reality. So for example,
two particles talking to each other on the other sides of the universe, that's non locality,
it's non local. So these scientists proved that we live in a non local universe, that two particles
can send information instantaneously faster than the speed of light, no matter how far apart they
are. So this opens up a huge discussion as to what can we do with that. And if we're just consciousness,
if all we are is consciousness, which is an etheric form of something, then how can we tap
into that? How can we tap into that as an energy source? You know, what can we do with that? We
can do so much with that. And for example, these UFOs, whatever they are, they've probably already
already figured that out. They've already figured out how to use quantum entanglement,
the four fundamental forces of the universe, and also their consciousness as a controller for that.
And getting into Nikola Tesla, you know, he figured this out also. Nikola Tesla talked about
us being a human machine. He realized that we were an engine, he called us a little engine.
And he spoke about there being a force, again, all these scientists always realized there's
some force that's holding this all together. And he called that the luminiferous ether.
And he correlated that with the Hindu Akasha, the Akashic record, which is basically the Hindu
version of what I've been talking about, this underlying force where infinity exists, where
everything is interconnected. And in 1938, he gave a presentation just five years before he died,
where he stated he had just made two great discoveries. He didn't want to say exactly what
they were in that moment. He was always like that, kind of like always like hinting at it,
trying to like, you know. So he said, I just made two great discoveries and one of them had to do
with gravity. He said that I just disproved all the theories of gravity. I know what it is now.
And the other theory he said has to do with all of reality from the most minute particle to the
biggest of structures. That's all we know. And then he died five years later, never telling us
what those discoveries were. But we can assume from what he was telling us and what he already
understood was that he probably came to this conclusion, that all around us are these four
fundamental forces of nature. But there's also one interspersed in between all of them. And that
we are not physical, we are consciousness. And that if we find a way to implement our consciousness
into these other energetic fields, then we can toggle through this reality with immense power.
And we can do anything we want, anything. But I believe for one, the powers that be don't
want us to be that powerful. Who are they? Well, in simple, the globalists, you know, Bezos,
I don't know, probably, you know, Putin, Biden, I don't know, just all these guys that you see on
TV, right? All these leaders of the free world, the leaders of the corporatocric institutions.
I have a documentary where I actually get into these actual names of the globalists.
But it's probably too much to get into right now. But the globalist philosophy is a fairly new
philosophy that got started in the 20th century. And there are very specific men who got the world
going into this institution of one world government or whatever. For example,
at the Tavistock Institute, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Club of Rome,
all of the founders of these institutions were the guys who started getting all this going.
And Klaus Schwab was a student of these people. Klaus Schwab was a student of Henry Kissinger.
And when he started his World Economic Forum in the 70s, he had Aurelio Pecci, the founder of
the Club of Rome, come and fill in as the keynote speaker for the third seminar of the World Economic
Forum. So Klaus Schwab, although he looks like he just came out of nowhere, he's been doing this for
decades and he's been looking up to all these globalists his entire life, wanting to recreate
what they've been trying to do, which is interconnect all the governmental institutions
into one so that they can rule us much easier. So they don't want us to expand our consciousness
and realize that we're more than just our body. There's that. But I think there's a higher purpose.
I think they're just doing their puny little reptilian human thing. And I think that the creator,
you know, God has intended for us to get to that point where we realize that we're consciousness
and that we realize that there are energy forces around us that we can tap into. I think it wants
us to get to that point. And I also think that UFOs and crop circles are a part of that. I think
that when they come in and out of our reality, they're helping that. They're broadening our
conscious awareness. They're making us realize that it's possible. Us seeing it happen is almost
like telling our subconscious we can do that. So I think that there's a slow process that our God
or our Creator has intended for us to go through to get to the point where we can realize in full
who we really are, what it really is, what all this really is. And there's a teaching in Kabbalah,
Jewish mysticism that talks about this. It's called the Shavira, the breaking of vessels.
In that tale, we are told that God created a universe before this one and that it put little
fragments of itself, of its light into its creations. It gave its spirit into its creations.
But its spirit was too strong and everything blew up. Everything blew up. So it had to
recreate a universe. But this time, it performed what is known as sim sum, self-limitation.
So it only put a little bit of itself in everything because its power is too potent
that everything would just blow up again. So in this theory, I believe that God is vague,
God is like in the background or whatever, but it's God's intention for us to slowly evolve.
If we were to just come down now and be like, yo, I'm God, I created you, check this out,
we would blow up, our minds would explode. So I think it's all these little instances that are
slowly leading up to the point where we fully realize who we are, what we are, what this is,
and what death is. I don't think death is the end. The CIA paper tells us that this is a hologram,
there are different dimensions. And in the CIA paper, there's one sentence in where it is stated
that the practitioner, the meditation practitioner who's ascending to different dimensions must be
ready and prepared because sometimes you will encounter lower vibrational entities.
And so to answer your question earlier, do I believe in demons? Not in the Christian sense,
I think that there are lower vibrational entities. Like what? What's a lower vibrational entity?
Man, okay. So getting into like, well, first and foremost, we need to realize that this reality,
this dimension, this universe isn't the only one. As crazy as it is to wrap our head around,
it's just the truth. It's not. Even in the physical sense, there are colors we can't see,
there are sounds we can't hear, there are different dimensions. And as we're starting to realize,
the DMT dimension might be an actual place that we're going to. That's what they're trying to
map out. Our dreams are sometimes an actual place that we're going to because we're not our body,
we're our consciousness. It's just that we get trapped here and stuck here that we can't toggle
it. We haven't, we haven't built up that skill to be able to toggle through these things yet.
And so in these different realms, I think thoughts can become beings. It's a theory,
it's a concept known as an egregor. An egregor or archetype like Lucifer, for example, I think can
actually become self aware if given enough energy. It's like AI. You know, AI can one day have
consciousness, even by mainstream definition, because by mainstream definition, it states that
any complex nexus of a computated sensory, whatever brain networks can conform a consciousness,
an illusion of consciousness, right? AI can one day be conscious by mainstream definition.
It'll be an illusion of consciousness, but it'll have one. You know, but I think even in reality,
and in a real sense, I think in actuality, AI can actually have a consciousness one day.
It can actually be given a spirit of consciousness and actually think for itself.
And I think in that same sense, in these vague, weird, interdimensional places like the DMT realm,
our dream realms, where our thoughts and fantasies and nightmares and stuff like that exist, I think
if given enough power or energy, some of these thought forms like the boogeyman or the clowns in
my nephew's closet or whatever, these demons that I thought I was being visited by as a kid,
if given enough energy and time, these things can develop self awareness and can become lower
vibrational entities because everything's vibrating. What constitutes life is the spirit,
the vibration, the physicality in the mind, right? Those three fundamental forces of the
ancient matrix. So if given those correct ingredients, I think these thought forms,
these demons, these whatever, wherever they exist can actually become self aware.
Just like AI, they might not have a lot of capability. The only capability they might
have is just to just knock over something in your house or visit you at night as a shadow.
You know, but over time, these things can become more and more self aware and develop
more and more into conscious beings. So lower vibration, meaning that sound wave,
and then higher vibration, meaning becoming a straight line and being turning into infinity.
Is that kind of what you're referencing? Well, lower vibration is kind of just
a descriptive way. It's not like an actual vibration, but it's more like a description.
Lower meaning that it's like demonic, it's ugly, it's lower. It exists in a more ugly,
lower place because if we want to view it as a vertical plane. Yeah, man. So again,
I've had experiences throughout my life where I've asked for projected once or actually twice.
I asked for projected when I was like 16 years old. And when I asked for projected,
I went into my hallway and I saw like this figure, like this dark shadow. It was just
How did you astra project? What made you want to do that?
I didn't do it by will. So the first time I did it, I was about 13 years old.
And at the time I was reading the Emerald Tablets of Toth, which Billy Carson talks a lot about.
And so I was reading that and it kind of was like really freaky and weird and dark.
And so I didn't finish it. I kind of put it away and went to sleep.
And I had my first astral projection experience. I didn't know that that's what it was,
but looking back, that's what it was. So what happened is I woke up,
having to go to the bathroom, got up and was like, okay, I'm going to go to the bathroom.
But as I got up to go to the bathroom, I kind of just floated to my floor, like as if I was in
water. I was like, okay, I must be dreaming. This is a dream. It's got to be. And I kind of just
laid on my floor and I could see like the hallway. And then I woke up in my body or so I thought.
I was like, all right, let's go to the bathroom. But the same thing happened. Floated down as if
I was in water. Okay, I'm dreaming again. The third time I finally woke up, everything kind of sped
up. And I was back in real life and I went to the bathroom. Didn't think much of it. And then
three years later, when I was 16, I went back to the Emerald Tablets of Toth and tried to read it
again. And then that night I had another astral projection experience. But this time I knew what
it was. So I knew it was happening. So I got up out of my body and regrettably didn't turn around
to look at my body. But I moved through my room, I made a right. And I was like, Oh, dude, I'm astral
projecting. Like it was everything just kind of slowed down. You feel as if like you're in water,
like time doesn't exist. And I was just like a consciousness. And so I remember going to my
door and moving through my door. And as I stood in the hallway, I saw this just dark energy was
just like a shadow didn't have a face or anything. It was just shadow lower vibrational entity. Right.
And in that moment, looking back, I think it was a test per se, because in the Emerald Tablets of
Toth, the author teaches you how to vanquish these entities. He teaches you how to vanquish them using
your mind power. And so almost simultaneously when I saw it, it's like I felt like a laser beam
shoot from the book to like whatever my heart center was at that time. And just like quickly
downloaded it. And then I shot like a beam of light at this thing. And then it just disappeared.
And then almost instantaneously, like I woke up in my body. And I didn't think that was real. I was
like, man, there's no way that just happened. You know, like, I was like, that's that was crazy.
Like, but I went to sleep. And the next morning, my mom took me out for breakfast. And she asked
me, she's like, Hey, is everything all right? Like, yeah, everything's cool. And she's like,
are you sure? Because last night I walked by your room and I felt like such a dark presence
that I had to stop and pray for you. And in that moment, I got the chills. And that's when I was
like, okay, maybe that was real. Like maybe that did happen. You know, what, what was the entity?
What do you think the dark entity are? Okay, so at that time I was 16, I was on house arrest.
And it was like summer at 16. Yeah. What were you on? Why were you on house versus 16?
So I mean, my friends stole the golf cart, took it for a joyride.
We took a golf cart for a joyride. Dude, this is going to sound really weird. I did the same
thing when I was 16 and got arrested for that. There's no way same exact thing. But
that is weird. But I never was on house arrest. Well, okay. So I got on probation and then I
I popped a dirty drug test and then got on house arrest during probation.
Oh, that's it. Gotcha. That's wild. Yeah, it was crazy. But so I was on house arrest and I was
just I was researching a lot of occult stuff. I was writing a story at the time, like a fictional
story. And I was researching a lot of grim wars, like demonic books, because I was looking for
like inspiration for like character development and like names and stuff. It was a weird time.
So I was like practicing like kind of like light magic and shit. And I remember it was just a
really dark time. Like I remember feeling like strong energy in my room. And I had some weird
relics in my room and stuff. And so I was kind of calling it in, kind of getting back to the idea
of egregores and archetypes. And I think for me, I think like 95%, if not more of the paranormal
experiences that we have in life, are our own subconscious minds projecting them. And it can
become powerful subconscious mind is very powerful. And I think it's so powerful to the point that
it can actually influence conscious reality, right in these egregores in these spirits or in
things moving. Sometimes I've seen things move as a kid. I can't, I can't, you know, verify it. I
can't, I have no way to back it up, but I've seen things move. You know, and I, what do you think
all these people claiming they're being abducted by aliens? What do you think that is? I think a
large percent of it is probably hallucination, trauma. And there's probably a small percentage of
it that is that is real. They're going through something real, whatever that is, I don't know.
Like, again, whatever these grades are, they could be these lower vibrational entities breaking
into our reality for a small period of time, or they can be these interdimensional travelers from
our future. I don't know. But I think a large percentage of these experiences are our own minds
playing tricks on us. Yeah. Yeah, that's what that guy, John Mack, the Harvard psychiatrist,
was studying. He went to Zimbabweis to interview all those kids that were on that playground.
And he set them all aside individually, interviewed them all. And they all drew pictures
that were like very, not the same, but very, very similar. And that was like, when he started
talking to all these people and like seeing the commonalities between all their stories,
he was like, you know, he wrote a few books about it. But, you know, he was, he was convinced that,
you know, these were, this was reality for them. Yeah, man. Yeah. Because again,
getting back to the central reality, like the central reality is like the mundane narrative
that we're, we're just a citizen in a country, and we have to go to school and work, you know,
like that's like the central reality, but life is way more spectacular than that in many, many
ways. And so we're being held in that illusion that that's all we are. We're just a person,
you know, that's it. That's all good. Nah, like we're a consciousness, like toggling through
this program and our creator, whoever or whatever it is, put us here for a reason. And I think that
reason is to slowly bring us up through development to the point where we can finally accept and
receive, you know, what this really is and who it really is. And while we're here, though,
we are being taken advantage of through the physical aspect. Because our brain has compartments
just like the mind does. The brain has what is known as the reptilian brain, the R-complex.
And the R-complex is where all the primal instincts reside, as we were saying, you know,
sex, money. Right. So the R-complex is taken advantage of by all of the like networks,
TV networks, entertainment industry, they just try to like, they just market to our, sorry,
our reptilian brain. Right. And that's what I call the reptilian brain network.
And the reptilian brain, it gets evoked through fear, for the most part. It's the easiest way
to evoke the reptilian brain is through fear. And we're always constantly being, you know,
told to fear something, you know, the past couple of years, most of the world was caught in fear.
And so when we're in fear, we're not operating on a conscious level, on a higher conscious level,
we're operating on the reptilian brain level. So the funny thing is, when you ask me, do I think
reptilians are real? They are real. We are the reptilians. They're turning us into reptilians
by keeping us in our reptilian brain complex. And so by us staying there subtly, they keep us
in a subtle low vibration where we aren't operating on a higher level. And they do this through so
many different ways. And depression is an effect of that. And the thing about depression that I
talked about in my book is we're starting to realize that depression is not just an emotion.
Depression is actually an altered state of consciousness. It's called the global state
of consciousness. So being in a coma, being, being in a coma toast is a global state of
consciousness. It's a state of consciousness that takes over your entire body. And scientists are
starting to realize that depression, again, is not an emotion. It's not like you watching a movie
and you feel sad now. Depression is actually a state of an altered state of consciousness.
So when somebody is depressed, their entire physical being and mind is altered and changed.
They're not even operating on a conscious level. They're making decisions based on a lower thinking
level. And so this world, this central reality is designed through fast food, through corruption,
through the entertainment industry, through social media, is designed to keep us depressed,
is designed to keep us in fear, is designed to keep us in a low quality state.
I mean, getting back to what we were talking about earlier with organized religion
and groups and society, look at during the lockdowns, how many suicides there were.
Oh yeah.
Keeping people locked up in their homes, you know, out of public places, not around other people.
I think, I think suicide shot up by like an insane amount. Like it was like,
I forget what the number was, but there was hundreds of thousands of more suicides
during the years, during the pandemic lockdowns than there were before.
Yeah, man. Yeah, that was a nasty thing for all of us to go through, you know.
But that's the reptilian brain network, man. It's like, it's operated through the central
reality. And if we don't wake up and realize that we're more than this body and that our creator
intended us, intended for us to be more than this body, eventually, then we're going to just,
that's all we're ever going to be is just this body. And we're just going to be some
civilians, some Anunnaki slave or whatever. But the body isn't evil though. The body is
meant to be used in this. The body is beautiful. It's designed perfectly for what we need to do here
in this current program. And so how we ascend this is through the body and mind,
is through the spirit machine. So the yogis who have been meditating have realized for many centuries
now that our body can produce some very amazing things that can help us break us out of the
central reality and help break us out of their reptilian brain program. For example, a lot of
the poses that they do, the like the mulabandas as they're known, a lot of the poses, they're not
just like random poses they're doing. They're specific poses that help activate blood flow
and circulation through the body, which is important because especially in Kundalini
meditation, because we have what is called the cerebral spinal fluid. It's a fluid channel
that you may know of that runs through our sacrum all the way up around our brain, in our brain,
and back down. And the cerebral spinal fluid is responsible for discarding bacteria, viruses,
and also dispersing like beneficial vitamins and things like that. But it can get clogged,
it can get slowed down and stuff like that. And in some places, sometimes people have like
blockages and it can cause like aneurysms or just like defects, mental defects, brain defects.
And so when you put yourself in certain yogic poses, what you're doing is allowing
your body to clear that channel. And when you breathe, when you do certain like yogic breathing
techniques or breath work, you're allowing that channel also to open up more. And more than that,
we have what is called the vagus nervous system, the vagus nervous system. And it follows the
cerebral spinal fluid, it starts at our sacrum and goes all the way up to our brain. And the vagus
nervous system touches all of our internal organs and our brain. And so it's an internet channel
from our brain to all of our organs. And so when we meditate in certain poses and do breath work,
we're opening up the cerebral spinal fluid, we're cleansing out our vagus nervous system
and clearing out our brain. And when we couple that with a conscious eating and conscious thinking,
then what we're doing is we're changing our energy field. And that's not fanatical hippy stuff.
We have an actual electromagnetic biofield. That's real. And so when we get back to harnessing
our spirit machine and clearing it and taking ownership of it and doing these practices that,
you know, yogis and mystics have been doing for thousands of years, what we start to do,
we start to clear our subconscious mind where the program resides, right? We start to clear
our subconscious mind, which is where the program starts. So when we start to clear our subconscious
mind, we can start to regain independence in our consciousness in our soul. And we can break
apart from the reptilian brain network and the central reality. And further than that,
what we should be doing is strengthening our consciousness. Pierre Chardin talked about this.
He's the famous Jesuit mystic who said, we are not human beings having a spiritual experience,
we are spiritual beings having a human experience. He talked about individuating our
consciousness. The more we individuate our consciousness and the more we create that
connection with our body and our mind and the more we meditate and start to realize,
actually realize and expand our conscious awareness and realize that we are more than this
and start to see that, then when we die, we'll be ready for that. Our consciousness will actually
transition through that easily in the same way that when we fall asleep into a dream, we forget
who we are. Some people don't. If you practice lucid dreaming, you can you can fall into a dream
consciously throughout the whole process. It's the same thing with death. If you prepare your body
and your spirit machine for that, when it happens, you can hold on to your mind and go through that
process and break through and retaining your mind and be ready for whatever that is on the other side.
And this is evident in nature because again, we're consciousness. We're not our body. When the body
dies, we don't die. It's just that we don't practice the skill and technique of realizing
that we're the consciousness so that when we meet death or whatever that transition is,
because we're operating on a low reptilian vibrational level, that high vibration that we
are met with, which is infinity, simply sees us seeks and pretty much evaporates or washes it
down. It sees the low vibration and it blocks it. It rejects it. We're not ready. So we come back,
Samsara, Samsara, Samsara reincarnation until we get to that level where we are actually consciously
aware and know that there is more because we can see it. When you astral project, when you meditate,
when you lucid dream, you can see it. You actually can see it and know that there is more. It's like
that door that I talked about earlier. You know that behind that door. I know there's a couch there
and there are a few beautiful people and I'm going to walk through it. How does knowing that change
your day-to-day life, your perspective? Man, it just makes things a lot funner. It can. For some
people, it makes everything more grim and depressing. I went through that when I was starting all of
this years ago. I went through a depression stage where I thought I was going crazy. I was hearing
voices and stuff and having hallucinations like my mind broke. I had to take a break. I was like,
I got to stop reading. I got to stop looking into this stuff. I didn't want to talk about anything
more strange than the weather. Right. Really, man. It drives a lot of people crazy, man.
Lots of people can get, especially depending on what drugs you mix with it. Schizophrenia is a
real thing. Yeah. That's what I was always afraid of was schizophrenia because I've had two friends
that have been diagnosed with it, one of them resting in peace. He passed away. He spiraled
too out of control. Weed, marijuana and psychedelics aren't for everybody.
Some people just weren't made for it. Absolutely, man. A lot of people in the
community, they learn this stuff and they get bitter. They get bitter about the world. Everybody
needs to wake up. The sheep, the sheep hole. I don't view it that way, man. Not everybody's
meant to know this stuff either. That's why I approach this stuff kind of treading lightly and
as I can, but for the warriors that are ready to take on the truth about religion,
to take on the truth about our government, to take on the truth about life and consciousness,
this will be for them, but not everybody needs to know this. I don't need to run
into my mom's house and start telling her all this stuff. She's got her little life and she
loves it. I believe that as long as we love our lives and we love the people around us and we
strive to be as good as we can, then that's good enough. But for me, for whatever reason,
the Creator endowed me with this ambition. I couldn't run away from it if I wanted to,
even when I tried to stop because I was going crazy. Eventually, I had to come back.
How did you come back? How did you overcome it?
Man, I just took a break. I took a break, but everywhere I went, I just saw little signs.
It was funny. Actually, I went to a used bookstore because I love going to bookstores just to kick
it and cruise and find some stuff. I was in the bookstore and I found a collection of Zechariah
Sitchin's books, eight of them, eight or nine of them, and they were all for like a dollar or 50
cents. That was like a goldmine. Zechariah Sitchin, again, he's the guy who brought all this Anunnaki
stuff and I love his work. I was like, man, I can't just let this go. I have to buy these.
At the time, I was broke. This was years ago before I started making decent money and
I spent pretty much all I had on that. I took that as a sign to get back into it.
I'm like, this has got to be a sign. I bought the books, went home and just
meditated, just said, all right, I'm ready. I've had enough time during my break.
Just went full force and ever since, I've been diving deep and deep.
That's incredible, man.
Well, hey, man, thanks for doing this. I really appreciate you sharing all this information.
Tell people where they can find more of your work, more of your videos, all that stuff.
Absolutely. You can find me on Instagram at esotericeddy,
YouTube at esotericeddy.tv, and pretty much everything else, my books and some of my merch
at esotericeddy.com. All right, man. Thanks again.
Hey, thank you, man. Thank you. Thanks for everybody.
