Before the episode starts, I just wanted to say thank you to all the new YouTube subscribers
we've gotten this month.
It has been growing like a weed, along with Spotify and Patreon.
If you have not yet subscribed to the channel, go down and hammer that subscribe button below
the video, leave a comment, and enjoy the show.
These things happen.
The phenomenon is real, clairvoyance is a real thing, precognition is a real thing.
All of these things are absolutely part of the human condition, but you can't put them
on call, which is what you need in a scientific experiment.
You need to replicate things, and you need to be able to falsify things, and ultimately
you need to be able to quantify things, and you can't do any of that here.
But it doesn't mean they're not real.
It just means you can't do ordinary science with them.
What the remote viewers were trying to do, certainly as I understand it, is they were
trying to use these things for espionage, and sometimes they worked very, very well, but
they did not work all the time.
That's where the science falls, but the reality still pokes through as it were.
My own feeling about it is that you need trauma to induce these things, so go back to the
David Morehouse story.
Well, he didn't become a remote viewer until he was shot in the head, and you mentioned
Elizabeth Crone.
Well, Elizabeth didn't become psychic until she was struck by lightning, and almost died.
I think there's something about trauma and illness and suffering that opens people up
to these capacities, and these capacities often come online after a traumatic event,
whether that's physical or emotional or sexual or everything altogether.
Sometimes they don't come online at all.
Sometimes the trauma just mangles people, essentially.
I don't think we understand this at all, Danny, but I think trauma is somehow involved
in it, and I think that's why these are not scientific as it were.
You can't induce trauma in a scientific experiment, by the way.
Not at least ethically.
Not morally.
Not ethically or morally.
No IRB at any university would allow you to traumatize human beings over and over, which
is what you'd have to do to operationalize or study these things, and even then it may
not work at all.
You might just kill the person or traumatize the person.
David Morehouse says that these extra senses and this extra perception that people have
and people like him acquired through head trauma, he said that something that everybody
has either buried down in deep inside just needs to be sort of let loose somehow, and
there needs to be some sort of event that brings it to the surface.
I think it's trauma.
I think it's trauma that lets it lose.
Of course, I do think these are part of the human condition and we all have these capacities.
It doesn't mean we all have access to them.
Do you think past humans in maybe harder times had this stuff come to them more naturally
and it was sort of a normal thing, and then as we evolved and built cities and self-driving
cars and iPads and phones that this stuff just sort of got buried?
Yes, I do.
I think the assumption is that things are getting better and we're evolving to more
and more abilities, but I think actually the opposite might be true that we've lost a lot
of these abilities, but maybe for good reason.
Anesthesia, I mean, antibiotics, painkillers, these are not bad things, Danny, but they
certainly suppress the pain and the suffering that allowed people to access to these abilities
and these other realms as well.
So I think there is, you know, to invoke my field again, I think the modern human being
is more buffered, which a word used a lot, where the psyche is put together in a way
that is much more egoic and stable and rational than it was, say, five, six hundred years
ago.
Our ancestors were much more open to other realms and other kinds of beings, but they
also suffered more and they lived much shorter lives as well.
So it's not like we want to go back to that.
I'm not suggesting that, but I think acknowledging this is extremely helpful because it gets
us out of this notion that if you can't demonstrate something scientific, it's not real.
That's nonsense.
It doesn't follow at all.
It just means it's not amenable to the scientific method.
That's what it means.
And there's a lot of things about human experiences that are not amenable to the scientific method.
So for people that may not be familiar with you and your work, can you give people like
an introduction into how you got into this field and what exactly you're doing today?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I was trained in a field called history of religions at the University of Chicago
in the late 80s and early 90s.
And essentially this is the comparative study of religion, but really broad, Danny, like
from ancient cave art to the contemporary near-death experience.
So it's like everything.
Now when you're trained in it, you focus on a particular area and a particular culture
and a particular language for sure.
But the goal is to understand the most extreme forms of human religious experience comparatively,
to sort of look for patterns and see what's similar and what's different.
I started out actually in the early 90s.
I was a scholar of Hinduism actually.
I studied Indian languages.
And then in the late 90s, early 2000s, I got very interested in the American counterculture
through a place called the Estlin Institute in Big Sur, California.
And what I was really interested in was how did these countercultural actors understand
Buddhism or Hinduism or Taoism or whatever the Asian religion was and what did they embrace
and what did they not embrace about these cultures.
And it was really that work, mostly in California, that exposed me to or I encountered human
beings who kept telling me extraordinary stories about things like near-death experiences,
out-of-body experiences, psychedelic experiences, UFO experiences.
I heard the whole gamut.
And I realized that historians and scholars of religion just didn't have any way of dealing
with that.
We had ways of dealing with it, but it was not dealing with it.
We would say, oh, that's an exaggeration or that's a legend or that's some kind of
power play.
And I realized, no, none of that really worked.
People actually did have these experiences.
And so I wrote a number of books about what most people would think of as the paranormal.
I wrote a book called Authors with the Impossible, which maybe we can talk about.
I wrote a book about comic books and science fiction called Mutants and Mystics.
I wrote a big memoir, a manifesto, kind of tying all the books together called Secret
Body.
I worked with a man named Whitley Striever.
I wrote a book called The Supernatural, three words.
I wrote another book with a near-death experiencer named Elizabeth Crone called Change in a Flash.
I wrote a book about scientists and engineers called The Flip, which is about their own extraordinary
experiences and how they flip their world view after these.
And I work mostly now with frankly experiencers and I try to understand what they saw or what
happened to them and how we understand this theoretically or comparatively.
So that book changed in a flash with Elizabeth Crone.
How did you get introduced to her?
Yeah, it's actually a funny story.
I was invited as I often am by a student of mine to come over to the Texas Medical Center
and they were having a panel on near-death experiences in something called the Institute
for Spirituality and Health now.
And Elizabeth was one of the speakers.
But anyway, Elizabeth told this story of how she was struck by lightning and how she had
this really wild near-death experience and she told this all in the Medical Center in
Houston and I went up to her and I said, Elizabeth, that is a great story and you should write
a book.
And she said to me, well, I don't know how to write a book and I said, well, I don't
have a great story but I know how to write a book.
And so we worked for a couple years and we published Change in a Flash and it's basically
the first half of the book is her telling her story and the second half of the book
is me sort of trying to make sense of it in the context of the study of religion, anthropology
and history and that kind of thing.
So what is this?
Can you give me a recount of the story?
Sure.
I mean, I'm not Elizabeth.
Right.
But we can pretend.
Yeah.
My joke is I'm the warm-up band for the Beatles and she's the Beatles and she really is.
So what happened was Elizabeth, this is 1988 and it's the yard site of her grandfather's
death.
So it's the first annual, it's the first annual memorial of her grandfather's death and she
wants to take her boys to the synagogue to hear the name of her grandfather read out
and she puts them in another two and they're two and four or something.
I don't remember.
Yeah.
She goes to the synagogue and she gets out of her car and she's holding this umbrella
and she literally gets struck by lightning in the parking lot of her synagogue and she
has this extraordinary two week near death experience.
Here on earth, it lasts maybe two minutes and she comes out of this experience.
She knew she was going to have a daughter in the future.
She knew she was going to get divorced.
She knew all these things right away.
And then she started to have all of these extraordinary sort of precognitive experiences
like she knew a family member was going to die who then died like the next day.
She got a phone call from her dead grandfather like at three in the morning.
If the phone rings at three in the morning, it's always something bad.
And she started to have nightmares of things like earthquakes and plane crashes and stuff
that would happen the next day in the news.
And so she got very overwhelmed by all of this and it took her well from 1988 to 2018
or 2017 to tell the story and the reason she waited so long is she didn't want her kids
to be made fun of.
She didn't want her kids to be the kids with the strange mother.
And so we wrote this book together and it's done really well actually.
A lot of people have read it.
We were just on Maim Bialik's podcast.
I don't know if you know Maim Bialik because she's on The Big Bang Theory.
Yeah, I watched that.
I listened to that podcast last night.
Yeah.
So Maim loved the book and we had a long conversation around it and it really deals with this issue
of what is the soul or what is consciousness?
Do we survive bodily death?
What do we make of near-death experiences?
How is Elizabeth's near-death experience related to the Jewish mystical traditions and how
do we understand the imagination?
How do we understand dream?
How do we understand precognition?
It gets into all these questions.
I think in a pretty plausible, useful way.
So she explained, I remember listening to the podcast that she explained that after
she got struck by lightning, she walked inside the synagogue with her two boys.
And then everyone was like, we need to go, we need a doctor.
And then she turned around to look back outside and she saw her body laying there.
And then that's when she realized that she was dead.
Right.
Right.
She didn't know she was dead and she was wondering about why is no one paying me attention.
Oh, nobody was interacting with her.
No.
The thing that she was all obsessed about right after the lightning strike was her shoes,
actually, because she had just purchased these new shoes and she was so proud of these shoes.
And they were toast.
They were totally destroyed.
They were where the lightning grounded out.
So they just blew up, basically.
And so there's humor in it, and there's a moment where, as someone asks for a doctor
in the house, and of course it's the Jewish synagogue.
It's the synagogue.
It's all doctors.
It's a Jewish synagogue.
And lawyers.
Not only is it a synagogue, but it's right near the medical center.
So of course it's filled with, and the man who happened to be the expert on lightning
strikes was actually there, and he was the one who treated her and got her back.
He's like, no point in calling 911.
They're just going to call me.
Yeah.
Well, that's exactly what he said.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
So then she saw like a light.
She noticed she was floating.
She saw a light.
She followed a light somewhere.
And then she went to some crazy garden that she couldn't describe the colors with words.
Yeah.
She was in a garden for two weeks and talked to this male voice who was, the voice was
her grandfather's voice, but she was pretty sure it wasn't her grandfather.
She thought it was God.
Yeah.
She thought it was God.
And then there were these mountains and this light on the other side of the mountain.
And she knew if she went on, if she went towards the light, she wouldn't come back.
She wouldn't.
Oh, really?
So she stays in the garden and what's it, what was so interesting about working with
Elizabeth was I was like, you know, the garden and the mountains and God is a male and all
of this stuff.
It's so Jewish.
And I said to her, I said, you know, how do you understand that?
And she was really sophisticated about it.
She basically said, look, everybody's going to have their own experience of the afterlife.
They're going to, they're going to experience it the way their culture or their religion
or their, their, their set up to experience it.
But there's still something there, you know.
So she had this very both and kind of position that I found very useful as, as someone trying
to think about religious experiences across the board.
So was this garden she was in, was that sort of like a metaphor for purgatory or for like
a,
Well, it wasn't a metaphor for her.
I mean,
But like, how did, how do you interpret that?
How do you interpret the garden where like, like with your religious studies background?
Where was that?
And do you think that she, she made a decision not to go to the light, meaning not to pass
on to the afterlife and she decided to go back to the earth or time, the space time
we live in now.
Do you think that's something that happens to everybody or most people?
I think it happens to a lot of people.
I don't know if it happens to most of us because
I mean, obviously some people have no joy.
I mean, if you get your like hit by a truck, you're not going to have much of a choice.
I, you know, so I talk about this in the book and first of all, let me, let me back up.
First of all, the garden is a very, very Jewish visionary display, you know, paradise is a
garden.
And the Jewish tradition talks a lot about the garden of the afterlife as does, of course,
the Christian tradition coming afterwards.
So I think that kind of visionary landscape, but I think it really was a visionary landscape.
I don't think it's a metaphor in the sense she's just talking like that.
I think she really experienced herself in a garden.
So that didn't come from any prior knowledge that she had that didn't, I think it came
from her, her Jewish background, whatever it, however we understand that.
But I don't think she consciously created it.
Okay, I see.
I don't think she's, it's like a dream, you know, it's like when you get up in the morning,
you're like, what, what the hell was that about?
Right?
It's, it's some part of you is telling you a story that's not you, but it is you.
And I think the, the garden and the mountain is something like this, it's some part of
Elizabeth's background that is trying to speak to her and met in symbols, let's say, or a
visionary landscape, but it doesn't mean exactly literally what it is if I can put it that way.
And the reason I say that, I've explained this on, in many contexts, I work with many
people and hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, millions probably of people have near-death
experiences and they're all different.
But they also share these patterns, you know, that are, that are similar too.
And so when you look at the, the whole thing, you can't say, oh, it's a garden because that
then locks out all these other experiences and all these other human beings, but you
can't sign your name to any of their experiences either.
So you have to back up a bit and say, well, something's mediating this, something is using
these mythical landscapes or these visionary landscapes to communicate something, but it's
not exactly what is there.
And okay, so that's a theory, but it's a very helpful theory because it allows us to appreciate
a whole bunch of things and not just one thing.
And that's really my goal as a comparativist is to keep all that stuff on the table and
not to start shoving stuff off the table I don't like.
Now, in the real world, after she got struck by lightning, how long did it take for her
to get brought back to life?
So again, you're, you're a phrase, the real world.
Yes, the real world, the world that you and I are sitting in right now at this time.
We of course privilege this world and we think it's, it's, it's the real world, but maybe
it's not.
Maybe the world Elizabeth was in was more real in some sense than this world.
But to answer your question, two minutes, she was, she was, she was out for two minutes,
maybe, maybe around there.
I mean, she was, she was unconscious.
She was lying in the parking lot in the rain, charred and wounded by the lightning strike
and completely gone, completely out.
Heart stopped.
We don't know.
We don't know.
I mean, how would we know?
Couldn't they check her pulse?
Well, I think once they started to, well, they eventually ran out to her right in the
rain.
Oh, it was after two minutes.
In the parking.
I mean, it took a while for people to realize what had happened, right?
So I don't think we know, I at least don't know the medical details.
Okay, I got it.
We know the medical details of other people who've had near-death experiences because
they're recorded.
They're in a, they're in an operation or an operating room.
This is in, in the wild, is it where?
So we don't really know.
But in Elizabeth's story, she's out for about, she's gone, she's dead for about two minutes
and then she comes back online and she, of course, wakes up and she's in a lot of pain
because she just, I mean, she's just been struck by an immense bolt of electricity.
But these, these experiences then develop over, over a series of months actually after,
after the story, as you often see, by the way, in near-death experiences.
Again, that's the trauma that I'm trying to get.
A near-death experience by definition is traumatic.
Yes.
I mean, you almost died.
Right.
And that might be a car accident, might be a heart attack, it might be operation that
went wrong, it might be a lightning strike.
Something has to go very, very wrong.
And I, you know, as I say in the book, what we call the near-death experience, I think
has been happening forever as far as we can see back, but people just died.
They just died.
And so, of course, we didn't hear those stories, but with the rise of medical technology, we
now have this ability to pull people back.
We can resuscitate people who would otherwise be dead.
And guess what?
They come back with a lot of these stories because they have these experiences and they
remember them.
And so there's a whole modern literature now around the near-death experience that didn't
exist 50 years ago.
Right.
How did she know when she was out that she was gone for exactly two weeks?
And then did she say, like, can you give me some more details on this light she decided
not to follow and, like, how that worked?
Well, so the reason, the reason she gives for the two-week answer is that there were spheres
or planet-like objects in the sky, and they were somehow measuring time.
And so she has this sense of two weeks because of the way those planets or those spheres
moved.
The light, you know, she definitely senses, well, she senses an other, a kind of twin or
an angelic other with her all along, but she also recognizes that if she goes towards the
light on the other side of the mountains that she won't come back.
She won't come back into the plane you and I are in right now.
But she chooses to do that, of course.
She chooses to come back and she's told she's going to have a daughter and that she's going
to get a divorce.
And by the way, the lightning strike, it struck her wedding ring.
She was holding the umbrella by the wedding ring was on the umbrella.
So there's the role of the ring and the marriage and the divorce and the child.
All of this is really significant to Elizabeth's story.
And of course, I got to know Barry, too, the first husband and, you know, he's wonderful.
I mean, he talks about all of this and the near-death experience in Elizabeth's language
really changed her and was partly resulted in the divorce, by the way, because she was
just a different person.
So what changed her afterwards?
Well, this is what I talk about.
I mean, she understood that she is not her body, that she has this spiritual essence
or soul that survives bodily death and she became much more spiritual, but she became
much less religious in her modern language.
I mean, she couldn't get the rabbis from her synagogue to take her experience seriously,
but she could get the Chabad kind of Orthodox community to take it seriously.
But she's very uncomfortable with Orthodox Jewish kosher laws around food and gender
and sexuality.
So she's kind of in this middle zone where the part of her tradition that will listen
to her experience is precisely the part of it she doesn't like socially or ethically.
And I think that's the case for a lot of people, by the way, Danny.
As a historian of religions, again, I'm really interested in when people have religious experiences
that don't actually fit in to their religious upbringing or what their culture or community
wants.
And I'm interested in those because there's a kind of purity there.
There's a kind of integrity there that I think is really powerful and honest.
And if you have a religious experience that matches your religion perfectly, my colleagues
always come in and say, well, of course it did.
I mean, it's constructed.
It's just the culture.
It's doing its own thing.
So when somebody has an experience that doesn't fit into their culture, then I'm like, well,
what about this then?
Like that's interesting.
Maybe something's going on that isn't actually specific to the religion or the culture or
the community.
And so that's why I'm interested in it.
It's not that I'm perverse or inappropriate.
It's just I'm just really interested in people's experiences when they don't fit in because
I think there's a kind of quality there that you don't find in other kinds of experiences.
Yeah, the near-death experience is really interesting when you get to understand some
of the stuff that Andrew Gallimore talks about.
You're familiar with Andrew?
Yeah, I am.
He's doing the DMTX study in Tokyo, fascinating what he's doing.
He's basically, for people who don't know, he's doing these extended state DMT studies
where they put people on intravenous DMT, like a slow drip, and then they're trying to essentially
map the DMT realm and figure out what's going on there, what are these little elves they're
seeing and try to understand it more.
And there's, I don't know if they're, how comprehensive or real the studies are regarding
the pineal gland and the DMT that gets released when you die or near-death experiences, but
what have you found or what have you discovered when it comes to how DMT in our brain creates
these sort of psychedelic experiences?
Yeah.
So, I think the psychedelic analog or comparison is really powerful.
If you look, and I've spent a lot of time with psychedelic researchers, I'm not naive
here, if you look at people's psychedelic states, they can be really wild.
I mean, they can see things and experience things that make UFO encounters look tame.
Right.
Right?
Yes.
But they also really happen over and over and over again, and so the researcher is always,
I think, kind of pushed back on this, it's just a theory of the imagination again, and
I don't mean the imaginary.
I mean, the imagination is somehow giving access to this other realm, and it's mediating
this other realm in a really powerful way, but it doesn't mean that what's being imagined
is not there.
And I think with Gallimore's work, which I know a little about, I mean, I have one of
his books and I've dipped into it, I think the near-death experience is like the psychedelic
state.
The pineal gland theory is essentially, the theory essentially says that what happens
in death is the pineal gland secretes DMT into the organism, and the person has this
psychedelic state, essentially, that allows them to die in a fairly peaceful way.
And my experience of that is, years ago, I was invited to a DMT seminar in England, actually,
and they asked me to bring Whitley Striever.
I think they just wanted me for Whitley, actually, and I was like, oh, Whitley Striever doesn't
do psychedelics.
He's wild enough.
I mean, he has these experiences of what he calls the visitors all the time without psychedelics,
and they're like, yeah, we know, but we think it's endogenous DMT release.
In other words, we think his body is releasing DMT and that's how he's having these experiences.
One in five Americans has learning a new language on their bucket list.
And if that's you, make 2024 your year by checking that off your bucket list with Babbel.
Babbel's quick 10-minute lessons are handcrafted by over 200 language experts to help you start
speaking a new language in as little as three weeks.
I always binge Babbel's courses when I'm gearing up to go on a trip.
It helps me to prepare my conversational skills so I can deal with real people in real life
situations when I'm ordering food or asking for directions or dealing with merchants.
And to me, what helps at Babbel above the rest is their speech recognition technology,
which helps hone in your accent and pronunciation.
Students from Yale, Michigan State, and others continue to prove Babbel is better.
One study found that using Babbel for 15 hours is equivalent to a full semester at college.
Babbel has over 16 million subscriptions sold, plus all of Babbel's 14 award-winning language
courses are backed by their 20-day money-back guarantee.
And here's a special limited-time deal for our listeners.
Right now, get 50% off a one-time payment for a lifetime Babbel subscription, but only
for our listeners at babbel.com slash Danny.
Again, get 50% off at babbel.com slash Danny.
It's spelled B-A-B-B-E-L.com slash D-A-N-N-Y.
Rules and restrictions may apply.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
And I was like, wow, that's an interesting idea.
And so I talked to Willie about this.
I'm like, Willie, were you going to England with me and talk to these people?
And he's like, sure, but I don't do psychedelics.
You know, I'm basically strange enough in his own way.
And but that was the theory is, and I think that's a plausible theory.
We don't know if it's true.
But again, it gets back to this issue of trauma that I was talking about earlier.
You need the trauma.
You need the near-death to activate the pineal gland to release the DMT that then helps mediate
this experience.
And the question, Danny, is for someone certainly like myself is, are you making that argument
reductively or non-reductively?
And by that, I mean, do you think it's just the pineal gland and the brain's on drugs,
essentially?
And so you're hallucinating?
Yeah.
Is it like stuck on, is it broken and stuck on repeat?
Or, or, or, and I think this is what these, these researchers really think is the DMT
acting as a kind of mediation or as a kind of opening of the portal that, that the soul
is then going through.
And I think it really matters which of those options you choose, you know.
Let me put it this way.
And I'm going to sound a bit nerdy here, but the, the reigning model in neuroscience is
what we call the production model.
And that's the idea that consciousness is entirely produced by material processes.
In our case, a neurological kind of light show in the brain that is very patterned and
very organized and it produces Danny or it produces Jeff.
That makes no sense actually of a lot of the phenomenon that I'm interested in, like precognition
and, and out of body experiences and all of these encounters we're talking about.
So people in my world, at least since William James and probably earlier than him, people
like Frederick Myers and Wayback, essentially argued what was called the filter thesis or
what we call the filter thesis today.
And this essentially says that the brain is certainly mediating these states of consciousness,
but it's actually not producing them.
And so what you want to look for is instances in which the brain is being shut down because
then other things can flow in.
In a filter thesis, you, it's, the brain is a filter, you're, you're, you're shutting
most things out so that you can eat things and survive and reproduce and, and in a kind
of Darwinian sense.
And so what you want to look for is when, when does the brain shut down when, and of
course psychedelics is a great way to shut down brain processes, meditation is a great
way to shut down brain processes, car wrecks, lightning strikes, you know, you can go on
and on, but every instance of this shutting down the brain is probably going to be traumatic
to the person unless you can integrate it into the ritual of the system, which is what
I think what meditation is.
So I think it matters a great deal.
What I'm trying to say is it matters a great deal how you understand the relationship between
brain and, and consciousness or brain and mind.
And I think the reigning scientific model is certainly the production thesis.
And so when the brain shuts down in death, guess what?
Consciousness just blips out like a light bulb because the, the material base has ended.
Right.
But in, in, in Elizabeth's view, and I think in Whitley's and a lot of these experiences
that actually doesn't actually end consciousness.
So clearly consciousness is not dependent on brain processes.
Clearly it's something else is going on.
And that's where this filter thesis comes in.
And you can call the transmission thesis, you can call all kinds of things, but it's
essentially a different understanding of how the brain and the mind are related.
Is this connected any way to Shardan, Shardan's theory of the Neuosphere?
Yeah.
Teh hard to Shardan.
Yeah.
Teh hard.
This is the first name.
Yeah.
Teh hard.
Probably.
I mean, so I know a lot about Teh hard.
I can tell you funny stories about Teh hard to Shardan too.
He was a, he was a Catholic paleontologist who, who had a, basically his view was that
God worked through evolution and that the news was this sort of cosmic mind that was
going to develop, you know, in, in the future when human beings were integrated, more integrated
in some way.
And so he talked about the Neuosphere, you know, the, the, and some people have connected
this to the internet and, you know, have kind of gone in that direction.
That's really not what Teh hard was saying.
He was much more interested in evolution as a kind of mystical process through which
God creates human beings and eventually consciousness and eventually this sort of news cosmic mind.
So I would say that most religions have a filter thesis.
In other words, they do not understand the body as producing mind or consciousness full
stop.
Most religious, most traditional cultures see the soul or the spirit as somehow independent
of the body and the brain.
And so when the body and the brain dies, the, the soul or the spirit does not.
Now again, that's open to conversation.
I don't have an answer there, but I think someone like Teh hard who comes out of a Roman Catholic
mystical tradition definitely was, was working with some kind of filter thesis, although he
would never use that language and I would never impose it on him.
Yeah.
It's interesting when you think about this sort of like unifying consciousness, like
this, this Neuosphere and basically, and do I have this right?
The idea is somebody like across the world can come up with this crazy new idea at the
same time, like somebody on the polar opposite of the planet will have the same idea, right?
Like somehow we're all connected in this, this sort of layer of consciousness that envelops
all of us.
Well, so a lot of religious practice implies this.
So for example, if I were to, I'm not a religious person, Danny, but if you're not, I'm not,
I mean, not in a traditional way, but you leave in God.
Yeah, I do actually.
We can talk about that.
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm framing this on a particular way.
Okay.
Sorry.
Sorry.
It's all right.
It's all right.
We can go back there.
Yeah.
Let's say I were to pray for you.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, that ritual implies we're connected in some way and that I can pray to this deity
who can then somehow impact Danny's life.
I mean, there's, there's a kind of trial going on there.
There's a kind of triangle there, but also in a lot of psychical experience, you know,
he wakes up in the middle of the night and says, Oh, grandma just died.
Now they know instantly.
Right.
So clearly there's a connection there between the loved one and the person who wakes up.
Well, what is that connection?
What is going on there?
And so that's the kind of, one of my colleagues calls it co-inherence.
That's the kind of, Barbara Newman's her name.
That's the kind of connection that is so deep, but it needs religious language to, to describe
it.
And I think a lot of the reason I invoke prayer is, um, it implies the same thing.
Even if people don't talk about it, if you're praying for someone, then you're connected
to that prayer.
You believe on some level you're connected to that person and that your mental act can
somehow affect physical events, which is a remarkable thing, Danny, if that, if, if,
if that in case is, is true.
Right.
Um, so why being a person who studies religion and has dedicated your life to religion, how
could you not be a religious person?
Okay.
I knew you were going to come back to that.
It goes back to the taking everybody seriously thing.
If I sign my name to a particular religion, it means I've locked out all these other people.
And so it's not that, it's not that I deny religious views.
In fact, I think, I think I believe everything, Danny, which means I believe nothing because
the religions exclude one another.
Well, I can't exclude other people.
I just can't do that because I think people are innately, inherently religious and have
these experiences.
And I want to take those experiences as seriously as I take my own experiences seriously.
And so I can't fall back and say, I'm this or I'm that because in my own mind, that doesn't
allow me to, to live with and, and take these other people seriously.
So it's not that I'm, I often describe myself as the most religious person I know, but I
don't actually have a religion, not, not at least one I, I, I can identify.
What do you think God is?
I think God is us.
I think we're God.
I think, but not Danny, but not, not Jeff, but we, we, we tap into some, some greater
reality, you know, that, that we call God in the, the Christian or the Jewish or the,
the Islamic traditions, but that other traditions call other things, you know, that you don't
have to be theistic or, or personal about it.
You know, there are religious traditions that, that acknowledge that other greater reality,
but don't turn it into a person or a, or a God.
Hmm.
God is us.
Can you expand on that?
So let me, let me put it this way.
If I experience an alien and it looks a lot like I do, my, my inclination is to think
it's somehow me that I'm, I'm projecting to deal with.
I'm, I'm, I'm dealing with my own greater self by having this kind of experience and
it looks a lot like me because it is me and I, so I have never, ever heard about an experience
of God that didn't come from a human being ever.
Hmm.
Okay.
My dog does not talk about her experiences of God.
Okay.
Nor did many of our cats or, or any, any animal.
I have only heard experiences of God from other human beings, which leads me to think
that there's something really human about God, that God is somehow this deeper self
or, or, or cosmic mind behind or within humanity.
And it's not that Jeff Kreipel or Danny Jones is God.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying that we tap into and we exist because of this, this greater life force that, that
lots of people have chosen to call God and I'm like, okay, call God.
That's what you want.
But other people don't call it God, Danny.
They call it a whole bunch of other things and I'm like, well, that's, that's, that's
true too.
That's your, that's your experience.
Um, going back to the near death experiences, have you ever, I mean, well, first of all,
what sort of actual experiments have you guys done and how do you do, like, do you do experiments
on people in hospice and like go like study them and figure out what's going on in their
mind?
No, I don't.
How do you guys, how do you guys do a proper scientific analysis of what's happening in
these people's minds with near death experiences?
How can you, how could you do that in a, in a measured setting?
You, you, well, first of all, I leave that to the scientists.
There are psychiatrists and scientists who do exactly that that you're talking about.
I don't.
I'm a historian.
Uh, I'm a humanist.
I, I listen to people's stories and I write about them, um, but I don't do that scientific
laboratory study that you're, you're referring to.
Your question presumes, by the way, that science somehow, um, tells us the truth, uh, and history
and, and confession and, and autobiography don't.
So I, I think that's wrong.
I think that's fundamentally wrong.
And I think we live in a culture that conflates scientific method with truth.
And I, I just think that's mistaken.
I just think it's mistaken.
It's just wrong.
Scientific truth is really useful and it can do all sorts of great things.
I mean, we're, we're talking on a piece of technology here.
I mean, we used a refrigerator, we used a coffee machine.
I flew here in a plane.
All those things are wonderful things.
But they're practical things.
They don't tell me why I exist or what the meaning of life is.
They, they do things.
They can create cool things, but they can't tell me any of the questions I want to, I
want to know the answers to.
Did you ever do any, did you ever talk to anybody who had like traumatic experiences
as a young kid?
Oh yeah.
Sure.
I maybe grew up like, like for example, I have a friend who had childhood leukemia and
had the first six years, seven years of his life were just living in and out of a hospital.
And you know, it really dramatically changed his worldview after that.
Elizabeth's like that, by the way.
If you read the book, she was, she was raped for six years as a child from the age of six
to the age of 11.
And she definitely relates her near-death experience to her early dissociative states.
And she uses the word dissociative, I'm not using it without her.
So I definitely think there's a connection between early childhood trauma and later religious
experiences.
But again, I'm not proposing that in a reductive sense.
It's not that I think the near-death experience can be explained by the childhood sexual abuse
or rape in this case.
But I think they're definitely related psychologically and biologically even.
So what do you believe actually happens when we die?
I think we die into our imaginations on sort of the far side of this world, the immediate,
the immediate thing that happens, I think is that we experience our imaginations in
a really dramatic way, whatever those imaginations are.
I think, I don't know what happens after that, what happens after the mountain, the light
at the end of the other man, because I don't have any memory of that.
I do notice, again, as a comparativist, there are actually two forms of literature today
that are very prominent.
One is the near-death experience literature.
The other is children who remember previous lives.
And they don't, they're seldom compared, Danny.
So the question for me is, okay, do we live once or do we live many times?
And different religions, again, opt for different solutions, by the way.
Some religions have a kind of one-life model, and other religions have a cyclical kind of
reincarnational model.
And I think if you look actually at the data, as the scientists would say, it's both.
You see both in the data.
You have children who really remember previous lives, which, by the way, ended dramatically
in almost every single case.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you have those children in Christian cultures, as well as Hindu and Buddhist cultures, by
the way.
They don't privilege.
Certain worldviews allow those stories to circulate more easily, for sure.
But you also have these cases in cultures in which there is no reincarnation.
And the lives, one of the things when I talk to the researchers here, one of the patterns
they see is that the previous life was overwhelmingly male.
And the reason is ...
Overwhelmingly male.
Yeah.
The reason is that they speculate is that in most cultures, males are much more likely
to die violently than females.
Much more.
It's not a universal rule.
I mean, obviously, you can die violently as a female as well.
But generally, they identify male in the previous life when their life was ended by gunshot
or murder or war, whatever the case was.
And also, in these other cultures, Danny, this gives them a very powerful way of talking
about gender and identity, by the way, because this notion of being a woman in a man's body
or a man in a ... It's not unusual at all in a reincarnational worldview.
It makes total sense, actually.
You were a woman in your previous life, and now you're in a man's body.
So, of course, somehow you're more aware of that than you probably should be, because
in these worldviews, anyway, we're designed to forget our previous lives, so we can focus
on this one and imagine that you're Danny Jones and I'm Jeff Kreipel, and this is it.
Well, it's not it in this bigger worldview.
How come there are only kids imagining or remembering previous lives?
Why don't you see older people doing that?
So, again, we just have theories.
We just have ideas.
Of course.
But there's a lot of literature, actually, on this, and generally, these memories erupt
around the acquisition of language.
So say around three, and they disappear around five or six, maybe seven.
And the idea is that they erupt at language because the child actually has these memories
and you can articulate them, but they have to be suppressed and forgotten so that you
can be this other person.
You can have this other life.
I mean, Danny, it's hard enough being one person, right?
Can you imagine if you were two people or three people or four people or five or six?
I mean, you would be really confused.
Yeah.
I bet.
Yeah.
I mean, I would be.
Yeah.
So there's a model on why these memories, and they do really only, they tend to manifest
between three and six or seven.
You also hear lots of crazy stories of kids having these crazy visions and UFO experiences
and stuff like that, more than anyone.
There's more of these sightings around schools than anywhere else.
Yeah.
I mean, sometimes, so first of all, I mean, let me say this, let me say, I don't have
answers, Danny.
It's not like that I can tell you what happens to us when we die or I can tell you who God
is or I can tell you any of these big questions, but we should be having this conversation.
And I don't just mean Danny and Jeff.
I mean, in the broader culture, we should be focusing on these cases because these are
the ultimate and most important questions I think a human being can ask.
And I think, so what shuts down the conversation I'm against and what allows and encourages
the conversation I'm all for.
So again, this gets back to your question of religion.
I want to keep everything on the table and restricting myself to one particular religion
takes a lot of stuff off the table that I just don't want to take off.
So in some ways, it's a more generous view than a particular religious or cultural identity.
In other ways, it's problematic.
I don't want to romanticize it.
I'm lonely.
I don't have a community.
There's a heavy cost to this.
So I don't want to romanticize the conversation or the process, but I think it's really important.
I really think it's important we do this.
Oh, is there another question that I just flew off?
I don't remember.
One of the things I also wanted to talk to you about was I wanted to ask you, how did
you get wrapped up in this whole current UFO community that is taking shape right now?
Yeah.
No, that's a good question.
I remember you, I watched your talk at the Seoul Conference, which I believe is in Australia.
No, no, was it Stanford?
Oh, was it Stanford?
Yeah.
Why?
We were looking up something on our Patreon show earlier and instead it was in Australia.
That was weird.
Yes, Russ Coltard is from Australia, but the Seoul Foundation is based at Stanford with
Gary Nolan in the Stanford Medical School there.
Okay, cool.
Anyways, so I don't know how I mixed that up.
I was watching your talk and you mentioned that somebody, some sort of propulsion expert
reached out to you and asked you to do a talk at MIT.
Yeah.
Yeah, so the way I got into UFOs, first of all, I love UFOs.
You do?
Yeah.
No, you like them too.
I wish I could see one.
Well, I did see one with Chris Bledsoe.
That was the only UFO I've ever seen.
The reason I love the UFO is not because I understand it, it's because I don't understand
it.
And I don't think anybody else does either.
So it's a kind of ideal framework for a professor or an intellectual or a writer because you're
dealing with a topic that is open and rich and very much a part of people's lives, by
the way.
The way I got into it was I was writing about the counterculture and I was talking to all
these experiencers and they were telling me all these wild stuff, all these wild stories
that, as I often say, couldn't happen, but did.
And a lot of these involve UFOs.
And so I started to write about the UFO.
I think the first book I published on the UFO was 2007, was Estlend, American, the religion
of religion.
It's filled with UFOs, by the way.
And it's about the American counterculture.
It's about remote viewing.
It's about Russian-American diplomacy, all of which involve the UFO, by the way.
And then what happened was I wrote this book called Mutants and Mystics that ends with a
long chapter on Whitley Strieber.
And then I wrote another book called Authors of the Impossible, which has two whole chapters
on two French researchers, one Jacques Valais and the other Bertrand Moust, writing pretty
much entirely about the UFO or largely about the UFO.
And I just became this strong voice in the American Academy for taking these things seriously
in a historical context, in a religious or spiritual context.
I never pretended to be the scientist or the engineer.
I want to stay in my lane, as I often say, and I want to talk about these things historically.
I think they're central to the history of religions.
I don't think they're tangential.
But I don't think we actually know what they are.
I think people imagine them in a kind of science fiction framework today, or they imagine
them in a kind of nuts and bolts way.
But other cultures and other previous time periods have experienced them similarly and
differently.
And so that's what I want to bring into the conversation is this sort of, again, this
bigger picture.
It's very much like the near-death experience or God or prayer or whatever you want to talk
about it.
It's when I look, I just want to shake people and say, look, it didn't begin in 1947.
It goes back thousands of years, as far as we can see.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's one of the things I talked about with Diana when she was here, and she talked
about how she originally got introduced to this whole UFO topic and how much it is depicted
in religious texts.
And she pointed out that there's a word, you could probably correct me on this, but there's
a word in the Bible that means cloud or something.
And it was, they removed it or something from the Bible, or what was the story behind that?
There was the word that meant cloud that was often in the Bible, and she believes that when
people are talking about clouds, they're really talking about UFOs.
I don't really know.
I don't know that.
I mean, she's probably talking about the Hebrew Bible and the pillar of fire and cloud that
guided the Israelites through the desert in the story in Exodus.
But I don't really know.
I mean, Diana's correct that religion's filled with this stuff.
I mean, this is what fascinates me about it.
So it's like everywhere, but you won't talk about it.
Why won't you talk about it?
I think this is what generates religious ideation and religious belief.
I think it's what's behind religion, actually, but we won't talk about it or we land on some
kind of mythology or worldview that is common today, but makes no sense in the second or
third century.
So again, I just want to, I want to be the person in the room poking people saying, hey,
what about this or gosh, precognition or mental telepathy is like common, it's like, it's
common as water in these religions.
Why aren't you talking about that?
Why do you think it's only modern parapsychology or science that can do them?
People have been having these experiences for a long, long time.
And they've been thinking about them and creating models and frameworks that we call
religion to make sense of these things.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Bubs.
I've recently gotten into collagen supplementation because after the age of 25, your natural
collagen production dramatically drops off, which severely impacts your skin.
By supplementing with collagen, you're actually increasing your body's natural production
of collagen.
This increases your skin health, your skin elasticity, which improves the overall quality
of your skin.
Secondly, if you're someone who's into lifting heavy weights, collagen is one of the major
building blocks to joint and connective tissues.
Collagen protein can help reduce joint inflammation and improve joint function.
And finally, collagen is amazing for your hair growth because it increases the production
of keratin, helping to promote stronger, healthier hair.
Bubs is a tribute company to Glenn Bubs-Dority, who was a Navy SEAL and CIA contractor who
died defending American freedom in Benghazi, Libya.
Plain and simple, Bubs makes the stuff to help you get after it.
With nature-derived nutrition to help give you that edge on life's adventures.
Bubs collagen peptide packets are easy to use as a daily supplement.
It's flavorless, easy to mix nature, makes it easy to mix in anything.
I like mixing it in coffee.
Check out Bubs today by visiting BubsNaturals.com and using my promo code DJP for 20% off your
first order.
That's BubsNaturals.com promo code DJP.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
I think we glossed over it a little bit, but who was the propulsion person who brought
you to MIT?
Why didn't he want you there?
Yeah, I think his name is Charles, Charles Chase, I think is his name.
Charles invited me to MIT.
It was really a salon.
It was a kind of intellectual salon.
And he had spent his life in propulsion technology and he was retired now.
His basic hunch, which I think is correct actually, is that whatever is propelling or
manifesting as the UFO is probably involved in human levitation.
Human levitation, Danny, is one of these topics that you can't talk about if you're a historian,
but it's really pretty obvious.
I mean, it's pretty embarrassing too.
The embarrassing fact is people float.
I don't think that's embarrassing.
That would be pretty fucking cool if I could float around.
First of all, it's often unconscious or uncontrollable.
The person doing it is not in control.
What kind of floating are we talking about?
We're talking about lifting off the ground.
So we're talking about people who, you know, Teresa of Avila or Joseph of Cupertino or
two of the people who are usually talked about here.
Well, Teresa prayed to have this not happen.
She prayed to God to take it away.
Her floating abilities.
Yeah.
And he did.
God did.
And Joseph of Cupertino, he couldn't control it either.
He would like scream every time it happened and then he would float off the ground or
shoot up into a tree or a statue or something.
So can you real quick, a quick aside.
I want you to, when was Teresa of Avila...
The 16th century.
16th, 16th century.
And where did she live?
Spain.
Teresa.
16th century Spain.
Okay.
Got it.
Yeah.
And Joseph of Cupertino, I want to say 17th century, Italy for sure.
Teresa is very learned, became a doctor of the church.
Joseph is not learned at all, but was basically imprisoned or controlled by the church and
kind of moved from monastery to monastery to church because people loved him by the
way.
They did.
They're like, cool.
I want to see this guy float.
Well, the church didn't like that.
You know, they want to control sanctity and they want to control teaching and they certainly
wanted to control and hide Joseph.
So that's what they did.
So what I'm trying to say is these things happen.
This is part of history too.
It's not controllable in a conscious way.
What Charles thought is he thought if I came to MIT, I could talk to the engineers and the
scientists there and I could talk to them about human levitation, UFOs and sort of make
some sense of this.
And I couldn't, of course.
I can't make sense of it, but I think they're related, you know, because if you listen to
people who encounter UFOs, first of all, there's a lot of levitation involved.
They'll float off their bed or there's also levitation involved in demonic possession
cases and in all kinds of religious situations.
But you know, the UFO, as it's often talked about, doesn't fly.
You know, modern propulsion methods is basically about blowing stuff out the back of the machine
and it propels you forward.
So you have a controlled explosion essentially is what you have and the UFO doesn't do that.
It seems to just float there.
It seems to violate gravity in some really fundamental way and human levitation clearly
violates gravity in a fundamental way as well.
Have you ever seen anybody levitate?
No.
Okay.
No.
Had this guy?
What's that?
Has the propulsion guy?
No.
I don't know.
I doubt it.
This is what we're going back to our science conversation.
These aren't things you can invoke.
You know, these are things that just happen and often they happen in ways that we can't
control.
Oh, look, you found him.
Oh, there's...
Can you punch in on that a little bit?
Yeah.
Go up to the top when we read the title.
Charles Chase, former head revolutionary programs at Lockheed Martin Skunkworks, now head of
the UN lab on A&D's place in a new business model for global challenge engagement.
So that's Nick, by the way.
Nick Cook.
That is not Charles.
Well, Nick Cook wrote the article.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They do talk about...
Gosh, he's in here somewhere.
I have nominated this talk by Charles Chase at NCW's Featured Post 2020 because it embodies
so much of what our call to action campaign this year has been about, addressing global
changes head on through the untapped power of the aerospace defense agency.
He goes on to talk about...
This is a pretty cool thing right here.
Charles explores all this in his 10-minute presentation and more.
In it, you will hear about some of the activities he has been working on at UN lab, his new
ventures alongside DARPA and the Office of Naval Research.
And he talks about propulsion down here.
Breakthroughs.
Charles concludes, towards the end of his talk, the question is, will they, will they
what?
He's talking about...
Will they?
No.
What was it?
What was he talking about?
Lack of...
Charles, he's still developing.
His Moonshot program at LM identified many of these a few years ago, tech like energy
storage, tidal energy, and water desalination.
This guy's interesting.
So the hope is, look, here's the hope.
The hope is, if we can figure out how UFOs defy gravity, then we can create new energy
and create new means of transportation.
Exactly.
That's what they're trying to do.
That's what they're trying to do.
I think that's where this is going.
And you know, when Charles invited me up to MIT, he was, again, this was an intellectual
salon.
This wasn't, I don't think this was anything major.
And I think he was just exploring, he was fishing for ideas to do, obviously, what he's
doing now.
Well, that's fascinating that, you know, people that are deep inside these private aerospace
contractors are doing all this research talking to people like you, the religious scholars.
He's a propulsion expert talking to a, interested in a religious scholar.
Yeah.
No, I, listen, I know, I live with these scientists and engineers and I talk to them and, but
again, it's, it's, it's one thing to say these things happen in human history and human
experience.
It's another thing to operationalize them and turn them into a technology.
And again, that's where I stay in my lane, Danny.
I don't do what they do.
I don't, I don't know how you do this.
All I know is that the historical records suggest that these human beings floated off
the ground.
Absolutely.
And he was, he was asking you specifically about that to talk more about.
Yeah.
He was.
Yeah.
That was about, I don't know.
That was about six, seven years ago now.
There's since then, there's been a, there's a wonderful book on this, by the way, called
They Flew by a historian named Carlos Eyre, who basically takes, takes to task historians
for not looking at the same material.
I mean, it's overwhelming, Danny.
It's overwhelming as a historian, if you start looking at this, it's just, it's obvious.
It's like, yeah, this, this seems to have happened.
And what sort of demonic possession cases have recounted this floating phenomenon?
Well, lots.
I mean, just, first of all, look at the popular culture, you know, I mean, you, you'll see
floating and, and levitation all over the, the demonic possession stories.
Yeah.
So, I, let me say this in the most diplomatic way I can.
You don't have to be diplomatic, of course.
Yeah.
Well, I do actually.
I am not a fan of demonic language.
What do you mean, demonic language?
Well, a lot of people, when they, when they interact with UFO accounts, or they interact
with possession accounts, they immediately go to the demon language.
They say, oh, well, this is real, but it's a demon.
I mean, well, how do you know that?
Right.
That, that fits your religious worldview.
Yes.
I get that.
Right.
But maybe your religious worldview is off.
Let's, let's not, let's not jump to a particular assumption or interpretation.
I also think because of my traumatic thesis that a lot of paranormal phenomena are because
of human suffering.
And so the idea is that you're going to get a lot of demons, by the way, that are, are
part of these visionary landscapes because people are suffering, Danny.
People are in real pain.
And so I think to just demonize this further does a great disservice.
It really hurts these people.
I think what they need is to be listened to and to be taken seriously.
And maybe their trauma and their illness is in fact producing the paranormal phenomena.
Maybe that's part of the, the, the phenomena.
We'll never know that if we just say, oh, it's demons, you know, and this person needs
to be exercised.
No, no, well, maybe, maybe the exorcism will help, but it'll, it'll help if the person
believes they're demons as well is what I'm trying to say.
There's a kind of paradox there.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm sure you're, I know you read, you're familiar with Diana's book, American, was it American
Cosmic?
When she talks about Jacques's library, where she, Diana talks, tells a story about how
she went to Jacques's place in San Francisco and she went to his library and he has all
these books on angels and demons and he gave her, handed her this book all about the history
of Satan.
And she said, if you want to understand this whole phenomenon, you need to read, you need
to understand this book, read this book and there were 666 pages in it.
It's in French too, by the way.
It's French.
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah, I am actually.
It's published by Carmelite Nuns, by the way.
So I think this goes back to our question about why aren't you religious, Jeff?
The reason is this again, that to understand demonology or to understand Satan or to understand
any of these things, I think requires one to step out of that worldview and to look at
it in a way that is comparative and can say, oh, well, there are a parapsychological phenomena
involved in possession cases.
I mean, people float off the ground.
But that doesn't mean that this is Satan or this is a demon.
It might mean that the person thinks it's Satan or thinks it's a demon, sure.
But I don't honor anyone's religious beliefs.
You know, I mean, people can think it's all kinds of things.
You know, believe it's all kinds of things.
But hey, that doesn't mean it is.
You know, from a comparative or a global perspective, it's something else is going on there.
And I think with Jacques's work, I think he feels that the history of esotericism and
certainly the history of Satan in this Carmelite Nuns sense has something to do with the UFO
as well in a comparative sense now.
Because you're getting at the same kind of phenomenon.
And at the root of this, you're looking at me funny, Danny, at the root of this conviction
is that human beings have a capacity to experience God or reality as it really is.
There's a kind of direct link there.
But there's also, sometimes when they have these experiences, this science fiction movie
goes off and they experience demons or angels or deities, you know, or spacemen or aliens
or visitors or whatever.
So this folklore that develops around these cases is really important.
It gives us an access to it.
But if we interpret it literally, we're in trouble because then we can only interpret
that particular case literally or we shove it back into some kind of framework that makes
us comfortable, which may be wrong, which may be inadequate.
I suspect it is.
I suspect all of our frameworks are inadequate.
What do you think is going on when people are possessed and with exorcists, exorcisms?
I think they've experienced a lot of trauma and that they're mentally suffering and that
some part of them is breaking off of their other part and they're seeing this other part
of them as the demon or the possessing, the entity.
That's what I think.
Have you ever witnessed an exorcism?
No.
I've not.
And I don't want to by the way.
Have you ever talked to an exorcist?
No.
No.
No.
I've read exorcists.
I've read about exorcism, but I haven't actually talked to an exorcist.
And I'm sure if it's an exorcist, they're going to believe that most of the cases are
psychiatric or not really demonic and they're going to believe some of the cases are.
Otherwise, why would you be an exorcist?
But there are lots of forms of exorcism, Danny.
There's a lot of, there's exorcism in religions all over the world.
So again, this is my question.
Why is that?
Why are human beings always possessed by essentially the local entities of the particular religion
or the particular culture?
Why is that?
Well, that to me is a really good question.
And it pushes back to me, it pushes back on the human for me and it's that, well, there's
some part of this human being that's breaking off and it's taking on whatever the cultural
form happens to be in the local, the local area.
Yeah.
So the spirituality of the flying saucer, why do you think that's important?
Well, it's what I'm working on now and, you know, it goes back to this idea that the,
you know, one of my jokes is, you know, strange beings come out of the sky and mess with people.
That's called religion.
It's also called the flying saucer or the UFO.
I think, I think if you look at people's encounters with flying saucers or UFOs, there's
a kind of transcendence there.
There's a kind of awe and inspiration there and by transcendence, I mean, they can't really
be explained by our social location, by society or by, even by nature, which is what science
wants to do, by the way.
It wants to, it wants to build a model of the UFO that's based on the mathematics and
principles of material science.
And I think that's mistaken.
I think the saucer appears to human beings as not part of this world, but yet a part
of this world.
So it appears at a particular moment in time, at a particular crisis point, a transition
point, but it also talks about a world that is not society, is not the world, is not the
place of the person.
To me, that's the most defining feature of the UFO phenomenon is that otherness, that
I don't want to reduce to things we think we understand.
Going back to this propulsion guy, you know, it's interesting, I don't know if you're aware,
but there was a lot of science going on and a lot of research going on in the 50s into
anti-gravity and into the physics behind anti-gravity.
And there were two guys, a father and son, their names are escaping me right now.
Stevie could probably find them, but they were really making progress in this anti-gravity
study.
And then it all went dark.
Like it stopped just out of nowhere in the 50s, and a lot of people speculate that it
went dark because it went into some dark compartmentalized government program with Lockheed Skunkworks
and some of the stuff they were doing at Groom Lake.
That's always one of the most interesting things to me because if humanity was to discover
something like this, something that is beyond materialism, something that is spiritual in
nature, that changes people's worldviews, that is going to make war and military and
even the idea of nation-states sort of obsolete in a way.
Well, okay, you know, first of all, I know I'm very aware that some people are interested
in the UFO because of the technology and the hardware as it were or the sources of energy
or the anti-gravitational propulsion or whatever language you want.
I see my role as a kind of warning or a caution there that, I mean, you can do the history
of science and you can do the history of military technology and great, go do that.
What I'm trying to say with the spirituality of the Flying Saucer is maybe it's not about
any of those things.
Let me back up and give you an example.
So last night we had a Jane lecture at my university on Jainism, which is an ancient
Indian religion.
And one of the images of Jainism, Jainism is basically a strongly dualistic religious
system in which the soul separates from the material world and realizes its own infinite
immortality and becomes a sphere, by the way, often.
But the images of these realized human beings is just a cutout.
It's a cutout of a piece of metal or a stone and it looks exactly like a space alien.
It looks exactly like a space alien.
And it kind of almost 1950s sense.
And I'm like, what is going on there?
I mean, that's an example of what I'm trying to talk about because in this religious system,
it's precisely removing oneself from the material world, from the cycle of life and death through
which one realizes one's own innate immortality or infinity or, I mean, they would not say
God, God.
I mean, they wouldn't, they don't use that kind of language, but they would certainly
acknowledge a kind of super state of the human being.
And I'm just trying to say as a historian, look, cultures have had these experiences
and they've even experienced the soul as a sphere.
And they've talked about the soul as a sphere, by the way, Jainism is one, but Neoplatonism
is another.
I mean, we can go through a whole series of ancient systems in which the spirit or the
soul is literally seen as a flying saucer, as it were, okay?
Why is that?
Well, probably because that's how human beings experience transcendence, experience this
spirituality or this soul that's above all human culture and all nation states and all
religions.
And again, I think that's the promise of the flying saucer is you look up, it's up, it's
not down here.
And they do violate our airspace effortlessly, right?
I mean, this is something that comes out even in the military reports.
So there's something hopeful, I think, about the flying saucer that transcends any particular
nation state or any political system or any religion or any human culture.
And it's a kind of global realization.
And I think that's where the spirituality of the flying saucer, as I put it, really comes
in.
It's attractive to a lot of people that are really fascinated by this topic today.
And it may not be conscious, Danny.
I'm not saying that that's a conscious or an intentional fascination, but this notion
of up, I mean, that's how our ancestors thought of transcendence.
We were stuck on this two-dimensional plane and we couldn't go up.
And so the gods came from the sky, they came from the heavens.
This is why angels have wings.
This is up is up.
Well, we've been up.
There ain't anything up there.
So now transcendence comes from some other dimension or comes from some other time.
We've displaced it towards other realms, as it were.
So that's what I'm trying to struggle with here is what is our contemporary fascination
and what do they look like in this bigger picture, as it were?
Yeah.
And if they are something like, if they are souls or if they are something spiritual,
how come they crash into the ground and leave debris behind and we can find bodies and take
them to a secret lab?
Again, we don't know any of that.
I know those are the stories, but we don't know that.
Right.
We have a problem with this whole thing too.
And I think that's what's part of that is hugely what's responsible for the huge fascination
with this topic is that we don't know any of it.
And it's a secret that is being held by some dark force that we can't control.
And if this hypothetical secret was let out of the bag, I tend to think maybe we wouldn't
be so interested in it anymore.
We may, and by and large, people would not want to talk about it as much anymore.
I think that the human mind is really drawn to things that are mysterious and not understood.
Like if the classic example of a flying saucer landing on the White House lawn, if that were
to happen, I think we would just find something else to be attracted to.
And I just was part of this other conference at Rice called Brave New Worlds who decides
I was the title and I was in charge of interviewing this novelist named Michael Rogers and our
conversation was really around utopias and dystopias.
My question to Michael was why are all of our stories about the future dystopian?
Why is it always bad?
What about utopia?
What about a story about the future that's good?
And it turns out Michael wrote a novel called Emails from the Future, or Email from the
Future, which is about a very positive future.
And so, again, I think this notion of something crashed and we have bodies and there are dark
forces involved.
I think this fits our science fiction and our Netflix and our television series.
But I just don't know if any of it's true because I'm not part of any of those organizations
or systems.
And I also know as a historian of religions that the future is really good in a lot of
these systems.
And they too have talked about what we call the flying saucer or the UFO.
They've also integrated it, but in a worldview in which human beings become gods or human
beings commune with God, or there's all kinds of ends or means to where the world is going
or where humanity is going, but it's usually something really good.
And so, Danny, I guess I'm skeptical of the dystopian futures that were constantly given.
It's not that they may not happen.
Of course, I grew up in the 1970s, by the way, in the nadir of the Cold War.
I mean, I assumed I wouldn't live to see 40.
I assumed that there would be a nuclear exchange and the earth was over.
That was the reality in 1975, by the way.
It's still a possibility today, unfortunately.
So I'm not against a dystopian concern about the future, but I don't think it's useful.
I don't think it's helpful.
If you think, Danny, that the futures bleak, the chances are very high you will act on
that.
And as a culture and a community, we'll all act on that dystopian imagination, and it
will be bleak.
We will create a future that's bad.
If we have a utopian vision of the future that is positive, the chances are high we
will act on that, and we will create a utopian future or world.
So I think there are lots of good reasons to be skeptical and to be dystopian, but
I'm not, because I think optimism and a kind of future-oriented utopian vision is much
more effective and much more positive on the ground.
Yeah, I mean, and this kind of gets into the discussion of artificial intelligence.
There's a polarization, and a lot of smart people talk about the fear of AI and AI taking
control, and a lot of people are very optimistic about AI and how it can help us and all this
stuff.
You talk about also a connection between artificial intelligence and the abductions experience.
Yeah, let's talk about AI.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
The older I get, the more I'm prioritizing my health.
The goal is to keep my mind sharp and my body strong.
If you've watched this podcast before, you might know that I'm very much obsessed with
health and longevity and the things you can do to hack your biology to improve performance.
I exercise daily and take my nutrition very seriously, but that can only get you so far.
Science has or scientists like David Sinclair have now proven that we can reverse aging
with interventions that go far beyond healthy habits.
I like to keep up on all the latest science behind this stuff.
That's why I keep up with my friend, nutritional scientist, Dr. Dom D'Agostino, and people
send me products.
I like to test on myself to see what works and what doesn't work.
That is why I use cell being by Verso.
It has scientifically proven ingredients that combat the effects of aging by increasing
your NAD plus levels.
That's the stuff that quite literally powers every cell in your body.
I personally have been taking cell being every single morning for years now, primarily because
it enhances my mood, improves my energy levels, and I just feel like a younger version of
me.
Clinical trials have even shown it improves energy, endurance, cognition, fat loss, and
better, more efficient sleep.
Verso also publishes third-party testing on each batch produced, guaranteeing you get
what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Danny.
It's spelled D-A-N-N-Y to get 15% off your first order.
Or just go to ver.so forward slash D-A-N-N-Y.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
So can you expand on that?
What sort of connections have you found with artificial intelligence and these experiences
people have?
First of all, people who have reported abductions have been reporting artificial intelligence
for decades.
This is not a new thing.
This goes back to the 50s or 60s.
People have been talking about the robotic nature of what they're encountering for a
half a century or more.
And they've also referred often to the hive-like activity of the creatures.
So the kind of notion that they work as a group and they're not individual like we are.
That's old news.
Also in abductions, you often get the distinct impression that whatever is interacting with
the person is AI.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
If I were a biologist or an anthropologist, I would not go into the angry tribe of the
angry monkeys.
I wouldn't do it.
It's just going to get thrown against the wall.
I would send a machine in that was expendable and that could bring back a lot of data, but
that was not me.
So if abductions are about some kind of actual anthropological experiment from some other
intelligence or some other future humanity, it makes a lot of sense to me they'd use AI.
I would use AI.
The other thing I would say about AI, I would say a couple of things.
First of all, it's been around a long time.
I use AI every day when I drive to work.
My truck has assisted.
Lane assist?
It does everything.
It even goes slower and goes faster depending on how the cameras read the traffic.
It knows darn well what it's doing.
I put my life in the hands of AI every single day, so I don't have any doubts about the
usefulness of AI.
On the other hand, a lot of the fears of AI are driven by materialism again.
It's driven by this production thesis that I talked about.
It's the idea that mind or consciousness is created by material processes.
So if we can make a computer and get it sophisticated enough, it'll eventually become conscious.
That's the idea, right?
Well, that's materialism.
That's the production thesis.
Well, what if it's wrong?
What if material processes don't create consciousness or mind but they mediate consciousness or mind
like any human?
Well, then suddenly AI is no longer this evil thing that it is in some people's minds because
it can't actually ever become conscious in the way a human being is conscious, right?
So I think the whole debate again assumes a particular model of the relationship between
matter and mind.
And I just don't buy it again.
I don't buy the model that the fears are based on.
I just don't.
I just think it's wrong.
Yeah.
And also, if humans do eventually encounter non-human intelligence, it would most likely
be in a post-biological form.
And what makes us think that the abduction experience is non-human?
It might be superhuman.
It might be future human.
It sure looks like us.
It sure acts like us.
It sort of acts like us but sort of doesn't.
And again, I'll give you an example.
Take Skinwalker Ranch.
A lot of, well, dogs were turned into goo.
They're melted.
But human beings never were.
So whatever that is that's interacting with humans at Skinwalker, it's drawing moral distinctions.
And they look very human to me, okay?
I don't know if it is a human.
I'm not taking a position on what is present at Skinwalker Ranch.
But I'm saying the stories look very human to me, and they're making moral decisions
along human lines.
That's all I'm saying.
And so are the visitors.
So are the aliens.
So are the UFO knots.
They're all look very human to me, which suggests to me they are.
Which suggests to me that they're somehow relying on our own forms of consciousness.
They're certainly interacting with human beings in a clear way.
And again, this goes back to our God talk, our God conversation.
I've never encountered any language of God other than in a human being.
You said that you met Chris Bledsoe.
How did you get in touch with Chris Bledsoe and how did you find out about him?
Through Diana.
I met Chris through, I was lecturing at the university where Diana teaches and I met
Chris then.
And I spent a lot, spent hours with Chris and read his book UFO of God and I'm very
familiar with it.
What was your reaction to his story when you met him and have you ever met anybody that
has experienced anything like him?
Yeah, I have.
I mean, Whitley-Srieber.
Whitley is very much like Chris in the extremity and the nature of his experiences.
I think Chris, I mean, I don't want to pass judgment on Chris at all.
I think he suffered a lot.
I think if you read his book and you talk to him-
Tremendous amount of suffering.
Tremendous suffering and tremendous trauma, by the way.
And I think a lot of those things that happened were very real.
But I think they're somehow related or connected to his trauma and suffering as well.
And I don't mean that in a reductive way, Danny.
Again, please don't hear me wrong.
I'm not suggesting that the UFO is somehow a product of his suffering or trauma, but
I think the trauma and the suffering allows those things to happen.
And I'll even say to be revealed, I'll use religious language.
I think what Chris experienced is a kind of revelation.
And I think people, and by that I mean, these people are not making this up.
They're receiving this from seemingly outside.
It's being revealed to them.
And so they become the prophets or the means of expressing these stories.
But the experience itself is very much one of revelation.
It's very much one.
It's passive.
It's something that is happening to the person.
It's not, then the person is not hallucinating.
The person is not making this up.
These things are really happening.
But again, Chris's experience is fit into a much larger history of religions.
I mean, that's why he calls his book UFO of God.
I mean, it makes a lot of sense from a religious perspective.
Wheatley Strieber, we haven't talked about Wheatley, but his experiences are similarly
extreme and very much about things like implants and abductions and an anal rape, by the way.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, it's very extreme.
And the way I talk about, I talk about Wheatley in many ways, but one of the things I often
say is Wheatley is essentially a shaman in a culture without shamanism.
He's essentially experiencing this other reality in a way that is extensive, but not, no, that's
Wheatley right there.
Communion.
Yeah, he wrote Communion in 1987, I think, is when the book came out.
And that's the cover, by the way, that freezes the image of the alien and the public imagination.
In some ways, that book began the contact experience, not entirely.
There were certainly contact and abduction cases before it, but it really sets the tone
for what comes later.
And does Wheatley see these same sort of light orbs, the Chrissies?
He, you know, one of the visions or one of the experiences he talks a lot about is that
at one point, he calls them the visitors, they appeared in their true form and it was
a ball of light.
It was this beautiful ball of light that was cascading all of these different colors.
So the short answer is yes.
He certainly talks in that way.
Did you ever go sky-watching with Chris?
No, but I've actually spent a lot of time with Wheatley, including my joke is never
a room with Wheatley-Strieber, it's a mistake.
And there's laughter in the back.
Things happen, weird things happen.
And I think Wheatley's the real deal.
And I think Chris is probably the real deal too, but I don't know Chris like I know Wheatley.
When Chris came here, we went out to the beach, we went to dinner, when we first met, he came
here, we went to dinner down on the beach, right across the street from here.
And after dinner, he was like, hey, you want to go across the street and try to see if
we can summon some orbs.
I'm like, of course I do.
And Stephen had a video camera with him and we brought it out there to try to catch some
of this stuff on video.
And Chris had one of those low light monoculars that captures video and basically sees really
good in low light.
And we sat out there and stared at the sky for like two and a half hours.
And after about an hour, 45 minutes, two hours, we saw these orbs that were hovering coming
off the horizon, moving around weirdly.
And they weren't airplanes because we also saw airplanes.
We knew we could see the airplanes in the flashing lights and they were following a very clear
flight pattern, all of the airplanes that were coming into Land and Tampa airport.
But these things we saw were not that.
They were moving very slow.
I mean, the only thing I could imagine them being is somebody on a boat way offshore with
drones covered in like with a huge like illuminated drones, right?
Moving around in weird directions and then disappearing.
And I quite literally filmed this myself on this video camera.
And addition to that, there was like shooting stars that were appearing above our heads.
And meanwhile, Chris was standing next to us praying to the sky saying, please show yourself
to Danny.
We're recording a podcast tomorrow.
Please God, like please reveal yourself.
And there were shooting stars and there was orbs and I saw them and I filmed them.
We even showed them.
I don't know if you still have the video footage on the on the computer there, Steve.
We could probably show it to you.
I have it on the Mac, but not this one here.
Right.
But anyways, that, you know, I wouldn't that was one of the things that I saw with my own
eyes.
I don't know how to explain it.
It wasn't planes.
It wasn't satellites unless satellites hover above the ocean like 50 feet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I don't, I mean, I just want to honor that, but I also want to just observe as again
as a historian of religions that the whole notion of summoning is classic.
I mean, that's, that's magic.
That's a magical summoning is, that's like as old as the hills.
And so what's going on there to me is, is very traditional and very, very human and
very real.
I'm not questioning its reality at all.
I'm just saying it has a history and it's part of the spirituality of the flying saucer
I was talking about.
It's, it's a very magical worldview and by magical, I mean, I mean the idea that the
human mind can influence the material world, right?
That's what I mean by magic.
And generally that's not, we say that's not possible, right?
We say that if you intend something or you summon something and then you see it, it's
just a coincidence.
It's just an accident, Danny.
It can't happen because we, we operate with this production model that Danny Jones is
stuck in his head and his body.
And for him to imagine orbs of light coming off the water, that's nutty.
It's just, you're just self-suggesting is all you're doing there.
But if you work with a, oh, here's the video.
If you work with a filter or transmission thesis, then you do have access to reality
and you can influence it, you know, through, through, through the mind because your mind's
already part of the reality.
It's already hooked up to, to what's out there.
And so I, I watch this, is there audio on it?
Yeah.
Go to the, go to the bottom and hit, okay, so, so that's a plane.
Yeah.
That top left one is also a plane.
You can see a flashing.
Yeah.
Let's see the one on the bottom.
These two are the orbs.
I'll rewind it.
Yeah.
Why run into the beginning?
Watch it come off the horizon.
Look at that.
See it just popped up off the horizon of the water.
Yeah.
And think, the thing is it fades out.
Watch.
The plane lights don't fade.
Now it starts, now it's going the other way.
Another one popped up over it and you'll see it get brighter.
It changed direction.
And it fades out.
Now look at that one getting really bright.
And it just faded out to nothing.
Now it's gone.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't, again, I don't, yeah, I don't, I don't know what to say about that.
I don't know either.
But I like, I've never seen anything like it.
And I say this every time I talk about it.
I've also never stared at the sky for three hours.
So if I wanted to stare at the sky and imagine cotton candy appearing out of the heavens,
maybe I could summon cotton candy.
I don't know.
Maybe.
I doubt it, by the way.
It's just interesting to think about, you know, you can, what the, you know, what could
the human, what is the human mind capable of?
A lot.
If you really focus hard enough on something.
And like, we, I haven't gone sky watching since then, right?
I was in the perfect situation with the perfect people to go out and spend hours staring at
the sky.
There's no other, I got kids, I got a family, I got this job I got to do.
Like who has the time to focus on some spiritual thing and, and, and something that's not real
and no, you know what I mean?
We're, we're ants building things.
We're like these machines that are just constantly working towards something to bring in money
to pay, pay our bills and to just live these lives, wake up and go to work.
We are ants and totally ants.
I mean, I think of that every time I fly into a city, I'm like, these are ants.
But what can the mind do?
It depends on what you think the mind is again.
It really does.
If you think the mind, if you're in the production thesis again, well, the mind can't do much.
We can do whatever Danny Jones can do.
Okay, fine.
But if the mind is God, whoa, suddenly, you know, you tap into this larger reality and
the brain then just becomes this portal or this mediation of this, this cosmic being.
Well, you can, that can do pretty much anything.
So I think what the mind can do depends on what you think the mind is, is what I'm trying
to say.
And I'm always trying to push people on that, on that exact thing because I think deeper,
there's deeper assumptions behind what they say and what they say is possible and what
they say is impossible.
And I'm like, that's just your assumptions.
Sorry.
And I always go back to history again.
I'm like, well, this happened and that happened.
So clearly it happened.
Just because it doesn't happen here doesn't mean it's not possible.
It just means you've cut it out of reality.
Okay, you've cut it out.
Big deal.
So what?
Chris also mentioned to me there was, I'm going to forget the name, I forget the name
of the people they met.
They met a bunch of people that were really interested in them and trying to study them
and understand what they were seeing and how to see what they were seeing.
And one of the guys was explaining to Chris's son, Ryan Bledsoe, about this idea of, or
it's not an idea, it's a real thing, rosicrucianism.
Yeah, yeah.
I know a lot about rosicrucianism.
Can you explain what rosicrucianism is and where it came from?
And it seems like a lot of people are, they practice these protocols, these rosicrucian
protocols, but they don't necessarily know about rosicrucianism.
Well, again, this goes back to your God question.
So rosicrucianism was, I'm speaking obviously off the top of my head here, but it's a European
tradition.
It means the Rosie Cross, by the way, is what it means.
It probably comes out of Germany.
It originates probably in the 17th century.
It's probably originally a fiction, whoever is writing these tractates.
There is no rosicrucian tradition in the 17th century.
This person is writing these tractates or these texts claiming there is, but it's again,
if you study religion, what you know is every religion is constructed or invented.
There's no such thing as a religion that's not in some ways fiction, certainly at its
beginning.
So there were a lot of European intellectuals and early scientists.
They weren't yet called scientists, by the way.
That didn't happen to the 1820s that wanted to be in this rosicrucian tradition, because
in the rosicrucian tradition, the idea was you were invisible, you were secret, you were
influencing history, but you were also dealing with forms of knowledge that the public couldn't
accept, and that was why the tradition was secret or esoteric or hidden.
Then, rosicrucianism becomes essentially its own tradition, and people start calling themselves
rosicrucian, and today you have rosicrucian traditions.
Back in the 40s and 50s, when I was writing about that period, there were actual mail order
catalogs where you could become a rosicrucian.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, you could become this, yeah.
And rosicrucianism as a general ideology, if I could summarize the ideology, it's that
there is a secret truth.
Particular scientists and intellectuals are tapped into this tradition, and they, therefore,
are part of this rosicross tradition.
It's been very influential in the UFO world, by the way.
J. L. and Heineck and Jacques Fillet both were attracted to rosicrucianism.
They weren't formally rosicrucian.
There's no such thing, for the most part, although there is now.
So there's a rosicrucian church right down the street from here?
Well, so there you go.
But there were no Christian churches, by the way, either, in the first century.
Religion is like that, Danny, is what I'm trying to say.
It's a kind of, I don't want to call it, it's not a fiction, the sense of not real, but it's
something you construct, and then it becomes your construction.
It becomes what you imagine it is.
And this is hard for people to hear, but I mean, every religion starts out as essentially
a cult.
There's a little group of people that then grows and develops a scriptural text and an
architecture and a tradition, and then it becomes its own thing.
And if rosicrucianism does that, then it does that.
But most of these movements don't do that, and they're not successful in institutionalizing
the charisma, as we say, of the founders.
Yeah, so basically the idea, these protocols that some of these people who follow rosicrucianism
follow is the idea is you want to somehow tap into this other state, not necessarily
another state of consciousness, but you want to sort of tap into information that exists,
whether it be the neosphere or something like that.
And through doing things like drinking a lot of water, you're essentially trying to use
your body as an antenna to some other realm and get downloads, just have information downloaded
into yourself.
Well, yeah, that's not rosicrucianism historically, but I mean, I can see a contemporary rosicrucian
saying something like that.
Again, there's this notion of the invisible college, which was prominent in the 17th century,
particularly in England, and essentially what rosicrucianism was connected to.
It's kind of a German version of this.
The idea was, again, these early scientists and intellectuals were dealing in truths that
the public wouldn't be favorable to, but they nevertheless were convinced they were true.
And so the reason you have an invisible college or a group of intellectuals who interact with
one another but don't meet in public or don't form a tradition is because it's dangerous.
It's off the social radar.
Dangerous to who?
Dangerous to the public, dangerous to the believing public.
So for example, the invisible college was early science, essentially.
Well, early science was very much against what the Catholic Church was doing in a lot
of situations.
The Church was saying things like, well, we live at the center of the universe, or there's
no such thing in terms of Newton now.
There's no such thing as gravity.
I'm not speaking for the Church.
I don't want to say that they condemned every one of those, but there's definitely a conflict
between the believing publics and the intellectuals and the scientists.
And they're coming at truths in very different ways.
And so the scientists or the early scientists or the intellectuals were organizing themselves
around what they called the invisible college.
And Rosicrucianism is a type or a kind or a related movement of that in Europe at the same time.
So this invisible college had some sort of knowledge that they kept secret because they
believed it would hurt the public.
But I don't understand, though.
How could any sort of new idea hurt the public?
Well, what if your idea was that the humans were not at the center of the world, that
we were just one species of...
Right.
That idea helped us.
That idea helped us understand the universe.
That idea was widely rejected in the 19th century when it was advanced by Darwin.
Yeah, but just because it was rejected doesn't mean it's harmful or dangerous.
Well, again, the invisible college, it's not that they were invisible in the 19th century.
There's no invisible college in the 19th century.
Actually, there is.
I mean, when the early scientists who thought Darwin was right, they formed something called the X Club.
And again, it was the same instinct.
It was the believing public is very much against evolution and very much against Darwin.
So if we're going to talk about this in freedom, we need to meet in private, essentially.
So it's to protect themselves.
Absolutely.
Not necessarily to protect the public.
Well, I think both.
I think...
Like these people really just care about humanity that much.
No.
We're going to keep...
We want to protect the world.
No, no.
I think it's primarily to protect themselves and to prevent harassment and censorship.
Remember, there's no science in the 17th, 16th century.
There's not the same thing.
And the European world was dominated by forces that were certainly not scientific.
Today, we have professional science and it's established in our universities, in our government, in our culture.
But that was not the case in the 16th and 17th century, for sure.
So I think we can take today and we can make the mistake of just assuming all of the things we assume
and projecting it back onto the past where those things just weren't true.
People were imprisoned and lost jobs.
Right.
And sometimes were killed for having views that went against whatever the believing public thought.
Right.
So let's not underestimate that.
For example, there's a statue.
If you go to Amsterdam, there's a statue of Baruch Spinoza in one of the squares there.
Well, Baruch Spinoza was an amazing intellectual, but he was excommunicated from his Jewish synagogue.
He was a heretic.
He was absolutely condemned and excommunicated in his own life.
And he was afraid, you know, essentially.
And so I think that's the instinct that the people in the invisible college of the early British tradition were worried about.
It was the same kind of assault or harassment.
And do you think this kind of thing is still happening today?
Intellectuals are still harassed and censored for all kinds of reasons.
It depends on the culture, of course.
I mean, like, do you think people that are outspoken in the public today have knowledge that they're keeping close to the chest
and talking about publicly or keeping it a secret because of the fear of being excommunicated or the fear of getting in trouble?
I think the risks today are much less than they were two, three hundred years ago.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
Right now, I mean, you lose your job.
And I mean, yeah, your life can get ruined if you lose your job and you get your reputation destroyed, right?
But you won't be thrown into prison or killed.
Exactly.
But you would have been.
You could have been.
I'm not saying you would have been.
I mean, there are lots of cases of people who were not, but there's also lots of cases of people who were.
I mean, please remember, I mean, I wrote a textbook on how to compare religions and some of the early comparativists lost their lives.
You know?
I mean, it was a crime to translate the Bible out of Latin, by the way, in the 15th and 16th century.
It was a crime.
There were people who were severely punished for it.
And so things that we assume today, we can't assume in the past.
And even in my own lifetime, I know, I mean, a lot of my early work is on gender and sexuality.
And you couldn't speak about gender and sexuality in 1980, the way you speak about it in 2024.
There's no way.
Right.
There's no way.
And so young people, they assume a certain kind of freedom, I think, in terms of gender and sexuality.
That we just didn't have in the early 1980s.
It didn't exist.
We fought those battles.
And a lot of things that we assume today just to be kind of automatic are because people suffered for it.
People fought those social battles.
People, women couldn't vote.
Right.
Black people were enslaved.
Right.
I mean, come on.
There's all kinds of things that our ancestors didn't assume completely differently than we assume today.
Are you familiar with the John Marco Allegro, sacred mushroom in the cross?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
I'm familiar with it.
Yeah.
I guess his theory was that these ancient religions, I guess he spent decades deciphering the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And he was a linguist.
And he found that one of his conclusions was that these religions were basically fertility cults.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I doubt it.
I mean, there's a strong fertility element in the history of religions.
I don't want to question that.
But I think Allegro, I don't want to speak about Allegro because I just don't know enough about him.
Okay.
He's part of this counter-cultural movement.
Oh, is he?
Yeah.
I mean, he's probably writing.
John, yeah.
Brian Mayer Rescue talks about him.
Yeah.
He's probably writing in the 60s and 70s.
And I just...
Traditional Christianity developed through a literal misinterpretation of symbolic narratives found in the scrolls by writers who did not understand the minds of the essence.
Again, I just don't know, Danny.
Right.
I can't speak to that.
The whole notion of fertility cults, so that's a common theory, by the way, in the 1800s.
There were a lot of people who were making that argument about religion in general, that it goes back to ancient fertility cults.
Again, I doubt it.
I mean, that's part of the picture, for sure.
Right.
I mean, human beings are sexual beings, for sure.
And their religions have always integrated that or spoken to that.
But is that the single source?
No, I doubt it.
Yeah.
And it's interesting, though, that these beings that people encounter in their recollection, they aren't sexual animals.
They have no reproductive organs.
Well, sometimes they are, of course.
I mean, this is one of the things that you get in the abduction narratives a lot, is there's a lot of sex in them.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, human beings have sex with these alien entities.
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
You're familiar with David Huggins, right?
Well, Huggins is just one of, I'm sure there are thousands of these.
I mean, I'm thinking of the very first abduction case we have on record is Antonio Bilas Boas.
And it's sexual through and through.
Can you explain that one?
Yeah, from memory now.
Okay.
So, yeah, there you go.
Brazilian farmer, he's out in the farm.
It's at night.
He's farming at night because it's cooler at night.
A ship comes down and they rub a kind of goo over him and a female alien has sex with him.
Really?
Yeah.
And then kind of points to her belly and points to the stars and then takes off in the spaceship.
I mean, it's clearly a sexual abduction.
Go back up.
When was this, Steve?
1950s.
Go back to the Wikipedia or whatever that describes the story.
Yeah, there you go.
Antonio Bilas Boas.
Yeah, this is the first case.
From 1934 to 19, died in 1991, a Brazilian farmer.
See in October 15th, 1957.
Yeah, plowing his fields.
There you go.
So, yeah, a red star in the night sky.
He's farming at night because it's cooler.
Right, right, right, right.
He began descending and laying in the field extending three legs as it did.
He attempted to leave the scene on his tractor when the lights and the engine died after traveling only a short distance.
He decided to continue on foot.
However, he was seized by a five foot tall humanoid who was wearing gray coveralls and a helmet.
His eyes were small and blue.
And instead of speech, it made noises like barks and yelps.
Three similar beings then joined the first in subduing Boas and they dragged him inside their craft.
Once inside the craft, Boas said he was stripped of all his clothes, covered from head to toe with a strange gel.
He was then led into a strange semi-circular room through a doorway that had strange symbols written all over it.
Whoa, the room of the beings took samples of Boas' blood from his chin.
And after, he was then taken to a third room and left alone for around an hour and a half.
During this time, some kind of gas was pumped into the room, which made Boas become violently ill.
Wow.
So, I can't believe I've never heard of that.
Well, there's a lot of cases like this.
So, what I want to say, Danny, is that sexual intercourse is everywhere in the abduction accounts and it has this long prehistory in the history of religions.
This is what I was trying to say earlier.
And I want to speak about the abduction cases and the sexual components of them in this larger historical context.
And one of the reasons I think that abduction cases are so problematic is for religious reasons, frankly.
I think to the extent they're heterosexual, they involve human males and female deities or female aliens.
They don't fit in anywhere into the traditions.
Yeah, this is David Huggins and he has these drawings.
You've watched his documentary.
I'm in the documentary.
Are you really?
Yeah.
How did I miss that?
I watched the documentary in over a year.
The whole chapter.
I mean, Brad comes to Houston and he interviews me about David.
You know Brad?
Yeah.
Wow, that's incredible.
Of course you know Brad.
He made the documentary.
Yeah, Brad.
Oh, of course I know all about this.
Wow.
It is such a fascinating story.
Well, there again, it definitely involves sexuality and what do you do with that?
Well, one of the things you do with that is you relate it to these earlier accounts of mystical encounter and sexuality.
That's what I'm trying to say.
There's this bigger story here.
People will look at Huggins or they'll look at Villas Boas or Streiber by the way is heavily sexualized as well.
They'll look at those cases and they'll say, well, this guy's just crazy.
I'm like, no, he's not.
It fits into this larger pattern that goes back actually thousands of years.
So that's what I'm trying to do with these questions and then the abduction accounts.
And this of course is what gets alighted or erased in contemporary conversations about technology and propulsion systems and the military and nation states.
All the abduction stuff just gets cut off.
It does.
Yeah.
Well, this is why.
What do you do with this?
Yeah, this is too crazy, right?
This is too weird and crazy.
But it happens.
It happens.
So you've been being molested by a female alien who takes your baby hybrid to outer space.
Well, so Elizabeth was in a garden and saw mountains and talked to God as a male.
I mean, again, this is the nature of these kinds of experiences, Danny.
And this is what I'm trying to say.
What did you make of David when you talked to him?
So I just spoke to David on the phone.
Did you really?
Yeah, I didn't meet him.
I just spoke to him on the phone.
You just recently talked to him.
Okay.
You didn't meet him in person.
Yeah.
I think David, again, is telling us the truth.
And he's painting the truth as he remembers it.
I think these people are being very honest.
And in David's case, going out of his way to illustrate what he remembers happening, I
think we need to use all of our tools, all of our disciplines, all of our histories to
understand these things and not just dismiss them as hallucinatory or crazy.
That's what I think.
So in the context of religious history, what were people saying specifically about these
sexual encounters?
Well, they often interpret them demonically, by the way.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, it was women who were having sex with the devil and becoming witches or magical
practitioners.
There were always ways to condemn the human being for these kinds of encounters.
If a nun, for example, was mystically married to Christ, that's okay.
That became part of the tradition.
But only, again, under certain circumstances, they were still essentially harassed by the
Inquisition.
You know, Teresa of Avila was very concerned about the Inquisition, by the way.
When she wrote her Vita or her life, they locked it away.
You know, they put it in a safe, essentially.
And her confessors asked her to give the finger to the presence, essentially.
They called it giving the fig, but it was essentially giving the finger, because the
idea was if you were vulgar with the devil, the devil would go away, you know?
Vulgar with the devil.
Yeah.
So my point is, it's not that I believe the demonic interpretations, but that's what
we have done historically, is we have demonized people who have these experiences.
And I'm trying to say, please stop that.
Please don't do that.
Let's look at the sexual components as they are, as they're reported, whether it's David
Huggins or Whitley-Streiber or Antonio Villas-Boas or whoever it is.
And remember, those are three men, by the way.
And that's...
But they're getting molested by women.
Yes.
Not men, not male aliens.
Yeah.
That's correct.
And what do you...
What do you think that it was about?
What do you...
What would they...
Why would they...
It's gotta be...
Again, what was that about?
I mean, that's the...
I don't know how to process it.
Well, good.
That's the conversation, Danny.
Right.
That's what we should be talking about.
And do I have an answer to that?
No.
Do I have...
I've thought about it more than most people.
I've thought a lot about it.
And I personally...
One of the things I really think about these cases is that they're heretical or dismissed
because they don't fit into our religious narratives, which are all about communing
with a male deity, not a female deity.
I'm not following you there.
Well, we have a male deity in Western monotheism.
So you can commune with a male deity.
You can't commune with a female deity.
What do you mean by commune?
Become one with or become very close to.
And again, there are two images in the mystical literature that express this.
One is sexuality, one is death.
And those are the two means through which one becomes one with the divinity.
So you can commune with a deity through sexuality or death.
Or become the deity.
Or I mean, again, there's a whole conversation here in the history of religions becoming
the deities dangerous too, by the way, because then you're declared heretical and you're
open to all kinds of accusations.
Communing with a deity is safer because you're not claiming to be the deity.
You're a human being who's sort of communing with the deity.
But historically, you've done that through gendered and sexual language that is heterosexual
only for women, not for men.
Because God's a male in the Western imagination, but not here, not in these cases, not in these
abduction cases.
And I think that's one reason they're so problematic.
Wow.
It's fascinating stuff.
To rabbit hole.
It is a rabbit hole.
It really is.
Yeah.
And I don't, again, I don't have an answer for it, but I think that's what we should
be talking about.
Now, is this stuff talked about in Ramakrishna?
It's framed.
Yeah, in some ways it is.
It's framed in different ways in the Hindu tradition.
You do have encounters with female deities in the Hindu tradition, but certainly not
exactly like this, as you're seeing here.
This is a very Western, very contemporary example of it.
But I do think looking at these other Asian traditions gives us a good way of making sense
of these things.
And like this insectoid that appears in David's visions a lot, well, the praying mantis appears
all over the world and is quite common in human folklore and extreme religious experiences.
Really?
Yeah.
Can you give me an example?
Well, the praying mantis appears in a lot of abduction cases as some kind of alien presence
that is either overlooking the encounter itself or is somehow guiding the process in the natural
biological world through the insects.
And how is this praying mantis depicted in historical stories?
Sometimes it's connected with divination or telling the future, or it's connected with
whatever the conception of deity or the godhead is, for example, in Africa.
The praying mantis was very popular among the surrealists, the surrealist art movement
in the 20s and 30s.
So it enters the human mainstream in different ways, through folklore, through religion,
through art, in this case, through abduction.
Again, I don't understand it.
Yeah.
I'm just saying that that's not unique.
Right.
Right.
There's a whole history behind what David is seeing and reporting and painting.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have a friend who lives in Hoboken, New Jersey, like two streets down from David.
I was thinking about going up there and maybe trying to visit him.
He'd like that a bit.
Be fun.
He's getting up there in age.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for doing this.
I really appreciate it, Jeff.
It was a pleasure.
What else are you working on now?
Are you working on any new projects or books or?
Well, a couple of things.
So I have a book coming out called How to Think Impossibly, and it's about how to think
about these extreme experiences, how to think about insectoids, how to think about souls,
how to think about UFOs, how to think about time and belief and, as I say, everything
else.
And I think we need a new theory of the imagination, and so the book attempts to do that.
A new theory of the imagination.
Yeah.
In other words, it's not just imaginary.
It's like the mind-brain thing.
Maybe the imagination is a portal.
Maybe when we encounter something, it's going to set off this science fiction movie in the
mind, but that's not actually what's there.
The imagination is translating or mediating this presence.
It has to.
That's what we do as human beings, but we err when we interpret those landscapes literally.
So I'm looking for essentially a third option.
It's not a debunking option.
This isn't about just the imaginary, but it's not a literal religious belief option either.
It's not like there's an actual insect entity there or there's an actual seven-foot alien
but something's there.
The human being's clearly encountering something, and it's responding with this elaborate visionary
landscape that we find ourselves in, and sometimes that landscape has physical effects, Danny.
I don't imagine this in imaginary ways.
Joseph of Cupertino literally floated off the ground.
How?
Well, partly through his imagination, partly through the religious imagination.
Wow.
It's fascinating stuff, man.
Yeah.
It is fascinating.
It's like the coolest stuff in the world.
It really is.
I don't understand why everyone isn't like talking about this stuff, to be honest.
Do you have ever experimented with psychedelics?
I think that's another whole rabbit hole.
So I wrote a book, Esslin, American, Religion, No Religions, Filled with Psychedelics.
You wrote another book.
You've written many books.
I've written a lot of books.
That book is Filled with Psychedelics.
A lot of the psychedelic leaders and writers just assumed I had done psychedelics because
I write so sympathetically, and I was like, no, I never have, sorry.
But I did.
I got tired of their questions, and so I took a trip down to Brazil, and I took a long retreat,
and I took ayahuasca, and I did that.
I did not have the experiences that you hear reported a lot on ayahuasca, but I had a lot
of the same phenomenological or physical kind of qualities that you hear, the energy and
the explosions and that sort of thing.
But no, I didn't have the...
Nothing transformative?
No.
No.
And my friends were like, well, you didn't need it.
And I was like, well, that's a good spin.
I mean, okay.
I think I'm just dull.
I think I'm just, yeah, hopeless.
But I really tried those as very long and very significant engagement with the plants,
as it were.
Have you ever seen the interview with Terrence McKenna and John Mack?
No, I haven't.
I'd love to though.
Fascinating that those guys got together.
Yeah.
You know, John is a dear...
I didn't know John Mack.
I didn't know Terrence either, by the way.
But our last donation to our archives or the Impossible at Rice was the John Mack papers.
And we have about 150 boxes or about 450 linear feet of John Mack's files and correspondence.
So I'm very close to that material.
That John Mack died in 2004, and I was not into this world then.
I wasn't into this UFO world.
I think I remember him.
I was at Harvard actually, I was teaching at Harvard, and I went to a lecture on Hindu
mysticism and a very elegant gentleman stood up at the back of the room and asked about
aliens.
And that just had to be John Mack.
I don't know who else would have done that at that time.
What year was that?
2000.
2000.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It might have been 2001.
It was somewhere in there.
So I think I was in the same room with him, but I never knew John Mack personally.
Well, thanks again, Jeff.
I really appreciate you.
This was a fascinating conversation.
People can go find you at jeffreejcriple.com.
Is that right?
Right.
Yeah, the other way too.
I really want to spend some time with me doing a retreat in Tuscany in July at something
called the Pari Institute, P-A-R-I, it's called How to Think Impossibly, and that's by far
the best way to interact with me if you want to come to that.
But otherwise, the website is jeffreejcriple.com.
Okay.
Perfect.
I want to keep talking to you about some stuff that I don't want to put on YouTube.
So we'll talk for a few more minutes, and that's going to be on Patreon for people that
want to watch that.
Okay.
It's linked below.
And that's it.
Good night, everybody.
