Praveen Mohan. Thank you, man, for coming on the show. I appreciate it. It's great to meet you.
Thanks for having me. Glad to be here. How long, uh, how long have you been in the States?
Now you mean? Yeah, just on this trip. Uh, 25 days?
25 days. That's a good trip, man. Yeah. And you were just explaining to us off camera how you
almost lost your drone film in some, some crazy Nazca type lines in California. Yeah.
What were you, what were you shooting over there?
So we have a particular, uh, set of ruins called, uh, Blythe Intaglios. Uh-huh.
This is in a small town called Blythe in California. I'm sure your, uh,
viewers know about Nazca lines, right? In Peru. Do you know about Nazca lines?
Yes. Yes. Okay.
But it's very interesting to me, right, that they made all these lines in the desert.
And when, when I went there, because I've also seen, I've also visited Nazca lines in Peru.
Oh, really? Yeah, I have. Yeah. There's no way to do it. And maybe now there is, but, uh, 10 years
ago when I went to Peru, you can only, you'll have to get on this plane and then take you
on top of the Nazca lines. Back there. Yeah. Yeah. Is it maybe in 2012?
Before drones. Before drones, 2010, 2012. And then I think I had my drone at that time. This was
the very first, I think it's called DJI Hero or something like that. Very old. Um, and then they
wouldn't let us take them. Really? Yep. At that time in Peru. So you have to go into this plane
and they'll take, it's like a nice little plane, which can only take like maybe 10 people. Yeah.
And they fly on top of the desert and the guide will show you, okay, this is the ancient
astronaut who's pointing to the sky. This is the, the hummingbird. Yeah. You've seen, you've seen
the Nazca. Of course. What is the conventional theory for how those things were formed? What,
what do they say? It's actually easy to create the Nazca lines. I'm not saying this is hard to
create. It's not the how that's concerning. Okay. It's not the how. You can easily create,
you can go today to the Nazca desert or you can go to Blythe. And some people have done this in
California, right? They go to the desert and you can just scrape off the, the top level of stones
from the soil and you've created a permanent mark. So you can put your name. So I can put my name
like Praveen Mohan in the desert, right? So I can try that. Yes. Yes. And then when you fly a drone
or if you're flying on top of Blythe, California, you'll say, oh, Praveen Mohan. Okay. So it's not
the how that's, that really concerns me because it's easy to create the Nazca lines or the Blythe
intaglios, but it's a lie. Do we know how long they've been there? Well, I mean, there's no way
to date them, right? In Blythe, they're saying that it's, some are saying it's 400 years old
and some are saying it's even 5,000 years old because there's no way to date that. You can't
radiate that, right? And you know, believe it or not, you know, some people are saying that this
is a tourist trap that was created just 25, 50 years ago to get some visitors coming to this
small town called Blythe. They're saying that, you know, people did this 100, not in Peru, right?
Not in Peru. Yeah. Well, what are they selling in this small town that's bringing so much money
on? It's a great marketing tool. That's what some people are saying. This is a tourist trap. I'm
not buying this, right? What do you think it is? I think they're ancient, ancient creations. You
know, I don't doubt that this is new. I would imagine that they were created thousands of years
ago as signals to the gods. Signals to the gods. Because from the ground, you can't really see
anything. I was just in Blythe, right? From the ground, you can't even see the whole thing. It
doesn't make any sense. You would actually have to see it from at least 500 feet above. Otherwise,
it doesn't make any sense to you. How did they do it if they didn't have an overhead aerial
perspective of what they were doing, you know? Yeah. So I don't know if you... We used to have aerial
signals even 100 years ago. I don't know if you know that. Because they would put large
arrow marks before the invention of GPS and all these electronics. They would put these...
They would literally lay large arrow marks in all over the US for the planes.
Really? Yeah. No way. Yes. There's still some remnants out there in the US.
The arrow marks were supposed to be like what? What was the purpose of it?
There's just an indication for the pilots, right? If a pilot is traveling from Tampa to Orlando...
Oh, wow. Like road signs for pilots. Exactly. That's insane.
So that's the only thing that I can think of. And I think that, you know, I always imagine that
there were... Either humans were using very advanced technology like flying, right?
They had flying machines. And ancient techs talk about this. Ancient techs talk about flying
machines like Vimana's all the time, right? So they would just jump into an airplane, essentially,
and they would start flying, right? Or they would jump into a spacecraft and they would go into
another planet. And this is what ancient techs talk about. So either they did that or
they... Ancient humans did that, I'm saying. Ancient humans had this kind of technology
thousands of years ago. Or they had some type of communication with gods.
What techs specifically talk about that? Mahabharata talks about it. Ramayana talks about it.
But both are the big epics of ancient India. They both talk about flying machines.
This is Sanskrit. It's in Sanskrit. More than 2000 years old.
Do you know how to read Sanskrit? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Well, the text is similar to modern Hindi.
It's called Dev Nagarind. Wow. So are there images of these lines that you photographed
in California online that we can look at? Yeah. If you just google Blide Intaglios.
Blide Intaglios. V-L-Y-T-H-E Intaglios. It's called INTA-GL. IOS. Yeah. Well, we can't see it though.
Yeah. There we go.
Yeah. Oh, wow. Look at that. I've never seen this before.
It should, your immediate thought would be an alien. I thought Rick and Morty.
That's bizarre, man. Yeah. Now, from the ground, it looks like you won't even see it.
No, you wouldn't. Yeah. From the ground, it just looks like nothing.
We know this has been here for at least how long? Like, this has been here for...
Don't know anything for sure, but it's saying like at least 400 years old, it was discovered.
And of course, you know, and the funny part is people laugh all the time when we say,
well, you can only see it from the sky. So it was done for the gods, right? People,
people always think like, oh, that's like, that's cute, but that's not true. Yeah. Do you know when,
who discovered, quote unquote, who discovered the Blide Intaglios? Who? Guess who would have done it?
Guess who would have, what, discovered it? Yeah. Guess who would have discovered the Blide
Intaglios? Are you, she put her, said that's, that's a good point. Who else? Archaeologists,
historians, people exploring the deserts. Who, who would have discovered the Blide Intaglios?
You think Danny? Indians? No. But who would have done it? No, it was a pilot who was flying.
Yeah. Yeah. A pilot, right. Right. Nobody knew about this, right? People, people were walking
everywhere. A pilot, I think in 1930s, he was flying to California and he was the first one
who said, what the heck is that? That's got a little wiener. Yeah. Wow. That's really crazy.
That's really crazy. There are details like that, that are really interesting. For example,
you can see that animal. Yeah, there. But you see underneath, there's something else.
Yeah. A little, a little. A little serpent? Oh, a serpent. There's a better
image of that. I guess this one. Yeah. That's, yeah. That's a different one. Yeah. That's a different
one. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. Man, that's wild. Yeah. So, so, so people were here all the time and
it's right next to the city, man. You can, you can basically go to the Intaglios in like 15 minutes
from the city, right? But nobody knew this existed for hundreds and, you know, probably thousands
of years. Nobody knew because you can't see it from the ground. You're not going to be like,
wow, that's a figure. You can't make that out. And that's why only a pilot who was flying
quote unquote discovered it 100 years ago. That had to, that had to be such a crazy discovery
for the first people that ever gotten planes. Because now you're basically elevating yourself
to a new dimension. And now you can see something that's been here probably forever that we've never
been aware of. Yeah. Yeah. The same thing with Nazca lines. The Nazca lines, then it's a desert.
Right. And you know, I told you about the story. I lost a drone. Yes. Right. My drone, like, it's
like low battery going home. And I just went somewhere. Yeah. Right. And I'm running in the
desert. Right. Trying to find the drone within like 10, 15 minutes. The dehydration level,
you know, it's like 100 degrees in right in time. Yeah. And in like 15, 20 minutes, like, I thought
it like I was going to pass out. Okay. So you're saying that the tribal people who lived in Nazca
desert, that's a big desert. I mean, Nazca desert is a dry desert. You're saying that people who
lived in Nazca desert like thousands of years ago had nothing better to do rather than making
figures that they can't even see. Would you make an art like nobody can see? Right. Right. Would you
ever do it? No. Absolutely not. Yeah. So who are they doing it for? And why did they go through
the paint? They're doing it for the gods. That makes sense. That makes sense.
Man, I don't think there's, is there anybody on earth who's explored more ancient sites and
ancient temples in various parts of the world as you, and you've been doing this forever too.
Yeah. Probably decade. How long? Well, I mean, I was born in, you know, in the kind of like the
temple premises. I used to like kind of live inside the temple. So I have good exposure to that.
But yeah, I've documented more than a hundred temples. And we do intense work, right? So we
just don't do like, okay, let's go on a day trip to a temple. So we take like half a dozen people
and we document all the carvings in a temple. And this takes a long time. We spend sometimes weeks
in the temples. And we only focus on ancient structures, meaning that they have to be at
least 600 years old, you know, we don't focus on the new ones. How did you get started on all this?
What really happened was I, like I said, you know, I grew up in like the temple complex, which
which is very kind of, you don't know what gets into your head. Now you're playing hide and seek
in a temple, right? So you're just going and hiding behind like these dine statues and you're
just hiding there for like 10 minutes looking at all these structures or you're climbing the
temple tower and you're like hiding in there or you're playing, right? You tend to put in a lot of
thought into it, right? Why did they create these carvings? You know, why did people create
such structures at all? It doesn't, even today, it's a mystery, right? Even today, the ancient
temples are a mystery, okay? It's very hard to compare them with a modern temple or a church or a
mosque. It's very hard to compare them, okay? For example, you will find erotic carvings
in ancient temples, right? Why is a place of worship carved with those details, right? So you'll
find sundials, which tell you time accurately, right? You will find carvings of dancing, you'll
find people fighting, you'll find people wrestling, you'll find animal and in the animal,
and the details of animals, I don't know if you were there for the the Cosmic Summit presentation,
I think it left the day before. It was packed when I gave the speech. A lot of people, especially a
lot of doctors, came from far, far away states. They came from Massachusetts, some of them came
from California, and the carvings I was showing them, the details are really crazy, okay? For
example, like you'll see elephants, an elephant giving birth to a baby elephant,
and there are like three other elephants helping the mother push the baby out,
right? I've shown the carvings in the presentation, I can send it to you, yeah? And when I first
saw that carving in a temple, it's literally like the baby elephant is coming out of the
mother elephant, and there are other elephants, there's like one elephant literally using its
trunk and squeezing the belly, like a modern, like what that's what humans do, right? Okay, push, push,
push the baby out, right? So there are three elephants helping the mother elephant, and when
I first saw that carving, and it's funny because a lot of people didn't know because it just looks
like a group of elephants fighting. You find that carving in a remote corner, right? In a temple
that nobody cares about, the temples have hundreds of carvings. So people just thought these are
elephants fighting, but when I really, I put it on my computer and when we decoded this.
Yo, Steve, have you sold any of those new Plasma Unification Thunderstorm Generator
machines yet? Yes, that's why we're sponsored by Shopify. That's right, it doesn't matter how small
you are or what you sell, Shopify helps you sell it everywhere. Of course, they have the internet's
best converting checkout, 30% better than other commerce platforms, and their new AI-powered
Shopify magic makes everything a one-click wonder. As you probably already know, we use Shopify for
the podcast website because it's super easy to set up, super customizable, there's millions of
themes and plugins you can use, payment processing made easy, it's so easy a toddler could do it.
Shopify powers literally millions of entrepreneurs of every size in 175 countries.
If you guys don't already have your own e-commerce store, their award-winning help supports your
success in every step of the way. I mean, look at their YouTube channel, they got tons of tutorials,
they really care about their customer experience and making sure they get what they want. They
walk you through a ton of processes with their tutorials, making sure that you get everything
that you need and you're not left in the dark. So if you guys enjoy the podcast and want to help
support it, right now they're offering a $1 per month trial period at Shopify.com
slash Danny Jones. It's all lowercase. Shopify.com slash D-A-N-N-Y-J-O-N-E-S to grow your business no
matter what stage you're at. Again, that's Shopify.com slash D-A-N-N-Y-J-O-N-E-S for a $1
per month trial period. The link's below, back to the show. I thought, wow, that's amazing. You'll
look at the imagination of a sculptor who lived a thousand years ago and he thinks that elephants
are like humans. The other elephants are helping a mother elephant to deliver the baby. That's a
great imagination. I was blown away by that. But then that's not it. When I searched, the elephants
actually do that. Still today? Yes. The actual elephants do that. When a mother elephant is
delivering a baby, the other elephants get together. We have videos on YouTube. That's insane. I had
no idea. Yeah. It's not an imagination. The sculptor must have observed how elephants were
giving birth. Like today, you don't be like, for example, like reptiles, like a snake. It's not
a social event. It just goes somewhere, lays eggs or gives birth to babies. It's not a social event.
But humans, imagine a woman giving birth alone that almost be wild. Sometimes it happens. But
it's not natural because we're real social animals. Same thing with elephants. You may have never
heard of that. I did not know that until I saw the carving. So ancient builders recorded
all these weird, like the stuff that's trending today. You'll see something like a dog riding
a cow. That'd be trending today on TikTok. Oh, the dog is riding. He's just standing on top of
the cow, almost like a human doing it, riding a horse. But that's carved thousands of years ago.
They've observed these animals and they carved that in the temples. That's what they did.
I guess going back to your question, what got me started onto these temples is that the mystery
of why did they create these temples, right? It's not just a place of worship. That doesn't
belong in a place of worship. An elephant giving birth, humans giving birth. That's carved in
temples too. Yeah, humans delivering babies. That's carved in temples too. Animals. And it's very
interesting because, I'll tell you, when I put this information out there, maybe eight years ago,
if you're a child, let's say you're like six years old. You're like this high. Like probably
what, two feet, whatever. And if you go to a temple, you will only look at this level. You'll
only see like a six foot, like maybe four, right? Two to three feet height. All the carvings will be
about animals. If you have a child that's like three years old or five years old, all day he watches
either cartoons or animal planet. He's very fascinated by that. He's just going to love all
the animals. And that's how ancient builders created the temples. So if you are, let's say six years
old, all you're going to see is animals. That's your animal planet. Yeah. Yeah. Also when you're
young, I feel like when you go to, when you have new experiences or when you're in places like
temples or places of worship that older people are used to and they understand it's built in
to the culture and it's sort of just like the norm. Children, they're not hardwired yet. They're
structural, cultural, hardwiring. It hasn't solidified itself yet. Everything is so new and
their imaginations are so much run wild, so much more than adults do. So do you think that maybe
had part of it? Maybe like you being so young and you were still developing, your imagination was
still running wild. You were still learning about the world, yet you were in these incredible
ancient structures with these crazy details carved into them. Yes. I think this is why
I got interested in temples very early. And of course I moved to the U.S. and I thought that
that's fine. I'll just make a lot of money and then live a good life in the U.S.
Yeah. But I came out of India but India didn't come out of me. Why did you move to the U.S.?
I went to college here. So I thought I'd just get a good job. This was back in
2001. And you were around roughly 20 years old, something like that you said?
Yeah. Roughly 20. And then you stayed here in the U.S. for how long?
15. 15 years. What's the biggest difference between U.S. and India?
One thing I still do, right, I still love about the U.S. is that everything is perfectly organized.
Perfectly organized? Yep. There's like a stop sign. You don't have to do a thing,
right? If you see a stop sign, you stop. If it's red, you stop. If it's green, you go.
You don't have to look left or right. That's what I love about the U.S.
They take all the thinking out of it. Yeah, exactly. So they put a lot of thought into it.
So you don't have to worry about all the little details, right? India still don't have that.
Whether you have a stop sign or not, you have to look... Usually you have to stay alive.
Right. So you have to worry about the little things, right? You have to make sure that
you drive carefully, for example, right? And of course, you have to pay attention to that all
the time. So that gives you less time to think about all the big things.
You know what I'm saying? Interesting.
Yeah. So they've taken care of all the stuff for you. So you don't have to think while driving
to the podcast, right? If you had to be thinking about all that stuff, you probably don't know
like what to ask me, because you've already wasted that 30 minutes thinking about how to survive.
Right? That's interesting.
Yeah. And that's the beauty of US. So the beauty of US is everything is really well organized.
For example, I can have a heart attack and you trust the government enough to call 911
and you know they'll be here in five minutes. Right? Whatever. Let's hope so.
That's because of the organization. They've organized everything. So the ambulance
driver was not going to, you know. It's not that good in India. No, not yet. Not yet. Yeah.
But although the development is like massive, right? So people who are born in India and people
who are teenagers in India, they no longer want to come to the US. Really? Yep. Because the growth
is rapid, you know. The growth is like, we've not seen this kind of growth ever. How big is India
compared to the US? One third. A third of the US. And you were saying earlier, you said you
could have stayed here and got rich or just gone back to India. What do you mean by that?
I mean, it's easier to get rich here, get make money here. Well, the culture here is all about
money, right? Everyone's focused on money and the economy here. That's probably like one of the
fundamental moral values or common values of an American. Different in India, you're saying.
Yeah. Well, I mean, the thing is, it is easy to get rich in India too now, but not 15 years ago,
right? But in the US, it's very capitalistic country, you know. You believe in capitalism
all the way. Yes. So you can make money. It's good. And of course, the lifestyle, right? So
for example, what happened when I went to college, right? In six months, I had a car,
right? I bought a car. I had all the stuff because there's no minimum wage in India.
So there's going to be a lot of differences, you know. So the US is really good at surface level.
If all you want to do is just make money and have a good life,
US is a great country to have, right? It's a good country to live in, right?
So what did you want? What made you go back to India?
That's what I thought I want, right? When I was 20 years old, I'm thinking like,
what I'm like 19. So I'm thinking like, oh, I just, all I need is like good money,
you know, like may I have a fancy car and make me happy. But it didn't, right? So what happens
when after you have like a fancy car, like what are you going to do with it?
Right. Right. What happens after a year, right? Having that fancy car like a nice,
what are you going to do with that nice house? Like you can't do much about it.
And then the dream is almost better than the reality of it. Right. So once you achieve it
really quickly, and then you realize that it's kind of like an empty shell. It's like,
it's not going to satisfy you. That's not the, I mean, it's kind of cliche, but
the money is not going to really make you happy, right? It's a source of power. There's no doubt.
It's like health. Yes. You need money and not saying you don't need money.
You need money like health, but that itself is not going to give you fulfillment.
It's not going to make you content. It's not going to make you sleep peacefully at night.
Yeah. Well, money and materialism are two different things, right? Like you could have
a lot of money and not be materialistic and want to buy stupid shit. But so you eventually went
back to India. And what was the, was that because you wanted, you wanted to support the temples?
You wanted the temples or that was the main reason? Yeah. At some point I realized that,
okay. So in 2010, I started to go back to India. And of course I started to, like I said,
you know, I started to make tons of money, six figures at that time.
Was that when you started your YouTube channel? No. I was working. So I started to make six
figures income and then I didn't know what to do with that money. So I would go to Mexico,
I'd go to Peru, you know, I'd go to all these different places and just, and initially when
we go to Mexico, we're doing stuff like, okay, let's go like bar hopping, right? You're just going
like cancun crawling and on that type of stuff. But then you, I got bored of that. And then I
started to look at ancient sites in Mexico. Then I started to look at ancient sites in Peru. At that
time, I didn't even, like YouTube, it was not even monetized at that time.
Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. When I joined YouTube, it was not for money, man.
Yeah. It was not like, I'll just choose YouTube as a career. Yeah. There was nobody who,
at that time, nobody on YouTube was monetized when I joined at that time.
I remember that very vividly. Yes, you do. I remember that time. Yeah. No, I was making
videos right when YouTube came out. Oh really? Yeah. Just little short films and stuff and uploading
them. Yeah. Yeah, that's a time, right? When we made stuff just to make the videos, that was a fun
part. Now you're thinking like, oh, when, if I upload this video, how much money will I make?
It kind of took the fun out of it. No, it really changed, right? People think about YouTube,
they want to reverse engineer a business out of it. That's the lens people look through
YouTube at now. And another weird thing about it too is like, isn't it funny how when people
go to YouTube videos, the two things they care about most are the view count and the comments?
It's not even the video anymore. It's called the social proof, right? This is how humans
function, right? You know about that. Danny, I love your fancy underwear. Oh, my me undies.
They're anti odor moisture wicking quick, dry, breathable loveliness sponsored this podcast,
Steven, because when that summer heat gets nasty, your man junk stays lovely. Their ball catty
avoids the bat wing, aka the ball stick. And their micromodal fabric is breathable and so soft
to the face. I guess you could put them on your face. Me undies is quite literally the holy grail
of undies companies. You can customize your undies whether you want traditional, tidy,
whitey style, boxer briefs, boxers, and they're customizable, meaning you can get like cosmic
planetary undies, mushroom undies, inflatable balloon animal undies, you name it. Me undies
supports your butt so well. I mean, it looks really good on you, Danny. What? They take care of
their workers too, and they'll cover the cost if you don't like them. And summer is running hot
right now, folks. So if you guys want to be prepared with me undies and help support the podcast,
today you can get 20% off your first order plus free shipping at me undies.com slash Danny Jones.
That's me undies.com slash D A N N Y J O N E S for 20% off plus free shipping me undies
comfort from the outside in the link is below. Now back to the show.
That's called the social proof, right? So for example, you, you walk into an elevator,
right? And there are like five people in the elevator, but they're all facing the other side,
showing their backs to you. You will stand the same way.
You just turn because you want to be aligned with them. This is called a social proof, right?
This is called a social proof, right? You want to be a part of your society.
Yeah, you want to fit in with society. You don't want to be the outcast.
Yeah. So, so, and that's what people do when people are not watching your video. People want
to first know if others are watching that video and they want to make sure the comments approve.
Right. Right. First, like, we want to, let's read the comments. Let's make sure that my opinion
is correct about this video. I want to make sure I have the correct opinion. And two,
I'm not going to watch this video and I saw that millions of other people are watching
it because I'm going to waste my time. That's so weird.
And that's so weird. That's how the society works. And look, I mean, the thing is,
it's weird because it's going to make a ton of bad YouTubers, right? Because they know they've
catch a trend and they'd be like, oh, if I support this person, we'll get millions of views, right?
Yeah. It's just like podcasting, man. I was talking about this all the time. There's people that
make podcasts and they literally, they create a podcast business plan, right? They're like,
we need to get Jordan Peterson, Graham Hancock, whatever, all these people that are going to
blow up our podcast, then we're going to make this much money, then we're going to sell this
merch and then we're going to be superstars. Yeah. It's the way people think about these things.
After like they first come on the scene, you know, like when someone innovates something new,
it's usually never the way that it ends up down the road. People end up usually doing it, reverse
engineering it and trying to figure out how to get there from a different angle.
Yeah. People like Warren Buffett, right? They've understood the concept of social proof
and they've made billions out of this, right? When everybody's like a sheep and everybody's buying,
they're selling when everybody, because they understand, they know that social proof is a bias
and they know how to make the money. And of course, some YouTubers do it the opposite way,
like, okay, if I post this, we can get millions of views, right? People do that.
Yeah. Yeah. It's hard not to. Yeah. Look, man, I mean, I would imagine, right, what, Trump and
Biden, they just had a debate? Debate, if you could call it that. I don't watch it. So,
there are channels dedicated to, like, I will support only Trump and there are channels dedicated
to, like, I will only support Biden. And they both have millions of views, right? They probably
make millions of dollars. But I would not be surprised if there's one guy sitting in Russia
owning both the channels. Right. Exactly. Yeah. It's that famous Bill Hicks joke about the
politicians, like, I think I like the guy on the right. He seems to fit my moral values. And
then the guy's like, I like the guy on the left. He seems to support my worldview better. Oh, wait,
what's that? It's the same guy holding both guys, the same puppet master under the table?
No, that's true. And that's, it's weird too, because when it comes to politics, there's people
who have entire personas and YouTube channels that are dedicated to basically talking shit about
the person on the other side of the aisle and then the same way vice versa. Yeah. And you know,
I think in the previous election, they found out that some guys in Russia created Facebook pages
for and against the same cause. Yes. For example, they'd be like, okay, so this
this church is spreading hate. Let's go and have a protest in front of this church. And then the
same guy created another page saying that we have to protect this church. And so there's going to,
there's some people are going to cause a riot, and then we have to protect our church. So it was
the same guy doing both the stuff. And I'm sure, you know, so in chaos. Yeah. Yeah. And AI is going
to pick up on this. And you know, you know what's going to happen? AI is, if you, if you want to
weaponize AI, that's how it would do it. The enemy of the US, let's say some country, right? So they're
going to create this kind of politics, right? You just have AI do all these pages and all these
YouTube channels for and against the same cause, right? That's how I would do it, right? So let's
say I want to destroy Tampa, right? I would be like, okay, guys, like I'm against LGBTQ, we're
going to have a protest right here. This is destroying our culture. I would have a page like
that and have, I could easily get 1000 followers for that. And then I would create another page
saying that no LGBTQ rocks, right? We need our rights. And then, and I'll say, let's have the
protest at the same time. Right across the street. And I can easily create a ride. I could do it,
actually, right? And this is, this is how AI is going to is going to do. I don't know if you saw
it, but there was this like maybe a month ago, there was like a brawl in the streets where the
LGBT pride, the pride parade clashed with the free Palestine parade. And they were literally like
curb stomping each other. It was like a full on war on the streets. I think it was in Philly,
okay, in Philadelphia. You find that Israel Hamas war protests have just have disrupted
pride marches. Like what? People, people don't, don't really, they don't like to think like you
were talking about with with the stop signs and the traffic signals and all that. It's the same
thing with media. They just want to be told what to think. If you start to compete with somebody,
for example, right? So let's say you start to compete with a podcast or who does videos every
day, then you no longer worry about the right information. You start about like all the news
media. So only about like who gets the news first. They don't care if the news is right or wrong.
They have to give it first. And people follow that too. And this is a situation because if you're
late and if you're just waiting for the right news to come, right? Let's say somebody's like
serious, right? Somebody's in the hospital. Some news channel is going to say, oh, this guy's dead
and he's going to get all the views even though he's right. Yeah. So all the news channels are
like, what do we do? Yeah, purposely deceitful just to get views and clicks and advertising dollars.
Yeah, man. It's a rough world out there. The media landscape is getting more and more treacherous
to navigate every day. Do you know any media in the US that's not considered propaganda?
Any media in the US that's not considered propaganda. This podcast is not propaganda.
This is probably the only one. No, I'm just kidding. No, I mean,
what about like a new channel, right? There's a difference between propaganda that's purposely
misinforming or just like purposely being biased for a political, religious, monetary reasons,
right? Or just people are getting stuff wrong, you know, on an accident.
So, can you think of any because we know what do you think about Seattle?
You mean any like television news? No, I think it's all propaganda. I think it's all propaganda.
I think the way the world is going to be independent journalism and independent people that
like what we're doing here or like, you know, there's, there's millions of other examples
of great podcasts and people that report on different things, which is why I love listening
to your watching your videos because there's not there. I have no other choice. There's no one
else that's exploring these crazy ancient temples looking at this stuff like you are.
Typically, you know, you don't really see a lot about some of these ancient Hindu temples in places
like in India, Indonesia, China. In your experience, what has been like the most mind-bending
temple structure that you visited in your home country?
There are lots. There's one temple called the Kailasa Temple, which is a very famous temple.
It's built out of one rock. It's a large temple. Oh, that's the one that's carved out of the
mountain. Yeah, I would have to agree with you. That is probably one of the most insane things
I've ever seen. So explain to people what like, so, so there's a giant stone. What is it? Is
it granite? Is it like a granite mountain? Yeah, it's made of igneous rocks. Yep. So it's a granite.
And people basically, it's like a negative relief temple. Like people just carved out the negative
space out of this temple. Yes. And there's something like 200,000 tons of stone that was removed.
Yeah. Originally, when I first, and this is, I think I visited this temple in 2013, I was still
in the U.S. at that time. I would go back to India for a month. I was looking at all the
temples. I would come back, right? When I first saw this temple, I said, there's no way that
a temple could be built this way. This is just weird, right? So I started to study the temple
more and more. And I realized how crazy it is. It's not like, it's not humanly possible
to build a structure like that. They should have used advanced technology. Because it is
carved out of a single hill. Like it's just a giant, it's not a real, I wouldn't say it's a mountain.
What's the, how do you pronounce the word? Can you pull that up, Steve? Oh, there you go.
Yeah. Yeah. That is nuts. Yeah. So if you see, the way you carve it, it's not,
like you have to carve the... You had it. That was it, Steve. Yeah. I'm going to get more images.
So you have to carve, you have to scoop out the rocks. Like for example, you see that kind of,
like they call it the pillar, but it should remind you of an obelisk. Right. So you don't carve an
obelisk, right? Normally, if I tell you, let's make an obelisk, like they have an obelisk in what
Washington DC, they put rocks on the, they put bricks or rocks from the ground level,
they keep going up, right? This is the normal construction technique. Right. But to create
an obelisk like this, you have to carve everything around it. Okay. That's, I wonder why anybody
ever wondered why they made an obelisk in Washington DC? You know, I don't know the answer to that,
but why did they make it? Do you know? Well, you'll see a lot of Egyptian, ancient Egyptian
details in Washington DC. Really? Yeah. Yeah, lots. So all of this basically was,
this was all one rock and they carved out all of the negative space to create this. Yes. There's
nothing else like this on the earth. Is there? At least this is the size. There are not this size.
Yes. Right. So, so I think this was the prototype and that that created, there are structures like
this in India, but I think this was the first one that was created with this kind of negative,
like top down approach. I don't think. Yep. And then there are temples, smaller temples
modeled after this, right? You know what I mean? There are smaller temples
modeled after this. So, so conventional archaeologists, when you asked them about this,
what is the understanding of how long it took them to build it, when they think it was built,
or carved out, and what were the tools that they say were used to create this?
If you talk to mainstream historians or archaeologists, they're going to say
what the dates vary, but they will say it's about 1200 to 1400 years old. Okay. And they were carved
using chiseled hammers, pickaxes, simple metal tools. Would that have been possible?
We don't know. I don't think so. Well, you could do it, right? Like, for example,
you could make the entire studio with just using simple tools, but the question is, did you?
Yeah, wouldn't it be practical? Yeah. And how long would it take? Right. So,
those are the things that people fail to question, right? Just because I can, right?
Just because you can make this table. What simple tools did you? No, you probably used,
like, you know, all sorts of like cutting power tools, etc. Right? We don't know. The question is,
is it possible to build it with chisels and hammers and maybe millions of people and then,
like, a century? Yeah, it's possible. But how do we know if that's how they did it? You know,
that's the question. How long do they say that they took to build this?
We don't know that for sure. Some people, well, if there was an official plot on site,
they keep changing that. Because when I made the video, it became, and this is one of the first
videos which kind of became viral from my channel at that time. When I posted it, and I think I
posted, I was the first one who documented this temple, as in 2013 or 14. And at that time,
it got like 25,000, 30,000 views in like a week or something. It was like big at that time.
You remember those times? When you forget like 10,000 views, that's like a miracle.
So, at that time, and in my video, I actually show a screenshot, luckily for me, right? I show
a screenshot from Wikipedia that says 400,000 tons of rock were removed or 800,000 tons of rocks
were removed to create the Kailasa Temple. And since then, people have modified that Wikipedia
paid so many times. Because I mean, I got lucky, I guess I posted a screenshot because it says
that time and everything from Wikipedia, right? But since then, now they're saying that, you know,
no, only 200,000 tons were removed. But remember, these are all like... Trying to say it was easier.
Destinations, right? So, they kind of now they're like, oh, this is a big controversy. So, how do we
minimize this to prove that it was easy to create with primitive tools? By rather really looking
at it. I mean, I'm sure in another country, they'd be like, wow, this is amazing. Let's
let's announce it as a world wonder, right? But in India, they're like, oh, let's kind of minimize
that. So, it seems simpler to create. It's kind of weird, isn't it? Yeah. So, who in India is in
charge of declaring when they were made, who made them and how they're made? Is it similar to Egypt?
How like the Department of Antiquities with the Zahi Hawas and all this stuff, they're controlling
this narrative that clearly everyone is against? How does that work in India? Well, we have an
archaeological survey of India. This is the archaeological department of India. And probably
there's some head there. And then we have a historical department and all that stuff. They're
now looking at it. It's not as bad as Egypt. Oh, really? Yep. It's not as bad as Egypt. And we
got to give them credit for trying. But I have to say that it's impossible to date a megalithic
structure, right? It's just impossible. There's no way to date that. So, how do we actually date
a temple like this? What would you do? If an archaeologist, how would you start?
I mean, you'd have to find any kind of organic material or remains inside it and try to use that.
Maybe take carving, like if there were hieroglyphs in there or something like that,
that depicted any sort of kings or gods, maybe? Yeah. So, what happened was in a typical temple,
they would find some organic material, they'd find some burnt bones or something like that,
then they would date that. And they'd be like, oh, this is about 500 years ago. But we don't know
if somebody was cooking something 500 years ago inside the temple. Same thing with the
pyramids, right? Look at this crazy big structure. I'm going to put my my dead grandma on there.
Yeah. Same. Look, and the paintings, right? So, sometimes in India, they're like, oh, look,
we are able to look at the paintings are made of vegetables in India. They take all like different
kind of vegetables, put them together and create paint and they paint on the carvings. So, we can
date that organic material. So, they look at the paint, the vegetable stuff, and they'll be like,
oh, this is like 600 years old. But I can paint it after. Yeah. Like, I'll paint my house now.
So, it's very hard to find the dates on them, right? And fortunately, like I said before,
most of the temples don't have inscriptions that say, I built it. This is when I built it.
This is why I built it. They don't say that. This is the hard part of this, right? It almost,
it's like me, right? You don't know anything about me. Mostly, right? Mostly you don't know
anything about me, right? And they kind of bring that, of course, I tried to learn that from them
because they didn't, they never told, they never talked about themselves. Instead, they let their
work. Like, you're looking at the Kailasa temple, like, wow, the Kailasa temple is amazing how you
don't, you don't think once about the guy who built it, right? Right. Because now your attention is
all on the, on his creation. Right.
Yeah. So, how big is that whole cavity on the side of that mountain, roughly?
I can't tell you the numbers. Yeah, I've been there a few times.
Wow, look at it with the people there, man. Yeah. Now you can see the size.
You see, this is the hard part, right? So, you see people on the first floor,
and you can see people on the second floor. Yep.
Of course, in India, it'd be like ground floor and first floor, whatever. Now, but remember this,
and you can literally walk up and to the left, if you go to the left, you can see a bridge.
This is a bridge that goes to the balcony out in the front, right? You have to plan everything
before you even started carving. Yes. Anything. Even before you started carving a little bit,
you had to plan everything. It can't be like, okay, now we have created this, now let me put
a bridge between these structures. It can't do that, right? Because it's not, nothing is added to it.
Right. No, yeah. When you start, you have to have the final plans, just like the final
blueprints before you even start. Yeah. Holy smokes. I cannot, my brain cannot even fathom
how to even think about going about something like this. Yeah. And you know what, if you zoom in
to the carvings on the right, there are like weird animals on the right. There's like weird
animals and stuff like that. Yeah. There. You can see a lot of destruction. You can see a lot of
like damage. Those damages were done by kings who came from the Middle East and they tried to
destroy the temple. They'd be like, oh, this is like infidel stuff, right? Right, the Islam.
Yeah. Yeah. So they tried to destroy it. And how do you, how do you destroy a temple like this?
You know, you can't. Radical religion, man. Wow. But they can't, like you can't.
Is there any of it they did, they were able to destroy?
Some temples, yeah. Some temples were destroyed. But a temple like this, how do you even begin
to destroy? You would have to kind of nuke it. You know, you'd have to, you'd have to throw a bomb
onto it because it's impossible to, to destroy, right? It's made out of one rock. The entire
structure is made out of one rock and you had to build multiple floors. You had to build bridges.
You had to build these pillars and you had to do all this flawless work, right? And this is the
macro stuff, man. But if you go there and if you go into the, the second level floors, you can walk
inside and you'll see micro carvings like, like this one or two inch carvings there.
So it's not only the size, like the, the macro, it's also the micro, you know? So they just
did insane work on the temple. And conventionally, you believe this is, you said,
a 1500 years ago, roughly? A thousand? 1200 to 1400 years, that'd be the estimate of this.
They typically be like, oh, this is a seventh century.
That's insane, man. Even comparing this to some of like the cathedrals,
you know, the Renaissance era cathedrals, they're like,
those weren't created like this. There's one in Africa. Did you know about this? There's a
monolithic church in Africa carved using very similar technique. You didn't know about this.
Really? No, I had no idea. What's it called? Church Africa, I think. There you go. From the top.
Lalibya?
Oh, wait, is this it? Oh, wow. It's carved out of a mountain.
So did we like have to dig these up? Is that how we found these? No, I think they've been there.
Oh, they, they weren't buried? No. Okay, okay. Wow. Yeah. But if you see the top view of that,
that'll be kind of interesting for you. Oh my Lord.
Is this the same one? No. They've renovated this. You can see the...
We've gone into a hole. Yeah, we're lost now. Okay. If you see like a,
you probably have to put aerial view. That one has bricks. Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
This is reconstruction, right? You can see the reconstruction work. Oh, right. This is
reconstruction, but this is original. Oh, wow. Look at that. Yeah, I'll look for an aerial view.
It's kind of cute. Like you'd love it. There you go on the... Oh, this stuff? Yeah. Yeah.
Wow. That's kind of cute. We're out in Africa, sis? I think it's in Ethiopia, I think. Oh,
in Ethiopia. Okay. I think so. Huh. I hope to see something. How many structures are like this? How
many megalithic buildings and temples are there that exists roughly? Do you know?
In... Well, we... Almost all the ancient structures in India are megalithic, but you're
talking about a monolithic... I mean monolithic. Out of one rock.
Probably a dozen or two in India. We have some. We have... This is called in situ architecture.
This is what we use in archaeology. It's called in situ, meaning that we did not remove
the existing stuff. Nothing was added or... Right. Right. So it's already there. Yes.
And this is the structure. I know only about this one in Christianity. I don't even think...
I don't know how old this is, probably like 500 years old, I think, or something like that.
But it's very counterintuitive. Like you don't want to... If I had to start a project like even
this, this is simpler, right? The church is simpler than the Kailasa temple, but I would
not be able to do it. And why would you want to do it? Yeah, which there's no reason to.
There's no reason to, right? Why do all the hard stuff, right? Why go through all the pains?
It's so much harder. It seems like a way more difficult way to do it.
Yeah. And it's below, like it's down, like if there's a flood, you're fucked.
The hole is just going to fill with water and everyone's going to drown.
Right? Yeah. Well, in Kailasa temple, they have like complex drainage systems.
Oh, really? Yeah. The water's not going to stagnate there.
Below it? Well, yeah. At the ground level, they've carved the drainage and then they even
built like water tanks outside to collect the rainwater. No way, man. Yeah.
That is incredible. Yeah, I don't think they have it. Yeah, there. Oh wait, is this guy?
Yeah. This is also quite that same thing. And what is this? So what type of rock is this thing made
of? It's some type of volcanic rock. Oh, okay. I don't think this is a, this is grand. I forgot
the name of it. Basalt, maybe? No. No? Yeah. Type in Kailasa. Maybe volcanic basalt. That's a good
point. Kailasa temple stone type. Maybe we'll find it. What type of rock is it? It is basalt.
Which is pretty soft, right? But still, that's a lot of damn work for some hammers and some chisels.
Am I the first Hindu that you've had? You might be the first Hindu, yeah.
Do you know that? No, actually you're not. We had a couple of months ago, we had a guy who's
practices Hindu. He's actually from Texas though. He's a white Texan. Wow. But he's a biblical scholar.
Why? But he's a Hindu. He practices, I think he practices Hindu, but he knows he's been studying
religion his whole life. Wow. Yeah. But other than that, no. Okay. So you were raised Hindu though?
Yeah, I was born a Hindu. I was raised a Hindu. Yeah, that's really cool. We do strange things,
man. We worship cows. You worship cows, the sacred cow. And Hindu is kind of like branched off of
Buddhism, is that right? No. No, no. Hinduism is older. Oh, it's older than Buddhism. Oh,
maybe it's the reverse, I have it. Yeah. Buddhism came from Hinduism. You could say that. So if
you look at Lord Buddha, he basically he got tired of too many rituals in Hinduism. And Buddha says,
no, this is too much. We got to have an enlightened life. We want to kind of deviate from that. We
want to have a simple lifestyle. And that's how Buddhism started. Right. Because there's lots
of rituals in Hinduism. Yeah, lots. What kind of rituals? What kind of rituals is you practice
when you're growing up? Was your life like very, very religious? No? You guys didn't have like
days and stuff where you'd go to the temples? I didn't go. You didn't go? Yeah, they did. They
still do. Oh, really? Yeah, they still do. And I did just, yeah, I never took part in social. No,
yeah, I could do it. I just wanted to make sense of it. Yeah. You know, I wanted to make sense of
why they did that, right? Why would you worship a cow? Right? It sounds kind of at face value. It
sounds really, I'm sure you ate my god today for lunch. No, not today. But last night I did for
dinner. That's what I'm saying, right? So you're eating cows, but I'm worshiping them. But why?
How could humans kind of think of cows as gods? Like, what is a relationship?
You know? What is it?
It's very complex. It's probably wouldn't believe it if I told you. Try me. So humans,
humans are here because of cows. That's kind of the theory behind it. Humans are here because of
without the cows.
Humans probably wouldn't exist, right? And this is a very odd, I know this doesn't make any sense,
right? But I know you love crazy stories. So I'm telling you this. I went to the northeast part of
India. And there are apes in India, okay? Apart from humans, right? Humans are also apes.
But do you know what kind of apes are there in India? You know, if there's like
chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, they don't exist in India. Oh, really? Yep. There's only one kind
of ape that loves in India. That's called the Gibbon. Gibbon ape. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of a
lesser ape, but it looks, it's very cute. It's a beautiful animal. Oh, it is cute. Look, it's
adorable. Looks like you'll rip your face off too if you want it to. No, they're very friendly.
They're kind of very friendly. Are they really? Yeah.
They're very friendly. And they don't look like they're friendly here. No, they don't.
But they're actually quite friendly. And you can only find them in the northeast part of India.
And if you, and these Gibbons, they're apes, they walk. They don't, I've never seen them on all fours.
They walk very much. They walk upright. Yep. All the time. Yep. All the time. I've not seen them,
but it's been a while. It looks like a sloth kind of. Yeah. You know, that one is having a baby there,
right? He's got a baby like hanging on to him. Yeah. Wow. So, you know, they live very much
like a family, a typical Gibbon family if you observe them. And I spend a lot of time with them.
Very much like mom, dad, two kids. That's their family. Really? Mom, dad, two kids. Yep.
And you don't typically have more than two kids? They don't. And they don't have like large families
either. They're like a small nuclear family. And if the mother dies or if the father dies,
they'll find a replacement and they'll keep that for member family intact. That's the only reason.
For example, the male never has like multiple females in the family, which is very common among
other primates. Yeah. Like a gorilla. I would imagine that's common. But the Gibbons don't do
that. The Gibbons are very much like the humans in a way. One wife. Yeah. Like almost a modern
monogamous society. But since I spent a lot of time with them. Maybe that's why he's frowning.
He's just unhappy.
But since I spent a lot of time with them, I realized how similar they are
to humans, right? Because we got the teenager Gibbons too.
Right. And we got single bombs there too. Something like that.
Placing a little bit closer to you. Yeah. Closer. Yeah. That's good. Right there.
So, so what they do and the Gibbons, the teenager Gibbons do something very odd.
They wait for the, there are lots of cows in India. And when the a cow's poop, right,
it's called a cow pie or a cow dung. It's found all over. You'll have mushrooms growing on them.
When these cow pies dry, they have mushrooms growing on them. And these are magic mushrooms.
And these Gibbons, especially the teenagers, they've figured out
that they can eat those mushrooms and they can expand their...
Really? Yeah. This is something they do regularly? Yeah. Whoa. They're literally,
they're getting high and they're using the psychedelic mushrooms and they come down
from the tree. That's a stock image. Just type in like Gibbon, the Gibbon monkey's psychedelic
mushrooms. Gibbon is the type of monkey, not the mushroom. I don't think you'll find it anywhere.
I don't think it'll find us anywhere. There's nothing. I'm not searching. I'm only telling
you from my personal experience of watching Gibbons do that. Oh, there's a Gibbon mushroom I see.
It's funny. Yep. So I guess I think I'm taking you like on a roller coaster here. So I'm thinking that
50,000 years from now, the Gibbons or the group of Gibbons that are eating the mushrooms
they're going to be on another level than the other apes that are not eating the mushrooms. You
understand that? Yeah. They're evolving. I think they have, there are some Gibbons that have figured
this out and I watch them because they only come down from the tree when they find a dried
cow pie with mushrooms on them and they feed only on the mushrooms and they go back and they kind of
like they're just gone for a couple of days. Do you know what I'm saying? So they're basically kind of
expanding their consciousness. Do you think the Gibbons are already more evolved than other primates?
Like they seem, I mean you said they walk on two legs, they walk upright, right? So
do you think it's possible they already are more along the line, along the evolutionary scale than
other primates? No, but similar to like a gorilla or a champ. So this is like the stoned apypothesis
happening in real time. So the Gibbons do this and look, I mean is this what we did?
Is this how we evolved? Like what was the catalyst, right? Right. That's the big question.
Yeah, that propelled us. Was it the magic mushrooms that grew on the cow pies? Is that,
you know, is that the relationship between like humans and cows?
Look, I mean think about it, right? You see what I'm getting at? How did religion,
how did you follow, how did you create a religion like Hinduism? What would happen
if you took a magic mushroom? Would you see the gods? Yeah, I think so. So the mushrooms
were the origin of Hinduism. Oh wow. And that would have started from the cow. If I'm a Gibbon,
right? If I'm an ape, I would basically protect the cows because without the cows, I can't have the
mushrooms. Do you think that drugs and psychedelics are responsible for some of these ancient myths?
Certainly some, right? So look, we still argue, even people like Graham Hancock, they're still
arguing that you have to be able to take some psychedelic stuff to expand your consciousness,
it just expands the horizons. In some cultures, like in South American cultures, like when you take
stuff like ayahuasca, you're literally talking to the gods. Yeah, seeing the universe. Yes,
and it's not made in a lab, it's made from, you know, natural stuff, like mushrooms and plants,
right? Yeah, no. And it even goes back to that description in the Bhagavad Gita where Indra
gives the, she opens up his eye, what's his name again? The guy that she's showing,
she's having the conversation with, he doesn't want to go to battle and kill his cousins and his
uncle. Indra and I forget. You mean Krishna and Arjuna? Krishna, that's not something I'm talking
about, Krishna. Yeah, Krishna and Arjuna and she shows him the cosmos and she shows him
everything and he starts having these visions and it says that he, she puts something in his
eyes so his eyes are no longer mortal. And I was telling you about the meeting in ancient Greek
for Christ, for Christos, Creole is the root word in Greek for applying a drug to your eyes
and that's really telling that she did something to his eyes to make him see,
have those visions. Yes, so many parallels. Look, I mean, some people argue that
humans used to be more conscious, you know, before they got their pineal gland classified
and all these like modern, the stuff that we're eating today, it's. It's garbage.
Yes, garbage. Yeah. So you can't have the same consciousness that they had a hundred years ago
and some are saying that, you know, things like these mushrooms and these herbs and Ayahuasca
is the only way that you can get that kind of consciousness back.
So you think things like psychedelics and mushrooms in Ayahuasca, these sort of,
these psychotropic drugs from nature were more ubiquitous back then and it was just
used regularly and that's kind of what was enabling these civilizations to have,
to create some of these structures, maybe, and to develop these stories and have these ideas of gods.
That's possible. That's possible. I always wonder if we believe in evolution, right? If you believe
in creation, it's very simple. You don't need all these theories. But if we believe in evolution
and if we say we, we were just gibbons 200,000 years ago, that's what we're talking about.
What made the gibbons turn into like Danny and Praveen 100,000 years later? Was it what they
should have been something, right? It must have been definitely their diet would have played
a key role in evolution, right? So what are they taking? Yeah, but do you think it was a linear
timeline? Do you think it was a linear timeline of evolution? Do you think they started out as
gibbons 200,000 years ago and then were the pinnacle of our species? No, I don't think so.
What is this, Steve? The Indus script? What was the Indus Valley script?
Indus Valley script? Was that something that was carved into one of those temples we were
looking at earlier? Kailasa temple? Was that in the Kailasa? Yeah, that's a different script.
Indus Valley script cannot be carved into Kailasa, but... Oh, okay. When was the Indus Valley script
carved? This is in Indus Valley. This is in Pakistan now. In Pakistan, okay. This is much
older. Indus Valley is much, much older. We're talking about at least 4,500 years old. You know,
the Indus Valley is a very mysterious finding, man. I don't know many people. We know the temples
have always been there, right? So the ancient temples are there and stuff like that. But
100 years ago, right, they just tried to excavate a place and they thought it was a simple structure
and they found a huge civilization buried underneath. That's called the Indus Valley.
There are two sites, Mohenja Doral and Harappa. We have other sites too, like Lothal. But there
are two major sites. Harappa is one of them and the other one is Mohenja Doral. Now, both of them
are now in Pakistan. But if you look at the pictures, if you look at the second picture there,
it's like a huge city. Right.
Wow. And this is supposed to be from 4,500 years ago?
Yeah, at least 4,500 years. Some say it's much, much older. The dates vary a little bit.
Yeah. But yeah, it's a very advanced civilization. You know, the main street, the main road
in Mohenja Doral is 35 feet wide.
Okay. 35 feet wide.
Yeah, 35 feet wide. That's the main road in Mohenja Doral, right? So the question is,
what were they using, right? You don't need that kind of a road just for walking.
Right, right. Yeah, giant machinery maybe.
You would have needed some. I mean, you don't, if you're a small village, even if you're a big
village, you don't need a road. Oh, Mohenja Doral.
Mohenja. Yeah, there you go. Now go back, go back.
There, yeah, yeah. There we go.
There we go. Okay.
Yep. You see that. Well, look at that aerial view, man.
Yeah, yeah. You see that structure and the streets, man. The streets where it looked
like a grid system, right? Going from north. Down below, Steve, below that.
North to south or east to west. Very advanced. Right there on the right.
Oh, wow. Okay. Oh, wow.
Yep. That's enormous. Yeah.
Yeah, man. It's such a fascinating thing. We have all these crazy old cities and structures
and monuments and monoliths, but we have no tools. We have no, there's no sawblades.
There's no toasters in the desert. There's no metal. It's just a giant mystery that
we're drawn to. Yeah. Yeah. The Indus Valley civilization.
You know, the funny part is this is a big site, right? You can see how complex it is.
Yeah. They had no historical evidence of that. There's no text. It was not mentioned in any books.
Really? It was found as an accident. They found it by accident, right? They were not searching
for this. Nobody knew this existed, right? So they found it. They thought the, you see that
big structure over there on the top? It looks like a dome. They thought it was a Buddhist Tupa.
So they tried to excavate it and they realized it's a big city.
No. So that's where it started. They kept digging. They found all that.
Yeah. A Buddhist monk took, I think it was a Buddhist guy and they said, look, here's an old
Buddhist Tupa. And then they found a flint scraper. Do you know what that is? Like a small little
flintstone to scrape the skin of animals. It's called a flint scraper in archeology. So he found
a flint scraper and then he said, oh, wow, this must be a very ancient site. So he excavated this.
And then they found, they don't even know the real name of that place. Okay. There's no text to
corroborate this place. Not from outside. We found the script inside. But if you had like,
how do we know like Rome was really great? Because everybody wrote about this, right?
Everybody wrote about Rome. Others wrote about Rome. We have Greeks talking about Egypt, right?
But so when a great civilization like this existed, others should have written about this,
but there's no evidence from outside. So people were not searching for the Indus Valley and they
found it by accident, actually. And what was the funny story I was gonna, and you know what,
they don't know the name of this place either, right? They don't know the original name of
Mohenjidaro. So you know what Mohenjidaro means? That's just a name given by the locals.
No, what does it mean? It means the,
it means the mounds of the dead. Mounds of the dead, huh? Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Why did the locals call it
that? They thought it was tombs? No, they, were they find dead bodies in this? Crazy story, man.
This is too much of a conspiracy theory. Any, it's a conspiracy theory. Oh god, now I need it.
I need you to inject that into my veins. They didn't find any organic material buried in there
with all that stuff. They found skeletons. They found skeletons from how, from the same age,
from five thousands of years. The dating is very hard because now the Pakistani government has
to date it. Yeah. Tell me that conspiracy about the dead, the dead, what'd you call it?
Mound of the dead. Mound of the dead. Yeah. So,
I should tell you this, huh? You should tell me this. Okay. So, so according to ancient texts,
um, uh, Rama, Lord Rama, this is, this is in a text called Ramayana. Okay. Lord, Lord Rama,
kind of initiates a weapon. This was a, uh, almost a nuclear weapon. Okay. And he has initiated this
and then they, uh, they decide that, you know, they want to, um,
they don't want it, uh, nuking a city, right? So they put it in a place called Dhru Matulia,
right? And the, these places, Mohenjo Daro and Harappa are found in those places
that's mentioned in ancient texts. Okay. So what did they find in these sites in the,
in the Indus Valley civilization? They found very high levels of radiation.
Really? Yeah. They found very high levels of radiation. They also found that, uh, these,
the rocks were vitrified. They thought they found glass at first, but the rocks had turned
into almost like glass. It's called vitrification of rock. Okay. And that only happens
when you put it through extremely high temperatures at a very rapid pace. You have to,
you have to push it to very high temperature in a very quick time span. If you do that,
then the rocks will turn into glass. Okay. It's called vitrification of, of, of stone.
Uh, and they found skeletons, uh, in a weird, um, situation or something like that. So
some are saying, I think there was a, there was one guy who wrote here. Yeah, here in Indus Valley
and Mohenjo Daro specifically. I've heard of this. I actually thought, I think I saw something
about this recently. Yes. So they're saying that there was an ancient nuclear bomb that went off
in Mohenjo Daro. Type in skeletons after Mohenjo Daro.
Wow. Look at that pit of them. Yeah.
And there's one laying there in the middle just by itself. So the theory is, oh my God,
that's fucking crazy. It looks like a parent with kids. Yeah. Yeah, there's, well, something,
um, um, I think this book details that these are not burials, right? You're not going to
bury three people like this. It was like a massacre. Yes. This happened instantly, like
when a bomb exploded in this. Type in massacre instead of skeletons.
There you go.
Okay. There's a set of stairs with the skeletons just laying right on the stairs.
Yeah. So the, these clearly aren't burials. People just happened to die here. Wow. So something
happened that incinerated the face of the earth right here because they found the vitrified glass.
Yeah. So the guy who wrote the book, he talked about the skeletons and how you can see that
these are not buried, right? These are just, you don't bury people on stairs. So it happened there
and they found very high levels of radiation and they found vitrification of stone. And you can
also find those evidence in ancient Indian texts. So they're saying that there was an atom bomb
that went off thousands of years ago in Mohenjo Daro. And that's, and they're saying that explains
why we never hear about the Indus Valley civilization, you know, why it was just not there.
Couldn't it have been something else like a cosmic impact or something or a solar flare or
something that came in just like? Could be. Could be. I'm not saying this is exactly what happened,
but I'm saying, is this what it is? Something definitely happened. I mean, it's clear something
happened. Yeah. But I mean, what are the chances of them having an atomic bomb? Yeah. What,
4,000 years ago? Yeah. They're talking about 5,000 years ago in Mahabharata. There's no writings
about ancient atom bombs. There is. So it's called the Brahmastra. That's the most common weapon
that most people in India know about. It's called the Brahmastra. Brahmastra. Brahmastra.
Brahmastra. Yeah. Okay. So, so, so you typically deploy the Brahmastra, it just destroys,
destroys the entire city. It just completely destroys the whole city. There's a, and, and they
explain how the devastation looks, right? They talk about how high the temperature
goes, how it looked like a sun when the, when the explosion happened, how all the vegetation was
completely wiped off and there were no plants or trees growing for the next 12 to 25 years.
They talked about how the people were all killed immediately. They talk about how the future
generations had diseases. It's very similar. Oh my God. And then I just remember that Oppenheimer's
quote came from the Bhagavad Gita, right? Destroyer, I am the, I am become death. Yes.
He said that. So he knew about this. Well, some people say that. Well, we don't, it would be
quite a coincidence if Oppenheimer just randomly quoted. Right. Bhagavad Gita is a part of that
text Mahabharata. Right. Right. Out of all the sites that you've explored, have you found anything
that is quite as precise as something like these granite vases that are perfectly symmetrical
and that are made out of a stone that hard, whether it be, I don't know if it's an artifact or if it's
a stone or a pillar or anything like that. That looks like it was created on a lathe.
Yeah. So in 2016, I went to a temple called Hoisale Sora Temple. This is in India.
This temple is approximately 800 years old. It could be much older. And you see the pillars there,
these pillars weigh in tons. Okay. Easily 10, 10 tons, 20 tons. And the pillars are definitely
made using lathe machines. There's no way to create that. If you type in Hoisale Sora Temple
pillars, yeah. If you, yeah, there is no way. Oh my God. You can create that pillar. No way. Yeah.
And if you zoom in, you can see the turn marks, man. You can literally, when you, when you use a lathe
lathe and you have to see these little marks, you can see those circular marks on the face.
Okay. Yeah. If you just punch in really far, you can see it. You can see the marks. And this,
this only happens if you use a lathe machine. You have to have a rotating mechanism
to create these pillars. Okay. There's no way to do it. No, no other way to do it. No. Are they
all identical to each other? No. They're all different. Some are identical, but a lot of
different varieties are there. Some are going to look like complex gears. They're going to do,
and you know, this is the fun part about those. This is probably one of the only few instances
where archeologists agree that, yes, we need a lathe machine to create them. Yes. And they also
agree that they are how old? More than 800 years old. More than 800 years old before we had the
wheel, right? Yep. So they, so they agree because they know that, see, look, it says
lathe turned. Do we have the wheel? We had the wheel 800 years ago, right? Yeah. So, so now
they've got these pullers which weigh in tons, right? And they,
they have these pullers which weigh in tons, but they also have to accept that these are lathe
turned pullers. So now they have a complex system thinking that how is that even possible, right?
How do we explain this using conventional history and archeology? So they thinking that
they had these huge like pottery wheels kind of stuff, right? And they mounted the pullers,
and they had horses running around. That's what they think. Yeah. Because how else do we explain
this, right? If you, if you open that window saying that, yes, we had machines, that's,
you know, that's Pandora's box. You can't close that box after you open it.
So what, what do you think they could have used to carve that? Oh, they definitely use machines.
They, they would have used advanced machines. If you go to, if you go to Hoysales for a puller,
and you, if you type in planetary gears, planetary gears.
Oh, that might be, okay. One below, one below. Right there, yeah.
You can see that's the type of device they were using. They were using planetary gears. If you,
if you Google planetary gears, you can have multiple gears. Right. It's like a transmission. Yep.
Without this technology, I mean,
There you go. It'll take a small. So we're, we're each one is, has half the number of
teeth at the, at the bigger one. Yeah, this is a very similar technology was used to create the
coral castle in Florida. Have you been there? I have not, but I've always wanted to go there.
Yeah, I wrote a book about this, man. I wrote a book about coral castle. Did you really?
It's very well received. It's one of the best rated books about coral castle.
How long, how long ago did you go there? Maybe nine years ago. What's the book called?
Coral Castle. Everything you know is wrong. Really? Okay. We got to go, we got to,
you brought it up. Now we got to go down this rabbit hole. Okay. But I want to,
I want to put a pin in this because I want to come back to this. Okay. So
Coral Castle is in South Florida. And for my, I'll just give you my rudimentary understanding
of coral castle. It's giant, megalithic coral, right? Coral structures that some guy. Edward
Leedskellen. Edward Leedskellen. Leedskellen. Magically use some kind of technology to lift
these pillars and stack them on top of each other and create this castle structure.
And what is the conventional understanding of how he did this? Does he explain how he did it?
Well, he kept it a secret. He kept it a secret. Yeah. Did you ever meet him?
No, he died. How long ago? A long time ago. Oh, really? Yeah. The important point about this
is that he bolted just by himself. He took no help. That's what he says. Do we have,
could he be full of shit? No, I believe him. You believe him? He never allowed anybody to touch
anything in the castle. He bolted by himself.
Okay. Yeah. And what is your theory on how he did this? You can build it. You can build it
by yourself if you understand a little bit of mechanical engineering and civil engineering.
You can build it. It would be hard to do, right? But you can build it. But there is,
if you Google Edward Leeds-Helen chains, you'll find pictures of how he used these gear systems.
This is called reduction gear. You can lift any heavy weight using reduction gears.
You can just, you have to just keep putting these gears in, and then you can,
yeah, there you go. And you can see the third picture there. He's literally, yeah,
he used a structure like this to raise the stone blocks. With chains. Yeah, with chains. Oh,
interesting. Yeah. There's a video on, we've brought it up before. There's a video of some guy
moving like giant granite stones by himself. He's using like balancing. I forget exactly how
he's doing it. Yes. If you understand fulcrum, if you understand balancing, if you understand
reduction gears, you can do it. Again, I'm not saying, look, I mean, here's the thing that I'm
saying. I'm not saying that it's impossible to create even those pillars in Hoysalisura Temple.
But that doesn't mean that's how they created it. You know what I'm saying? You still don't think
that's how they did it. I don't know. Yeah, look at this. That's crazy. Yeah. This isn't the video
I was thinking of though, but this is also pretty cool. It's the guy. It's the same guy. It's the
same guy. Look at that. This giant concrete block just rolls across this thing. Yeah,
it's fantastic, isn't it? Yeah. He will take this column and stuff it in the ground in one of the
videos. He's got a whole bunch of them. Look at that, man. That's how they did it. I think that's
how, maybe that's how they built the pyramids. Yeah, if you really understand all, and the funny part
is things like Easter Island statues. Yeah. Have you seen the Easter statues walking?
Walking? If you type in Easter Island statue walking.
Okay. Oh, yeah. I've watched this. Yeah, I've watched this.
It's one of the theories that, look, I mean, it's not that hard to move.
Right. No, yeah, you can figure it out, man. It's physics.
Yeah. It's not hard to move a five ton statue. This is one of the things. But now, look, I mean,
here's the thing, right? Just because you can move a statue like this, we don't know if this is the
technique they use. Right. It's one thing to argue that that's possible. Right? And it's a classic
case, right? So it's a classic case that, oh, you know, I ran over this guy by accident. Could you,
you could run over this guy, right? Using a car. You could hit him with a car by accident. But
we want to make sure that that's what really happened. Right. Right. We don't know that.
It's just one of the techniques. Yes. Right. We have to keep that in mind, right? So because we're
so, we can jump to conclusions really easily, right? So when I put a theory saying that,
oh, we can build up, there was a complex machine, like high tech CNC computerized machine.
That's an opinion, right? It wasn't built with horses and elephants. And they were just running
around creating these leg pillars. That's also an opinion. I think we have to understand that.
Yeah. Right. But we don't exactly know how they did it, unless we find real evidence of that. And
to kind of walk on that tight rope is very hard. Right. To have an open mind about this,
saying that we know something happened there. Right. But we don't know. But to me,
look, how many pillars are there? A ton. Yeah. Dozens, right? Yeah. And this is not the
one. You'll easily find a hundred pillars in the temple. And this is not the only temple
that has these pillars either. There are lots of temples in that area, which are all
lathe machined pillars. Lots. We're talking about more than like a few thousand lathe turned pillars.
Okay. So what does it tell you? That means it must have been like mass manufacturing facility.
Right. Right. It must have been like factories, like megalithy factories, where people are just
carrying stones, put it in a lathe machine, create a pillar, out the door. Why don't you think we have
any evidence of any lathe though? Because reason would tell you that there would have to be a lathe
somewhere. Right. Maybe. We haven't found it, I think. There are a few curies. One is that,
look, when we, when I talked about ancient technology just 10 years ago, right, in 2013,
14, people were just like completely, like they thought it was nonsense. You know, they wouldn't
even consider that. That there was such a thing called ancient technology in India. They just
dismissed it. They're like, this is nonsense. But when I started to put out, like, okay, this
is a lathe machine puller. The other gear that I showed you, again, that is also from my videos,
the planetary gears, sundials, which are accurate. When we start to, it can be the only guy who found
all this stuff, right? That must have existed long time ago. But we're not just not documenting these
things, right? You know, and I think these lathe machines would be there somewhere.
I did, did like, I think I probably found one put, put a lathe machine, Humpy.
Humpy? Humpy up. H-U-M-P-Y? He's thinking of some other Humpy man. Humpty Dumpty. H-A-H-A-H-A.
Humpy? No, no, no. H-A-M-P-I. H-A-M-P-I. Okay. There you go. If you see that.
That thingy? You can look at the pictures. Tell me what you see.
That's me, by the way. That's you? Oh, wow. Oh, the bottom left. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so you know.
That's this. Okay, look at that. You see that? Yeah, it's a wheel. It's a wheel with a fitting
in the middle of it for a rod or something. Something to turn it, right? Oh, look at those lines.
It would be easy to just trace those lines, and if they don't break, then you know it's a lathe.
Yeah, and again, if you go back to that entire setup, right, on the left and right,
you see those pillars? Yes. And you see the holes? Yep. And if you go to almost the end of the video,
you can, no, not that much. I kind of try to recreate that on maybe the one which has the,
no, no, go back where you can see that recreated model.
Oh, is it this? Yeah. I tried to recreate this. Oh, wow, look at that, man.
This is a vertical, it's like a, it's a lathe machine. So this is a, okay, this would be how
they would have done it. Yeah. So you just rotate the block underneath. Right. And you put a thing
on top, and then you can create the same thing. Wow. Yep. So we do have some evidence, right?
Yeah, yeah. Look, I mean, I found this, the entire setup, right? Just lying in the dirt.
That is hilarious. Oh my gosh. So this thing would have been like a, like a, a drill. Yeah,
it's like an ancient kind of lathe setup, right? It's still there. You can still go to Hampi and
you can still see it. So you, when you're, when you're asking like, where's all the lathe machine?
Yeah, there's, there's some remnants of it. Right, right. Because the metal would not have
survived that long, right? The stone definitely would have. And they, you, it's, that's, that's
incredible, man. Yeah. So we can see some of those, right? I'm showing you what happened
when I recreated this a long, long time ago. But yeah, we do have evidences of these, you know,
we do have evidences of these lathe machines as well. It's not like the tools are like magically
gone. Right? They, you know, so you will still have evidence of the lathe machine itself.
Yeah. That's the first time I've ever seen anything like that. I didn't know that existed.
Is there anything else that exists like that anywhere else in the world that you're aware of?
Or is that the only one? Yeah, I can't think of the top of my head.
Yeah. What do you make about, I don't know if you've heard, there's some theories out there
about using chemicals to soften stones and to, to carve them better. I actually had a guy on
here a couple of weeks ago and got Jeffrey Drum. Okay. He has a channel called Landed Chem. And
he has a theory on how the ancient pyramids were basically chemical manufacturing plants.
And they could have used acids and chemicals, for example, to create some of those granite boxes
and the syrapium and stuff and like use, like, use these acids to be able to scoop out, create
scoop marks in stones. What do you make of, what do you make of that idea? Have you ever thought
about the uses of chemicals and stuff like that? It's popular theory in India. Right. Right. That's
what I'm saying. I think it, I think it translates very well to some of the things that you've
discovered and some of the things you made videos about. In India, many people believe
that they used herbs to soften stones. And sometimes they used sounds to soften stones.
Sounds. Yeah. So one theory is that, you know, about those oxalic acids, it's, it's an acid
found in all plants. Okay. How do you say it? Oxalic. Oxalic acids. Oxalic acids found in all
plants. And in you, and a lot of times we think that, yeah, granite is very hard, right? These rocks
are very hard. These temples, how did they cut these rocks? Very tough. But you know what breaks
these temples? A simple seed, man. A simple seed dropped by a bird. And that seed will completely
break a 10 ton stone block. How so? It just grows. If you, so in, in temples, I went to a
temple called top prom. This is a Hindu temple in Cambodia. And if you, if you search the temple,
that entire temple is destroyed by plants. No shit. This thing got giant trees growing
on top of these rocks, right? These, these rocks are everywhere. Oh, wow. Look at that, man.
Right. Yeah. Nature's just taking it over. Yeah. And you, you, you will be surprised. You people
think that, oh, yeah, they're like, these rocks are indestructible, right? Only humans, humans
try to destroy them, but they can't. But you know, it's a simple, like the plants
completely take over, right? Yeah. Yeah. So why, right? Because there is a substance called
oxalic acid in these plants. In the, in these trees that are growing, you're saying? Yeah.
But what is the oxalic acid doing though? Like I, like the trees are growing and breaking it,
but what, how does the acid? Yeah. Well, so, so you can see that the, that the trees
can destroy the rocks, right? It's even the simple plants. A very small seed can go through and start
to put the roots inside, right? And this is the principle on which some beliefs exist in India,
saying that they used herbs from these plants to soften the stones. Okay.
They, they take the herbs and they make that into a paste. And when they put the paste on
top of the stone, the stone becomes very soft. And that's how they cut a lot of these stones.
They tried that? No. No, I don't, I mean, I would find that, I think that's pretty hard to do,
right? We don't know. Like the thing is, maybe we'll magically discover what herb they're talking
about, right? At this point, if they don't tell us the name of the plant, what they're doing,
like what's the composition, we can't recreate that. We can't recreate that paste.
Do you see any similar marks in stones in India, like those scoop marks that you see on
some of those obelisks in Egypt? Yeah. Really? Yeah. There's a place called, this is in Sri Lanka.
There's a place called Sigriya in Sri Lanka. If you ever go to Sri Lanka, don't miss that place,
because it's like, it's unexplainable. Sigriya is an unexplainable, yeah. Holy
shit. That's cool, man. What? Okay. You gotta go again. Okay. How do you explain this one?
Holy smoke. How do you even get up there? You're gonna get in a helicopter?
They have stairs now. Okay. Or an elevator or something? You have stairs now, you know,
but we don't know how they did it back. Was that your phone, Steve? Yeah. Put that bitch on silent.
But yeah, this is, yeah, this is the, I mean, I was there in 2017 or 18. I was researching the site
and I found scoop marks there. It's... Really? Yep. You have a whole video on this place?
I have multiple videos about Sigriya. And if you put Sigriya's scoop mark, I'm sure probably somebody
took a screenshot and posted on their website or something. From your video? Yeah. Probably not.
That's good. Type it on YouTube. We'll find his video. I need to see the footage of this.
Well, does it say scoop mark in the video? Yeah. All right, cool. Sigriya scoop mark. Sigriya scoop
bolt. No, second one. Yeah, that one. There we go. Yep. And if you see, probably the chappers would say
scoop marks. It's got so many mysteries, man. Yeah, there. Wow, man. You see that scoop mark, man?
Hmm. It's like somebody, like this is like an ice cream scoop. Right, right.
Ice cream scoop. So wait, so, so, so what is the conventional understanding of this place?
Oh, they're saying that there was, there you go. Look at you.
So they're saying that, oh, there was a king who wanted to, he was put on exile and he wanted
to create a safe fortress. Oh, it was like a prison for him. Yeah, he built it. So he wanted to
protect himself and stuff like that. According to mythology and other Hindus, they say this was
created by a demon king, Ravana. You'll find lots, I mean, obviously the first look itself tells you
that, you know, this place is insane. Yeah. It's on top of a giant rock surrounded by a jungle.
Right. And you find a lot of evidence of very advanced tech. Like there's a lot of
stone cutting technologies. It's very good. And even today, if you're walking up, it's very hard to
get there. Even today with all the modern stairs, all that stuff, it's very, very
sort of really inexplicable stuff there.
I mean, how, what do they hang from ropes to carve that? This is nuts. Look, little ladders.
So this, so this big structure, this was just natural?
Well, some of them are saying it's natural, but maybe it was artificially created as like a
landing pad or something like that, or like launching space or, you know, something like that.
This whole place is very odd.
How do you think they were able to get up there?
Technology.
What'd you say? Flying machines.
Flying machines. Oh, you're full on. You're full on buying the, buying into it.
You think that you think the aliens were running around?
Where's the stairs? That's my question. How would you get up there?
Well, if there were stairs, like, look at our stairs. Our stairs are metal.
You know, the metal wouldn't survive for thousands of years.
Maybe they had some sort of wooden stairs back then.
Yeah, but is there, is the whole side of this thing look like it looks, look like it was
worked? Or is the side of it, does the side of it look natural?
It looks like this, just like what you see. There are holes there.
There are like little ladders there, like almost like for squirrels.
It looks like this. Okay. Okay. So it doesn't, well.
It looks like this. So I try to show. It looks natural.
Yeah, it looks natural.
Look, if you're going to build a giant structure made of other stones
and bricks on top, right? Might as well build stone stairs
from the bottom, right? Why would you?
Yeah, totally. Yeah, you would build stone stairs because there's stone stairs on top of it,
right? Yeah. And in Sigiriya, you know, those UNESCO World Heritage site is a fantastic site
in Sri Lanka. I didn't get, we only spent a few weeks in Sri Lanka because Sri Lanka is full
of these amazing structures. They combined natural things with artificial things,
like beautifully, like is this natural or artificial? What do you think?
I don't know. It looks, it looks kind of like it was worked by humans.
Yeah, keep playing. It gets confused, but now that looks, that looks like
scoot marks. There you go. That's definitely scoot marks.
Yeah. A lot of times you'll look at a structure in Sri Lanka and think it's natural, but
when you look hard, you start to think that, oh, maybe they, they worked on it.
It's very interesting that the stone marks are very interesting
because you can see cuts there. Yep. Yep.
Look at those scoot marks, man. Wow, it's just like the shit in Egypt.
Yeah. The same technology is being used here. Definitely.
But why on the, on the face of a, on the face of a giant rock? Like, why would they do that?
Right? But what were they doing? I mean, what is your theory, right?
Like, they're just hanging from ropes and kind of scooping the-
No, no, there's no way. There's no way they're doing that. No, absolutely not.
Yeah. It has to be something so,
I don't know if advanced is the right word.
Maybe advanced too, but it has to be something that was developed on a completely different
timeline than we develop things, right? It has to be a completely, maybe not advanced
technology, but maybe a completely separate technology, not something that we're used
to involving electricity or combustion. Is that a giant claw, bird claw or something?
Yeah. Whoa. That's a giant reptilian claw, man.
A reptilian claw. That's right. How does it look like to you?
Yeah, it looks like, it does look like a lizard's claw. It looks like a Komodo dragon's foot.
But the question is, I mean, I agree with you. It has to be a completely different
type of technology, but the question is why, right? Why make those scoop marks
like on the face of the giant rock? I mean, what could be the purpose of it?
It is bizarre. What is the obsession with reptilians in India? There's a lot of people
worshiping reptiles there, huh? Yeah. We worship gods like our gods are
snake-like reptilian gods. We worship Nagas. We worship Nagas, which are basically reptiles.
We have a lot of ancient texts talking about Nagas. Not only in India, by the way, the Nagas are
also called Sarpas. They're called Sarpa. Where does Nagas come from?
Basically a word that denotes reptile, like a snake, like serpentine. You understand what I'm
saying? It's called a Sarpa in India. It's called a Seraf in Israel. It's called a Serpent.
It's all coming from the same word in the Bible. It's all coming from the same word.
They're called the Sarpa, Seraf, Serpent. It's the same thing. The Nagas are basically a shape-shifting
reptilian set of gods. Believe it or not, they're considered the origin of human civilization
in countries like Cambodia. According to Cambodian history, there's not even
Cambodian mythology. You can literally study this history in the history books of Cambodia.
They're saying that their very first queen was Naga. A serpent woman. Yeah. Really? Yes.
And humans married with the Nagas. This is understood as a mythical religion to them?
We believe that it's a reptilian species. They believe it was real?
Yeah. I believe it. Or you believe it was ancient reptilian species?
Yeah. I believe the Nagas are like an ancient reptilian species that coexisted with humans.
Do we have any evidence that these people existed? What is the evidence that we have other than the
fact that there's these myths that are written about them and carvings and statues and stuff?
No. I don't think we would have archaeological evidence of that if that's what you think.
I mean like, yeah, no archaeological evidence. I don't think we'll ever,
maybe, but I don't think we'll find like skeletons of Nagas, right? If they found them.
How would you be able to tell? Would that be revealed to the public, like finding a giant
skeleton? If you went 100 years ago in the US, do you know how many newspaper clippings are there
that talk about giant skeletons found in the US? No. Oh, you don't know. How many?
Oh my god, thousands. Really? Yep, newspaper clippings of giant skeletons found in the US.
We got thousands. And why? You're saying that it was hidden?
Yeah. Yeah. There are books written about those. If you just Google newspaper clippings,
you can still find, I've posted a few. We can find thousands. You know, Google used to have,
you can just go to images problem. Go to images. You probably found, find a lot. There you go.
These are all real newspaper clippings. These are not doctor. These are real newspaper clippings.
And these are so giant human-like skeletons were found up close, as recent as 100 years ago?
When giants run, okay. Yeah, the newspaper clippings are like 100 years old.
Oh, okay. So you could, if you typically look at like newspapers published 100 years ago,
they're always publishing, oh, we found giant skeletons when they excavated this mound,
right? All over. We're not talking about one state. We're not talking about one
newspaper company. We're saying this is, yeah, look at that.
1919, 18 feet tall, Austin, Texas, you can, you'll find them, you'll find them in Florida,
you'll find them in California, you'll find them everywhere.
Right? But where are they now? Why, why are they not found?
Right. Yeah. Why, why, why do you think, why do you think it's not talked about now?
What do you think will happen if they do talk about it?
Yeah, that's a good question. Why, why would it?
If you're an archaeologist and you do find a giant skeleton, right, 10 feet tall,
would you tell this to the world? Hell yeah, I would.
You wouldn't, you would be out of that archaeology degree and your position in a week.
If you do talk. If I came out and I made the world
aware of a, of a 16 foot tall skeleton. You would become the next Edward Snowden.
You'd have to run out. You'd become the next Julian Assange.
At least you'd become the next Graham Hancock, right?
They would ostracize you, man. If you come out like that, if you find the evidence
of a 10 foot tall giant, and if you do tell the public, you are going to be kicked out of your
archaeological job and your degree, and you would be called a pseudoscientist and a conspiracy
theorist, and you'd be ostracized. That's what's going to happen to you if you do that, right?
Look, what do people say? Let's say you did spot a UFO, right? Right? And if you do,
let's say you even took a video of this, and if you come out and say, I spotted a UFO,
this is the evidence, 50% of the people are going to call you a liar.
Right, but 50% are also going to believe, I think probably maybe a little bit more nowadays.
Yes, but that's only because you're a regular guy, but what happens if you're a pilot flying
an airplane? You'd be kicked out of your job. You think? I would think.
Even the pilots that came out and talked about the UFOs, they didn't get fired.
Maybe, but see, there are... They got definitely questioned.
Yeah, look, I mean, look, there are instances, I forgot the name of that guy who came out and
he talked about giant skeletons, and he was an archaeologist, and that guy was called a liar
and he was fired. What year was that? I don't know. And what we're saying,
that thing's not really giant, that one that we just looked at, but you're saying that one said
there were 16-footers. That picture right there, that's nuts. That's Photoshop, right?
No, no, this is a real photo. This is a real photo.
1761. Yeah, but that could easily be. I mean, yeah, it means that tall.
That's gigantism. If you really want to know about the giant skeletons, you have to search giant
mound builders.
Sorry. Giant mound builder. Look at that, that's fake, right?
With the modern AI, you get it.
No, that was there, yeah, that was there even before.
This is the same photo.
That's in the medical museum, I think.
Yeah, no, I've never heard of this. I've definitely never heard of this.
There's an entire book written by Jim Vera and Hugh Newman. They talk about giants of
giant mound builders of America. Jim Vera, he's in Boston, Massachusetts. He talked about the
giant mound builders and he came on a TED Talk man. That TED Talk was banned.
No way. Yeah, it was banned. You know this.
Why would they ban it? It seems like it's a fun thing to talk about.
I don't understand how the deep state would be offended by giants or reptilians.
Well, maybe reptilians, because it's probably reptilians running the whole thing, right?
Well, that'd be a stretch, but I'm saying that.
Damn it.
Yeah, the giant thing is weird. What? Why?
Look at that. That's really interesting. What is it? What is it?
If you go to Wikipedia, giant skeletons before the US are a combination of hoaxes,
scams, fabrications, and the misidentifications of extinct megafauna.
Right? But now, if you go and if you say Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, giant skeletons, giant skeletons newspaper.
Newspaper. More than 10,000.
Probably deleted even off of YouTube. If you go to, yeah, there you go.
And the images are okay.
All right. Let's see what we got here. Relief. Relief Parley, not yet fixed.
Not that one. That's the wrong one.
It's not that one. Skeletons. There you go.
Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh PA2, petrified skeletons, one of a man of giant stature,
and other of a woman somewhat smaller were found in a cavern blasted out.
Click on that. Click on the two giant skeletons. That's probably me.
Yeah. There you go. Click on that. See, that result is even deleted from YouTube, man.
That's me, by the way. And look at that.
Wow. 10,000 years ago?
Look below. 49 skeletons found.
And look at the text below. That's a real newspaper clipping
that I took from Google Newspapers. There's a, you know, there used to be,
Google used to archive all the newspapers. I think it's gone now.
But that's a real newspaper clipping that says 49 skeletons found.
And you know who did the excavation? It was done by an archaeologist.
Really?
Yep. That's a real newspaper, man. If you, if people say, oh, this is,
this is a hoax or it's fabricated, they can go because I mentioned the date.
I mentioned the newspaper. They can go there.
And you can find this.
Yeah.
They sure are good at covering stuff up, man.
I mean, this is a theory, right? Unless you want to say, oh.
Is this video suppressed on YouTube?
I don't, I don't think so. I mean, usually my videos won't come up
if you, unless you search for them. But you can see this is like 49 skeletons.
That's a lot.
That's a state archaeologist, right? I show this and I say, oh, this is just GS Fisher.
What is the convent? What is the idea about the giant skeletons?
How do they tie into all this stuff?
Do you think, where do you think they came from?
Like what, what time do you think they came from?
If they were, if they're real, what's according to these newspapers that they are?
Do you think they lived?
Giants, they're just, just a subspecies of humans, I think.
Well, mentioned in the Bible is Nephilim.
Nephilim, yeah.
And Rafaim and other, you know those?
They're multiple.
Well, the Nephilim and the Anunnaki, I think they come from Sumerian tablets.
Rafaim mentioned in the Bible, I think.
And there's other, in Hindu texts also, they're mentioned.
And they're kind of their combination of humans and other species.
And they're giant.
And it was once believed, you know this, right?
This is the funny part.
You know who spoke about the giants building the mounds of America?
Abraham Lincoln.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Abraham Lincoln was as big a conspiracy theory as I am, man.
There you go.
The eyes of that species of extinct giants whose bones filled the mounds of America
have gazed on Niagara as ours do now.
Abraham Lincoln, 1848, okay?
Yeah.
So Abraham Lincoln believed the giants were real.
They were extinct species, subspecies of humans.
Yeah, he believed that the giants bolt the mounds of America, right?
No matter what Wikipedia tells you today, unless they want to say
Abraham Lincoln was trying to spread fake news, right?
Really conspiracy theorist.
That's exactly, that's a direct quote from Abraham Lincoln, right?
The eyes of that species of extinct giants whose bones filled the mounds of America.
It was common knowledge in the United States in the 1800s that there were burial mounds at
numerous sites containing the bones of giant humans.
Even Abraham Lincoln mentioned this in one of his speeches given at Niagara Falls.
Whoa.
Yeah, video deleted, huh?
Video deleted.
YouTube said, no, no, no.
We're not going to be talking about giants today.
YouTube, remember, this was coming out on Danny's podcast.
It's not on my channel.
Don't delete my channel.
Does YouTube give you a lot of shit?
You've had multiple channels, haven't you?
I do have multiple channels.
I do have a lot of videos deleted.
You had to start over.
Demonetize.
No, not that bad.
Okay.
Yeah.
Why, how bad is it?
Is it pretty bad?
Do you have to deal with it regularly?
It just demonetizes my stuff.
I've never had to deal with that with this topic, with ancient civilizations.
I don't know why, but you may have to cross.
Like when I was under a million subscribers, things were okay.
But once I reached that one million mark, YouTube started to kind of like, you know.
At a million subs, you started getting problems?
Demonetize your stuff?
Yeah, they did demonetize.
They removed a few videos.
I like to talk about everything, you know, like this, for example,
if I made a video about the giant mound builders and Abraham Lincoln,
that video could be deleted today.
Deleted?
Yeah, it could be deleted today.
It could be like, oh, this is fake news conspiracy theory.
You've had videos deleted.
If I posted it today, it would be deleted.
Like that video, why was it deleted?
Right?
He clicked on that video, right?
Right.
And that video is deleted.
Right, but we don't know that YouTube deleted it.
I'm saying like, how...
Oh, this video is private.
Oh, it's private, yeah.
Right, there you go.
It's unavailable.
But yeah, I've had my videos deleted sometimes.
About what was the reason?
One video I made about COVID that got deleted.
Okay, that's yeah, a lot of that shit happened.
Yeah, and then a lot of my videos were demonetized.
Like, all was a reason for that.
One was about violence.
The carvings were too violent, you know.
The carvings.
It was about stone carvings.
Yeah, there's like a god cutting another demon's head.
That was like too violent.
Oh, wow, it was deleted.
No, no, it was not demonetized.
Demonetized.
And then others were demonetized because of nudity,
because the carvings did not have...
Right.
Are you serious?
Yeah.
That's silly.
Yeah, that's silly.
We still do.
We still have several carvings videos that YouTube said,
no, these statues are...
They don't have clothes.
Right.
You could just say...
No, yeah, I know.
What am I gonna do?
I'm gonna like...
I'm gonna pixelate.
Right.
Just tell them, no, no, it's...
They have clothes on.
Those are grapes on the outside of their clothes.
And it's weird, man, because you can go to the Greek Museum at Athens.
None of the gods or none of the statues are wearing clothes,
you know, and it's fine, right?
And you'll have lots of...
Like hundreds of videos on YouTube about that.
There's no demonetization problems on them.
But I think with Indian temples and Hindu temples,
I think it's kind of a...
You know, YouTube is biased, to be honest with you.
YouTube, YouTube, things like we don't want that.
I think 99% of it is also robots doing it,
scanning shit and demonetizing stuff too, right?
And I think that it's just so much.
It's just so much stuff for them to be able to regulate,
and you have people that actually do have to look at it.
You know, how much do they really care?
They're probably like remote workers,
and they don't probably sit at YouTube.
They're probably just like,
okay, here's my 100 videos I have to review for demonetization today.
Let's see.
Like, do they really care that much?
No.
That's, yeah, that happens to me too.
Happening, but we do have people working for us,
and they'll bring their own bias.
Oh, really?
Yep, they'll bring their own bias to the table.
People who work for me, people who, like,
they look at the comments, they get to reply, ask me.
Oh, really?
On YouTube?
Yeah, on YouTube, yeah.
So it's kind of, yeah.
So it's kind of, so I understand the bias.
So a lot of times I think it's not like YouTube, YouTube.
It's just the people who work for YouTube, you know?
Sometimes they look at it,
and if this guy has no exposure to this,
he'd be like, oh no, we can't allow this stuff.
Right.
On YouTube.
Somebody who isn't aware of it, isn't educated on it, right?
Somebody who's in a completely different country,
or he has no exposure to Hindu religion,
he's going to be like, oh no, this is bad, right?
We can't allow that.
What the fuck?
Is that guy, is that guy having s**t with a donkey?
Yes, he is.
I think it's a horse, man.
They really love their animals.
That's not the donkey, is it?
I mean, it's small enough to be a donkey.
A horse would be way bigger, right?
Maybe, yeah.
And look at the woman behind.
She's like in shock.
She's like, no.
Yeah, this is in a temple called Kajarahu.
And then this temple.
Look at that guy.
Oh, wow.
Yep.
Yeah, he's sodomizing a donkey.
And look at this, this is some sort of Bakic orgy.
Yeah.
This is like a modern because this is like India's Caligula, huh?
What, when were these created?
Ancient times.
Like, are we talking like 300, 400 BC?
No, no, we're probably talking about 800 to 1200 years ago.
Yep.
Yep.
Listen, oh my goodness.
That's pretty graphic.
Wow, that's, yeah.
I think that's understandable.
Yeah, Steve, now you're going to have to go and censor all this out of the show
so we don't get demonetized.
Yep.
Never happened to you, right?
Oh yeah, it's happened to us a lot.
Yeah, yeah, we've learned it.
No, we recently had to do a podcast with a guy I was telling you about.
The guy who was the Greek, the Greek guy.
The guy who's a Greek classicist.
And he wrote all about ancient drug use in the classical era.
And then with the Romans and the Greeks using drugs for everything.
From, you know, because they didn't die from,
they didn't die from old age or heart disease.
They died from hand-to-hand combat plague and famine.
And they needed drugs to get through the day, essentially,
and to deal with everything.
It was all about drugs.
And he was also, you know, he was talking about this stuff
and he was talking about like all the human trafficking
that was happening back then.
And all that videos.
All of the orgies.
No, it's not gone, it's good.
We had to censor the living shit out of it though.
Because, you know, that was the nature of the episode
was all about this stuff.
So we had to literally make sure that they had no excuse to demonetize it.
So we censored every bad word.
We censored the word prostitution.
We censored shit, piss, damn, like all the, every bad,
everything you could classify as bad.
Even the medical descriptions like penis and...
Priapis, we censored priapism.
Yeah.
Just so they didn't have an excuse to demonetize it.
How did you fix that, man?
How do you...
There's got to be a way around this, you know?
They're...
I don't think there is, man.
Unless you got...
Unless you got a black male on somebody high up at YouTube.
I don't think there's a way to get around it, man.
It's difficult.
It's difficult.
You just got to be aware of it.
You got to be smart and...
And because that's...
That's shit.
It's real history, man.
The stuff that you're talking about and the stuff
that these other people are talking about,
these like showing images of these things
that were created hundreds and hundreds of years ago,
that's real.
And censoring, it's not doing anybody any good.
When you're demonetizing these videos,
you're stifling their reach.
They're not being seen by as many people anymore.
So to see our ideas to basically like try to understand
what's going on, right?
In ancient times, whether we talk about giants
or whether we talk about erotica
or whether we talk about like mushrooms
or anything like that,
we're just discussing trying to understand this.
There should be no censorship.
We're not...
You know?
Right, I totally agree.
Yeah, it's like a doctor looking at a patient's body.
You know, they're just trying to understand
what's going on, right?
Where it's not...
Can't be thought of as pornography, right?
It's just...
We're just trying to analyze the situation here.
Right.
Their primary concern is their advertisers, right?
Their primary concern is their...
At least what this is what they say is their advertisers
not wanting to spend money on things
that aren't brand friendly for them.
Yeah.
But it's also, you know,
then you have the Twitter files, right?
Where you have evidence of the FBI,
the CIA toiling and Twitter's regulation policies
and their content moderation people,
sending them emails, having meetings weekly.
So if that's happening at Twitter,
imagine what the hell is happening at YouTube.
Oh, and some people, man, I mean,
did you see what happened to Alex Jones?
With the lawsuit?
Yeah, he's declaring bankruptcy,
he's getting wiped out or everything.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, man, it's brutal.
And then there was...
What was that?
There was a recording of an FBI agent,
undercover recording of the FBI agent
talking about Alex Jones
and basically talking about how they took down Alex Jones.
Oh, was he?
Oh, yeah, oh, yeah.
This person went in like it was a date,
this guy, I guess they were gay,
but he went on a date with an FBI agent
and he was recording,
or maybe it was just a meeting,
maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm getting a little too crazy.
But they had a secret camera
and he was talking to him, the FBI agent,
talking about basically how they handle people.
And then we were talking,
he was talking about Alex Jones
and how they're basically gonna get rid of him
with the lawsuit and they're helping with the case somehow.
I forget the exact details,
but dude, it's scary, man.
It's scary how much control
and how much influence they have in the media for sure.
Yeah, and we tend to think that YouTube, Facebook,
all these platforms,
they're kind of at war with each other,
with Twitter, but what we see is Alex Jones.
I think he was just removed from all the platforms
on a particular day, it was just gone.
And then, you know this guy, David Ike?
Yeah, I know of him.
Same thing, it was just like one day,
there's no David Ike on YouTube.
You go to Facebook, he's not there,
go to Twitter, he's not there,
he's just like wiped off of the internet.
It has an effect where when you do it,
people just want to know why they did it.
So instead of letting the guy just keep a social media
and talk about the crazy wild shit he talks about,
reptiles running the world,
like if you have half of a brain,
you can make it some sort of an understanding
of what this guy's talking about
and if he's crazy or not, right?
It's not gonna be harmful to you.
You should be able to have a rational mind
and understand here's a guy talking about
some crazy wacky shit, have fun with it.
I mean, I haven't really gone that deep on David Ike.
I never went down the reptilian rabbit hole with David Ike.
What about Alex Jones, the rabbit hole of Alex Jones?
I've listened to a lot of what Alex Jones says.
He's definitely crazy, he's definitely done a lot of,
like I don't think what he did with,
I think what he said about the shooting,
the school shooting was wrong.
But I think he's been right about a lot of crazy shit, right?
Did you hear about what Carl Tuckerson said about Alex Jones?
He played a video of Alex Jones talking about 9-11.
Yeah, he predicted 9-11.
Yeah, yeah.
How is that even possible?
He's a prophet.
So he's not that crazy, you know what-
I think there's a very blurry line
between people who are very, very smart and very, very crazy.
I think both can exist, right?
The guy clearly is highly, and he's very intelligent.
He knows a lot.
He's obsessed and passionate about this stuff.
And at the same time, he's crazy.
He's still fucking crazy.
It doesn't mean he's wrong.
Just because he's crazy doesn't mean he's wrong.
He's definitely right about a lot of shit.
There's been an everlasting meme on the internet
that's been going for the last 10 years about Alex Jones,
about I think the term,
what's the difference between a conspiracy theory and the truth?
It's like six months or something.
That came from Alex Jones,
because there's been so many things that he said
that we thought were conspiracies that ended up being true.
Don't you agree?
I totally agree, absolutely.
And do I also think that Alex is also a little bit unhinged?
Yeah, I think he's a little bit crazy.
I think when you find out some of this stuff too,
that drives you crazy too.
What would be your rational explanation
as to why Alex Jones could actually say
they're going to take some planes and put it on the Twin Towers?
How do you think he predicted that?
Do I think he's tapped into the cosmic ether?
I don't think so.
But the guys, he knows a lot of shit.
I think he talks to a lot of smart people.
He talks to a lot of people, probably in intelligence.
He probably did back then.
I know there's families in intelligence.
I don't know.
I think he just knows a lot more than a lot of people do.
And he probably was able to connect some dots.
So if the 9-11 never happened, right?
If the Twin Towers are still there.
Would you watch the same video and think Alex Jones is just nuts?
No, no, we'll remember that.
If you did, if I played you that video, right?
Would you think he's just nuts?
It's just a conspiracy theory?
You'd probably think that.
No, I wouldn't think he was nuts.
I'd probably think the same way I think about it now.
You just said Alex Jones is crazy, man.
Yeah, he's definitely crazy.
Everyone's a little bit crazy.
He's self-admittedly crazy.
Would you be surprised if I told you David Ike
predicted the Russian-Ukrainian war?
He did.
Yeah.
He did, a long time ago.
What did he say specifically?
He's basically explaining the whole war,
like how Russian-Ukraine are going to go to war
and how the West is going to play its hand in it.
Talking about it, NATO, trying about NATO expanding.
Many years ago, David Ike explained that.
So we think these people are just really crazy.
But you can also see some elements of truth,
which I would have never predicted that.
I would have never thought of the Twin Towers, like Alex Jones.
How could he come up with something like that?
Right?
It's just crazy.
And how could David Ike?
How do you think he came up with that?
Well, I mean, I'm thinking that they have inside information.
They're able to collect information from the inside
of various organizations and governments.
Right?
That's how they get it.
Right?
They've analyzed the situation.
They look at all the evidences
and they can put the pieces together.
Right?
It's not that they're crazy.
I think it's very easy to dismiss.
When I say, I don't mean crazy.
It's a pejorative term.
Right, right, right.
I think you can, I think, yeah.
Look, when we talk about these,
some of a person who's uninitiated
looking at this podcast, this episode,
he's going to be like, oh, these guys are just nuts.
These guys are probably on shrooms or something.
Right?
That's what they're going to think.
Right, right.
So look, I mean, in my experience, in my experience,
the craziest theories, okay, the craziest theories,
when I, there are really crazy theories.
So I went to an ancient aliens filming.
Right?
And I met this guy.
This guy is an Emmy Award winner, man.
I can't say his name, but this guy's a producer,
director, producer, whatever.
And this guy had a piece of tape stuck on the camera of his phone.
Right?
And I'm like, why are you covering the camera of your phone?
It's like, no, they're spying on us using the camera of my phone.
I don't want that.
So I thought those are nuts.
And this guy is very highly, you know,
it's a very intelligent, repeated guy.
And I thought this guy is just nuts.
It's just like, I was actually afraid to be in the same room with him by myself,
because I'm thinking this guy is crazy.
Right?
Right?
But then, you know, I saw him like one or two years later,
I watched a video of Mark Zuckerberg
and he had a tape on his phone covering the camera.
Right?
So it's not that that guy was crazy.
It just, it was so advanced that I couldn't understand it.
Imagine going to a homeless guy, right?
And I'm telling him, look, I'll make you,
if Bill Gates walked up to homeless guy and tells him,
I'll make you a billionaire.
That guy, that homeless guy is not going to be able to understand that.
The homeless guy will think Bill Gates is just nuts.
Right?
All the theories that, yeah.
Look at that.
Oh, yeah.
Look at that picture of Mark Zuckerberg.
You see how I love this tape?
Yeah.
If I had it, right?
If I had, I still don't have it, right?
I must be really dumb.
If he's got it, we should probably have it.
That guy, that guy probably knows what's going on.
Yeah.
That's what I'm saying.
So the theories that I've heard about, right?
Like the first time when somebody talked about giants being mound builders.
Okay.
You know who told me this?
David Ike.
No.
I never spoke to him.
Although I'd like to.
But I went to a mound called Serpent Mound in Ohio.
Yes.
Yep.
Yeah.
I'm familiar with it.
Yeah.
And I went there.
This is probably in 2014.
I was there by myself.
I was just, you know, analyzing the Serpent Mound.
It was like a Native American guy walks up to me and he starts talking to me.
And he tells me, you know who built these mounds?
I'm like, who?
Because I'm thinking that he's going to talk about, you know,
how the Native Americans built it and all that stuff.
He said giants.
You know, and I, my immediate reaction is like, this guy's crazy, right?
Yeah.
I'd never heard of it.
I'd never heard, probably 2012, 2013.
I'd never heard somebody talk about giants being mound builders before that guy told me.
And my first reaction is that this is stupid.
You know, this is just a weird, giant 10 foot tall builders building it.
Just weird.
Right.
But when I started to eventually Google it, and I got a few books about the Serpent Mound
and other mounds, that subject will come up all the time.
They will at least mention it somewhere saying that, you know,
people once thought that giants built it or something like that.
So that keeps coming up again and again and again.
So you eventually know that there should be some element of truth to it.
It can be completely crazy.
So when a theory like this comes up, whether it's Alex Jones or David Ike,
and, you know, all these guys end up in the same situation, you know,
you know, they could be just, who knows, right?
Eventually, you know, how many times was Joe Rogan called a conspiracy theorist?
Mm-hmm.
Many times.
No, but the problem is it has a reverse effect.
If they're trying to censor the guy, people like Alex Jones and David Ike,
it has a reverse effect because when they do it, it just draws more people to them
and it gets more people to follow them and get interested.
Just like Trump with this whole election that he just went through,
when they tried to, you know, put him on display and have this election with this corrupt DA.
And what it did was solidified his base and it made people that were on the fence who weren't
sure about him go to his side because they saw, look, all this link they're going through
to take this guy out and then they support him.
So it says, I think it's the same thing with social media.
When they try to censor these people, it's not smart, I don't think.
It's not, they don't think it through all the way.
But why would you though?
Why would you kind of dilly David Ike?
Like what could be so crazy about like a reptilian theory, you think that's...
Well, what's so, I mean, like not even crazy, right?
What's so, what's dangerous about it?
Why, why is that, is that considered so dangerous?
You have to remove it from the internet.
Yeah, why would you think?
And, and we tend to think, oh, Google is like in, in competition with Facebook.
Facebook is competing with Elon Musk about Twitter, but they all talk together
and they delete David Ike on one single day.
And then here's the thing too.
Like what if David Ike, I don't know why he was banned from Twitter.
I'm assuming like maybe there were some policies when he was on there.
He was saying some stuff that was considered like YouTube
deletes conspiracy theorist David Ike.
Like who knows why they deleted him, right?
But now they deleted him.
And then people see, oh, he talks about reptiles.
YouTube deleted him.
Must mean reptiles are running YouTube.
There's people like that.
You know, like a lot of people, a lot of people think that way.
Not saying it's wrong, maybe reptiles are running YouTube,
but it's going to make a lot of people think that it's going to,
it's going to, it's going to bolster those conspiracy theories even more is what I'm trying to say.
It would have the reverse effect until a certain point, right?
It would, it would support, it would have supported Alex Jones until a point, right?
But if they can really push hard, Alex Jones is going to be completely bankrupt.
Maybe ends up in jail.
You know, like sometimes you have to run out of the country.
Right.
Something like that.
Yeah.
What is the, like the birth rate in India?
Is there, are there any issues with birth rate?
Because I think the birth rates declining in the U.S.
I know like in the past, I don't know if you know this or not,
but like in the past, since the fifties, I think the sperm count in American men
is like 50% of what it was in the fifties today.
Today is 50% of what it was in the fifties.
Do you know, have any idea, which has declined our birth rate quite a bit?
Did you know what is going on in India in regards to this?
The birth rate is declining in India too.
It is.
It's declining all over the world.
So you guys are dealing with the same kind of shit we're doing with?
We have enough population.
We don't have to worry about this now.
But eventually in 50 years, they start worrying about us.
But for now, we are, like I said, you know, it's one of the, you know,
thickly popular, but that's, yeah, yes, declining.
Fertility rate, 2.03 births per women.
Holy crap, look at that.
Go back to 1960, see what it is.
1960.
It's almost six.
Six births per woman, wow.
And it was only 3.5 in the U.S.
What is it now in the U.S.?
Now it's one and a half.
Wow, what a change.
Yeah, that decline is almost in all countries.
I'd be very surprised.
It's pretty, yeah.
Yeah, no, I was just curious, because I know like a lot of that has to do with,
well, I mean birth rate, not really, but the sperm count has to do with like the pesticides
and the glyphosates and the pesticides.
The pesticides are spraying on the food and the microplastics.
Everything's in plastic.
I don't know.
I mean, again, with other stuff like porn, you know, it's going to,
if you, yeah, it's going to change the way you think about like having a family,
the need for a girlfriend or a wife, it's going to, it's going to, you're no longer going to.
Technology too, right?
Like technology and people being able to meet people online and have relationships online
and eventually we're going to have fuck dolls.
AI fuck dolls.
It's very soon, right?
If it's not already there, I'd be very surprised.
In five years.
Yeah, it's not far off.
Yeah, yeah, and it's so easy, right?
To, to have a robot because it's not going to give you trouble.
It's not, it's not going to want to go out and nagging.
Yeah, it's not going to be nagging.
Yeah, yeah.
It's not going to be calling you 10 times and be like, Hey, Danny, where are you?
Why are you not picking?
So it's very easy.
And even without the, without the robots, with online porn, you can, you can, you know,
your drive is going to be very, very low.
You no longer, and people have become selfish too, right?
They don't, they start to think of family as a, as a burden.
You know?
And it kind of is.
That's what I said.
Because you're going to think of it, right?
Because you're going to think of it as a burden.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, yeah, especially if you haven't done it yet and you think about like, look,
50 years ago, nobody thought of it that way, right?
100 years ago, they would, they would think of family as like very essential.
Yes.
Right?
Right.
Now people are like, Oh, it's a burden.
Well, I don't really think of it as a burden, but I mean, like, if you want to compare it to life
before you had a family, it's like, it's, it's uncomparable, right?
Because I'm sure you have a family, right?
Like you, you can't imagine what it was like before.
You have kids?
No.
No, you don't have kids?
I thought you had kids.
Before, like before we had, before I had kids, I like freedom.
I could do whatever I want whenever I want.
You have kids?
Yeah, I have two kids.
Oh, nice.
And after you do, after you have kids, it's like, at least in my case,
you forget what life was like before that.
Like life was, I have friends that don't have kids still and I talked to them and-
They can do whatever they want.
They just let, you know-
If they're single, they'll be available.
They sleep as long as they want.
They go wherever they want at whatever time of the day they want.
They can play video games all night if they want.
And, and not to say it's bad to have all the responsibilities of children
because I don't think it's bad.
It's definitely a good thing, but it's just so different.
I think it definitely, definitely makes you a better version of yourself, I think.
Makes you more disciplined, you know.
There's a lot of, there's a lot of benefits to it.
And I don't think depopulation is a good bet.
I don't think that's good.
I don't think, I don't think, you know, I mean, there's definitely a case
to be made that there's going to be too many humans on the planet in the future.
You think that?
No, I don't think that.
Especially if AI is able to make us live longer.
If AI is somehow able to figure out, figure out medicine
and figure out how to cure diseases in the human genome
and make us live hundreds of years even, you know, by the single,
if the singularity happens in 2030, 2040, and that extends our lifespan by more than double,
there's going to be way too many fucking people on this planet, man.
This planet, I don't think it can handle 20 billion people or a trillion people.
That's going to be a problem.
Okay.
And a trillion poor people because AI can take away a lot of jobs too.
I think it's kind of like overpopulation.
Probably we'll never get there.
I would think that, right?
I doubt if we'll ever overpopulate you.
It's going to be the opposite way, I think.
It's going to, we're going to be, we're going to have lesser and lesser people from now on.
Yeah.
I think I heard once, I heard somewhere that you could take every single human being on the
entire earth and you can fit them inside the city boundaries of Los Angeles.
Which is insane, right?
Yeah.
But that's all there is.
I mean, we tend to think, oh, there's too many people.
Yeah.
We don't have that many people, I think.
In my opinion.
I think from now on, like in the last maybe 50 years and then in the next 50 years,
the population decline is going to be drastic.
Yeah, I think so too.
It's going to be drastic.
It's going to, unless people like Jeff Bezos, you know, Jeff Bezos is working on
immortality, right?
He's trying to find a way to stop people like you won't have, he doesn't want to die.
Yeah, there's a lot of people working on immortality, man.
A lot of people.
Ray Kurzweil, I just had a guy here the other day who wrote a whole book on it.
And the people that are involved, these billionaires that are involved in these AI companies,
they're trying to figure out, they're really doing a lot of work trying to figure out the
human genome and the DNA.
And because they don't know why we age, there's some animals that don't age.
There's a whale called the, what's that whale called?
It's something head whale.
Is it an age?
It was like a curved head whale or something.
It doesn't age.
Naked mole rat doesn't age.
How does it die then?
From like fighting with other rats or getting suffocated in a dirt hole that it goes into.
But yeah, the average lifespan of them is like 35 years.
And I think they only die from trauma or from suffocation or from starvation or whatever it
is, or from getting run over.
Really?
And then there's also a Greenland shark that doesn't age, I think.
Those things are like, there's Greenland sharks that are like over 500 years old or
something.
But if that's the case, wouldn't the ocean be full of those sharks?
Because they never die, right?
They just keep making babies, right?
There's not that many of them and there's not enough of them to reproduce.
How so?
That's a good question though.
Why aren't there more of them?
You would think if they don't age.
I mean, that's your theory, right?
If you're saying that we don't die, we just overpopulate the art.
But if those mole rats don't die, why are they not like everywhere?
That's a good question.
That's a good question.
I don't know the answer to that.
But that's the case that he was making, that there's a few animals on earth that don't die
and that the AI, the people that are involved in these AI companies, these billionaires,
are trying to study those kind of animals, figure out their genome and their DNA and figure
out how we can reverse engineer it and apply it to ourselves so we don't age anymore.
Yeah, people like Jeff Bezos could probably do it.
If anyone can do it, probably him or if Elon Musk is working on it, he could do it.
Yeah.
He's into Neuralink.
Was that, there was some news about Neuralink that came out, the first guy,
you know what Elon Musk is working on?
Yeah.
Well, I know Joe Rogan had the guy on his podcast, the first guy to be.
Elon Musk?
No, the Neuralink, the very first guy.
The first guy who got Neuralink, yeah.
He was on there recently.
The Elon Musk, he's trying to make people go to Mars, right?
He's trying to figure out how to make our species interplanetary.
Yeah.
But we haven't even been to the moon since the 70s.
So it's 1969.
Yeah.
No, the probably Blue Origin will put a man on the moon very soon, I think.
You think?
Jeff Bezos, yeah.
Jeff Bezos is going to put the next man on the moon.
If it's not done by any other government, the countries can do it,
but if it's not the country, it's going to be Jeff Bezos.
You know why he stepped down from Amazon as a CEO?
Because he wanted to focus on the space race.
Really?
Yep.
Good for him.
Good for him.
What a great guy.
Yeah.
The first building on the moon is going to be an Amazon distribution center.
That's a good one, Steve.
Oh my God, that's funny.
Yeah, Bezos.
It would be funny.
What a guy.
You don't like Bezos, huh?
No, I got nothing wrong with Bezos.
I got no problem against him.
I just think it's fun.
I think...
Nobody gave him enough credit, man.
I think it's...
You guys, you order something in the morning, he gives it to you.
Oh, it's great.
It's amazing what he does.
It's magic.
It's magical.
The thing is, nobody recognized him, but I think he's the greatest inventor.
I remember...
He invented this kind of delivery is amazing.
Not just in the US, in India too.
You can order in the morning and you can get it at night.
It's insane.
It's the same thing in India, huh?
Now in India, yeah, you could do that.
And then he invented one-click shopping.
That's insane.
Now you see, did you see Dude Perfect?
He went to the space.
Did he really?
Yeah, on Jeff Bezos' rocket.
He's doing it commercially, like Jeff Bezos like...
I was just in Costa Rica a few weeks ago and they had Amazon there too.
Amazon Prime.
Yeah, these guys just went...
I mean, imagine you can just pay like $100,000 or $200,000 and you can actually go to the space.
I mean...
Yeah, I just love...
I love Jeff Bezos' evolution as a human.
Ever since the company blew up,
all of a sudden got jacked.
You know, this is going to be the future.
So it's like me taking a plane from Arizona to here, you could just pay...
This is Amazon, right?
If you had Amazon Prime, he could put you on space for like a few thousand.
See, this is my problem.
How come we're so worried about going to space,
but we can't fucking make airplanes any better?
We're still using the same airplanes we used in the 60s.
Can you believe that?
The same thing.
We're using the same airplanes.
They just put new seats in them, a new fresh coat of paint.
Like, but we're going to go to the moon and we're going to go to Mars.
Yeah, but you know what?
All the airlines are losing money.
I saw that because of the Boeing shit, right?
Yeah.
They had a ground, a bunch of the Boeing planes.
But there's been no airline company that's made money.
And nobody invests...
I mean, it's so competitive.
Yeah.
They're just fighting with one another.
You know how many...
Yeah.
It's such a...
It's such a...
It's such a shady way they operate too.
Like, it used to be so shitty how bad they'd treat you
and how hard it would be to get a refund or like, they would just take your money.
But I think actually one of the good things the Biden administration just did
was they actually just implemented some sort of law recently that I saw
to where the airline companies actually have to start giving you refunds when you ask for it.
Really?
Yeah.
And it's been working too.
It just happened to me where I had to cancel a flight like the day of
and they're like, oh, sure.
Here's your refund.
Oh.
Give me a full refund.
Really?
Yeah.
Never happened to me before.
Can you find that?
Find the actual...
The headline for that.
Biden...
Really?
That's amazing, man.
Biden administration...
We need that in India now.
Yeah, right?
It was the Biden administration on airline refunds or something like that.
There you go.
There you go, April.
Biden and Harris administration announced
his final rule requiring automatic refunds of airline tickets and ancillary service fees.
There you go.
Now they can't run up the freaking tab on you.
Passengers deserve to get their money when an airline owes them
without headaches or haggling, said the U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg.
Wow, good job, Pete.
Our new rule sets a new standard to require airlines
to promptly provide cash refunds to their passengers.
I love that.
Promptly too.
That's great.
That's cool.
I love that.
That's super cool.
So when is the next election, man?
Who's winning?
Probably Trump.
Really?
I think probably Trump.
Yeah, there's no way Biden's going to win.
He's definitely going to, I think he might drop out even.
I think the fact that they led him into that slaughter,
they led him walk into that yesterday or two days ago was very telling.
Because why would they do that?
Unless they really, you know, we're going to actually let him sink.
Yeah, that's so weird.
I mean, I wonder what happened.
Like, I don't-
My money's on Trump.
I think he's got, I think there's no way Trump doesn't win.
Really?
Yeah, I don't see.
How?
Who's going to beat Trump?
You think, what do you think?
Why did he lose the last time though?
Like, I believe that Trump is a more effective candidate.
If that's what you're asking me, I would think that Trump would win.
But how did Biden beat him the last time?
I didn't understand that.
I think I'm not, I don't buy into, I understand there's election fraud.
And there's probably election fraud in every election.
There was the Hunter Biden laptop story that got suppressed on Twitter.
That's, everybody knows about that.
And I also think at the same time, I think-
They deleted Trump's account on Twitter.
Yeah, oh yeah, they fucked with him hard.
But I also think a lot of people didn't vote for Biden.
They voted against Trump by voting for Biden.
A lot of people really didn't like Trump.
Why though?
Why?
Why?
Because they didn't want Trump in office.
I think a lot of people just really didn't want Trump anymore.
And I think there was a lot of fuckery in the election fraud.
You know, there was the laptop story that got suppressed.
And there was a lot of other shit.
You know, I'm not really an expert on the elections or whatever.
But yeah, I believe there was fraud.
I don't know what's going on.
I don't think-
You think that's how it happened this time?
I don't think it's possible.
I don't know how, I don't know how, look, if they do it again
and somehow Trump doesn't win, it's just like,
it's going to be so fucking obvious.
This is not a real democracy to everybody.
I think it's just like, how do you even lie to us anymore after that?
Like you at least just come out and tell us that the votes don't matter anymore, right?
And I think it's been on the verge of that for a while.
You would accept it?
Really who knows?
If Biden wins.
Would I accept it?
Yeah, I mean, what am I going to do?
Yeah, that's what I'm saying, right?
So you don't have a choice.
You'd be like, yeah, okay.
I really don't have a choice, right?
I really don't.
I mean, I don't think-
I don't know really what's going on.
But I think if you really ask me if I think to do the votes actually matter that much,
I wouldn't bet on it.
I don't know.
I think there's too much going on behind the scenes.
There's too much.
We could start a movement.
We can just deny that he's actually our president.
Yeah.
It's called Trump is not my president.
It's already there, man.
Yeah, I don't see how-
I really don't see how-
I don't see how he could lose.
And if Biden does drop out, I wonder who replaces him.
Yeah.
That's kind of crazy because as an outsider, I've never been a U.S. citizen or anything like that.
But I always thought that you guys are very solid.
You guys always gave two terms to Republican, two terms Democrat.
Almost never screwed with that, right?
You never mess with that, right?
That's-
I think the only time was when somebody resigned.
The Watergate stuff.
Who was that guy?
Nixon.
Well, Bush senior only got one term.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Some guys only get one term.
Yeah, a lot of times some guys get two terms.
Okay.
But it's a weird amnesia thing that we have.
Whenever we have a president, we always think that it needs to go back to the other side.
Like when we have a Republican for too long, it's like, oh, god damn it.
Why can't we get down to back to some reasonable Democratic people in this fucking place
and figure this stuff out and get back to normal?
And then we get the Democrat in and then it's the same thing over again.
It's like, wow, it's the same thing.
It's the same thing.
Why can't we get back to a Republican president to get shit straight and figure out
why these never ending wars and all this stuff.
And it just seems to, it's just this pendulum that swings and it never really changes.
It's just we forget, you know what I mean?
We get four years, eight years in and we think the grass is going to be greener on the other side.
It never really is.
Nothing really ever gets solved.
Nothing ever permanently changes.
It's just this cycle, this loop that never ends.
But yeah, I don't know, I don't know who's going to solve it.
This happened the first time, man, I think the first time, if Trump really wins, which I doubt,
hey, whoa.
You doubt it?
I don't doubt Trump's efficiency or his popularity.
I don't doubt that.
But I think they're going to do something that makes him lose like the last time.
Yeah, well, they could kill him.
I guess they could whack him, right?
I don't think Trump really lost the last time, but they did a lot of little tricks.
Now like the Twitter, Twitter played a major part.
Major role.
Yeah, that's crazy.
But now they changed the outcome of an election.
But now Elon owns it, sir.
And Trump is back on Twitter, right?
Trump is back on Twitter, although I don't think he's using it.
I think he gave him his Twitter back and he's like, fuck you.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Yeah, he's got his own truth social.
Yeah.
How does that go in there?
They try to do something with it.
I don't know.
I don't really pay that much attention to it.
But I mean, Trump's like so popular, dude.
If you watch like UFC matches, they march him into the UFC.
He's like shaking hands with Elon Musk, Theo Vaughn, Joe Rogan.
Everyone's giving him like a 10 minute standing ovation when he walks in there.
Oh, yeah.
He is beloved.
I love Trump, too.
He's beloved, man.
Yeah, Trump is very, you know, very...
He's a very efficient human being.
I think that's a word.
Whether he's a businessman or whether he's a politician, he's very efficient.
He knows what to do.
Yeah, I just, you know, I don't know.
I think the type of democracy we have now needs like a fundamental reset.
And I don't think that the way it's going right now, I don't think it's going to end up well.
The way that it's set up, right?
The way it's legally set up for lobbyists to affect our laws and the way our country works.
And, you know, it's all based on economics, right?
And corruption and greed.
And I think there's got to be a better way to do it.
I don't know how that's going to happen.
You're going to have to fucking, it's going to have to be a hard reset, right?
To have some sort of like, some sort of version of the democracy that Plato talks about.
Where you have like a round table of philosophers and just geniuses
that can solve the problems.
And you got juries of hundreds of people from the town that are to decide what happens to criminals.
And, you know, I think that was probably the pinnacle of human intellect.
And we've just strayed so far from there, man.
Now it's just a fucking circus.
But I wanted to actually talk about one more thing before we wrap this up.
I wanted to talk about the Taj Mahal stuff.
Sure.
There's some shit going on underneath the Taj Mahal.
In your video, you show like there's some crazy underground layer or some,
there's some passages that are hidden and they're blocked off.
People can't get through.
And it seems like what do you think is going on underneath the Taj Mahal?
There was a book.
I think that book is called Badshah Nama.
This was written about how Taj Mahal was built.
It was an old book, like a few centuries old.
And that book was written at the time of Taj Mahal.
And they basically say the Taj Mahal was,
before the Taj Mahal was erected, there was a structure there, right?
And they demolished it and they built Taj Mahal on top of it.
Taj Mahal is in a very nice spot.
It's on the river bank of Yamuna.
So it's like, it makes it so much better.
So Shah Jahan, he's a Muslim king who built Taj Mahal.
He buys that piece of land on which there was a structure
and then he demolishes that structure and he bulls Taj Mahal on top of it.
So that's a river, right?
Now underneath, there are several structures.
And some of it has been open now.
At that time, this was probably 2016, 17,
most of these structures were closed, completely closed off.
After this video came out, and of course it spawned a lot of other videos too,
because it becomes very controversial.
We're like, okay, what's underneath the Taj Mahal?
And then I think the archaeological department has opened some parts of it now.
Oh, really?
Yep.
Okay.
Because of your videos?
Some.
Yep, some.
Wow, man.
Yeah.
So was it just to keep people safe or was it just to like,
because they didn't want people going down there because it would be too costly
to like renovate all that?
Or what do you think the reason was?
India, it's all combined together.
In India, history, politics, religion, they're all intertwined.
It gets very intensely political because people don't just see this as history.
They would combine that with religion.
Like I view that Shah Jahan built it on top of a Hindu temple.
That's how I think of it.
Okay.
So Shah Jahan buys a piece of land and he realizes this is how I would do it, right?
So I want to build a great structure, right?
So I find a perfect spot for this.
This is on the bank of river Yamuna, but there's already a temple there.
So I demolish the temple and I build it on top of the temple, right?
But the remnants are still there.
And we can find some of the remnants there if you keep going.
Because the base of it's red sandstone, right?
And the top of it's all white marble.
Yeah, there's some discrepancy there.
If you go to, yeah, there you go.
Yeah.
Oh, shit.
Look at that, man.
That's wild.
And you see that?
You see that doorway there?
Yep.
What is that doorway?
The existing structure there.
Oh, that was what's there?
What was there before?
Yeah, what was there before?
So there's one guy, I think his name, there are two or three more guys who wrote about this.
And I took this picture from an old textbook who talks about how they could go into the
doorway at a certain point.
And then they started to put doors and now I think they've completely sealed it off.
But I think, I mean, it should just be common knowledge that, you know,
the structure was probably built on top of an existing temple or a mansion or a palace,
which is basically a Hindu structure.
Look at that, just sealed off.
Oh, they bricked it out?
Yep, just sealed off.
Right.
So it was originally a Hindu.
Yeah, I mean, look, I mean, the thing is like,
if you go there, if I tell you, Danny, those offices built on top of a land,
which was originally owned by Native Americans, it'd be normal.
I wouldn't be shocked.
It's just a fact.
It's just a fact, right?
Yeah.
So I understand that.
So that's the point of me making a video and saying, look, underneath,
originally there used to be a Hindu structure.
Yeah.
Right.
But it's become very controversial because it's also intensely political in India.
Right.
Okay, that makes sense.
They're still thinking like the history is happening today.
What an amazing structure that is.
Taj Mahal.
Good lord.
Yeah, I made another video saying Taj Mahal employs a lot of optical illusions.
There's like, yeah, if there's another video about Taj Mahal,
if you go to my channel, it's not going to be on this video.
Taj Mahal uses a lot of optical illusions and just confuses you,
which is what makes you kind of like fall in love with that.
Changes color according to the light, according to the time of the day and the moonlight and all
that stuff.
Yeah, that's, if you see, maybe, yeah, that one, that one.
See that?
How many, how many corners do you see?
Two.
How many, really?
Wow.
Oh, wait, on the corners?
How many, how many sides of that?
One, two, three, four, five, six.
Okay, keep playing.
All right.
Okay.
Yeah, keep playing six, right?
Yeah.
It's flat?
Oh, my lord.
Oh, that's cool, man.
So he just, yeah, that's the thing.
So just, this is bold by Shah Jahan, yeah.
So it's kind of like, yeah, it's going to look, it's going to appear like it has a lot of
That's amazing.
So we don't give that much credit to, you know, the guy who bolted.
He actually did an amazing job.
And it's, even when you see this, it's very hard for you to understand this,
you know, because you still think it still has six sides.
I use a lot of psychological tricks like this and that's why Taj Mahal,
it's probably, I don't think there's anybody in the world who has not heard of Taj Mahal.
It's, no, I don't think there's anybody who's heard of it.
And I mean, I bet you there's people who know like the name Taj Mahal,
but can't put the picture and can't like tell you where it is.
Yes.
But like there's even like, there's like sayings, if you see a fancy house,
whatever, like, goddamn, you got the Taj Mahal here.
It's used as an adjective, right?
Yep.
Yeah, it's an incredible structure.
And this is what, so there's mirrors in the bathroom, in the ceiling.
So when they lit candles, it would look like the cosmos.
Yeah, these are the little mirrors put on the bathroom of the queen
of Shah Jahan, the guy who bolted.
So when the queen went into the bathroom, Shah Jahan could look at
a thousand images of the queen in the bathtub.
Thousand images of her bathing.
That's beautiful, man.
It's incredible.
There are lots of mysteries in India, I think.
And there's a tunnel supposedly under here that links to another.
Many, I think.
Many tunnels, really.
Yes.
Yes, many tunnels.
I don't know.
Yeah, Taj Mahal is a very beautiful monument.
Imagine building it.
You know what they did when India went to war with Pakistan?
You know what they did?
They had to cover up the Taj Mahal, because Pakistan said they would bomb.
Really?
If you?
I gotta find this.
What they cover it with?
What are they covering?
Taj Mahal covered Pakistan war, something like that.
Pakistan.
In 1942.
Oh, yeah, this is not the Pakistan.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, guys.
It's not the Pakistan.
It's probably the war with Germany.
Oh, World War II.
The World War II, yeah.
I'm sorry, guys.
Oh, yeah.
Because India...
They had to cover this up.
What is around it?
Is it scaffolding?
Yeah, it just looks like renovation stuff.
Yeah, it just looks like renovation.
No, I'm probably finding other...
That was the link back there.
So it's a mid-fear potential air raids.
British army used bamboo to cover the Taj Mahal's dome,
attempting to make the onion-shaped design resemble...
Something like that.
Oh, India war with Pakistan.
Yeah, that one.
I think that's...
Resembled nothing more than a pile of vegetation.
Oh, oh, okay.
So that wasn't scaffolding.
That was actually bamboo they used to make it look different from the air.
Yeah, I saw another picture, man.
Yeah, look at...
No, the next one.
I don't know.
Oh, this thing?
Yeah.
Oh, well, that does look more like camo, doesn't it?
During World War II.
They kind of like...
Let's see what they got.
Yeah.
Okay, thanks, guys.
It's just a never-ending...
I hate it when that happens.
Wild man.
Yeah, I saw other pictures where they put a lot of stuff on top.
I can't find it now.
Do they use those...
Is it all marble inside the Taj Mahal?
Or are there multiple different stones?
Do they use any of those?
There are different stones.
They use those floating rocks, too, or no?
No, no, no.
That's only in temples.
No floating rocks, yeah.
That's only in certain temples.
Okay.
In Taj Mahal, it appears as though it's full of white marble, but it's not.
Okay.
Very cleverly done, so you only see the white marbles.
But inside, there are several structures...
Well, what is that?
Underneath.
Foundation fears.
This is underneath it?
Oh, my goodness.
So there's a brick structure.
What does that say?
It says, well foundation?
Well foundation, the Taj is built on gigantic wooden slabs atop
a well foundation to stabilize the riverbank sand.
Rows of columns and archways keep it from sliding into the river.
So, and that's pointing to this thing right there, the brick section.
And there's a theory or is it real that there's actually tombs under there with the king?
Well, of the queen.
They say it's still there.
They say it's still there.
They've opened it up now.
I haven't checked, but they've opened up.
There's an underground chamber.
When I went there, they said, no, nobody's allowed, but now it's become quite controversial,
I think, so they had to open it.
It's weird because the queen's chamber, yeah, that's the one.
Undergrounded.
Yeah, underground, yep.
Is it this thing?
Yep.
Oh, that's it, okay.
You can see those and you can see a bunch of people there.
That's how you'd see it today, but this is not underground.
This is at the ground level.
Right, right.
And they say there's an underground thing.
It's a replica.
Oh, really?
Oh, this is a replica.
Yeah, this is a replica.
Oh, what's underneath?
Okay.
Is there any place you haven't been that you want to go?
Lots.
Really?
Yep, lots.
I haven't got, like, look, man, I mean, here's a problem, right?
So we've probably got, like, more than, like, I would say,
10,000 temples in India.
That's going to be a lifetime.
That's not going to fit into my lifetime.
There are lots of temples.
And it's not even in India.
Today, you'd think India is just India, right?
Hinduism is just spread in India.
But 1,000, 2,000 years ago, Hinduism was spread.
India, Pakistan on this side.
Sri Lanka, all of Southeast Asia.
We're talking about Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia,
all those countries, right?
It was, like, it's full of temples.
It's not, like, I can't fit all those temples into my lifetime,
even if I do it every day.
Have you plotted out the ones you can fit in your lifetime
that you want to go to?
No, no, not completely.
So because every time, like, for example, this time,
you know how, like, how much I travel.
You know a little bit, right?
Because you know, you booked my ticket from...
Yeah, you went from North Carolina to Arizona to California
to Florida, back to North Carolina.
Right.
And now I got to go back to India day after,
and then I have to again go for, like, a government thing.
And then on 20th, I'm going to Bali, Indonesia.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So that's how much I travel.
So we keep really busy.
But everywhere I go in India or Southeast Asia,
the temples are, like, everywhere, okay?
Even, like, Indonesia is, what, 2,500 miles from India?
Indonesia is made of 17,000 islands.
Right.
And we keep driving in Indonesia,
and you find temples after temples.
It's just everywhere.
These guys, something is wrong.
Something is very odd about the Hindu culture,
that they bolt temples everywhere.
Everywhere you see the people in Indonesia,
they dig their ground to bolt a water well,
or like a foundation for their house,
and they keep digging up these lingams.
They're everywhere.
The lingams.
Yeah, the lingams and the idols and the statues,
everywhere you go in Southeast Asia,
we find these temples buried, you know?
So they're all over the place.
So I can't, yeah, to put it in a nutshell,
I can't see all the temples in my life,
so they're going to be everywhere.
Plus, we're not going there on a day trip, you know?
How long are you going to be in Bali?
We're going to be there nine days.
Nine days.
20 to the 29th, yeah.
What are you going to explore?
Temples.
We have a list of temples there.
A list of temples.
Wow.
We have maybe like four temples.
There are some temples,
there are some carvings on a riverbank,
and we're going to explore that.
Wow.
Yeah.
They're like, they specifically made these carvings
in places which are hard to reach and hard to find, okay?
In Cambodia, you have lingams underwater.
Yeah, you do.
Yeah.
You see that?
I think so.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, that's another thing though.
How many of these temples are submerged now, I wonder.
Yeah, yeah, there's an entire, yeah, there you go.
The second, yeah.
Underneath, this is all lingams, man.
Yeah, that's, I think that's probably...
What is the theory on, what is the idea?
What did the lingams mean again?
Well, the reason for the Cambodian lingams,
and yeah, this is in a remote temple, right?
You go to the temple and you see just water flowing,
but underneath you'll see hundreds, thousands actually.
And this is called Sahasralinga.
And they say that when Indians moved to Cambodia,
when the Hindus moved to Cambodia, it was jungle, right?
So they had to clear the jungle.
They made that into a farm and they tried to cultivate rice.
And no matter what they tried, rice was not growing, right?
So when they told the land, they made sure the water came
from the mountains, but the rice was just not growing there.
The plants were not growing there.
So what they did was they needed a specific,
they needed a magic spell, right?
They needed a magic potion for the crops to grow,
for the rice to grow.
So they carved the lingams in the mountain all over,
so the water could flow through the lingams, right?
It's just the same water.
But when the water flowed through the lingams,
they became fertile enough.
Yeah.
Oh, interesting.
Yeah.
So that was the magic element that...
The lingam was a fertility thing.
Okay.
Wild shit, man.
Well, we've just done like three and a half hours,
so you got a flight to catch, right?
We don't want to keep you here forever.
I appreciate you coming through, brother.
And where can people find your...
I'll link it all below, but your YouTube channel
is called Praveen Mohan.
Yep.
You can go to YouTube, Praveen Mohan.
You can go to Facebook.
You can go to Instagram.
You can just search my name.
I'm not on Twitter.
I am on Twitter, but I don't use it.
Right.
You know?
I only post...
I'm not political.
I only post my findings like once or twice a month.
Right, right, right.
Instagram, all that stuff.
Yeah, I post it mostly everywhere.
Cool.
But it'll be mostly new findings.
It won't be commercial.
I won't be posting every day or something like that.
If I find something new, I'll post it.
How often do you post videos on YouTube?
Do you have a schedule?
I know.
No, just never.
Like, I didn't post for the last 25 days.
I only posted yesterday.
Somebody in India was posting it.
Okay.
So, yeah, we're trying to do...
We try to find new stuff on ancient sites.
Right, something that's been talked about before.
Yeah, I don't want to post...
I won't be like, oh, this is interesting.
Let me make my own video about this.
I won't do that.
If I find anything interesting, I'll do it.
So, mostly if you're looking for ancient sites and good info, you'll find it.
Beautiful, man.
Thanks again for your time and for everybody still watching.
We did a Patreon Q&A that we recorded before the podcast.
So, if you want to check it out, it's linked below.
And that's it.
Good night, folks.
Good night.
Thanks, Denny.
