So, after you got the heart transplant, you obviously took a while for that to heal up
and for you to get back on your feet.
What happened after that?
Yeah, I mean, life just goes on, right?
I mean, obviously, there's things that I have to worry about, diet, health, can't go play
football, right?
I mean, we've just broken open the breastbone, had major surgery.
But you know, there's worse things, there's more important things in my life at that point
than worrying about playing football or contact sports or whether I can eat pizza or salty
foods.
Right.
You know, I'm just grateful to wake up every day.
You know, I went through school and I had a great, amazing support group through school
and through my family and friends and, you know, I just started living life as a normal
teenage kid doing the normal stupid stuff a teenage kid does and, you know, having the
sibling rivalries and trying to find your own individual path.
Right?
It was difficult being a twin, you know, as his mom kind of mold you, mom and dad kind
of mold you together as, as one, it was always Chris and Mike, Chris and Mike, right?
Yeah.
It's like, you know, why does he always have to be first, right?
Like, can't be Mike and Chris.
So it's, you know, we did start to see kind of individual lives and paths start.
And then something kind of crazy happened when we were like about 18, probably at 19
years old or sophomore year, I had went to a small Catholic college in my hometown and
worked in the banking community growing up and stayed close to home.
My brother went to Iowa City and he actually wanted to study to be a biochemical engineer
at the University of Iowa.
Yeah.
Because he wanted to go into medical science as a biochemical engineer and find cures and
develop like different research around my heart ailment.
Really?
Yeah.
That was his career path.
I did not know that.
At first.
Right.
And then he quickly changed, quickly changed.
He was a sophomore in college and was noticed by a modeling scout and asked to, to be in
a modeled talent show in Iowa.
I mean, of all places, Iowa, right?
A modeling show in Iowa.
Yeah.
We've got, we have a lot of attractive people in Iowa.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he, he actually kind of tussled with that kind of invite for a while and long story
short, he, he, he did the talent show, actually won the talent show that he went on to be,
to go to New York, to be in a larger modeling talent show, ended up placing well in that
talent show.
And next thing I know, my brother's on billboards, modeling underwear for Calvin Klein.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
So we were probably, I think, I'm still in college, you know, trying to get my, my higher
education, right?
Looking at pictures of your brother wearing tidy whitey's on billboards.
Yeah.
Right.
But, you know, good for him.
He was able to travel the world and, and get into that.
And you've been calling him Chris this whole time.
I have.
Is that his real name?
Well, yeah, it is.
And I guess here's where we, we divulge the secret, right?
Maybe of who I'm speaking of.
My brother was born Chris for Ashton.
So Ashton's his middle name and how the, the story goes is he was, from what I heard,
how he changed the name, so to speak, was he was in a model agency and, and when the
call came through to send Chris to the, to the shoot, they really, they had like three
or four Chris's in the, in the agency and, you know, they didn't know who'd send.
And at least that's the story I heard.
Maybe it's different, but he, they, you know, decided to, the Ashton was a better, more
unique, right?
More model, I guess, better model name for him.
So he.
It'll rank quicker on Google.
Yeah.
I guess, right?
No one beats an A. Maybe those before Google.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But so that, that took him to, to be known as, as Ashton and, you know, then he, he always
wanted to act.
Did he really?
Yeah, he did.
He did.
He was always in plays and.
Even before the modeling talent shows?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was always doing high school plays and musicals and, and then he, you know what?
I'm really proud of him because, I mean, here's one guy and he does it to this day.
When he sees something, he just goes for it.
Like I don't care how big the dream is.
He just, he just takes it and, and he achieves greatness through it.
And there's, yeah, there's, there's a lot to be said in that.
And I think that more people need to do that, right?
Who cares if your dream is, you know, more than what you think is possible, right?
That's your dream to go for.
And he did.
And he, you know, went to LA to, to audition for a few shows and lunch for a short ended
up on, on that 70s show and, yeah.
Wow.
Kind of.
And how old were you?
Sure.
I'm sure everyone knows the story after that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, I think we were like 20, 21, 21 when he's on that 70 show.
Yeah.
Around that time.
So, um, and, you know, I, I really struggled with, um, with that.
I mean, it's, it's.
Yeah.
I mean, here you are.
I mean, you're, you're going to college, right?
You're still in Iowa and your twin brother is basically a movie star now.
Yeah.
Uh, it was, and it, it really was kind of overnight type sensation.
And, you know, there was a lot of cool things that come with that, you know, um, and different
experiences that I'm grateful to be able to, to, to experience through him.
But as an individual, I really struggled with my own identity and try, because now
I'm not just, I'm not just Chris and Mike.
Now I'm Ashton's brother.
Right.
And by the way, I have a name, right?
I mean, literally people would introduce me sometimes as Ashton's brother.
And to me that, that was difficult to deal with.
Was it?
Yeah.
I mean, he's my brother, right?
Right.
Like, like, at least introduce me with my first name first, right?
And, and, and kind of like, why does it matter who I'm related to?
Right.
Um, so I struggled with that, just finding my own identity, like who is Michael Kutcher?
And, um, it was a difficult time for me, you know, I'm in my 20s and, um, uh, typically
a difficult time for any 20 year old, but you have a very unique set of circumstances.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And believe me, I mean, there's, there's, you know, like I said, there's some, some
good that come with it.
There's, you know, some perks, so to speak, um, but, um, you know, I just wanted to find
my own person.
And I think that, you know, regardless of my brother, I think that everyone struggles
with that.
Like what's, what's my passion in life?
What's my purpose?
What, what do I want to stand for?
You know, and what do I want to do for a career and what do I want to do for a family?
And you're on, you're on this earth for a fucking reason.
You've already been through so much.
There's like, you know, if I'm you, I'm like, if I'm still here, there's got to be a really
important reason.
I'm still here.
Well, that's it.
I mean, like here, here I am, um, you know, I've, I've almost died at birth, um, I almost
died with heart transplant.
One thing we left out is during high school, I had two other open heart surgeries to remove
blood clots.
So this was after the heart transplant.
Yeah.
So here I am.
I've almost literally died about four times, but I'm still here, but like to your point,
like why am I still here?
Yeah.
Like what is my purpose?
Yeah.
I got to do something with this opportunity.
Yeah.
And now my brother is a major celebrity and I love my brother.
We love your siblings and family is family and, um, I'm, yeah, he's, he's one of my best
friends.
He's a great inspiration to me and role model to me.
Um, and how do I utilize kind of the notoriety that I built kind of through that, right?
Um, cause I never wanted to deny that he, you know, family is family.
Um, but how do I utilize that for the greater good and to be able to give back to people?
You know, and those are some, some great lessons that, that my brother taught me was, you know,
the gift of generosity and the gift of giving, giving back to others and how much fulfillment
you can actually receive through that.
And, um, then I, I, I kind of fell into my purpose when I was about 30 years old, so.
