Hey, I'm Luke, and we're at the Back the Blue rally.
Things are getting really out of hand here,
and I'm really looking forward to talking to some people today.
Both sides are here voicing their opinion,
and shit's about to get insane.
Back the blue! Back the blue!
These police put their lives on the line for us every single day!
Are you kidding me?
The left wants to silence us!
Back the blue!
We're not protesting.
This is a rally.
Donald Trump!
And we kept it peaceful!
We kept it fucking peaceful!
Look at this shit!
Poor pitiful me.
We need law and order, period.
I want it known about him holding a gun to a pregnant woman's stomach.
It's very important to trust Christ as your savior.
Our lives clearly don't matter.
Our lives clearly don't matter.
Trucks, boots, grits, gravy, and chicken.
What are you afraid of?
The people.
Could you tell me about your hat? What does it mean?
Absolutely. I'm a proud boy.
We are a...
It is a drinking club,
and we end up being involved in some politics things,
because we think that the West is the best.
Part of being the West is that we are multi-racial, we are multi-ethnic,
and we're multi-cultural.
Basically, we're just a bunch of men hanging out,
and one of the main traditions of the West that we feel have been...
that has gone downhill over the years is things like men's clubs,
such as the Shriners and the Elks Lodge and stuff,
and the Knights of Columbus.
We're just bringing back that tradition of having a men's club where men can be men.
Are you an Ascar fan?
Not particularly.
But I know about the...
I know about what they're doing with the Confederate flag,
and I'm very upset about it.
My family fought for the North,
and I would support the North if it were to happen today.
But still, I know that that flag doesn't mean what they say it means right now.
What does it mean to you?
Trucks, boots, grits, gravy, and chicken.
Country music, guitars, fast women.
Sorry, fast cars and loose women.
I like it.
So you see that flag and you think of loose women?
I think of Southern culture in general.
What are some other things about Southern culture that you like when you see that?
Christianity.
That's a big one.
That's a big one.
Christianity is a lot more strong in the Bible Belt than most the rest of the nation.
This is where I've grown up, and there's a certain anti-city feel about it.
You know what I mean?
It's more of a celebration of rural culture of living out in the sticks,
and that's actually where we live now, out in the boonies.
We don't really live in the city.
What are you doing out here today?
Supporting the police.
Law enforcement.
Without law enforcement, we got no order.
How do you feel about the way cops are being treated in the country right now?
I think it's ridiculous, and it's a good thing I'm not running it.
It would have been stopped day one.
These are like unruly children, and they want their way.
I want it known about him holding a gun to a pregnant woman's stomach when he robbed her.
That's not even coming out anywhere.
And everybody that's doing that kind of thing should be arrested on the spot.
Who are you voting for in November?
You should have to ask Donald Trump.
Who are you voting for in November?
Oh, do you have to guess? Trump all the way, baby.
He's getting this country back into the shape it needs to be in.
Would you compare Donald Trump to Jesus Christ?
No, absolutely not.
Kidding me? No, absolutely not.
No, nowhere near. Nobody is.
Jesus is perfect. Jesus loves and is a disciplinary.
Jesus is the perfect male of a father and a mother.
Donald Trump is more of a father.
Jesus combines both gentleness and sternness and discipline.
This guy is more of a father. It's what we need.
Listen, let me ask you something. You're going to war, right?
Are you going to go with General Patton, or are you going to go with a diplomat?
Tell me. Who are you going to go with?
Are you going to go with a general, or are you going to go with a diplomat?
Right now, this country and this world needs somebody to stand up for it as a general, as a warrior.
That's what I see.
Will this be the right answer 10 years from now, 20 years from now? I don't know.
But right now, we need somebody like this.
If Donald Trump had more feminine energy, do you think he'd be closer to Jesus?
That's a very interesting question and not one that I want to think about.
Why do you think it's important now to support the police?
Well, because I think that they've been undermined by politicians, by all of these Black Lives Matter groups,
and all of these George Soros funded groups. That's all they do is talk about them.
But these people go by a socialist manifesto.
They read the book. They're taught it in colleges.
They know exactly what they're doing, and if people would just wake up, you can see that they're using a playbook.
That's what they do.
George Soros, I've been hearing that dropped a lot today.
George Soros is a gentleman who got his wealth and fame from working for the Nazis.
He is a Jewish man.
He's a funder. He funds a lot of this stuff.
Back to blue!
Back to blue!
There's people in the white car.
Smile, y'all are on TV, right?
Who are you marching for?
For God, country, and the police department who needs our support right now.
How do you feel about the way the police are being treated right now?
Fine. I'm good with it.
You're good with it?
Yeah, I am.
It'd be a lot better if people would, you know, would open their Bible, look into the Bible,
and see what the Bible says about everything.
It's very important to trust Christ as your savior. Very important.
And one last question. Who are you voting for in November?
Donald Trump.
Why do you think he's the man for the job?
Because he's done a great job. Our country hasn't been any better since I'm 66.
In our country, this is the best it's ever been.
For a little bit, but why are you...
Who sent us? Every one of us.
What's Q?
You don't know Q?
Uh-uh.
For your homework.
Q, can you tell us?
This is my homework.
We need law and order, period.
Do you think there's paid actors today at this protest?
I honestly don't know because there's been a lot of coverage about that.
We are Americans. We need to act like Americans. Period. Period.
No, I don't need one. I don't believe in the pandemic either. No.
One minute.
Asymptomatic is a person that is carrying the virus but shows no symptoms.
So do you think anybody here needs to worry about the coronavirus?
No.
How would you like to be in the middle of a mob that's going to start looting?
And just because you have white skin, they're going to go after you?
Hey.
Do you think that there's an attack on white culture in America?
Well, sure there is. We aren't privileged.
All the crime with blue around, can you imagine, without blue around?
Come on, we need blue. We need blue.
What are you doing out here today?
I'm trying to bring the two sides together, sir.
How are you doing that?
I'm speaking the words of Dr. Martin Luther King.
Hate cannot drive out hate. Only love can do that.
Why is it important for you to be out here in the middle of the road?
I have a nephew who's with the Orange County Sheriff's Office.
He served and he went into the Pulse Massacre.
Pulse Club Massacre and he saved lives.
All lives matter.
We need to bring the two sides together.
There needs to be social and racial justice.
I can't breathe, but those gentlemen right there are putting their lives on their line for us.
Back the blue!
What is she saying?
Back the blue!
These police put their lives on the line for us every single day.
Are you kidding me? You want to defund them?
Not every cop is bad.
Just like not every white person is bad.
The left wants to silence us into changing our opinions and beliefs while we're not going to see them.
Hey, they're putting their lives on the line for us.
Right there, they're protecting the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
Are you a NASCAR fan?
NASCAR? I am now that they've brought down the Confederate flag.
How do you feel about the Confederate flag?
It's a flag of slavery, sir. Absolutely. 100% it's a flag of slavery.
So you're okay with it going away?
Absolutely, it can go to a museum.
That's where it belongs, it's history.
That war was lost in 1865, was it not?
Isn't it time that civil war is over and that flag be put in a museum?
Why is it important to back the blue?
Support our Second Amendment.
Look at the facts. Look at the facts.
No, they have this right to do this.
And they're not doing violence.
Protest. You don't have to destroy nothing to get your word across.
Kind of simple.
What's your dog's name?
Aries.
Can we ask you some questions today?
This is a counter-protest because all lives can't matter until black lives matter.
That's what we're protesting today.
We're not against them, but we're for us.
We want our voices to be heard and our lives to count for something.
So when they're killing us in the streets, their lives don't matter to us because we're dying every day.
When you hear the term all lives matter, how does that make you feel?
That's not true. There must be a special restrictions form because all lives clearly don't matter.
All lives clearly don't matter.
You see how they get protection? Look at them. They're getting protection.
We got rubber bullets and we got mace and we got tear gas.
But these motherfuckers get protection from the police and we kept it peaceful.
We kept it fucking peaceful. Look at this shit.
What the fuck?
Can I talk to you about your sign?
Can you explain it?
Racism is small dick energy. Point blank period.
What is small dick energy?
Like, I don't know how to explain it. You don't know, then you don't know.
So since I don't have a sign or anything out here, would you say I have small dick energy?
If you're on that side, yes.
So you think everybody on that side is cranking out a bunch of small dick energy?
Exactly.
How can somebody get over their small dick energy?
Come on this side. Come on this side.
It's that simple.
Yes, exactly.
