All right, Matt Bell, how much money worth of ancient Egyptian artifacts is sitting on
this podcast table right now?
Starting with an easy question.
I have no idea.
I mean, it's worth whatever you'd be willing to sell it for, right?
So, you know, I don't know, it's definitely, they've definitely increased in value since
I started buying them.
I'll put it that way.
So, I mean, I started back in January of 2023 and kind of went through like a crazy
person through, you know, like crazy buying spree all through 2023 and then kind of settled
down.
But in that time, the prices went way up, you know, I mean, they're triple.
They're sometimes quadruple what they would have been a year and a half ago now.
So, yeah.
I mean, there's, you know, it's some of them like I wouldn't sell, you know, like some
of them like this guy right here, you know, you know, this one with the gold handles,
like you just, there's not a price that you could even, you know, say.
I know that the value is a big question for people, but it's just, you know, it's kind
of like anything like what would, what would somebody pay for it, you know?
For people that are watching this podcast or listening, especially people who are listening
right now, this is going to be a very visual podcast.
We have what, like 30 ancient Egyptian vases sitting on this table right now that Matt
has purchased on the antiquities market.
And we're going to be going through all this stuff and showing this.
We got close-up shots.
Steve's got the cameras all dialed in, getting the glamour shots of these vases.
What is the process of buying one of these things?
Yeah, it's kind of, I mean, it's different.
There's a couple of different ways.
I started when Ben Van Kirkwick released his first like couple of videos on it.
You know, I was totally hooked when Uncharted X came out with like their take on these things.
I was like, you know, this is, it seemed like the best evidence for something really cool
happening out there in the world right now.
And there's not a lot that's really cool happening.
So and how else can you like, you know, get a piece of, get a piece of that, you know,
in other ways other than this.
So that's kind of where I got hooked onto it, where I got started was from watching Ben
and then I had him come onto my podcast, you know, last year and we talked about these
things.
He would have never come and talked to me.
I'm sure if it wasn't for, for the vases, but, but we formed a great friendship.
He's a great dude.
I'm sure I'll give a handful of shout outs to Bender and this thing, but yeah, I mean,
you can do it through auction houses, you know, or websites basically.
So you know, if you go on to like on your phone, you can download a app live auctioneers.com
and that's a good one.
Like that's like, they have a, they got a bunch on there.
Christie's, Sotheby's, Bonham's, Placus, you know, there's a lot of auction houses that
sell these things.
These tiny ones are, when you showed me this last night, I was, my mind was melting because
not only are these things like hard granite, the most hard stone that exists on the earth,
but these things are precise and they're like smaller than a shot glass.
Right.
Yeah.
And they get smaller than that too.
I mean, yeah, there's some, there's some crazy, I don't know, yeah, how they did it.
It's a huge mystery, but yeah, all different sizes.
And why did they do it?
Why did they make them so small?
Right, right.
Yeah.
And they're really, you know, you get some really precise ones at that size too, you
know, so it's, that's the difference.
But I mean, there's like this, this classification that's super precise, like crazy precise.
And then there's a classification that looks like, you know, it's, it's, it's just done
with, um, it's incredible work, but just done with, with less, um, whatever you might call
it.
Yeah.
It's incredible tools.
You wouldn't think about something as like a vase being such a mysterious relic when
you compare it to the great pyramid, because it's just as crazy of a feat of a human being
to produce something like this as the great pyramids, because it's so precise and it's
made out of these stones, out of these hard grain of stones.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Totally agree.
Yeah.
I mean, when you look at the pyramids, there's, you look at the Serapium, you know, those
huge boxes that are down there, like you look at the, the vases, um, we don't have the
tools for any of that stuff.
Like we don't know how that stuff was built.
You know, we don't know how they built the pyramids.
I mean, there's a couple of theories with like ramps and sand, you know, like pulleys
and ropes and, you know, there's some theories for this stuff.
There's some, uh, but, but we don't have the tools from the pre-dynastic time to really
know how these were built.
So yeah, it's a huge mystery, man.
There's, there's, there's not that many mysteries left.
So this is a cool one.
It's really cool.
How many of these vases have you guys actually measured in one of those laser scanners or
those, uh, what are they CT scans?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's two different ways that you can do it.
So there's a structured light scan, um, which is like, you know, you put it onto a,
um, you put it onto like, you know, a flat, a flat surface, you spin it around, you've
got like a, uh, something shining a laser at it, a light at it, and it, and it picks
up the dimensions basically by turning it.
And so you get like a full picture of it and it creates a mesh file.
Um, that's a little bit less precise than the, uh, CT scanner.
So CT scanner is the way to go for sure if you're going to be measuring these things
and attempt to like figure out the exact dimensions.
And there's a great company that I've been using called EMS and they've got a CT scanner.
I ship them up to Michigan and they scan them there and then ship them back.
It's like a, you know, they, they do it in a day, they ship it back.
Um, but they've got an incredible CT scanner and the, the benefit of the CT scanner is
you get the inside walls.
So yeah.
So you get like, you get all of the, you get the full thing with the, with the structured
light scan on the, you're just getting the outside, but, but yeah, the CT scanner and
it's at a higher resolution.
So you can really, you know, get down to like a thousandth of a millimeter on, on the measurements
to know exactly how precise they are.
It's pretty crazy.
A thousandth of a millimeter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's insane.
Which one of these vases is the most precise?
Uh, you know, I mean, there's different measurements on all of them.
So there's only a few ways to measure each of these.
So take this one for example.
So this is one of them for sure.
Uh, you can measure the top outside of the lip, right?
So from here to here, you can measure the, the roundness of it, but that's one measurement.
The inside of the mouth is another measurement, the, the width.
So like from here to here, here to here, the X axis, the Y axis.
So there's only like six measurements on each of these five.
If it has a round bottom, six, if it doesn't.
And so this one is one of those that on some of the, some of the measurements, it's showing
like insanely precise numbers.
And so this is one that I brought up to Danville and was with, uh, you know, Chris Don and
Alex Don and Ben and all those guys.
And we were measuring this one.
Um, so, so this one's got some insane measurements to it.
This one, this thin wall face here that we don't want to drop.
This is, this is the.
That's the most fragile.
This is the most fragile.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
By far.
And there's not another one.
This is, this is one of the coolest ones just because I've never seen another one
like this anywhere.
Like, I mean, there's one in a museum that, that, that, that you can find pictures of
online that has actually part of the side broken out of it.
And so you can see that it's about two millimeters thick.
This thing on, on a band that goes across the middle of this thing, do we have a flashlight?
Um, somewhere.
Oh, right there.
So this thing is two millimeters.
Steve, where's the best place to hold it?
Like right here, this area?
Is that good?
Um, yeah, that'll work.
Yeah.
I mean, it's pretty, it's pretty.
That's wild.
It's pretty bright in here, but, but you can still see the light coming through this.
Let's turn the lights off.
This band.
Let's make it spooky in here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There you go.
Look at that dude.
Holy cow.
Isn't that insane?
Yeah.
There you go.
Yeah.
I mean, and so, so what they did is they thinned out this, this part around the middle.
They made the part around the middle about two millimeters thick.
The rest of it is basically four millimeters thick on, on the bottom and on the top.
And then they, on the bottom, on the very bottom of it, they, they, they make it thicker
so that it's, you know, it's like a stable and sturdy and it's not going to break.
So what is this material?
That's granite.
That's red granite.
This is red granite.
Yeah.
Or rose granite, whatever you want to call it.
Aswan granite.
What, where does this land on the Moe's scale of hardness?
I mean granite for the most part is, is going to be between a six and a seven.
So sometimes seven and a half.
It can, it can, you know, but it's in that range.
It's one of the harder stones on earth.
I mean, when you talk about granite, granite, diorite, diorite, basalt, there's a lot of
basalt here.
Those are going to be the, the, the hardest stones that, that these are made out of.
You bought all these, right?
And you decided to pay with your own money to get these scans done.
Correct.
To get these things measured.
Yeah.
Any sort of help from any of these Egyptian museums or like the Petrie Museum or any,
anybody like that?
No, no.
I mean, so in terms of, in terms of what?
No, I haven't worked with them.
Like in terms of like, like trying to analyze these bases and figure out what's going on.
I haven't tried yet.
I haven't tried to work with the museums yet.
So, so I'm kind of just doing my own thing with this own, with my private collection.
And I'm trying to like study them and scan them and just, you know, I don't honestly
with work and with life and everything else, like I don't have the capacity to like reach
out to museums and try to do all that.
I know that by talking to people, by talking to people like Ralph Ellis, a bunch of people
have tried to reach out to museums and get things scanned.
The answer has been no, from the museums that have been reached out to.
And I know like Ralph has told me he's reached out to like 10 different people.
And Adam Young, who's going to be presenting at the Cosmic Summit has tried to reach out
to people and supposedly he's making some progress.
Supposedly he's, you know, he's hopefully going to be able to do that.
He hasn't really, you know, let me, let me know one way or the other.
But the issue is you have to take them out of the museums and then you have to ship them
away to a CT scanner somewhere at some other location and a lot of museums just don't want
to do that.
So, so far museums have not wanted to play ball, but ultimately that's the goal, right?
I mean, we have to, we have to have things that have been with perfect archaeological
context that have been taken out of a tomb and we know that we can date that tomb to
a specific period of time and then that that thing's been pulled out so that there's no
chance that it was, you know, some modern forgery or whatever.
So that's what, and that's the biggest pushback from the detractors or the debunkers or whatever
you want to call the group of people that hate the fact that we're doing this research
and that we're trying to see if there's anything here that they're saying, you know, well,
there's no, there's no, it could be a fake, it could be a modern fake, you know, so.
I think who are the people that are saying that these things could be modern fakes?
I mean, it's a possibility, you know, but I mean, I think that a lot of people within
the, when they see the measurements, it's really the ones that are super precise and
it's people within the archaeological community or the, you know, or Egyptologists or historians,
people who think that they have, that we have the exact right story of the history of mankind
and that there's no tools that we don't know about outside of the archaeological record,
you know, and that everything that we know is perfectly true and complete facts right
now. Those people are the ones that have a difficult time with the artifacts that are
very precise because there's no tools that can create, you know, this artifact in the
archaeological record. I mean, you've got, I think, well, we can check the scan report,
but I think on this one, when you look at the lip on the X and Y axis, you've got like
a thousandth of a millimeter. I mean, it's, it's stupid thousandth of a millimeter of a
millimeter. Yeah. Yeah. It's like one fiftieth of the width of a human hair. It's totally
microscopic. That's the distance on the X axis and the Y axis of the outer lip.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this from here to here is one distance from here to here is
another distance and it's like a thousandth of a millimeter off. So it's perfectly, it's
perfectly round is what that tells you to within microscopic tolerances. And supposedly,
these were made with chisels, you know, that these were, these were like rounded off with
chisels. There's not turning devices from, there's not a lathe, you know, from, from this,
from pre-dynastic Egypt. What were these come from? If you, if you asked mainstream Egyptologists
when this would have been made, what would they say? They would, I mean, for the museum
pieces or for this piece specifically right here. For any of these pieces? Yeah. I mean,
they would say, you know, that if it's, that if it's a real artifact, that if it's, you know,
then they'll probably go along with the, the dates on the certificate of authenticity. And,
and, you know, so they'll tell you it was from between 4000 BC and 2650 BC, you know,
in that time period. If they think that it's just too precise to, that it has to be a modern
reproduction made on some kind of a machine, then they're going to tell you it's a modern,
you know, that it's fake. And from 2500 BC to 5000, 5000 BC? Yeah, I mean, pretty much 40,
yeah, 5000. You're going to find, you're going to find some really crude 5000 BC stone artifacts,
but 4500 to 3100 BC, kind of that pre-dynastic time period is where a lot of these come from.
And from that time period, what are the tools that we have evidence for? Yeah, I mean, it's
garbage. It's like, you know, you're talking about like, and this is the part where I don't want to,
like, I think very highly of our ancestors, right? And this is the part where the detractors are
always like, you know, they just think our ancestors are idiots, you know, but they didn't
have tools that were capable of doing this. So when you look at the tools in the archaeological
record, I mean, you're talking about like flint chisels, you're talking about copper chisels,
you're talking about, you know, just pounding stones, pounding stones, exactly. Sticks,
you know, you know, sticks with where you attach a rock to the bottom of the stick,
and you stick it inside of this thing, and you twist it around. And that's how supposedly you
get wall thickness that's perfectly, you know, perfectly the exact same thickness on this side
of the artifact is on this side of the artifact, I mean, to, you know, to the 100th of a millimeter.
I mean, and you can't do that by just like turning a stick in here. But that's the tools
that exist in the archaeological record from this time period. It's a time period that we know
almost nothing about. So, you know, and it's the hardest stones on earth, and it's the hardest
material on earth to work with. And so it's like when you talk about the pyramids, it's like the
oldest stuff always seems to be the best, it always seems to be the most precise, you know,
and it's like, you go back and you look at ancient Egypt and the structures that were built and the
pyramids that were built, the oldest stuff is always the best was similar with these objects.
And it's like, you know, to not have, it's just a huge question mark to not have any tools that
are capable of producing something like this. And yet here they are, here's the artifacts.
And, you know, going back to pre-dynastic times, Egypt wasn't even united, you know, it was upper
Egypt and lower Egypt were two completely separate areas until Scorpion King came along in whatever
3200, 3100 BC, killed the king and united upper and lower Egypt. And then they had this like this,
this glory, this is the story, you know, from the establishment that they had this like incredible
several hundred years, several couple of thousand year run of, you know, pyramid building and
creating all these incredible ancient structures. So, at this time period, in the pre-dynastic
time period, it was literally, I mean, you're talking like just, you know, very primitive,
very primitive people, very primitive tools. That's the story that we're given. So,
so if we wanted to, could we recreate a granite vase that's as precise as that one today?
I think so. I think so. Yeah, I do think so. Yeah. How would we do it?
With a five-axis mill, you know, with like a, like a very sophisticated lathe and you would
probably design it on a computer, you know, you would, you would, you would just, you know,
could it be done by hand? I'm going to say no, you know, I'm going to say that we couldn't today
do create one of the precision artifacts by hand. But we would need very expensive machines and
computer programs and stuff to create that. It's not like a hobbyist couldn't do this. Correct.
Yeah, a couple hundred thousand dollars, you know, you're talking about machines that cost that much
and there's, there's probably companies that you could, you know, hire to do this.
I haven't seen any, and this is part of the issue. Like if people can do it and people can make these
and it's so cheap and so easy because I've, I've seen some debunking videos that's like, you know,
yeah, there's a company in China that can just go make one of these for like $50. Well, nobody's
doing that. Like nobody's, you don't see that. Is there, yeah, is there any videos of people
making these? Right, no. And there's no evidence that they exist, you know. So, and, and, and,
and when you look at the market and you're studying the market like I did in 2023,
you look at the inventory that's there and available online, there's, it's not like there's
like a plethora of new artifacts coming online at all times. Like right now, if you go out and you
try to buy some of these, you're not going to find any, like there's none available right now.
And if it was that easy to produce these and to make them and to make them, you know,
fake and cheap and easy and, and, and, and the, and the dealers were like all, you know,
like criminals, then you would see these all over the place. Like you would be able to buy them
from anybody anywhere, you know, because, because they could, they could, you know, they could make
a tremendous markup, but we don't see that and we don't see duplicates. That's the other thing.
You know, we don't see like the same artifact produced twice ever, you know, you don't, you
don't, that's, that's not a, that's not a thing. So it's not as if all of these are so different.
Yeah. And, yeah, totally. And like this one, they don't have flat bottoms, they spin.
Right. Right. So if you're making a vase, right, you think nowadays if you make a vase,
it's like to hold something in it, right? Flowers or a decorative piece that sits on a table.
Right. But if this is a decorative piece that's meant to sit on a table,
why wouldn't you make a flat bottom? Why do these all have these rounded curved bottoms to them?
Right. They don't, like they wobble, right? Like that one right there, or this one right here.
Yeah. All these spin. Yeah. I mean, all the, obviously all the round bottom spin, but like
even, you know, like this one, like does not look like it should be able to spin, right?
Right. But, but they all, I mean, most of them, most of them do, they, they intentionally round
to the bottom. God, this thing's heavy. That's a big piece of granite. Yeah. And it's like,
it's like, why would you intentionally round the corners off of the bottom to like maximize,
or minimize friction? You know, I mean, why would you want it to be wobbly and to be able to tip
over? Now, I mean, I think if you ask like a, like a historian or someone or, or, you know,
one of the debunker channels, they're going to be like, well, it's, they, they, they kept them in
sand. You know, they, they, they kept them, they, they wanted to be sand. Yeah. I don't know. I don't
know. Oh, they said, okay, I see. Yeah. Like in their houses or whatever. But even that big one,
you know, that massive granite one over there, that's going to, yeah, that's going to spin. That's
got a, that's got a round bottom. Yeah, it's heavy. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's, my table's kind of messed up.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, um, yeah, it's, it's crazy. Like you see it on, look at that. Yeah. Right.
Huh. Yeah. If you put these on like a flat granite table, oh yeah, I bet all day, all day.
Like look at, check out this guy, this brushy guy. And like, so if you're making modern reproductions,
these are the kinds of things that like people today, like if you're making these, they wouldn't
know that, you know, like, like people wouldn't, I don't know. There's just too many,
there's a lot of reasons to think that these are, and when you look at them, I mean, these things
have got some age to them, man. Oh my God. Yeah. Right. I mean, it's different when you, like,
we're holding a thousand year old relics made by people that existed fucking thousands of years
ago. Right. Yeah. It's pretty crazy. This is one of the coolest things. They're like, yeah,
they're like little time machines, man. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. And they all have a different story.
You know, and, and that's the thing, like, like you, um, I mean, they, they, there's, there's a
possibility. There's, I think there's three possibilities for each and every one of these
that exist in the world. Right. And, and the possibilities of when they were made. And, and
you could say, you know, just starting in the present day and going back in time, you could say,
okay, they were either made in modern times as a, as a forgery, as a fake, or they were made by the
ancient Egyptians, or they were made by some precursor civilization, like some lost civilization.
There's actually, I mean, there's some good arguments for that. Like there's some really good,
like, I mean, Ben Van Kirkwick does a great job, you know, kind of pushing that, like, you know,
putting that idea forward. You don't see them after the, after like 20,
2200 BC, pretty much, like you don't see any of these Hearthstone vases. After 2200.
Yeah. Like the intermediate period, like after the, um, right. Yeah. You don't, you don't see,
like that's kind of when Egypt fell into like this, this, like, like despair. It was like a tough
time for them. And then they came out like 100 years later, but you don't see any after that.
And there's a question as to whether or not you see any of them after 2650 BC, which is when Dozier,
or Jozier, nobody really knows how to pronounce them, but, but, uh, the step pyramid guy, the guy
that buried himself underneath the step pyramid with like 40,000 of these things, um, you don't,
there's a question as to whether or not we really, after, if they make any of them after that point
in time, you know, um, well, yeah, like the civilization that was there during that time,
it's, they were doing very crude stuff. Like they were creating those hieroglyphs on the side of those
boxes and, um, they were making other vases that were very crude, right? Very rough out of different,
like very softer stone that were nowhere near comparable to these, but it looks like they
could have been maybe trying to copy them or duplicate them or something like that. Yeah.
Yeah, dude. It's insane. It's a huge question.
Isn't there a video on YouTube of, I think it was on your Twitter of a guy who tried to
recreate one of these things by hand? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's that one called?
Yeah. Uh, I think it's scientists against myth. Scientists against myth. Yeah. Okay. Which,
you know, their bias already to begin with. Right. I mean, they're calling this a myth,
you know, anything that's outside of the established story is a myth for these guys,
but, but, and what happened in there in their video? They spent two, this is it. Yeah. Yeah,
there you go. Yeah. They spent over two years, two years and two months, I think it was creating
an artifact. So they made a couple, uh, out of soft material. That's one of the soft materials.
I think that's Brescia and they, um, and so that's again, one that's very easy to work with.
That tool, by the way, there's no record of it. I mean, they're just assuming that the
ancient Egyptians were using like a stick with a copper tip on it and sand abrasives and water
to hollow out to core the inside of it to create the core. Okay. Yeah. We don't have that. That
tool doesn't exist within the record. They're just assuming that it exists from, from my understanding.
And again, I'm not like Egyptologist guy. I just kind of do this for fun. Just hobby, but, but,
but yeah, they, they, they made a couple of ones that were just really, I mean, look, I gotta give
them credit for trying, right? But, but I mean, what they made was, so they're starting with this
giant chunk of granite. This, uh, yeah, it wasn't even there. They made, I think they made three
and their first two were not granite. Their first two were soft stones. Oh, really? Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
And then they came back, it was like Brescia and I think marble and marble people don't realize is
very soft. It's like the same as like alabaster Brescia. It's a three on the Moscow. It's like
easy to work with. So, right. Statue of David, you know, super easy to chisel that away.
But, but the, but then they came back because everybody was complaining that they, you know,
they're using these soft stones. So they came back and they made one out of diorite. Oh, really?
So, yeah, diorites like granite, you know, it's a similar, similar density and it took them,
or hardness and it took them over two years to create a, and this is the one? I think that doesn't
look like diorite though, does it? I don't know if that's the one or not to be honest with you, but,
but I mean, all these stones kind of blend to get, they can all look, yeah, that's the one. Yeah,
that's the one. Not precise at all after, after two years. And, and so, you know, they had,
look at that, they had a lot of problems with it and like it broke once, they had to redo it. It's,
and it's not precise. It's right. Yeah. It's certainly not within one 1000th of an inch.
Right, right. I think they're talking about closer to like a millimeter maybe of deviation
on roundness and they're, you know, they're turning it. So it should be round, but yeah,
see, I mean, it's not, yeah, and it's not even close. I mean, these are like 100 times. Look at
this, dude. Yeah, yeah. How do you do that? Right, right. Using a pounding stone. The biggest thing,
the biggest thing with this thing that they made is that they, they cored out the middle, right?
They drilled out the middle, but they didn't ever go in and bore the, and hollowed the walls.
Yeah. So they just did like one straight tube drill down. Exactly. Exactly. And after two years,
they couldn't, they, they couldn't like go in and hollow out the wall. That's pretty decent. I mean,
I mean, they dressed up with, that was like, they wrote on it with pen and like, oh, really? Yeah,
that's not really what it looks like. They were also using the wheel, which Egyptologists say
Egyptians never had. They didn't have the wheel. Yeah, right. So, so these, I mean, the, the theory
is that with these, that it was like chisels and pounding stones that shaped the roundness. And,
and so like, right. So when these guys are twisting this thing and turning it, that's not the
explanation for, for how these were made. It's literally like chisels and pounding stones to
form this perfect roundness of, you know, up to a thousandth of a, of a millimeter at times. You
know, I mean, that's the extreme, but, you know, a thousandth of an inch is very common. You know,
a couple thousandths of an inch, very, very common. And you just, you don't get that with chisels.
No, no, no, I can't imagine. Yeah. I mean, I've never tried, but I can't imagine it would be
possible. Yeah. I mean, especially when you're talking about these, I mean, this one, dude.
Yeah. Yeah, that one's weird. What is your wildest guess to what these were used for?
Oh man. Just pure speculation. Just pure tinfoil hat. I don't know, man. I mean,
I don't know. I don't know. I really have no idea. I wish I could even.
You ever had any crazy theories? I mean,
this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso. The older I get, the more I want to invest
in my health because I don't just want to look young. I want to feel young. Recent scientific
findings demonstrate that it is not only possible to slow down the aging process,
but it's also possible to reverse it. That is why I use cell being by Verso. Cell being contains
scientifically proven ingredients that target the root causes of aging. And that way you can
avoid the whack-a-mole process that you get when you use regular supplements. It contains
NMN, resveratrol, TMG, and together, these ingredients turn on longevity pathways in your
body to help fight the effects of aging. It also improves metabolism, boosting your NAD plus and
so on. I started using cell being years ago, originally when nutritional scientist Dr. Don
D'Agostino came on the show and explained to me all of the amazing benefits. Now I use it for
pre-workout. I use it in the morning for an extra boost of energy. And essentially,
it is the holy grail. Verso also publishes third party testing from each batch produced to guarantee
you're getting what you pay for. So if you want to support the show, click the link down in the
description. It's buy.ver.so slash Danny or use the coupon code Danny at checkout for 15% off
your first order. Again, that's B-U-Y.ver.so slash D-A-N-N-Y for 15% off your first order. And
don't forget to use the coupon code Danny. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
You know, I think it was probably, I don't, I don't know. I don't know. You know, the interesting
thing is, is like, you see, like on this guy, for example, you see two holes, you know, like on
the same. So it was, it was very important for whatever reason that they had, it didn't have to
be on opposite sides, but that they had two holes on the thing in one of the, you know, so is that
a clue as to what it was used for? You know, I mean, I've heard like crazy stuff, like, you know,
like positive negative charges. It was like, you know, your, your like batteries or whatever the
hell. Like, I don't, you know, no idea. Pure speculation. Really, really nobody, nobody has
any idea. But this one, people say that some people say that they're urns, right? Yeah, but
there's never been like, to my understanding, there's never been like, like body parts or like
even human remains. Oh, really? Yeah. Like ashes or anything found in these things. Like, that's,
that's another one of the things. When you find them in barrels, when you find them in tombs,
there's not like, there's not like body parts. Now, I think like the, like the, the, the mainstream
explanation is it's like, like, like, like liquids and, you know, like perfumes and like just
different kinds of, and if you've seen the lids on these things. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's pretty
silly. But what do they look like? You have an image of them on there? Yeah, I do. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
they're, yeah, let me see if I can find it. I mean, so if you can make the, if you can make the
artifact itself, why can't you make a lid to match it? You know, and so the mainstream explanation
is that the lids were used, it's like a, it's like a clay lid, basically, that you use as like a
stopper. And the explanation is because it's like, you know, it'll expand and contract and it'll be
able to, I'm going to have a hard time finding this. It's interesting because it's like the
insides aren't as perfect as the outsides, right? Yeah. Like the opposite of the Serapium Box is
where the insides are perfect. Yeah. And the outsides are kind of rough and not, not perfectly
square. I mean, it's still pretty damn close. Yeah. The inside, they, they oftentimes they
left the tool marks on the inside. Like if I rub my finger on the inside of this top rim,
like they literally flattened the top ceiling of this thing. Right. Like how are you going to do
that with the, any of these tools? Yeah. I mean, the inside of them, you've got the tool marks and
it's like, you know, it's, it's, it's kind of a question mark as to whether or not the tool marks
are horizontal or whether or not they're spiral. Right. I mean, you could, sometimes they kind of
like crossover and you could make the argument that it's a spiral tool mark, but, but then at
other times it's like they're, they're perfectly flat and horizontal. It looks like, but, but yeah,
they don't, typically they don't polish the inside of the artifacts. Typically they're leaving that
part and showing you the tool marks. And so, you know, you look in any of these and, and you've
got tool marks on the inside. Yeah. And that's why I brought one for you that I think could be a modern
reproduction, like a modern fake. Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. And so that's this guy. So feel this
compared to all the other ones that you've picked up. Oh, it's way lighter. Right. It's way lighter.
Check the inside too. It's like, it's polished on the inside the same way that it's polished on the
outside. Oh yeah. The inside is just as smooth. Right. Right. And there's absolutely no damage.
There's no wear. There's no, you know, you don't get any age on that thing whatsoever, but, but it
was sold as an ancient Egyptian, you know. Did you feel this and inspect it before you bought it?
No. No. You just look at pictures. I bought it. And, and yeah, I just looked at pictures and it,
and it showed up and I'm like, yeah, I don't know about this one. But I, but I kept it. No, I,
the guy gave me the opportunity to return it. Oh, did he really? Oh, that's cool. But I wanted to
use it and it wasn't very expensive. So, so I wanted to, and it does not spin. It doesn't spin.
It's got to, exactly. So, so I wanted to be able to use it as an example of something that is different
than what you see on the, you know, the 65 others. Yeah. That it's like, you know, there's a, like,
people that go and that make these today in China or whatever, like, they don't know what they're
doing. You know, they didn't, they wouldn't know to round the bottom. They can't put age on something
like this. They don't know the leaf tool marks at the top in the, in the inside, you know, they
don't know not to polish. So, so yeah, I mean, that's, I think another good reason to, to think
that these things are, you know, genuine and authentic. Do you have any visuals that show
like some of the measurements or the scans that were done on these things? Yeah, for sure. Yeah.
So, so which one would you want to? Oh yeah, any of them, whatever one you think. Okay. Yeah. I mean,
this one, this one's pretty great. This is the gold handle one. The plakas. Yeah. Yeah. Which
is just, it's just, and why is the gold, how do they get the gold on there? What is that? It's a
question, you know, maybe that was added later. It could be. Yeah. Yeah. Could be. I really don't
know. I mean, supposedly they say it's original, but you know, it's really kind of hard to know.
But this is the certificate of authenticity that comes with it. I mean, you get a different one
based on. And is it real gold? Yeah. Really? Yeah. I mean, it's very, you know, it's thin,
it's like gold plate, basically. But yeah, that one will spend perfectly for like a very long
period of time. This, this is a receipt from 1975, you know, that like describes the thing.
And then we go into the CT scan report. Right. And again, this was done by a third party. They
don't know, you know, anything about like the project or whatever, but, but it gives you these
measurements on the artifact and, and, and it tells, and you can compare the different measurements
to try to, you know, get a sense for like, you know, the symmetry involved in it. So, so just for
example, this measurement is of the X and Y axis of the width of the artifact. So, so it's like the,
can you punch in on that a little bit? Yeah, for sure. So, oh, wow, look at that. That's the, that's
damn. Yeah. So, so the measurement is 128.457 millimeters on the Y axis and on the X axis,
it's 128.476 millimeters. Yeah. So you're talking two one hundredths of a millimeter, you know,
which is like less than, I think that's less than one one thousandth of an inch. I mean,
you know, crazy, crazy, crazy deviation there. The mouth, so the mouth opening and the mouth
opening is a little bit more difficult a lot of times because of, of like damage for whatever
reason, like on the inside of a lot of these things. But, but yeah, I mean, you got a 52.06
versus 52.112. So, you know, do the math there. I think you're, I'm not doing the math there.
Yeah. That's, that's a minuscule. It's a lot of math. Yeah. But, but very small.
What is that one right there? So, so zoom in right there. What did that say right there?
This is 52.26, 52.30. Nominal. So it's not a real measurement. The actual measurement is
the measurement number. The nominal is kind of like they create this CAD model of what the
perfect circle wouldn't look like and what like, I think it's kind of like what they think if they
were to, they take a slice of it basically and then they do a slice all the way around. Yeah. Yeah.
And then they try to create like a nominal measurement, but that's not, it's not a real
measurement. And then, yeah, how to measure the handles. And a lot of times, yeah, we haven't even
talked about like the, the royal qubit. Right. Right. We got the sacred geometry baked into
these bad boys. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yeah. But, but on this one, on the handle measurement,
a lot of, on a lot of these things, the handle measurement is actually a circumference measurement.
So, so, so the distance there is meaningless in terms of royal qubits, but when you multiply it by
pi and you get the circumference of the handles, which would have on almost all of these been the
widest part of the original block that they were using, you get a number that is like a royal finger,
you know, which is a subunit of a royal qubit, which we can talk about in a little while. But,
but on most of the other measurements, it's all, it's all diameter, but on the, on the handles,
it's usually, what I'm finding is it usually shows up in terms of circumference. So that's
that one, you know, a lot of, oh, and, you know, I should show you the, I had them. And then measure
the insides. I had to measure the inside of the holes just to see if there was anything there,
you know, in terms of the royal qubit measurements and, but I haven't really found any correlation.
So it doesn't seem like that that's a measurement that they were trying to, to do.
Interesting. Yeah. So that would have been the seventh, you know, but, but I think I've identified
like six on, on these things. So like, there's two questions, like, was this purposeful precision?
Or was this just because it was so damn easy for them that didn't matter?
Right, right. Yeah. I mean, when you look at the precision as it relates to the measurements,
like the royal qubits, then it's pretty obvious that they intended to do that on a lot of these
things, like on a lot of these things. It's like, you know, on this round one, for example,
like it's like, it's four royal fingers tall or digits, we'll call it maybe a digit tall,
like people call it either, either one. So it's four fingers tall, four fingers tall,
six fingers wide. So, I mean, 6.0 to like just a couple of thousands of an inch away from Isaac
Newton's 18.7 millimeter royal finger, like the, like the measurement that he defined and, and
like he realized that the great pyramid, the step pyramid, the bent pyramid,
and great bent step and red pyramid were all used this, this, this measurement of a royal qubit,
which was 523.50 52.36 centimeters. So 523.6 millimeters was a royal qubit for all of those
pyramids. And he found like the King's chamber in the great pyramid is 10 by 20 qubits, like exactly.
And a sub unit of that we know is the finger. And so there's 28 fingers in every one of those.
So every finger is 18.7 millimeters. And when you measure a lot of these things,
you find that measurement in the dimensions of the artifact on a lot of these things. Now,
I haven't like, I've only scanned, you know, 12, I think so far or something like that. So I got
more work to do, but, but I have found that royal finger measurement in a lot of them,
not every one of them, but a lot of them. And it's consistent because it's in like,
you know, four out of the six measurements or, you know, and it's way more than coincidental that
you'd be finding like perfect, you know, .0 royal fingers, like, you know, in, in these things. So,
so it's pretty clear that, that at least, that at least on some of these things that they were
using that system of measurement to create it. And it's very clear that that that dimension and
that accuracy of manufacture is like, it's one thing to make a circle, right? And it's one thing
to be able to like say, okay, I got a circle that's, you know, one 1000th of an inch of perfect
roundness, but it's another to have a dimension that's perfectly round or perfectly, you know,
precise. And that's one thing that hasn't been really explored on these artifacts in any meaningful
way by anybody really yet. And so it's one of the things that by measuring these things, I'm going
to be able to hopefully shed some more light on that. Like, is it just random? Is it just coincidence?
And I just happened to have found these things in the first handful that I've measured and I'm
never going to find it again. But you don't see like inches, you don't see centimeters, you know,
you don't see like, I'm getting zero hits on, you know, just random systems of measurement, you
know, like random metrological systems, you don't see, you always see it on that one specific
Isaac Newton's, you know, 18.7 that the pyramids were built off of. Well, those, those measurements
are the measurements that they used back then though, right? Those civilizations would use
those measurements to do stuff. I mean, even going to like the Romans and stuff like that,
they used the, the royal qubit, the finger, all those different terms for whatever the hand
to, to build their structures. So it did change, you know, like the, all those ancient pyramids,
like it kind of argues that maybe all those pyramids are a lot older, you know, and maybe
these artifacts are a lot older. If it's the same system that you find in the pyramids that you find
in these ancient artifacts, you know, maybe, maybe they were either they were all built roughly
within the same, you know, a couple of hundred years or potentially it was like a, the measurement
system in use for some lost civilization, you know, so, so maybe whoever, you know, it could be a very,
very ancient metrological system or it could just be what the ancient Egyptians used, you know, in the,
in the, or in the pre-dynastic and early dynastic time period. Because the pyramids measured the
same way, right? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. But, but, but like then after a while, the pharaohs started
to change up the system, right? So, so it like the qubit changed based on the length of the pharaoh's
elbow to their, to their middle finger, they would, they would like, they would make the qubit
based on how their body was, you know, how long their, their arm was. And so, so everything got
kind of mixed up. So that could be part of the reason why you only see it in, in some and you
don't see it in others, because I don't know what the freaking, you know, third dynasty pharaoh's
elbow length was, you know. Yeah. Right. You know, you know, so, so yeah, there's a lot of unknowns.
But, but yeah, this is kind of interesting. This is the surface deviation report of this specific
artifact with the gold handles on it. And you can pretty clearly see that the deviation is in,
this is the scale of the deviation. So, you know, it goes from, and this is in millimeters. So the
surface deviation is not as precise as like the, the dimensions or the roundness necessarily.
But, but what you see is, and some of this could be due to surface residue, you know, that I just
didn't like, that just wasn't cleaned off, you know, because these are very, very. When you say
surface deviation, what does that mean? So it's like, it's like this part of the object right here
that you see in bright orange is 0.3 millimeters above the average. Ah, got it. Yeah. Okay. So the
blue is, is going like down in elevation. Exactly. Orange is up in elevation. Yeah. Yeah. You can
kind of think of like the dark blue as just below sea level, the light blue as sea level, the green
as land and like yellow and red as like, you know, volcano. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, but it is interesting
because you see that clearly, you know, you see this, this yellow line going across the middle of it.
Pretty, I mean, I think that says it was turned, you know, that you've got this whole patch of
yellow that goes across the middle of it. That indicates that a lathe was used, I think, and
this is not the best example, I got better examples, but that a lathe was used to manufacture this
thing. And then you got this, this, this blue line, you know, right there that goes all the way
around it that also indicates, you know, this thing was, was turned on a lathe.
But this, and again, how does that explain the handles? Yeah. So, so what they would have done
is left the material between the handles and then come back and got that later. And you can kind of
see, maybe they did chisel that on this specific artifact because, you know, some of these blue,
like that, you know, that area, this area between the handles, maybe that was chiseled potentially,
but, but what they would have done, let me see if I can find it here. I'm gonna, probably, uh,
let's see. Oh, not there. What they would have done, gosh, is,
they would have, they would have, well, I'll just... Maybe they use some kind of like
dark magic to make these things soft and they could just mold them however they wanted.
It's possible, you know, I mean, so, but there is really good evidence for lathe use on most of
these things, like on a lot of these things. Right. So, let me see the thin wall granite,
for example. So, so this one is that, this is the certificate for the thin one that we looked at,
where you can shine the light through it. This is the surface deviation report for that artifact.
Whoa, look at that, dude. Right. That's pretty telling. Yeah, pretty, pretty telling there.
I mean, that was turned. I mean, clearly. Can you punch in a little bit more? Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, for sure. Wow, dude. Yeah. Whoever did this. It's like ribbed. Yeah, yeah, exactly,
but you can't see that. You can't see it to the naked eye. With your naked eye. It looks completely
flat. It looks completely like, yeah. So, whoever made this, this isn't like, you know,
modern day machine that would have made this with like lasers, because you would never get this,
this, you know, you wouldn't get that. Well, is that how they do it today with when they cut
granite? They use, what do they use to cut like precise granite today? They use, it's like a,
it's, they've got a handful of different methods, but it's like very, very sturdy on rods, like
metal rods, and they're turning it, and they're like, they're like just like shaving it off it,
like perfect. I mean, it's computer guided five axis CNC mills is my understanding. And it's like,
right, they're shaving it off like to perfect roundness. It's not like you'd be turning it,
and then changing the tool and going to a higher level, and then turning it again,
like is kind of what we see here. So not a lathe. This, this is a lathe. No, I mean, I mean,
today. Oh, it wouldn't be a traditional, like what we think of as a lathe.
Yeah, it would be. Yeah, it would be. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just a very sophisticated
lathe today. Good Lord. Now, what is that red? That's just popping out more? Yeah. So the red,
a lot of people, you know, talk about the handles and talk about how the handles are not as precise
as the rest of the object. And that this shows that that's the case because of the redness.
What you have to understand about the handles is that on every artifact, they're, they're offset,
like they're not directly across from each other. And so people like, like the bunker people, you
know, they, they're all like, see that it was handmade, you know, it's like clearly handmade.
But, but in reality, it's on every single artifact. And it's almost always like,
when you see the side that the handles are closer together, there's some, there's some
portion of it that's like more visually attractive, like, like this one, for example,
you know, you got this like wide open piece on the granite, that's the side that the handles are
closer to. So in my mind, they, they intentionally had the handles pushed forward to the side where
it's more visually attractive. And I think this is a good example of that. There's a bunch of
examples of that. But I think they did it on purpose. Like, I think they, I think the handles
were pretty clearly shifted together on one side on purpose on all of these, because it's
consistent. You don't find any where the handles are directly across from each other. But what that
does, the software, the program is, is assuming that the handles are supposed to be directly
opposite of each other. And so when they're not, you get these red lines on the, on the thing,
you know, got it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can see how it's almost like pushed forward.
Right, right. And, and does that speak to the function, you know, whatever the function was,
you know, I, I don't know. It's like, again, that's like pure speculation land that, you know,
just just, I don't, I don't know that we know. So that, so that's kind of interesting. And then
you've got the thickness report, which is, which is pretty cool. So you can, you can tell, and
you can tell that, that this is where they really thinned out the wall on the, on the thin wall
vase. And, you know, you can see kind of the thickness and. So the green is the thickest?
The green is the thickest. Yeah. And it's always thickest at the bottom. And I'm guessing the
purple is the thinnest? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's that band there that's super thin.
And, you know, the, unfortunately, the, the company EMS wasn't able to stack these measurements
at the exact same height on both sides. So we can't really like, like match up the, the,
the bottom versus the bottom and say, you know, these are at the exact same height,
they're just kind of arbitrarily picking points. So, so it's not as if you can compare 4.574 to,
you know, 4.435, but what we did find, and I've got tools, like wall thickness gauge,
is that when you, when you do that, the wall thickness is one of those other measurements
that's always extraordinarily accurate, especially on the precision made ones, like the wall thickness
on one side at one horizontal axis is going to be almost exactly as thick as the wall,
as the wall on the other side of the artifact. Yeah. Yeah. So, so however they were doing it,
however they were hollowing out the interior, it's not like they had like a fork, you know,
like a, like a, like a stick with a stone on the end of it. I mean, it was much more
sophisticated of a process than that. Right. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. So pretty interesting. I mean,
that's that. And then, God, it's so fascinating, man. Yeah. Yeah. So how many of these do you
think exist in the world? Shit, man. That's a good question. I mean, you're going to hear people
say anywhere between like, you know, at a low, you might hear 5,000 at a high, you might hear
500,000, you know? So I don't know. You have how many total? 65. You have 65. Yeah. Something like
that. Who owns the most of them? What do you mean? Like who, is there one person or organization that,
that has the most of these? Like the largest private collection in the world. So Fayaz Barakat is a,
is an Israeli art dealer and he has the largest private collection of ancient antiquities in
the world. The largest private collection of stone Egyptian vessels specifically. I don't know. I
mean, I've had, I've had people say that I've got to have one of the biggest, you know, collections
in the world at this point. Right. But, you know. Yeah. I imagine you do. Yeah. But like, I mean,
they go up, they go up for auction. So like the reason there's, there's none available right now
is no collector has died recently, basically, right? So, so like family, like some collector will die
pass on his estate to his kids or whatever. And then they, they go to an auction house and they
put them up for auction. So you might see like six come out at a time, you know, or 10 come out at
a time on like Christie's or Sotheby's or whatever it might be. But, but, but again, yeah, you don't
see that, you don't see that, you know, often. What was the name of the, the Israeli company that
has them? Barakat. Barakat. Yeah. I found out the name of that Israeli guy, by the way, we were
talking about last night. Okay. He, his name was Moshe Diane. Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah. I got a couple
of artifacts from his collection. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So he was like literally a, like a
plunderer. The guy like literally just went in there and raided these sites in Egypt and stole
all of these artifacts. He was obsessed with it. And this was the, he had a, he had an, he got an
eyepatch. He got, he looks like a raider. Where's the story? He was like looking through binoculars,
like during one of the wars and he got shot, the binoculars got shot with a sniper and it like
shredded his eye. Okay. But he was a legendary military general. Right. In the, what does this
say? He was a Israeli military leader and he eventually became a politician. And he was a guy
who like led, led Israel through the Six Day War. Yeah. We should talk about that war for a second.
But, but yeah, I actually only have one from Moshe Diane and it's very small. So I thought
I had a couple of them, but, but I remember the name. Oh, really? But, but yeah. So it came from,
it came through Fayez Barakat, who is the Israeli art dealer. And in 1968, in the 60s,
Fayez had a, his main office in Israel. And so, you know, when you talk about a war, the Six Day
War in 1967 where Israel occupied Egypt and supposedly stole some artifacts from Egypt,
Moshe Diane and whoever else. I mean, I mentioned General Uzi Narcus. He was also a general in
the Israeli army. I don't think there's anything that's like speculates that like he stole stuff,
but, but I do have a couple of these things with his name on it, you know? So, so I mean, if there's
a way to prove that these were stolen from, from Egypt, I'm happy to give them back. Like I'm,
because now we've got the scans. And now that it's like, okay, you've got some precision on these
things. And these things actually do have, you know, incredible, incredible provenance. And you
can prove that these are museum pieces that have been stolen. And we can say, look, these are precise
down to whatever, I'll ship them back, man. No problem. If anybody, you know, if anybody, yeah,
absolutely, I just want to know the truth. You know, who'd you pay? I mean, you should at least
get your money back. Yeah, that would be nice. But, but yeah, I mean, like, again, I should
mention that, that I'm doing this to, to try to find out some truth about our history. Like, I'm not,
like, I'm not obsessed with these. I don't care. They're just right. You're not just hoarding these
away in a closet. You're making these public and like trying to explore what the hell was going on
right then. Right, right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they're basically meaningless, but they
teach us, you know, I mean, they're rocks, but, but they could teach us a lot. Spend a small fortune
on some rocks too. Yeah, yeah. But, but I think they ought to increase, you know, and value as,
as people start to understand them, I think it'll be a, you know, a pretty good investment. Yeah.
But, but yeah, I mean, they can teach us, I think a lot about our true history, potentially. And if
they don't, you know, if they can't, if it's just, we can just hand wave this all away as, you know,
explainable or fake, that's fine too. You know, I'm totally fine. If, if the precision ones turn
out to be modern day reproductions, you know, it'd be good to know that it would be good to know
that there's like some sophisticated criminals out there that are running these, you know,
these, these art dealerships and websites and selling fakes like it would have to be convincing.
Yeah. It would have to be convincing. If people are going to claim that, like I can't just accept
that. I have to have a reasonable explanation for how. And like what you pointed to earlier was
that there's not a ton of these being made and sold for a lot of money, like they're, and these
guys are very happy to refund you your money and you can return the vase of them if you don't want
it. Right. Like it's not, there, there, it's not obvious that these things are being reproduced,
right? No, definitely not. Yeah. What is, you, you said Flint Dibble had a theory on these things.
What is, what do people like him or like archeologists say about this stuff? Handmade.
She said they were handmade. She's handmade. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so, so he, yeah, I put,
I put out a couple of videos on my X channel. My X channel is, you know, it's small, but,
but I put out a video and got like 200,000 views because people are interested in this topic.
Yeah. You know, I mean, it's just like repost, repost, repost. And somebody said, Flint Dibble,
what do you think? And so he came in and I actually said first, before he, before I didn't even think
he would come on and say anything, but, but I'm like, Flint, I'll save you the suspense. Flint's
gonna, Flint's gonna say they're, they're, they're fake. They're, they're, because they're just too
precise to be made with the tools in the archeological record. Flint came on and he's like,
you know, he's basically, he basically said this, where is it? Thinwall. Thinwall artifact.
He's like, oh, handmade. Handmade. That was his, that was his thing. And he looked at it, but,
but Flint, I mean, loved the guy and he did a really good job on the Joe Rogan episode. I don't
want to say anything. Yes. Love the guy. He really did do a great job. But that was my first introduction
to him. And he, he did a, he did a really good job on that. So I am interested in his opinion,
but he's not an expert. I mean, on ancient Egypt or on these artifacts, I don't think he's ever
even seen or held one of these things. Yeah. But I wish they would have spent more time talking
about Egypt on that podcast because that podcast was super informative. Me too. Yeah. Yeah. Agreed.
But he looked at the, there's, there's tool marks at the top of this one from either,
it's either a, it's either marks that indicate like a level of, of, of liquid or whatever would
have been stored in these things. It's like, it's like some horizontal indentations at the top of
this or whatever tool was making this when it was spinning slipped and created some, some, some,
some grooves in the top of it. I don't know which one, but Flint's whole thing was he just, he saw
the, the tool, the marks on this and he's like, oh, handmade. But when you look at this, I mean,
there's no, there's no way that he saw the marks on the inside of this right here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
But, but I mean, clearly the, the, the surface deviation report has proven that that was turned
on a lathe based on those. Yeah. Yeah. He hasn't seen all the evidence. Right. Right. Yeah.
Yeah. I would love to get his reaction to, to all that stuff, all those reports and actually hold
this in your hand and see the light shining through it. For sure. But archaeologists aren't
machinists. They're not engineers. Exactly. That's the problem with this, the interdisciplinary
aspect of it. Right. Right. Yeah. But obviously a very intelligent guy and, you know,
doing a good job with whatever he's doing. And I guess that's the problem with anything, right?
Like people specialize in one thing and don't collaborate enough. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. People
get too, like just tied to their perspective, their story, their side, you know, and just don't
stay open-minded to, okay, what are the possibilities, you know, like, like, yeah. So, I mean, so,
yeah, that, that the, the royal finger thing, I mean, before we move on to the royal finger thing,
maybe just show this surface deviation report. This is again, that, that other one that's like a
super, you know, super popular, super well-known artifact at this point. That's this one right
here. That's this one. Okay. Yeah. And again, you've got pretty clear signs that it was turned
based on the bottom, you know, you know, you can see that rings. Exactly. Yeah. It's got rings on
the bottom. The red handle thing, again, is because the handles are offset from each other and the,
the data is, is assuming that the handles are exactly apart. We'll get to that in a second. But,
but the interesting thing on this one for me is the space between the handles. And again,
that would have been, if this was turned, which it clearly was, even though archaeologists don't,
don't acknowledge that. Bless you. Clearly this one was turned. And so, you know, and again,
we can see that from the bottom, but then they would have come in with another tool afterwards
and removed the material that's between the handles. And so that's why we see that it's,
it's, it's a higher surface. You can't turn it between the two handles. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah.
Yeah. You'd have to come in with another tool. Wow. Right. Right. And it's not like they just
chiseled the area between the handles on this one, like, because you would see little chisel marks,
you know. No, it's very, it's very consistent. Exactly. Yeah. So it's almost like a whole,
like who knows what tool that was, but whatever it was, it's not in the archaeological record.
God, wouldn't you love to take a time machine back to when they were making these things and see
what the fuck was going on? Hell yeah. Hell yeah. Absolutely. And like, when would the time machine
even take you to? Right. Yeah. You'd have to know, right? You'd have to have like a little barometer
inside your time machine to see, look where the fuck am I? I just want to go back. Nobody's going
to believe me. Right. Right. Yeah. And then the wall thickness, you know, you can kind of see
the wall thickness on this thing is just really perfect. I mean, it's like, damn, dude. Yeah,
it's crazy. Yeah. I mean, it looks like Jupiter, like the planet Jupiter. Yeah. Yeah, totally.
I'm bad at this damn iPad. But then, yeah, so then what they do is they cut like slices
of the thing and they rotate the slices around and they tell you like on the inside of the wall,
like where the variance is. Yeah. And then they extend the variance. So this is not like real,
we're not actually seeing like, you know, the inside of this red part right here is not actually
coming off of the inside that much. You wouldn't even be able to see how much it's coming off,
but they extend it so that it's visible to the human eye. Right. But there you can see on the
inside, you know, where the tool marks actually happened compared to whatever slice that they
turned around, that there is going to be some like indentations on the tool marks. So those
blue things that are coming in, like whatever round turn that they did with whatever tool was
hollowing out the inside, it got a little bit deeper than the rest of the, you know, the rest
of the tool marks. And then on the red, they left a little bit on that wall for whatever reason. And
on this one, it's actually kind of likely that they left that material there in order to balance it,
because again, this is like that round bottom one that sits perfectly on its bottom,
they left material, this is according to Adam Dunn, Kristen Sun, who analyzed the report on this
when I haven't actually verified this yet. But the handles were slid closer together on one side
of the artifact. And on the other side of the artifact, they left wall material in the inside
of the wall. So they made it heavier on this side to offset the weight that was on this side.
Whoa. Yeah, yeah, to balance it. Yeah. Which, you know, you don't, you don't do that.
Because the bottom's not flat. Right, exactly. And it needs to sit flat.
Exactly. Wow. Yeah. What the fuck. Right. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, it's crazy. There's a lot of,
there's a lot of mysteries with these things, man. Man, the little one, I just, when I see this little
one, did you scan any of these little ones? No, I haven't scanned little ones yet.
I'm thinking they use these ones for drugs. Yeah, yeah, it could be.
I would be fascinated to see how precise these tiny ones are, dude. Yep, yep.
Yeah, totally. Yeah. And I'm going to get them scanned. Like, I think they, they, there's a couple
of basalt ones, you know, so this tiny basalt guy is like super round, you know? I mean, it's like
clearly not done with a chisel, right? Like you can't get this level around this with a chisel.
So yeah, I will scan those. It's just, it's the same cost to scan the little ones as a big one.
And this one is like the oddest shape out of all of them. Like this one looks like it'd be a good
necklace pendant. Right, right, right. Or like one of those flasks, you could just hang it from your
neck and like, yeah. To carry your purple. Keep, keep your, keep your little whatever.
Yeah. And that wall was not bored out on, it wasn't hollowed out on the wall.
Right. Yeah, you can see it doesn't, it doesn't actually follow the whole, right,
circumference of that thing. Yeah. So very, very small hole in that one. It was just cord.
But yeah, man. I mean, the, the royal cubit conversation is kind of interesting.
If I can find that document here, if you want to go there.
When you, when you say the royal cubit conversation, you're meeting how all these
things are a specific manner of, what do you mean specifically?
So it's basically the, yeah. So, so basically it, it appears that on
a number of these artifacts that I've scanned and, and measured and found the dimensions of,
and divided by a royal finger, which is 18.7 millimeters, according to Isaac Newton.
Okay. So if you find the dimension of like the length and you divide by 18.7,
a lot of times you're getting whole numbers and a lot of times you're getting like perfect fractions
of numbers. And so people are going to say like, it's just random, it's just coincidence.
But if we can show through scanning enough of these and through analyzing enough of that data,
that it's just mathematically impossible to have that much coincidence happen.
And that, that yes, they were in fact using this measurement system, then you can prove that these
things were accurate on a whole different scale than just roundness. You can prove that they're
accurate to like on a dimensional scale as well. So like a three dimensional scale.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's not just like, you know, this thing is perfectly round to within,
you know, a hundredth of a millimeter or whatever. You can say that this, that they,
that they were able to create an object with a mouth opening that was exactly what they
wanted it to be to within, you know, like a thousandth of an inch or whatever,
which is a whole new like mystery with these things, because how could they measure that?
You know, like how could they verify? How? Right. Exactly. Do they have computers?
Right. Like what tools were they using to verify that like something microscopic in a
lot of cases that you can't even see with your own eyes and they're achieving that level of
precision on these things. So it's a, that's a, that's a mystery.
What was that? What was the name of that? Do you know what I'm talking about? There was a,
there was a computer that was found in a shipwreck, like some sort of like ancient computer.
Antikythera. There you go. There you go. Can you pull that thing up? When was that from?
It was from the, I think it was Greek. It was, it was like a, it was from like 100,
I think it was like a thousand BC or something. A thousand BC.
Some like that old. Yeah. It's, you find that Steve?
Oh, I'm probably way off. There you go. Oh, there you go.
The Antikythera mechanism. When was this from? Ancient Greek hand powered orary model of the,
it was a model of the solar system described as the oldest known analog computer used to predict
astronomical positions and eclipses decades in advance. It would also be used to track the
four year cycle of athletic games similar to the Olympian and the cycle of ancient Olympic games.
So this thing modeled the solar system? Yeah.
Jeez. Okay. When does it come from? Second century BC? Wait, wait, wait, no, that's,
that's just an astronomer. What is that? So what is, uh,
the motion was studied in the second century BC, but when did they claim that this thing came from?
Instruments believed to have been designed and constructed by the Hellenistic scientists,
87 BC. Whoa. 87 BC. Or between 150 and 100 or 2505 BC.
So, okay. So between 87 and 205 BC, those damn Greeks, bro. Yeah, man.
Yeah. It's got a bunch of gears and I want to get an expert in here that knows more about that
because it had gears. It was like a giant watch. Yeah. Go back up to it.
There's a, they did CT scans of it and you can see all the gears. Yeah. But that, I mean, look,
I mean, that's as incredible as that is, that's at most as early as 200 BC.
Right. These things are 2,500 at the latest, right? Right, right. Yeah. So, yeah, 26,
kind of like 2650 is when they were buried at the steppe pyramid and, you know, you find them
in graves. That's the other thing. Like, there's supposedly a, an image in Cairo of a tomb,
a Nubian tomb that was found that's like 12,000 years old, 10,000 BC that has hardstone,
that had a hardstone vase in it. And this is according to, you know, Ben Van Kirkwick,
but apparently like the snake bros were there and they, they saw it too. I asked them for,
I haven't got a picture of it yet, but, but Ben had one in one of his videos that has like
a burial, a grave from like 10,000 BC that has an ancient hardstone vase. If that's the case,
like if that's real, these things could be as old as, you know, life itself. I mean,
we have no idea how old these could be. Is this, is this the tomb?
A new biological site along the Nile reveals Nubian civilization that flourished in ancient Sudan.
That's the civilization. That's the civilization, but it wasn't Sudan, right?
BC. Hmm, maybe. Who knows. That was just a quick search. Yeah, I don't know if it was Sudan or not.
But, but yeah, I mean, that would be really compelling information. That would be really
compelling that these things could be absolutely, you know, very, very ancient, like lost civilization
ancient, you know, like, I mean, somebody built Gobekli Tepe, right? Like they were master stone
workers, obviously, and, and Karahan Tepe and, you know, these, these sites that have been dated to
11,600 BC at a minimum. And so, you know, they're using their master stone workers. They're like
carving mountains off, you know, making them perfectly flat, like inserting 20 ton stone
pillars. So people were working with stone in a sophisticated way. And we think we know who it
was. Like we, we, you know, we think like archaeologists. Oh, yeah, sure. That was these people.
And they were just, you know, I love how Ben always says, like they were trying to get away from the,
the, the wife and kids on a weekend. They were just like, hang out with the boys.
Yeah. Yeah. But, but I mean, I think that's a possibility, you know,
I don't think that's completely crazy. Yeah. But I mean, still though, Gobekli Tepe is
incredible as it is. There's no precision there. Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know,
I mean, it's megalithic for sure. Right. And it's astonishing considering the date, the carbon
dating. Yeah. But, but this, so there's, there's no way to carbon date these, right? There's,
there's no organic material. You can't date stone, you know, but what you can do potentially is do
some studies to try to figure out what tools were used to hollow out the inside. Because you can,
you can like, and I got to get connected with the right people to, to send these off to get that
study done. But, but the, the inside the toolmarks, like you can potentially find evidence for whatever
was used to hollow them out, you know, so, so that could be something that eventually you can test.
But again, if it's, you know, if it's, if it's another stone that was used or copper or whatever,
you can't date that necessarily, you know, so, but there might be something that you can learn
from it. What's the most compelling theory that you've heard about these things?
You know, I, I don't know, man. I mean, nobody you've talked to is like, like come to you and
be like, Matt, I have an idea. I know what these things were for. Like for their function?
Yeah. No, I mean, nobody. Nobody knows. Nobody knows. Nobody knows. No, I mean, you know,
the most, I mean, the most prevalent theory is just that they were just used for like, you know,
decorative purposes. Like, you know, there was no function. So, no, I mean, the function, it's just,
you're just getting into pure speculation at that point. And I think like a lot of people are just
kind of trying to avoid that until, you know, they know more about the, until they know more,
you know. All right. So, but yeah, this, this, you want to talk a little bit about this,
the measurements on these things? Yeah. Yeah. All right, cool. So, so this guy at the top,
this is Adam Young's artifact, right? So, if you look at this and the unsigned, unsigned.io did a
report on this that identified some sacred geometry in it, you know, I'm going to stay away
from that because I didn't completely understand the report to be, you know, totally honest with you,
but, but what we do find in here, if you just look at the measurements, and unfortunately,
so this scan doesn't have the most accurate, like it's down to a tenth of a millimeter on this scan,
you can see, you know, when you, when you look at like the, the, the height, for example, which is,
you know, on here, it's that six, six and four. So, it's 6.412 Royal Fingers, but, but if you back
all the way up, if you look at the millimeters on the height, it's 119.9 millimeters. So,
they didn't go to the hundredth or to the thousandth of a millimeter on this. So, it wasn't the greatest
scan. But what you find from that, when you divide by 18.7 is you get 6.412 Royal Fingers
in height. And so, you look at that and it's like, okay, well, that's a meaningless number,
you know, and, and, and nobody has really found anything, you know, with that number, but, but
what 64 represents is the grid of life in sacred geometry. And so, I think that when unsigned.io
found the flower of life as it relates to this artifact with all those circles that he was
doing, that what he had actually found was the grid of life and, and that, that whoever made this
thing was embedding the 6.4 as a sign that, hey, this is, this is the grid of life that, and, and
the grid of life is basically the flower of life, except it's like a three-dimensional version of
it. So, it uses tetrahedrons instead of circles, which this is a three-dimensional object. So,
that makes sense. So, so, and, and it's accurate to 6.4 to within nine one thousandths of an inch.
So, it's similar, similar accuracy in the dimensions. So, in the height dimension,
if this is, if this is really what they're going for, 6.4, I think it was, it's similar, it's, it's,
it's equal to like the accuracy of the circles that we find in it. And, and all anybody's been
talking about is the accuracy of the circles for the longest time, but I do think the dimensions
are actually something that we really need to look at too. The, the, the, the width, the second row
down there is 84.3 millimeters. And if you divide that by the 18.7, you get 4.5 royal fingers to
within six one thousandths. The neck is a fee squared royal fingers. 2.618 is, is fee squared
royal fingers. So, you've got to take fee and then, or five, and then you got to square it and you get
two one thousandths of an inch deviation. I don't know what 1.2 is, to be honest with you,
maybe somebody on the show can leave in the comments, you know. Yeah, I'm sure somebody will
know. Let us know. Right, right. The, the mouth opening on, on this one is very precise to three
one thousandths of an inch of 2.0 royal fingers. So, so that one is, is highly, highly accurate.
And then the lip is pie royal fingers. So the lip is like the, the outside of the circle on the top
3.114 to within five one thousandths of an inch, you know. So, so, so I don't know, man. I mean,
that one looks pretty compelling, although the, the measurements and the dimensions of it, but
that one seems like it's lining up to this subunit of the royal qubit to within a high degree of
accuracy. Right. Because it's like all of these measurements. But, but then, you know, you don't
find, this is really the only one where I'm finding these sacred geometry numbers. Like I'm not
finding like pie royal fingers and the other ones that I've scanned so far. So I'm just finding like
straight up either whole or fractions of royal fingers. Wow, dude. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty crazy.
So, so this second one, which is the spinner here, this guy, when you look at it, again,
the height is four royal fingers to within seven one thousandths of an inch. The width is six
to within one one thousandth of an inch. The mouth opening is two and two six. I think they're
using six as opposed to thirds, but you could say thirds, you know, and you're less than five
one thousandths of an inch. And the lip is three and a half to within four ten thousandths of an
inch. So, so less than one one thousandth of an inch, you know, 40% of one one thousandth.
Very, very accurate on that. And it kind of just keeps, you know, we don't have to go through every
one of these, but, but you see the same thing on the thin wall artifact, you know, you see very tight,
very tight tolerances. And then I guess I just kind of probably close with this one, which is
freaking huge and heavy. Holy moly. Yeah, that's a big one. Oh, this is the biggest one out here.
Yeah, it probably is. Yeah. Yeah. That thing's huge. Good Lord. Look at that people. Right.
How big did they get? It feels like a 45 pound barbell.
Yeah, that thing's legit. Is this as big as they get? Or did I mean, in terms of the hardstone,
yeah, they don't get a lot bigger in terms of the hardstone alabaster, the stuff that's like the
imitation of this stuff, they can get much bigger than that. You can feel the ribbing on the inside
of it where they use tools to carve it out. Yep. Yep. And that one has good date. There's images
of that one way in the like 20th century, like, really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's that one's,
I think I feel, I mean, I feel really good about all these. I'm not going to like buy them if I
didn't feel good about them, obviously, but I feel really good about that one. And that one is measuring
out in whole royal fingers, but it's not as precise as some of these smaller ones, right? But when
you look at the height, it's 7.02 royal fingers to within one 100th of an inch, or just less than
two 100ths of an inch. The width is 13 royal fingers to within, it's a similar type of an
accuracy there. The neck, I might be able to get rid of that neck one just because I had to go to
circumference there. And usually you're not seeing circumference on the neck, but even the 8.925 is
pretty close to nine. The mouth is 4.99 royal fingers. So that's, you're talking eight, eight,
one thousandths of an inch. And the lip is 9.95. So, and the handles again, the handles are almost
always in circumference as opposed to diameter. That's five, five thousandths of an inch. And so
you're talking astonishing, dude. It's incredible. I mean, and it's all whole royal fingers on the
biggest one, which makes sense because they don't need to go to fractions on the biggest one, right?
Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So that's that one. So that's so wild, dude. It's pretty crazy, man.
It really is. And it's really cool that you've been able to connect with all these people like Ben,
Ben Kirkwick, and, you know, the Snake Bros and all these guys who do all these trips out there
and are fascinated by this stuff and talk about this stuff. You've been able to get them on your
podcast and like, let them like look at this stuff. Yeah. Yeah. It's super cool. Yeah. Ben was
my first guest on the podcast. Was he really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. He's a great
dude. I mean, all those guys are great people with Snake Bros. Was that his first time seeing
these things in real life? It was. And holding them? Yeah. It was. Yeah. He was like a kid in his
pants. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Pretty much. Pretty much. Yeah. I mean, it's hard not to, like,
it's one thing to see them like behind a glass or whatever, but when you like, when you see these
things, like, like you get a sense that these are freaking old. Yeah. Like, you know, like, it's
different. When you go to a museum, are you allowed to touch them? No. No. I mean, you know,
sometimes they might bring them out if you like requested special with like gloves and, you know.
Yeah. We were sitting at dinner last night in a restaurant and you literally poured your iced tea
into one of them to see. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How much water it would hold.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's insane. Yeah. You're a mad man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And this one, that was
this guy and it's the spinner and it still spins with the water. Right. And it actually, this one
actually, when you measure the volume of the inside of this one, it's exactly an ancient system of
Egyptian measurement. It's a heck it. It's like. Oh, volume measurement? Yeah. Yeah. Really? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. It's like one sixteenth of a heck it, which happens to also unfortunately be 300 cc's.
So that's a modern, you know, measurement. So the volume of all of these things could
have sacred geometrical numbers? Could have just numbers that were important for, you know,
whatever, either trade or you had to know how much you were paying, you know, to like fill your thing
up with whatever liquid or, you know, perfume or whatever it was that you were buying, you know,
potentially like, I don't, I don't freaking know. But I mean, those are some possibilities that the
volume actually did matter. That's interesting. Yeah. I'd be interested to see like how the
volume of all of these different vases compare to each other. That might be, that might be
a rabbit hole. Yeah. You could find something out. You could maybe dig deeper into what these
things were for. Right. These are kind of cool because when you set these in water and they
don't have anything in them, they float. Yeah. Yeah. So like, like the water, they'll sit in the,
I don't know if you have like a bucket that we could fill like with water or whatever for
demonstration, but, but like these don't sink. And so like the water, it'll sit all the way
up to the water to this point. Right to the line? Right to the line and just balance perfectly.
Like, no shit. Yeah. So was that intentional? That's weird. Right. Yeah. I get goosebumps
talking about it. Is there any other, are there any other artifacts that are as wild as this
that are out there? I mean, if there is, somebody's got to tell me about it. You're not aware of any
though. No, no, no. I mean, because this is like some of the oldest stuff that people can get their
hands on, right? I mean, like you can't collect stuff because, I mean, this is like, like times
that, that this stuff was like, we have no idea the tools. We don't know how this stuff was supposedly
made. Right. This is like, this like predates writing in a lot of cases. You know, I mean,
you're talking about like writing like, you know, whatever 3,300 BC, a lot of these like basalt
was being made in like 4,500 BC, you know, according to the mainstream explanation for even writing
that this predates that, you know, so you can't collect stuff that's older than this. It just,
it doesn't exist out there. You know, maybe like arrowheads that we don't know how old they are
or like beads that we don't know how old they are or whatever. But there's no like classification
of artifact that exists like this. It's, it's, it's like the coolest thing ever. I had a question.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So talking about the metrics, you know, like keeping everything,
like measuring finger, royal fingers, right? Yeah.
The, those handles, those little, those shoulder pieces, the, the lugs. Yeah. They all have
holes in them. Have you, have you all, have you ever measured them to see if those holes are the
same size or if there's only like a handful of drill bits that they used or are they just random
sizes? They seem to be all different sizes. Yeah. Yeah. So weird. Yeah. Yeah. They seem to be
different sizes. And it seems like they drilled into one side and then they drilled into the other
side and they met in the middle. So yeah. So it wasn't as if it was like, it's not like one.
Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. It's not like one straight line. That one I think is like clogged. It has
like some on one of them. There was, there was one that looked like it dipped inwards. Like it
wasn't even, yeah, you're right. It wasn't a straight line. Yeah. Yeah. And you can see that in
the scan better because you get the inside walls, you know, when you, when you look at the CT scan,
but, but yeah, it's like, it's like two straight lines that connect in the middle of the locals,
as opposed to one thing through, which makes sense because they're rounded off. And if you just,
you know, you, you would be like, you, you could, you could potentially run into the inside wall
if you didn't take a slight angle. Right. Yeah. How do you have time to run your business, dude?
Doing all this crazy shit. I stopped doing everything else.
Yeah. I have like all the hobbies. For people that are listening, you are the, you run Bell's
Outlet. This is where your last name is Bell, not Bell's Outlet, but Bell's department stores. And
there's no more outlet, right? Right. Right. Um, which is you, if you're a Floridian, you,
everybody knows Bell's. Yeah. That's funny because when Ben came out here, if you heard of Bell's,
might this, this, this, this bloke named Bill, I'm like, Bell's? Yeah. Like, I'm like, I wonder if
it's related to Bell's. And I looked it up and was like, God damn, that's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. You
can tell if people are from Florida or not. If they pronounce it Bell's or Bill's. Right. Yeah,
absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. The Australian accent gives it away too. Right. Right. But uh, yeah,
that's wild. Yeah. I mean, I, I stopped like, I mean, it was just kind of for 2023, you know,
I, I really got into this. Um, and what I did actually is start to work like 13 hour days. I
mean, that's the only, I mean, I started a podcast, like I started, you know, this is actually not
as time consuming as you might think it is, you know, it's just like, and I think that shows
by the fact that I've only had 13 scanned and, you know, I haven't been able to really do the
Royal Finger measurements. Like I haven't like devoted as much, like the most important thing
to me, of course, family number one, number two business, making sure that, you know, that that
is, you know, is, is on good standing and that that's going to be successful. And then, you know,
everybody's got to have a hobby. So I don't drink, you know, I don't like, I don't, uh, you know,
I kind of quit playing golf. Um, so there's not a lot that, um, you know, I'm kind of like just
quit playing golf. Yeah, man, I don't have time for that shit. Why'd you quit? Yeah.
You just don't have time? I just don't have time. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like, I'll, you know,
I used to play like whatever once every month or two, and now it's like once every year, basically.
Yeah. So it's just, it's just tough to get out and make time. But, um, but yeah. So, so that's,
that's how, you know, I just work a lot, work a lot of hours just to make sure that I get everything
done. Yeah. We were talking a little bit about last night, but you guys, uh, you guys have still
tons of locations all around the country. It's pretty insane. Like I never expected to see bells
in like Pennsylvania or other places like that. I thought it was only in Florida. Yep. Yep. Yeah.
We're 23 states right now. So, um, yeah, the, uh, the off-price division, which used to be Bell's
outlet that's now just bells has really been good. It's really been on a nice growth streak. We,
we open like, uh, well, we've got, uh, 650 stores, you know, in total. Um, so, um, yeah, it's been
great. Uh, it's a, it's a great business. It's a great group of people. I mean, it's just an
amazing, like I love work. I love showing up, you know, I love working with my team and, and, you
know, um, it's cool because it's, it's 109 year old family business in 109. Yeah, man. Yeah. We
started in 1915. Whoa. Yeah. Yeah. That's nuts. Yeah. Yeah. You don't, you don't see that really
too much anymore. So like your great grandparents? Yeah. Yeah. My great grandfather and then his
son, my grandfather and then my dad. Where was the first location? Uh, Bradenton. Bradenton.
You know, way. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Right, right on the Manatee River in Bradenton. And
we kind of grew like just kind of expanded with publics, you know, they would, we would just do
like a handshake deal. You guys want to retailer in your center, you know, kind of thing. Yeah.
We went through the Great Depression, you know, almost. Yeah. My great grandfather almost lost
the company. He didn't lose the company to the banks at his lenders and had to work like 12
years to get it back. So very humble, very, very humble beginnings. Very, very, you know, it's been,
it's been, you know, retail is a challenge, obviously, you know, for the, for the faint of
heart, you know, there's, there's a lot to it. It's super detailed, you know, but, but a ton of fun.
But yeah, we've been through a lot in the last 110 years, you know, the Great Recession, the,
the COVID, you know, we're shut down for six weeks, you know, hurricanes like Galore,
like the hurricane two years ago was just, you know, that hit our heartland, you know,
in Fort Myers and Cape Coral. So, you know, we're, yeah, man, yeah, tough, tough stories there with,
with people. But, you know, we've got a, we've got a good foundation and we, we try to, you know,
through, through natural disasters, make our employees whole and, you know, do everything that
we can to, to respond to them quickly in times of need while they're waiting for their checks that
never, that don't come for months, you know, from FEMA or whatever, you know, where we've got a good
system to, to really take care of our people. So, yeah, it's fun, man. I enjoy it. We, you know,
we're not the biggest, but, but, I mean, it's pretty freaking big, bro. Six hundred plus locations.
I mean, everybody knows Bell's. It's got to be, it's got to be super time consuming job. I mean,
there's a lot of responsibility. It's legit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, but it's fun. I love it.
I mean, I've been, been in the company, just celebrated my 20 year anniversary, actually,
a couple of weeks ago. Oh, wow. Yeah. And been doing the CEO, chairman thing for four and a half
years, right, right before COVID, right before COVID took, you know, did that. So, yeah, it's cool.
How do you guys have such a diverse category or such a diverse collection of items for so cheap?
I swear, it spaffles me every time my wife comes home with something. She literally came home with
these, like they look like Birkenstocks. This was two days ago. She came home with these clear
Birkenstocks that like, they're see-through, but when you walk in the sun, they like, they like
glean, gleam purple. Yeah. They're the most insane, cool shoes I've ever got. She's like,
yeah, I got them from Bell's. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we got a great couple of stuff.
Yeah. And you can buy it. You can buy like, you can buy like enough clothes to last you for five
years for 50 bucks. It's insane. Yeah. Yeah. No doubt. Yeah. Yeah. We got a great group of buyers,
man. I mean, they're out there scouring the market for like deals everywhere they can go,
for like deal after deal, you know, and they're finding them. And it's just a variety of brands
too. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Everything. Yeah. Billabong, freaking Quicksilver, Levi's, every
single freaking amazing clothing brand you think of. All the brands. Yeah. Under Armour,
I mean, like all the active brands that we got in there. So, yeah, it's the buyers do a really,
really good job. I mean, they're, they're super talented and they're out there. I mean, they
have to, you know, they're competing with, with the best retailers in the world, you know, like big,
like big, big national retailers that can write orders that are a lot bigger than ours. You know,
we got to, we got to be in there and just, it's just a great company. It's just a great, like we
have great relationships with people, you know, vendor community and they support us and we support
them. So, yeah, man. It's two separate buying staffs for Bell's and Bell's Florida, which used to be
Bell's outlet and Bell's department stores. I know that's kind of confusing. We went through
every brand, but we got Bell's now that used to be Bell's outlet and, and Bell's Florida that used
to be Bell's department stores and they have two different buying staffs. So, yeah, it's two totally
different companies. People think that, like people used to think a lot that, that Bell's outlet got
the leftovers from Bell's, but that's never the case. Like, yeah, they're out there, like they're
in market, like working with the vendors direct on the, on the off price side, on the Bell side. So,
um, yeah, man, it's people love deals, man. Oh yeah. I imagine half the company has to be like
real estate too. Like, like half of it's got to be like, like managing real estate and like
buying and selling real estate assets and trying to like play that whole game. I mean, we rent,
you know, so it's always rent. Yeah, we haven't owned. We got into, yeah, it was like a lesson
we learned super early on. Really? Yeah, yeah, like renting is better now. I mean, so if we were to
own our, our, our store locations, you know, we might have 100 stores right now, but, but we'd
have a lot of value in the, in the land, but, you know, we, we, we went the direction of, hey,
you got it. We want to grow and we want to, you know, we don't want to be tied up and we don't
want to be a real estate company. We want to be a retailer. So, so yeah, we, we've, yeah, we rent
our store locations and, you know, we sign whatever 40 year lease terms, you know, 25 with, with
extension, you know, of lease terms. So, right. Yeah, the real estate division is, you know,
it's 20 people or something like that. And for the company. So they're constantly looking for
deals. We open, we're going to open 30 new stores this year, 40 next year, 50 the year after. So
we've, you know, we're, we're growing. We opened, gosh, about almost 200 in the last three years,
probably, you know, the three and a half years. So yeah, it's been, it's been good. Like people love
the, like you said, people love the merchandise, people love the people. We got great people
working for us. That's really, you know, when you, when it's a good experience, you're going to come
back. And when you find great products. So yeah, man, it's, but it's a, it's a very complex,
retail is not for everybody, you know, it's super complex. It's super difficult. And, you know,
off price and online are definitely disrupting the retail industry for sure, you know, in a
significant way between Amazon and between all these online retailers and boutiques and all that
stuff. So, you know, you just got to keep, keep competing, keep doing everything you can. And,
and, you know, we like providing jobs. We like, you know, we, we, we like the, you know, the family
likes the fact that there's nobody else that's really not sold out. Like, you know, there's
nobody else really out there that's like a big family retailer that's still in business today.
You know, that's not like, you don't, you don't see that. So it's all big public companies.
And so it's weird. I always imagined that big companies and department stores and even grocery
stores, you know, these, these, uh, the big retailers that you see in like shopping centers
are not malls, but like mostly shopping centers or, or like brick and mortar locations. I always
imagined that they would buy the real estate. Yeah. Yeah. They're almost, everybody's mostly
written. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Publix does a lot of stuff. They own a lot of their properties,
but they do. Right. Yeah. But most retailers are. I think Home Depot does too. Maybe. Yeah,
they probably do too. Yeah. Yeah. And then why did you start, why did you want to start a podcast?
Just kind of for fun. Yeah. I mean, honestly, like, I just, like, it was just, uh, wanted to
kind of, uh, you know, I mean, there's two of them. So I've got, uh, Matt Bell Limit List,
which talks about like a lot of kind of stuff you talk about. Like it's like, you know, I'm
exploring like just topics that I'm interested in. I know you're exploring topics that you're
personally like super interested in, you know? And so, um, that's for fun. Like I wanted to meet
people. I wanted to explore this topic. I want to, I kind of started off with the ancient civilization
topic on Limit List. I mean, I've talked to, uh, you know, Ben and Chris Dunn and, uh,
just talked to the Knights Templar, Timothy Hogan. Yeah. That's a wild podcast. Jesus.
Yeah. He dropped some freaking bombs on that episode. It was great. But, but, you know,
Billy Carson's come on. I got Randall Carlson coming on next week. I got a bunch of good,
good guests. I mean, people are just, you know, interested in talking. So, which is cool. I mean,
it's just a bunch of cool people. So, so that's for fun. And then I've got, um, yeah,
Johanna James, brothers of the serpent. Yeah. You do them all in person?
Luke Caverns is a good friend of mine. And yeah, he's awesome. Yeah. He's just a good,
good person. Uh, yeah, I do them all in person. Yeah. The one, I mean, I've done,
uh, I've done one who's, uh, uh, Ralph Ellis, who, uh, he's in, he's an-
Tim Berchette. Tim Berchette. Yeah. The congressman.
That's the congress. He came in and did the podcast. Dude, he came on and he dropped some
bombs too, man. Really? Yeah. He's like, it's a cover up. He's like, it is a, this UFO thing is
a cover up. So no way. Yeah, dude. Yeah. Yeah. He's cool, man. I bet he, he's got like, you know,
I mean, it's like a 40 minute episode. How long ago did you do him? That was three months ago?
Yeah. About three months ago. Yeah. No way. Yep. Yep. Yeah. George Howard, you talked to George
Howard? Yeah. George was in here a couple of weeks ago. Yeah. Yeah. A couple of months ago.
Let me get a month ago. Yep. Yep. Great dude. Yeah. It was great getting to know George.
So what is the deal with this Tim Berchette guy? So he, he's a congressman where he's pushing for
disclosure. I mean, Tennessee is where he's. He's in Tennessee. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. So
there was like a, I don't know if I'm, I'm going to get this right, but I remember there was some
sort of bill that was going through and basically in that bill, they were giving protection to those
private aerospace defense contractors. Yep. To where they could keep their secrets. They wouldn't
have to disclose anything. Right. Right. Right. And there was two other congressmen that were from
Ohio that were like supporting those. The Turner people, I think. Yeah. Mike Turner and somebody
else. Yeah. And those guys were in Ohio right next to where Wright Paterson Air Force paces.
Right. They're getting supported by like the, the companies. The biggest, yeah. The biggest
private defense contractors there are. Exactly. Yeah. So what was his, what was his, what did he
have to say about like. Tim? Yeah. About like specifically about the whole disclosure thing
in these private companies. I mean, he's just, he just wants the truth. You know, he's like,
he's like, where is the, where are the tax dollars going? Like, what are we spending money on? Like,
why can't we, why can't there be, why do we need the secrecy, you know, if there, but then he'll
go into a skiff, like a private meeting. He's been into a couple of those, two, three of those,
and they'll tell him stuff. And it's like, it's stuff that he already knew, but they'll tell him
stuff just so that he can't talk about it anymore. So now he's like getting, he's, he's like frustrated,
like, now I can't talk about this because it's like, you know, it's, I was told it in a secret
compartmentalized information. Exactly. So they're messing with them, man. They're, they're,
they're really, yeah, it's interesting the situation. The UFO topic is so frustrating.
Like it's so frustrating. Yeah, it really is. Yeah. It's, it's just packed with misinformation
and disinformation and limited hangouts. And it's just like, it's, it's made, it's purposely,
I think it's on purpose made to be confusing to the public. Yeah. You know, they're using like
Twitter and YouTube and all these social media flat platforms to get people on various sides of
things, like throwing every single possible theory you could throw into it. And then people will
defend that, you know, they'll die on any hill to defend their crazy UFO theory. And then it just
turns into a shit show on Twitter where it's just like, you don't even want to pay attention to it
anymore. And I think that might be on purpose. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. Yeah. Yeah,
you got to get Tim Hogan on though, man. Nice Templar dude, that would blow. Oh God.
So he's a, he's a, he's the grandmaster of the Knights Templar. The grandmaster of the Knights
Templar. Yeah. So he's like the, like the top guy of the Knights Templar. Knights Templar is this
group of people that's like, I won't get, it's too much to, you got to talk to Tim. Give me the,
give me the elevator pitch. I mean, the elevator pitch is that he says that the Knights Templar
are in possession of the bones of Jesus Christ, John the Baptist, Mary Magdalene and their combined
children. And he says that he has all of these artifacts from when the Knights Templar were
working for the Roman Catholic Church in like the 10th century AD. And, and he's got the, the,
the arcs of the covenant. And he says there wasn't just one arc that there were possibly a couple
of hundred arcs and that he has 10 of them, six of them. You show you proof? No, he didn't show
any proof. No, no, no, no proof, but, but he says that he's going to disclose it. He says that,
that he's, he's waiting for the world to be ready for this. I would have loved to see some pictures,
right? But, but, but he says that within the next five years, he's going to disclose this
information and release the information. I pushed him to get it done sooner than that,
you know, to, to really like five years is never going to happen to him, you know, but, but like,
but he says that that's what he has. And it's hard to even tell you what he said about the
skeletons because, you know, you lose like 85% of the audience. He said that the, the, the skeletons
of Jesus and John the Baptist had elongated skulls. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So what,
so what is he saying? He's, he's saying that Jesus was an alien. He's saying there you go.
Haven't heard that one before. That's a new one. I know. Yeah. Yeah. I asked him to trade a couple
of Jesus's bones for a couple of vases, but he was not getting it. But, but yeah,
but I mean, this is, I mean, hey, hey, big, big if you have an incredible podcast.
It was an incredible. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. No doubt. Yeah. Wow. And the Kurt Cobain thing was pretty
dope too. I mean, like that's, that's Tom Grant, who was the private investigator. He's another guy
you could talk to. I mean, he was the private investigator that Courtney Love hired to investigate
her missing husband, Kurt Cobain. Oh, no way. Yeah. And Tom is convinced that Courtney had him
murdered, that, that, that Kurt Cobain was murdered. And there's, there's a lot of evidence that,
you know, that it's, that it wasn't just cut and dry. That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not that,
you know, I'm not going to, you know, come out and say what, you know, I don't, I don't know,
but, but there's a lot of evidence that was not suicide and, you know, the suicide notes and,
and like the, there was a incident in Rome the month before where, you know, it was like he
overdosed and Courtney was saying that that was a suicide attempt after he died. She didn't say it
was nobody, it was just an accident until he died. Then Courtney was like, yeah, she filed a missing
persons report under the name of Kurt's mother saying that Kurt was suicidal. So like she was
like putting all this like suicide stuff out about him. There's a guy that said that, that Courtney
offered him $50,000 to have Kurt Cobain murdered. I mean, there's, there's, there's some, it's,
and the suicide note itself, you know, there's questions about, was that actually a suicide
note that they found at the scene? They ruled it a suicide the same day, like the, like the exact
same day that they showed up and found the body, they said suicide, like somebody, some reporter
came on and said to the media that was there, we've found a body and we found a suicide note.
So at that point, you know, suicide, suicide, suicide all over the world, suicide, and they
couldn't, they couldn't take it back. They never did an investigation. The body was cremated. Courtney
had the greenhouse that he was found dead in just burnt to the ground. She had the, she had the
shotgun, you know, apparently there's conflicting stories about what she did with the shotgun,
but, but melted down potentially. Yeah, it's a, it's a pretty fascinating story,
actually. And I got a follow-up interview with Tom coming up because there's been so much
questions that, that we didn't even have, you know, three hours later, we didn't even have time to
get into. Wow. Yeah. He lives around here? No, he's in California. California. Yeah. That's
fascinating. That's, that's a story that I don't know shit about. I don't have to learn about that.
That's, but that is really interesting, man. Yeah. Suicides. A lot of people getting
suicidal lately. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. She had a bandmate that actually
died of a overdose as well. You know, a supposed overdose a month after Kurt died,
and it was her bass player. And there was like rumors that she was like, you know, that she had
this diary and that she was like with Kurt and like, yeah. So that was, she, yeah, that was a,
that was a suspect kind of a death as well. So yeah, man. A lot of, a lot of interesting,
a lot of interesting things to explore as you know, which is why I love your podcast so much.
Yeah. Yeah. You're, I love the artwork that you use on your podcast. It's pretty incredible.
The thumbnails are nuts. Dude, that was something that somebody internally,
one of our artists that does like exclusive brands for us that creates art for our private
label brands. Oh, really? It's just, yeah, we have like four brilliant artists that work for us.
That's incredible. Yeah. I'm just like, dude, can you draw like, you know, it's like, give me some
like, you know, the UFO in a hollow moon and he just drew the guy who made the Bell's logo made this.
No, no. Okay. No, no, no. The Bell's logo is like, yeah. That's a century old. You're going with it.
Yeah. But, but one of our local artists. I was going to say, this guy's got,
this guy's talented, man. He's got a wide range of skills. Super, super talented. He can do any
style. Yeah. Shout out to Crick. Yeah. He's, he's awesome. Dude, that's so sick. Yeah.
There's another guy who's in St. Pete, who I had on a couple of years ago, who was the,
I don't know if you're into like WWE or ever watched WWE. Not in a long time. Or if you were
listening to Jimi Hendrix. Oh yeah. This guy was the guy who designed all Jimi Hendrix clothing.
Okay. And he also designed all like the clothing for macho man, Randy Savage and like all like
the famous wrestlers. And he lives right down in St. Pete. He's like this hippie dude. He tells
all these crazy stories about hanging out with Jimi Hendrix. Wow. That's cool. That's cool. Yeah.
Well, cool, man. Thanks for coming on and doing this and bringing all these vases. This is
astonishing to see all this shit and to hold it. This is like a once in a lifetime opportunity.
I can't thank you enough for, for taking the time to do this, man. This is really incredible stuff.
What do you, what do you plan on doing next? Like with, with, with all these vases or like,
are there any sort of tests you're going to put them through or anything you have like planned
for the future with this stuff? So yeah. I mean, I want to keep, you know, I want to keep scanning
obviously. And I want to keep measuring to, to try to figure out, you know, is there,
is there something to this Royal Cubit subunit question? And, you know, I want to,
I want to just continue down that path. I eventually want to get to the point where I'm,
I'm analyzing the inside of it to see if there's any residue left over from whatever the tools were.
But ultimately the end goal is to, you know, get, build some awareness about this topic so
that we can get some pressure on the museums to have the museum pieces scanned. And then I can
quit, you know, I can be like, all right, just, just turn it over to the, you know, make a little bit
of, maybe make a profit. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm, I'm, you know, I've planned on keeping these for,
for life, you know? Yeah, for sure. Yeah. And just, you know, give them to my kids one day,
hopefully, but, you know, I mean, it's one thing like, like rock doesn't, you know, go bad. Like
these are, you know, like, like I was, we were talking last night, you know, I mean, you could
own some Tesla stock or you could own, you know, rocks, you know, like you could own stuff that's
I choose the rocks. I choose the rocks too. So, so that's the plan. You know, there's been a lot
of requests for 3d prints of these because, you know, people have, the 3d prints are freaking
awesome. You know, so, so I printed 150 for the, for George Howard at the Cosmic Summit.
Right there. There's a 3d print, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I don't know. I don't want
people to, I don't like, it would be the easiest thing in the world to stand up a website and
to sell these to people, but I don't want people to think like that's why I'm, you know, it would
also be a huge pain in the ass candidly to like keep up with the, with the volume and to like,
to try to like create a business. So I'm fighting that. Like I don't want to like go that route,
but I know there's so much interest in purchasing these things that like, I don't know, maybe one
day, you know, maybe one day that'll be something that I'd consider doing, but it's just too much
right now to, you know, to even, to, to even think about. So I don't really have, you know,
I don't, I don't want it to look like I'm like trying to monetize this because literally all
I'm trying to do is get some answers for people about, you know, and myself because I think it's
a super interesting topic about like, you know, what is our history? Like what's the true history?
A, how were these made? What were the tools that were used to make these things?
You know, and B, when were they made? You know, like how and, how and when were these things
made? And, and I think that that could give us some better insight into our true history.
I mean, we know, I won't even get into, you know, the, the 12,000 year ago,
younger drives have been, but I mean, that's a major cataclysm where like something happened.
I mean, like, we know, we've got like the black matte layer we've got, like that's where George
has done incredible work on that with the, with the comment research group. And, you know,
you know, you got the extinction of all the megafauna happening at the same time,
you got Meltwater Pulse A, 12,800 years ago, you got Meltwater Pulse B, 11,600 years ago,
you got these dramatic climate changes, there's evidence that like 10% of the Earth's biomass
was on fire, 10, 12% of the Earth's biomass, you know, you got Darren Kuyu where people were digging
under ground, you know, potentially that could be that old to when people were trying to survive
some, you know, major whatever pole magnetic pole shift or, you know, common, you know,
impact where we're just the conditions above ground were not survivable. So, you know,
I mean, there's, there's, there's questions like, like, was that the, it was obviously a
worldwide global extinction event. The only question is, were humans civilized at that point
in time, you know, and if they were, these things could be really freaking old, man,
you know, I mean, these things could be really freaking old. So, so if they weren't, then if
it was just, you know, hunter-gatherer as the traditional, you know, mainstream kind of explanation
is, you know, it's like, well, who, how was Gobekli Tepe built by a bunch of hunter-gatherers,
you know? So, so, you know, I find it interesting and just hope to be able to clarify some of that,
you know, some of the story of our ancient history through some of this research and I won't ever
be able to prove it by these because, you know, no matter how much I do on these, people could
always say, it's, you know, it's a modern reproduction. But, but I think by putting enough
pressure and building some interest in this topic that we could get some museum pieces.
I would love to see some skeptics get their hands on these, not, not skeptics. I mean,
experts like people like, like Flint Debel, I would like to see him like actually look at these
things and I know he's not an engineer, but it would be cool to have some sort of intellectual
round table of people who are, can cover all of these disciplines to like sit here and look
at these things and talk about them. I think, I think that needs to happen.
A conversation instead of just an argument. Right, right, exactly.
Are you making the scans available for folks? I'm making the reports available for folks.
I've got the scans available for a couple of these. So the scans I haven't put out there yet
because I just, I mean, the, the measurements, everything's available for people to read, but
I guess I'm just a little hesitant to like have the rest of the world be able to like
3D print these and start their own business and, you know, just like create replicas of these,
like all over the place and just, yeah, it's like, that's true. I mean, yeah, it's kind of,
you know, that's really literally the only reason. But, but, you know, what I'm thinking
about doing is, is, is creating versions of these that are watermarked with like, you know, some,
you know, some stamped with something that, you know, but people can take that off and manipulate.
Yeah, for sure. Yeah, but, but no, I'm not opposed to, you know, ultimately making
even the scan files available. I just think that the measurements are, you know, they're,
they're really telling in terms of, you know, the accuracy of these things. Yeah, I think it's,
I think it's definitely a smoke, the number one smoking gun for some sort of super advanced
ancient civilization that we don't, we don't know about. Yep, yep. Yeah, but like this scan
file is available, this scan file is available on Uncharted X. So, yeah, so I mean, you can go on
there and download these and print them up if you want to, or do whatever you want to do with them.
So, yeah, I totally agree with you. I mean, if there is, if there is some ancient civilization,
like if that was a thing, then this is the best evidence that we could possibly have for it.
Yeah, I mean, for sure. Yeah, this and the pyramids, man. Yeah, I think, I mean,
these need to be added to one of the wonders of the world because it's just as unexplainable as
those 20 ton, megalithic pieces of granite that are sitting up 600 feet in the air in the pyramid
in the King chamber. Right, right. Yeah, I agree. Just like a minute scale, like again,
I cannot get over this tiny little vase. Yeah. It's so insane. Yeah, it's crazy. And then you,
I mean, you got rock crystal, you know? Yeah. I mean, you got like. That's quartz. Yeah, quartz
crystal. Yeah, I mean, I think it's the same, but yeah, yeah, crazy. Yeah, man, all different
shapes and sizes you never see two alike. It's one of those, you know, it's one of those big
mysteries for sure that hopefully by you doing this show and by, you know, getting the word out
there, people start talking about this and we can hopefully get some answers to it. Hell yeah, man.
Where can people get ahold of you? Where can they find your podcast and all that stuff?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just Matt Bell Limitless on YouTube, but I'm on Spotify,
you know, or whatever as well, but I'm trying to build that YouTube channel up. So yeah,
I appreciate all the subscribers and, you know, I'm on X as well. Matt being limitless
on X is the handle there. So yeah, man. Yeah, I appreciate that. Cool, dude. Thank you so much
for your time and coming out here and bringing all of these amazing artifacts for all of us to
enjoy. Hell yeah, man. I can't thank you enough for having me. This is like seriously one of the
coolest experiences ever. So yeah, you got an incredible show here. I've admired it for a long
time and I know you're like right down the street. So it's like, yeah, it's awesome. We're neighbors.
Exactly. So why not? Yeah, now I really appreciate you having me. Super, super.
My pleasure, man. Of course. Yeah, we'll do it again. Yep. All right. Goodbye, everybody. All right.
