Mr. Scumbag. Yes, sir. How are you, sir? Good, man. Thanks for doing this. Glad to be here.
How are you? I'm chilling, man. I'm chilling, working on music all the time, you know what
I'm saying? Trying to stay positive, trying to stay inspired, you know what I'm saying?
Life of an artist, man. Is life good for the big baby Scumbag right
now? Hell yeah, man. I got a lizard like three months ago. I'm like a dad. A lizard?
Yeah, man. It's a blue tongue skink. So these lizards come from Australia and they come from
Australia and Indonesia. And these are lizards you can't just like get from a pet co or like
a pet supermarket. So I had to wait until there was a reptile convention in Tampa back
in February. And ever since then, I just been on dad duty, like proud dad, man. I was
watching him just like run across his cage up and down like earlier today. And I'm just
like, damn, man, like, I love this dude. That's my boy. My boy. Would you just do an all gas
no breaks video? Oh, man. Yeah. So we linked up Andrew's down here. I don't know how long
he's going to be down here for. He might be here for like a couple weeks or so. But
uh, man, Andrew is the dude, man. So what's crazy is like a fan has sent me a video. Like
they're shared. They had shared a video of him on Instagram when he went to Talladega.
This is back in I seen that video back in like December. And I was like, yo, what is this?
This is the craziest shit I've ever seen in the video that they had sent me. He was in
the stands at Talladega. And while he was talking, some dude that came up to him and
was like, number three, baby, fucking Dale. And I was like, yo, I got to put this on a
new project. So I DMed Andrew and I was like, yo, like, is it cool if I put this on my
project? And he was like, yeah, man. And I was like, all right, bet. And then come to
find out we had a lot of mutual friends. Like he's cool with a lot of people in the underground
scene, like all the guys from GBC, black cray. We just have a bunch of mutual friends. So
like when we clicked up, he was like, oh, yeah, how you know so and so, oh, you know,
I'm through there. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? So it was very, it was very authentic,
man. Shots out Andrew Callahan, man. We definitely going to do an all gas, no brakes video like
like a featured, I got to be a featured guest or something. We'll figure it out. Yeah. What
is he doing? He's just like going to like weird conventions and film itself. Yeah. So what he
does is like he, you know, he's like a journalist, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. He just travels
around, you know what I'm saying? Any type of current events that there is around America,
he basically covers it. Like when I remember when the whole alien shit was going on and
people were camping out of area 51, he had went, he had went to Reno, Nevada and fucking,
he was interviewing people that were like camping out at the fucking area 51. No, he's been to like
crazy, like crazy, like religious, like cult conventions and like, he did the furry convention.
He did the furry convention. Right. Yeah. He's been to like protests. He's been to
Talladega. That was my favorite one. That was my far the best. There's this, so there's this,
there's this big like, there's this big land. It's like probably like an hour and a half from
here and it's called the Sausage Castle or the Sausage House. Yeah. So he had went to the Sausage
Castle. He's been going back and forth from here to Tampa. I mean, from Tampa to the Sausage Castle,
you know what I'm saying? So he's out there, you know, getting new content and shit like that.
Yeah. Now that everything's opening back up, he's able to hit the road and yeah,
yeah, right before everything shut down, he's like really starting to blow up.
Yeah, dude. Cause bro, like last time I checked, he had like one point, something million. I think
he was like, when I found out about him, he was like under like 500,000 maybe. I don't know, dude.
Didn't Tim and Eric's production company just reach out to him about doing some stuff?
You know what? He was telling me about that. He was telling me about a TV deal. So shout, hey,
shout out to Andrew. He went straight to TV. Shout out to the homie, bro. And like,
what I like about Andrew is like, he's so down to earth, bro. Like he's so, he's so, it's so
authentic. Like what you see on all gas, no brakes. Like that's him, dude. I love the suit.
Yeah. The suit is what like really like neutralizes him in any group. So he can like just blend in
anywhere, no matter how extreme it is. Somebody yelling about buttholes or somebody in a furry
costume humping him. He's just still there with the microphone.
Still with the microphone, dude. Yeah, bro. I love his air maxes too, bro. He's so faithful
to the air maxes, bro. I looked at his footwork. I was like, oh, shit. Okay. I haven't seen those
before. The suit is identical to the Michael Jordan suit that he wore in the nineties.
Yeah. Big ass suit, pants, shoulders. Huge pants. Yeah. It's part of the, it's, it's, it's part of
the look though. It's iconic. Yeah. It's like he, he, he can't ever like be in some regular
clothes. Like they're going to be like, the fuck are you wearing, dude? That's how he blends in.
Just take the suit off and then he just like neutralizes himself and he's in the group again.
Yeah. No, he's, yeah, he's doing big shit, man. Like we, uh, I told him I wanted to get him in
a music video and I don't know doing what I think. I think we'll do like a little skit scene, like
in the middle of the video where like it's like pretend I'm, I'm like pretend on all gas, no brakes.
Yeah. I'm saying some type of, some type of cameo, Easter egg for the video.
That'd be hilarious. Yeah. No, that shit will be so crazy. How long have you been in Tampa? Are
you originally from here? Yeah, man. Born and raised, man. Born and raised. Florida OG. Yeah.
Hell yeah. Have you always been a Bucks fan? Yeah, dude. My dad, my dad is a diehard Bucks fan,
bro. My dad is like, what? When loser draw, he don't care, bro. Like I remember when,
so I remember he was telling me when the, when the Bucks players came out, like, you know,
like the first three seasons, like the orange, the original Bucks. The creamsicle. Yeah. Back in
the seventies, they lost every single game, like three seasons straight. You know what I'm saying?
My dad was still going hard for him back then. So, you know what I'm saying? It's, it's a, I feel
like, I feel like, uh, now like the tables are going to turn a little bit and like a lot of people
are going to hop on the bandwagon. Not that we got Brady for the show. Like I'm not sold.
Really? No. Why? I'm not sold. I mean, this is like the same thing when Brett Farrer went to
the Vikings. I feel like Brady still got some fuel left in him, man. Come bring that ring home.
I would love to see it happen. I'm not, you know, denying that it could happen.
And we got Gronk, man. I'm skeptical. We got Gronk too, man. Yeah. Gronk though. He's brittle.
He's old. He's those old bones ain't going to last. They're going to have to like,
they're going to have to just bench Gronk and tell the playoffs when they make the playoffs
and then just set him loose during the playoffs because he's always getting hurt. Even when
he was, you know, when he's playing for the Patriots, he was always hurt. Yeah, that's true,
man. Amen. I got to, I got to go to a Bucks game and hopefully like this quarantine shit like
isn't like bad. You know what I'm saying? Come like August, September, because I gotta go. Last
time I went to a Bucks game was like, I was like 13, 14, you know what I'm saying? And that's back
when I was actually playing football. Like my dad would take me to the Bucks games because he was
working for the Tampa Tribune. So like anybody that worked for the Tampa Tribune, they would have
like, they would be given like free like VIP passes. So we would be like, and like, we would be
where like the general managers and shit would be. We would be in the fucking the, the, the, like
the see-through glass shit. The box. Right, right, right. They cater it and everything, got food
in there. Yeah, yeah, not bro. It was so VIP. I was like, it was every Sunday. So yeah, man,
shout out Tampa Tribune, man. They, they treated their employees really good. You're going to do
a song about Tom Brady? It's already recorded. It's already recorded. It's in his wallet, man.
Can we get the sneak peek? Honestly, I don't, I don't like it enough right now. I got to
rerecord it. And that's how, that's how it is with a lot of my songs, man. It could be the slightest
thing. And I'm like, I don't like it. And then my engineer though, my engineer will be like,
oh, you're overthinking it. Like, you know what I'm saying? But it's just, it's just the life of
a perfection, man. I'm trying to get, I'm trying to get better at, you know, not overthinking shit
because a lot of times it is just, oh, like, nobody's worried about that. Like literally,
if a fan was to listen to a song, they wouldn't catch what I'm so, you know.
Yeah, sometimes you just got to let go. You just got to let go of it and just move on to the next
one. And a lot of the, you know, really good shit is the most authentic shit and that becomes the
best shit. So once you ramp up that output and you just kind of let go of the process, you can
really start to discover who you are as an artist and you just get out of your way and let whatever
comes out, come out. Yeah, man. Yeah. Like when I first started, I was so, so conscious about
shit. Like I was like, oh, like, I don't want to do this. I don't want to do that. But like,
if you're not taking no risks, man, if you, or if you're worried about what somebody thinking
about you, man, like it's, it's, you're good as dead, man. You can't, you can't, you can't,
can't worry about that shit, man. And Pablo, Pablo would stress that a lot, man. Like, fuck it.
Like, just do what it do, man. Hey, who are you doing this for? You or somebody else?
Right. You know what I'm saying? And at the end of the day, that's what it is, man.
Real deal. And that's a, I actually had a thought too, because I grew up like playing guitar and
playing in punk bands and like coming up through Tampa. And I'm like really curious about like
what it's like being a rapper, like going through the DIY scene and like what it's like to just learn
how to rap and actually be good at that. Like, how do you, how do you do that?
Honestly, it's a gift, bro. It's a gift. Like it's a gift. But at the same time, it is like
practice. Like, you know, for me, I felt like I was a natural for show, because really, like
when my homies introduced me to rapping, I wasn't even rapping at the time. They was like,
my homie, skinny. Actually, I know him from since middle school, Lil Scumbag too. And that's where,
that's where the name Scumbag came from. We was all in a group. Homies from back in middle school.
So my homie was like, yo, I'm starting this rap group. I want you to be in it. I was like,
man, I don't know how to rap, whatever, whatever. He was like, I don't even matter, bro. Like just
being it to be cool. You know what I'm saying? So I was like, all right, cool. You know, not knowing,
not knowing shit. So I hopped in the studio for the first time and I was a, I was a natural dude.
And I mean, I just stuck with it. I stuck with it. And, you know, it worked out like what really
worked for me is just getting the reassurance. Like, even if I say this all the time, but I'm
like, yo, all of that old shit I made was so trash, but it was gasping me up. You know what I'm
saying? So I feel like what fueled my shit was just the confidence that they gave me. Like,
yo, this shit is fire. Like this is crazy. I was like, for real? You like this? You know what I'm
saying? So yeah, man, that like being fueled just those, those good compliments and, you know,
a combination of that and just me believing in myself, like, you know, it, it, it, it, it made
me want to get better. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Hell yeah, bro. So it's not, it's, it is
a gift, but at the same time, anybody can just, you know, just with anything like basketball,
sports, like learning the instrument, you know, whatever you, you can get better at it, you know.
Did you always, when you approached it first, as you just like hop in the studio with a,
just like played a couple of beats for you and you just started, just started free styling.
Did you actually try to write something first, the first, the first time you ever tried it?
I had already had some shit written out. I'd already had some shit written out.
I probably, I wrote this probably like two days after Skinny had told me he was going to book me
a studio. So I was like, well, shit, I got to be prepared. I don't want to just go in there and
say some bullshit. So yeah, man, literally got me in the studio. I'm fucking spitting like,
bitch, I'm fucking, oh my God, what is it? Bitch, I'm fucking flexing on these hoes.
Like I'm pushing weight. And then yeah, like, I could, I could hear them in the background
because we were like in a closet. Like, well, I was in a closet and then they was like in the
bedroom right next to the closet. So it was at somebody's house. It wasn't like a studio.
It was just like a, like a microphone. Yeah, man, fucking mattresses on the wall.
Yeah, padded, padded, padded wall, the towel under. Right. So dude, I'm hearing everybody in the room.
I'm hearing them through my headphones. They're so loud. They're like, yo, this shit is crazy.
I was like, for real? So yeah, man, I came in there, I came in there prepared. A lot of my
shit is, a lot of my shit is written. I can freestyle really good too, but I like the, I like
the relax and just write shit down like physically on paper. Like I can do the notes. I like, I got
hella raps in my notes, but I like the, there's no better feeling than just the way your fucking
fingers glides across the paper when you write some fire shit. It makes you think about it
differently because you're like, there's something different between just like tapping a screen and
then actually writing the words and the way that it registers with your brain. It kind of like makes
it sink in a little bit more and helps you think about it a little bit deeper. What's dope is I
have this book I got from Barnes and Nobles a few months ago. It's called, it's a book on like,
like writer's block and like creative block and shit like that. And they was talking about, you
know, what type of exercises you can do to stimulate your brain and shit. And basically,
there's this one exercise where they say just get a piece of paper and just literally whatever
you're thinking of, just write it, just write it out. Just continuous thoughts. Don't stop thinking
and don't stop writing. You know what I'm saying? And that's what makes you a better rapper or a
freestyler at the same time. You know what I'm saying? And usually it starts out like the first
15, 20 minutes of writing just is just bullshit, nothing meaningless shit. Then eventually it
just gets into something that's good and has some meat to it. Yeah. Yeah. My favorite thing about
you is that you don't take yourself too seriously. You just rap about whatever, whatever the fuck
you want. NASCAR, Joe dirt, Carol Baskin, coronavirus, all the shit that we love. Salem's
chicken fries. Oh my God. Oh my God, dude. I'm so influenced by so much stuff, man. I feel like
and I feel like that's what makes me so relatable because I, I rap about you, Gio. I rap about,
you know what I'm saying? I tweet, I tweet all day long about bullshit, but it's so relatable.
You know what I'm saying? Like, oh my God, I can't think of anything off the top of my head,
but like, I'll tweet like, I'll tweet like, I'll tweet like, I don't know. But I want to be as
transparent with my fans as possible to where they feel like, you know what I'm saying? Like,
I'm normal. You know what I'm saying? Like, there's nothing worse than like an artist,
you know, feeling, you know, like artists feel like they're untouchable or like they're like,
you know what I'm saying? Fuck that, man. Like, I want artists, I want my fans to feel like, you
know what I'm saying? They can like have a beer with me. Like you're one of them. Yeah. Yeah. You
know what I'm saying? You're building a community. You're not like building a kingdom where it's just
like, this is all about me and you're here for me. This is for us. Right, right, dude. Because like,
when I win, my fans win, man. And I think them all the time. You know what I'm saying? It's just
reassurance. Like, you guys are the best. Because shit, I could be working to nine to five right now,
man. Like, grateful every day. Every day I wake up, I'm like, oof, think I don't got to work nine
to five. You know what I'm saying? Like, when shit, yo, when shit get rough, I'm like, damn, man. Like,
that's because really, when I was younger, doing this shit, I was like, yo, like,
can I make this a career? You know what I'm saying? Because when I first started, I was,
I was juggling the job and the rap shit. You know what I'm saying? So
there's a thing that a lot of people go through when they first start is like, damn, like,
when do I like quit my job and fully pursue this? And there's a lot of anxiety and fear.
You know what I'm saying? Behind that, like, oh, like, but I'm not making enough money doing
the music shit to quit the job. You know what I'm saying? Trading dreams for securities.
Yeah, man. But it's tough, man. But once you set on that, bro,
you good, man. My advice to any upcoming artist, man, follow that shit.
There's never a good time to quit your job. You just got to do it.
No, you just got to fucking do it, man. Because really, like,
when I knew exactly when I wanted to quit, it was my first label meeting.
So I had a meeting with a label in New York. And I took like a week off of work.
And me and Pablo had went out to New York. And where were you working?
Nordstrom Rack. Okay. Nordstrom Rack. But we went to New York. We was out there for like a week,
came back, you know what I'm saying? And I was like, damn, yo, like, I can't do this,
like, I was just in New York, like at a label meeting. Like, I can't fuck.
You know what I'm saying? Like, it was just like, it kind of, it kind of disunked my ego in a way.
You know what I'm saying? Like, it was like, damn, like, I'm here getting bossed around.
You know, like, they don't know that I was just up there, like doing, doing this. And like,
I don't know, it fed into the, you know, the hunger. And I was like, no, I can't do this no more.
So you came back? I came, I turned in the keys.
I came back with just a whole new confidence, man, like,
fuck this job, man, I'm doing this music shit, like for real. And, and, you know, all the A&Rs
at the office, you know what I'm saying? And just seeing like just everybody else that was signed
to this label and just shaking all these hands. And it was so like, because that was my first time
seeing any of that shit. And I was like, yo, like, this was happening right now. All right, like,
I can do this. You know what I'm saying? What is silly rabbit? What is this? What is what is this
stuff you got here? All right, so silly rabbit. The the name came from a lyric to one of my songs.
Jelly and jelly. I had said, silly rabbit, you can't have it. I got carried to my two.
So we just took that lyric and was like, yo, this would be a pretty good idea to turn this into a
beer and put trick cereal in the beer. You know what I'm saying? Like, at first, it just sounded
so crazy. But I was like, you know what, this is going to be a really good idea. Because, you know,
one thing with alcohol is like, you know, not everybody likes to drink beer. Like, you know,
there's a lot of people that don't like to taste the beer.
You could definitely make some weed called silly rabbit, too.
Right. Smoke one joint, turn your silly. But yeah, like, with with this, it was kind of like,
you know, like, wanting to make some shit that, you know, anybody could drink, you know what I'm
saying? Not necessarily just a beer, like a pilsner, like people don't like that gritty, bitter,
you know, piss type of taste, you know what I'm saying? So with a silly rabbit, it was like, all
right, like this tastes like juice, like it literally tastes like juice, you know, it looks
delicious. Like the milk after you eat some. Yeah, it's really good, bro. It's really like,
honestly, it creeps up on you. Like, because it's a tall boys. Who do you brew this with?
It's a 5.5%. So this is yeah. So like, a Bud Light is like 4.34.1 or something. But
it's brewed with hidden springs, hidden springs brewery. They're out in Tampa, right? Yeah, yeah,
they're right before you get to downtown. They're right next to a YMCA in a like an Oriental market.
Okay. Yeah. That's it. So this is just like one of the many things that you have for for merch,
right? Yeah, like a whole merch empire online. Yeah, man, I got I got the condoms, I got the
hand sanitizer. And those are the big baby comebacks, right? Yeah, the comebacks,
bro. That was always, that was always like an inside joke. It was always, it was always like
an inside joke. How did that joke come to come to live? Dude, like, okay, so I would see fans be like,
how is his name pronounced? Like, because on Twitter, on my Twitter handle, it's all like,
all caps, all big babies come back. So it's like, you know, I'm saying that s right there could get
kind of, you know, I'm saying, take it or leave it. It's up to you. You don't know where that s
really goes in the name of the baby. It was always like an inside joke on Twitter and Instagram,
like, damn, like, is it babies come back? So, you know, that was kind of just like a, that was
honestly, that was like a troll for like my fans, because at first I wasn't going to put those out.
You know, I just threw the idea out there one day. And I was like, you know what,
I'm gonna actually make some condoms. And yeah, nah, they did really good. What's
do you take a lot of suggestions from people on Twitter to make stuff?
Or on social media in general, you interact with them and they like give you ideas that you kind
of run with? Yeah. Yeah, I try, I try to, I try to be a little more authentic though. Yeah,
because like fans, bro, fans are quick to be like, Oh yeah, I gave you that idea. Give me credit.
Like, you know what I'm saying? So yeah, and I try, I try not to feed into like fans ideas like
that. You know what I'm saying? Unless it's like a really good one. Because yo, like, there's been a
bunch of shit that I've came out with or like, do like certain lines, like certain lyrics, bro,
that I've had in my songs. And like, fans would be like, Oh, you stole that from my song that I
made a week ago, even though your song is like months old, you stole this song. So yeah, dude,
I try not to like as far as ideas, like I don't really, you know, take them from from from from
people suggested them. Like I just I try to come up, me and my team, me, Pablo, my DJ, DJ Chuck,
Lil Scum, Sonny Fritz, you know, I'll talk amongst them and be like, Yo, like, what you think about
this or what you think about this, you know what I'm saying? And if the homies fuck with it, I know
everybody else gonna fuck with it. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? So yeah, so that matters, man.
Hell yeah. Yes. So who did you take most of your inspiration from when you decided to create this
big baby scumbag brand that you've created? Where did you take most of your inspiration from?
Man, honestly, this goes back to me just being a kid. And like, just like make pretending I had
my own brand of shit. And like, you know what I'm saying? Just kind of going back to like being in
like the third grade, fourth grade, and like playing Yu-Gi-Oh cards and shit. I had to put the
dragon on it, you know what I'm saying? And like that the logo is a is a playoff of like,
those trucker logos, like a Mac logo, you know what I'm saying? Where it's like the bulldog
circle around it with Mac, you know what I'm saying? A lot of the shit I put out is just the
influence of shit that I fucked with when I was younger, like the skateboards, for instance,
like a lot of the, a lot of the skateboards and shit. Just trucker hats. The trucker hats,
I was influenced by NERD. Like, Pharrell was wearing the trucker hats with the with the brain,
the NERD brain logo on it, you know what I'm saying? I want to, I want to make hockey jerseys,
dude. I was wearing, I was wearing so many hockey jerseys back in high school, man. Like,
I had the fucking collection of them. And you got all like the NASCAR stuff too. Yeah, yeah,
hell yeah. That's really big on you. Like, dude, with NASCAR, it was kind of a thing like,
I was always going to the thrift store and shit. And like, you know, us like,
being out here in Florida, like, it was like NASCAR capital. So, they sell it at the gas stations.
Yeah, not like it's everywhere. So it's right next to the butterfly knives.
It's inevitable, bro. So like, I became a NASCAR fan without even realizing it,
because I was getting, I was buying these shirts just because they look cool. I was like,
damn, like these shirts are fire and shit. And then like, I must say around like,
2014, one of my homies, Black Cray. At that, at that time, I wasn't even rapping. I wasn't even
rapping yet. But Black Cray had put out a song called Daytona 500. He had put out two, he had
put out a handful of songs that was like NASCAR reference, you know what I'm saying? And like,
I was like, damn, you know, this shit is tight. Like, you know what I'm saying? Somebody else is
into this NASCAR shit too, like I am, you know what I'm saying? Let alone like somebody that
I really fucked with musically. So it just fueled the flame of, all right, like, I'm gonna take,
I'm gonna take the NASCAR shit somewhere for real. Yeah, it's kind of like your, your music
is like a crossover of meme culture. You know what I mean? For show, for show, like my music is,
my music is a product of my everyday thoughts, what I watch on TV, movies, video games, pop culture,
cartoons, lifestyle, all that shit, man. All that shit in one, like in one fucking
boiling pot. And I stare it up and, you know what I'm saying? Like, all of my songs is just like,
this is like, this is a, you know what I'm saying? A view into my world. You know what I'm saying?
So yeah, man, my girl will tell you like Tiger King, like when that came out, like I was, I was
strictly Tiger, I didn't want to watch none of those with Tiger King. Tiger King. Yeah, well, you
gotta, yeah, you gotta finish it before you start something else. Yeah, no, for show. So right after
five times, right after I finished the Tiger King, I was like, yo, because what's so crazy about that
shit dude is like, I didn't know like, so I knew about Big Cat Rescue. I used to live like 10 minutes
from Big Cat, but like, I never knew like all that shit was happening. It's not crazy. You know
what I'm saying? So I was like, dude, like, I gotta make a song about Joe excited. Like, I feel
like it's a ride of like, what? Like, I'm from Tampa, dude. I gotta do this. That's the craziest
thing about like around here, this area, I mean, Florida in general, but this area, for sure,
there's like so many things like that, like Big Cat Rescue, you live there forever. You always
drove past it, but you never knew that crazy story behind it. Yeah, never knew about Carol
Baskin and just that whole shit. And what's crazy, dude, is that there's a there's kind of like a
theory. And, you know, there's this there's this one scene on Tiger King and Carol Baskin is talking
about walking down Nebraska Avenue. Yeah. Now, anybody familiar with Tampa knows what Nebraska
Avenue is, you know, because you describe Nebraska Avenue. Yeah, what is Nebraska? Nebraska Avenue
is just very sketchy. It's a very sketchy street, you know, it's where a lot of, you know,
prostitution goes down, you know, I'm saying. So in Tiger King, Carol Baskin, she had said,
yeah, like I'm walking down Nebraska to clear my head, this and that. And her husband, well,
he wasn't her husband at that time, but Dan, he was driving down that street and just picked her
up. Right. Told her to hop in, you know, I'm saying, Dan's a millionaire. And he gave her a gun.
Yeah, point this at me. You know, I'm saying some, you know, hey, I don't know, man, but
that relationship was doomed from the start. Carol Baskin, hey, Carol Baskin might have been a
prostitute, dude, you never know. She very well could have been. What are your feelings on Carol
Baskin now that some time has passed, you've maybe had some time to reflect. Do you still feel the
way that you did in your song? Anna, she did it. She did it. She did it. She did that shit, man.
Really? Because what's so crazy is like, dude, like a lot of that shit just doesn't add up.
But then at the, now one thing, one thing that is kind of weird, though, is like,
one of Dan's friends was on the show and his friend was saying that like the day before he
disappeared, Dan was like, yo, like, if I can pull this off, this will be the slickest thing I've
ever done in my life. It was like, what? Here's how I look at it. If he was the kind of dude who's
going to drive down Nebraska, pick up some bitch and give her a gun and say, point this at me. I
need someone to talk to. You're the same kind of dude who's going to take off to Costa Rica. Yeah.
And you're going to be, you know, living with a new hooker every night. He got a whole new name.
That was a time in America when you could still just disappear yourself. There's no phones. You
could still pay for, with cash for everything. You didn't need credit cards. He probably paid
people off along the way. He's living large. He's got, he's living in a house with like 14 under
age girls in Costa Rica. Bunch of tigers. Bunch of tigers. For real. But see, that's, that's the,
that's the crazy part, man, because Carol Baskin was doing a lot of sketchy shit, man. So it's like,
I don't know, man. And then even, even Dan's family was saying how like Carol basically like
threatened to cut them off. You know what I'm saying? Like if they, if they talked to the media
and you know what I'm saying? Did all this. So it's like, oh no dude. Yeah, man.
That's a weird conspiracy. Well, they opened up the case again, didn't they? They opened the
investigation. So I don't know what the latest is on that. It just seems too obvious. It just seems
way too obvious. For the, I mean, the lions like, come on, or tigers. Yo, like what's,
what's crazy about big cat rescue too is like, dude, like it's, it's, you know, being from Tampa,
like, you know, shit is like literally right in front of your face. Like, dude, I was at
Publix the other day and there was two people there that had big cat rescue volunteer shirts on.
What? You know what I'm saying? What color? They were red. Okay. What is that level? I think that's
newbie level. Noobs? Yeah, those are noobs. They're making sub rounds for everybody. I was like, I
looked, I took a double, I took a double. Yeah, man. Free Joe Exotic, man.
Yeah. Free Joe Exotic. What's his, what's up with him? Didn't he get coronavirus?
Something like, what's up with him? He just kind of disappeared. He did. Yo, they was saying he
caught that shit. I mean, I think he's healthy now. I hope so. You know, if y'all go to his
Instagram. He's got his boy, his husband running. Yeah, yeah. They're like, they're posting like
memes of like the, what's, what's the dude's name that took over the park? Oh, yeah, I forgot his name.
I forgot, but they're posting memes of him. They're trying to like blackmail him now. You know what I'm
saying? They're trying to take him down. They're doing like the same smear campaign they were doing
for Carol. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now they're trying to take him down. So Joe Exotic's whole Instagram is
just like, yeah, like he, he's doing shady shit. Like he needs to be in jail too. It's crazy. I
thought he was going to get pardoned for a second by Trump. Yeah, really. Yeah, man. I thought what's
crazy is like he, he doesn't have bail. I don't think he has bail because I looked up his network,
dude. Joe Exotic is stacked. Is he really? Yeah, man. You gotta be, you gotta be, you have money
to be flipping those kind of tigers. Flipping tigers. I don't think he, I don't think he got
bail. I think he got to do that harm or something, bro, because yeah, no, he's, he's stacked, dude.
Something's fucked up with that whole situation. It doesn't add up. No, it definitely doesn't add up.
Amen. Free Joe Exotic. He ain't do not, man. For real.
Oh, fuck. So do you make your own memes that you put like, you're really active on Twitter?
So how do you come, like, how do you come up with memes and, and how do you, like,
where do you find them and how do you curate them? You were talking about,
Yeah, I'm curious, like, how do you find memes now? Like what you're, you're in your 20s, right?
I'm 32. I'm a little old for the internet. So like, my meme resource is like middle-class
fancy and shit head Steve. And anytime I try to go on like 4chan, all I end up with is like
gaping buttholes. And it's just like, I can't find anything on it that doesn't discuss me.
I don't do 4chan. Like, so where do you find memes and like, that aren't just that?
Honestly, I either, I make them myself or like, I got a bunch of homies that like,
I just text back and forth, just dumb ass shit. And like,
Do you know Savage Realm? Savage Realm. No.
Okay. He's funniest. His memes are fucking hilarious. I thought, I thought,
because you guys are kind of like on the same meme level. You guys are like,
I might recognize you guys are on that tier. Yeah, yeah, I might recognize this shit if I see it.
But yeah, now I do like, I usually get my memes from the homies or like, I make my own shit.
It's like in-house stuff.
Yeah. And now like, I just, I have one like album in my, in my phone,
like one camera roll just full of like, just the dumbest shit ever, dude. Like,
like, dude, like that, not to go back to Joe Azadek, but that, that slide show,
that slide show video where like, it has the lyrics on the top and the bottom.
Yeah, that's amazing.
I had a homie of mine that works at a zoo in Florida. Me and him were just
sending pictures back and forth. So like, I'm like, Joe Azadek memes and shit. So like,
really, it didn't take no effort to make that, to make that slide show thing. I just do that
because I already had all the pictures I did. I just threw the legs on it like, boom. But yeah,
now I make all of my memes myself, dude. Like, I use like a bunch of like video editing apps and,
you know what I'm saying? A little photo editing apps, whatever. I mean, it's,
it's, honestly, it's, it's, it's a, it's trial and error though, because like,
it's just like being a comedian. Like if you're doing a stand up, I want you to stand up to,
you know, comedians bomb all the time. You know what I'm saying? I'll post some shit.
It's no love at all. You know what I'm saying? That's a part of making content.
You know what works so you know, it doesn't work, you know, and you know, pretty quick.
Right, right. So it's just finding that balance, dude. So yeah, man.
I'm still working on it because I'm not the best. Do you do all the editing on your phone?
Yeah, everything from my phone. Really? I just, I just downloaded this program
on my laptop a couple of days ago. So I'm still trying to, I'm still toying around with it,
trying to see what works and what doesn't work. But yeah, for the most part, everything's off the
phone. They make it easy to, to design off your phone. Now you don't even need a computer to
photoshop any of these second party apps that you can use to just do shit on. Dude,
I got a Chromebook, bro. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like everything is off my phone.
Those things are pretty legit. Yeah. Like, you know, bro, like people think you need like this
fancy like Mac lab top would, you know what I'm saying? No, I do like that goes with recording,
bro. What recording? Yeah. Like a lot of my first songs were like recorded with
fucking iPhone earphones, bro. And like the fucking the microphone shit. I was like,
yeah, on the headphones. Yeah, I was talking to the mic dude. Yeah, when people start out,
a lot of people just get super attached to the equipment and they think they need like before
they can do anything, they just need to have the best stuff or it's just like an excuse to
like wait longer. You know what I mean? I can't I got to get that microphone. I need to get that
cameras do use. I need that video camera. I don't have the latest photoshop. Yeah. Yeah. Bro, you
think like that you're not going to get shit done ever, bro. That's that's so toxic, man.
It's just procrastination, dude. Like, yeah, like, I got to get this in order to do that.
It just hints the creative process. Yeah. When it hints the creative process and to like,
you know, I'm saying when it comes to ideas and shit, you know, there's a lot of times
there's been a lot of times when like me and Paolo would be shooting and like we would I would
be like, yo, we got to shoot this like right now. Like, you know, I feel like if we wait on this
shit, the idea is going to get stale. Yeah. Not going to feel like, you know, I'm saying
not feel as excited shooting this shit. Yeah. Yeah, man. Because you can plan and you can plan
and you can plan and like, yeah, you go shoot that plan. But we were in the moment, you have to
recognize those opportunities for creativity that you can't see unless you're like in the middle of
it. And if you're waiting for, you know, all the equipment and everything to be perfect,
then you're never going to get started and you're never going to do anything worthwhile.
You got to start somewhere. Everybody got to start somewhere. You know what I'm saying?
Like a shit, a lot of people, a lot of people that, you know, that got their sound, their
signature sound, it was from using bad studio equipment and it just became their sound. You
know what I'm saying? Like a lot of this, this references back to like skateboarding videos.
Like there's a lot of people, there's a lot of skate photographers now and filmers
that still use the same equipment that they was using in the early 2000s. You know what I'm
saying? If it ain't broke, don't fix it because that's that's just their style of shit. Like a
lot of filmers are using VX 100. Strobac or Spike Johnson is like running shit now,
but they started out with like the worst equipment ever. But that's the style now.
Yeah, that's the style, man. Like if it ain't broke, don't fix it dude. Like it's just that
nostalgic, you know what I'm saying? Shitty basement, you know, 36 Mafia. A lot of my shit,
a lot of my shit that I do now. Crab's here. Keep it going. Oh yeah. Oh my god. Oh, we got some
crab boy. It's gonna be good. A lot of my shit that I do now, I'll tell my engineer, I'm like,
yo, this shit sounds too good. Like it sounds too like, too polished, too clear. And he's like,
what the fuck does that mean? It doesn't sound shitty enough. I'll be like, yo, like it sounds
too crispy, man. Like distorted just a little bit. Yeah, where's he got to like get the speakers
rattling a little bit? Like those are known to do. But yeah, man, I feel like I feel like I
ask characteristic to, you know. So yeah, dude, I feel like at the same time, though,
it's whatever works for you personally, because you know what I'm saying? There's a lot of people
that have, you know, crispy clear vocals, you know, I'm saying crispy clear music videos and
everything is just perfect. You know what I'm saying? But there's some artists where you love
like the nitty gritty, like, you know, I'm saying, you know, type shit. So I think the nitty gritty
stuff is what you were saying earlier about like being accessible to your fans. And when
you keep it at that level, you make it more approachable. And it feels more human. Whereas
like stuff like anything that like Drake is doing where it's like that's so unobtainable. And if
you're waiting to look and sound like that, then you're never going to do anything. Because like
those guys like Drake, they they look at the underground, you know what I'm saying? They're
like, Oh, what can I steal? Right, right. They take shit from the underground. So it's like,
don't try and be like these big dudes, because they're trying to be like us. Yeah, they're trying
to steal what you're doing. So be yourself. And then maybe one day Drake can rip you off. Yeah,
right? Yeah, no. Hey, can you like making songs for like tick tock dances now? Yeah,
yeah, no. Actually, I want to make a tick tock dance to my girlfriend, putting me onto a tick
tock lately, because I'm not on tick tock at all. So I was like, damn, like I need to make it like
a little tick tock. What would a big baby scumbag dance to you just be like, you just go left.
I don't know. Go go fast and go left. And we have something to do with beer, like the shotgun,
like that's the that's the dance. I don't know. I'm not that coordinator. I can't really dance
like that. Yeah, like there's bro with tick tock. There's so many like choreography steps.
And like, there's so much shit to do. There's a new one every week. Yeah,
not or like, honestly, though, it's like the same five dances. But it's just like
they're in different order. I love the way that they dance. So there's there's so much emphasis
on like every yeah, hey, hey, man. But yeah, nah, like tick tock is lit. Tick tock is for shows.
Where's that? You got to if you're like doing memes and promoting yourself through social media,
you kind of have to be reacting to everything that's coming out, whether it was like Vine,
which is dead now. But like, luckily, like Instagram, Twitter, everything stuck around
like that for you. And now it's like, you know, you take a risk every time you go on a new platform,
because like, will it tank in a couple of years? But is that risk worth it for you to invest the
time? You know, back in the day, bro, my space, like, I would have never thought we'd live in
a world where my space don't exist. Right? My space was this shit. Thank you. This looks beautiful.
They lost it, though, once they had a top 16. Really? That was that was legitimate. But like,
once you got top 32, you know, it's too much. You're trying to make it for everybody at that
point. You know, when you start to lose it, bro, you know, it's funny. So on my top eight, right?
So there was there was these accounts, right? So I would set my top eight to say D's nuts.
So like, there was one account that was like D, you add D as a friend, you add E as a friend,
add E as a friend, Z. Did you just make fake accounts? And you know, like, this was like,
real, like, I got this from a homie of mine that had these nuts.
I was like, I'm gonna add these nuts to it. Like, I put this shit in the order.
Oh, my bro. This is from Krispy Krab. Krispy Krab. Yo, this is crazy. We're gonna turn this
to a seafood. Oh, yeah. There's a shitload of paper towels down here. So I got one of the legs open.
I'm not as bad as I thought.
How's the crab? Decent? What is that, an egg? Yes, an egg. That was pretty.
See, I can't open like, like towards the claw. That's the easy part. Yeah, it gets like, kind of
difficult with these because the shell is so soft. Yeah.
Dude, I was watching Castaway. Oh, sure. And like, the scene where he had finally got like a spear,
right? Uh-huh. And he fucking stabs the crab and he picks it up and it just like oozes out like,
oh, yeah, fucking guts. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just like liquid crab meat.
And then, yo. What's the survivor? No, Castaway. Castaway, man. What's called survivor?
My boy was out there for four years eating crab legs, man. What was funny was like,
what was funny was when he actually came back after those four years and he was at like that
welcome home party or whatever. Yeah, there was a big ass thing of crab legs and he looked at it.
He was like, fuck this. Fuck this, dude. I want a pub sub. Right?
Yo, so where'd you get that crab in the James Winston video? Yeah, that seasoning looked weak on
that crab. Publix. Publix. Publix. Publix. Oh, that's where he goes. It looked weak. It looked weak.
Really? Damn, I forgot what it looked like, honestly. It was just like, you got it straight
out of the cabinet. Huh? Yeah, that's where James stole it from Publix. Yeah. It was the
Publix downtown. I think you know what I'm talking about. But yeah, no. I was barely,
you know what's funny? I was barely eating those crab legs. Low key. Yeah. I got a Publix dinner
and I was eating the Publix. The hot dinner? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'd got like chicken tenders
and like mac and cheese and shit. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I was eating the dinner and then Pablo
and my DJ Chuck, they was eating the crab legs, but I had only took one bite for the
video. For the video. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just for the look. Man, this shit is messy, son. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I know. I got one napkin over here that's going to serve as my plate. Luke, for your laptop,
just use your nose for the mouse pad. No, it's cool. I'll just crab it. The crab works. It's
touch sensitive. The boiled peanuts are pretty fire too. The boiled peanuts. Yeah, man. I love
boiled peanuts, dude. I love it. Like you can't find boiled peanuts nowhere else. Like they got them
they got them in like Texas, Alabama, Georgia, like Louisiana, anywhere else. No, you're not
going to find boiled peanuts in in fucking California, New York. No, not at all. They're
going to look at you. Definitely Southern thing. They're going to look at you like you're fucking
crazy, man. They've they've got rid of all the crockpots though at the gas stations. You can't
get them anymore. You know what? Not you know the virus. Yeah, we can't just have like a a crockpot
sitting out unattended at all hours of the day with a dirty ass spoon next to it for you to get
I just now you know what I just now realized that you're right. Yeah, damn, that's crazy. I tried
to get some the other day, but the guy looked at me like I was an idiot. They'll have that same
crockpot. I won't be surprised if like never cleaned, never cleaned to perfection. That's
what makes it so good. It's been sitting there for like 10 years. It's probably that the same set
of boiled peanuts are in there all fucking week if it's not guaranteed. Yeah, no, they've never
changed the water and that's what makes it so good. Right. We get like a real dark one. It's
like real crusty on the outside. They've been marinating and shit. That's when you know it's
gonna be a good batch. Yeah, I used to bro I used to so in my old neighborhood there was the ice cream
in but like he didn't only have like ice cream he had like fucking empanadas and like pickle
sausage like pickled eggs and like boiled peanuts and shit. So like yo, if you had like five bucks
you was like a millionaire. You could get an empanada, some boiled peanuts, fucking ice cream,
some chips and a soda like all with five dollars man. And for Toy Story, me and Pablo shot a video
some scenes out there and we were in this sunflower field. It was like this big ass.
Yo, the name of that sunflower field was like
yeah man. That shit was beautiful. Like usually they have like the Tampa Bay Lightnings logo. Like
if you was the like if you was like in the helicopter or some shit and you look down at it
it would be like go boats. It would be a go boat. Yeah, nah man. I love bricks.
You ever think about doing a country album? I feel like it's in you. It's in the works man.
Because on the on the Dale Earnhardt you had that one country song. Toy Story. Yeah, oh that's the
one. Yeah, okay. Yeah, it's in the works man. Like at first I was on some shit where you know
I was I was making a plate. I got a single paper towel. I didn't know you had plates.
Thank you. Yo, this sausage is really good. The sausage is where it's at.
So like at first what the country said with Toy Story, it was more so like
like me making fun of country music. Yeah. Like me mocking what a country song would sound like.
You know that was Toy Story but the the new shit that I've been working on as of lately,
it's actual like okay this is me taking it serious. Not like awesome like
like super country but it's big baby scumbags take. Yeah, yeah. Like you're not gonna be doing like
Old Town Road. Right. Right. Yeah. No, no, no. That just came out with like a new song. He's like
it's like Trap Country or whatever. Really? The guy with the ski mask. Oh, RMR. I don't know how to
say his name. Yeah, I have no idea. Anyway, yeah, it just seems like it's like starting to work its
way more into hip hop. Yeah, bro. Like it. And not just like that corny like hunky tonk,
bedonk-a-donk kind of stuff. Hip hop hip hop is becoming a lot more accepting, you know, cross
some, you know, cross collaborating with cross collaborating with other genres, man, because
dude like in the 90s, that shit wasn't flying at all. No, it was like mob deep or nothing. In the
90s, you had to be the super lyrical hip hop bars, biggie, Tupac, Wu Tang type rapper. Bro,
if you if you didn't have bars like that, like, you know what I'm saying, you ain't shit, bro,
but now it's it's very accepting. It's very like, you know, you can be a rapper and like talk about,
you know, being influenced by Marilyn Manson. Right. Like the, you know, shit like that. Like,
you know, there isn't just the uniform look and sound anymore. It's very accept, very accepting.
One thing that's cool about like what you do too is like, I see a lot of similarities to like,
just like the DIY punk scene. Yeah. What do you do? Yeah. Yeah. So, because you're just like out
there doing it on your own plan, wherever, wherever we'll have you. Yeah. So, bro, I get a lot of that
influences just from me, just growing up with kids that, you know, were part of the part of the
hardcore scene, going to the skate park back. You went to shows at transitions. I wasn't going to
shows, but I had homies that played in bands that would always go there. I was at the skate park,
but I wasn't going to shows at transitions. I'm going to be honest with you. I appreciate that
honesty. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so he was there. I was not in the pit at all. I will not your pit
adjacent. Yeah. No, I was not in the pit, but yeah, like growing up in middle school, you know,
I'm saying middle school, high school had a lot of homies that, you know, was part of hardcore
bands performed at transitions, you know, I'm saying all that shit and just the whole skateboarder,
culture, mentality, all of that. It really, you know, I'm saying it, you know, me growing up with
this shit, it made me way ahead of the curve. I felt way ahead of the curve. Then like a lot of
these rappers now that, you know, a lot of these guys is just like, yeah, I'm gonna watch like a
million YouTube videos of hardcore bands. And now I'm gonna fucking pretend like I've known about
this shit. And now I got a Metallica shirt. Right. You know what I'm saying? Like I feel like... Like
all the dudes in like, what's his name? Russell Westbrook. Yeah. Every Metallica, every single
like rock band from the 90s. NBA players should be like, I feel like there should be like a fine
NBA players for wearing some of these outfits, bro. Just looks so crazy. Except for LeBron and the
Cavs when they won that last finals, when they were all wearing WWE shirts, they were all wearing
like LeBron was wearing an Undertaker shirt. Oh, really? That's fire. And Kevin Love was wearing a
Stone Cold shirt. And like the whole, like the top like four players, they were all wearing like
WWE shirts. That's fire. LeBron be having some fits, though. No, he was wearing an Ultimate Warrior
shirt because they beat the Warriors. They wore the Ultimate Warrior shirt. LeBron be having some
fits, though. What do you mean? Some fits? Oh, some fits. Oh, outfits. Okay. Got you. We don't
know sling. Yeah, I don't know. We're not up to date in the second one. I can't say sling that's been
born in the past five years. That just sounded corny as fuck. It kind of made me think like, damn,
what do I mean? What do I mean? What do I mean? Fits? This is deep. I'm really scraping the barrel
here. Let me get some sausage. Get the sausage. Watch the juice. Yeah, those juices flying around.
Do you like basketball or no? I like basketball. I don't, I don't, I don't keep up with it a lot.
I'm more of a football guy. Yeah, football, NASCAR. Yeah, all the homies watch basketball.
So, shit, I fucking, I like, I'm, I'm, I'm into it, like not even at my own will, like
all the homies play. It's just there, just by association. All the homies play, all the homies
play 2K and all of that. So I'm in a by association. I know you were talking about it briefly before,
but what you were saying that you just got into playing skate three, you said? Yeah. Yeah.
On the original Xbox? Xbox one. So they came out with a version that's like
backwards compatible. So you can play it either on Xbox one or the 360.
That's crazy. I wish they would start. I heard that they just came out. They just released
the original Tony Hawk too. Yeah. So there, that was Tony Hawk's birthday. He announced the
the remaster. So dude, I don't think, I don't think I even played the original. Really? Tony
Hawk's pro skater. I remember playing one of them. I remember playing the one where you're in
Tampa. Like you can literally skate the fucking spot, the fucking spaceship. Yeah. Skatepark
of Tampa. They had the fucking Odyssey in it. Didn't they have Brobo in there too? Yeah, they
had Brobo in there. Yeah. Yeah. In the original? No, it was the second one. It was one of them.
It was one of them. It was one of them. But yeah, dude, that shit's so cool because like,
I feel like now like skating is coming. So like full force back around, bro.
Because like there was a, there was a span of time when I wasn't into skating. You know what I'm
saying? Like I felt like, you know what I'm saying? I felt like that wasn't part of me anymore.
Just because I wasn't like physically skateboarding. Right. So like I would have felt like a poser.
Like, you know what I'm saying? But I mean, you can check the receipts, man. I was really skating.
You know what I'm saying? So now it's just, I'm getting influence from all of that shit. But that
doesn't, doesn't certainly mean I got to be out here skating 24 hours because I only got time.
Yeah. I don't think that's because you're not like, you know, hitting handrails or skating at the
park every day doesn't mean you can't appreciate the culture and take something from it. Yeah.
Because even if you're just like on the outside of it, like contributing, you know, you need music
to skate to. Yeah. People need photographers for skateboarding. You need videographers. You need
designers. It isn't just about the act of skateboarding. It's more of like a mindset and a culture
that you can contribute to and take something away from. And to this day, man, like I don't know.
I made it when like a pro skateboarder uses my song for their part. Oh yeah. Has it happened?
It hasn't happened, bro. Like, I don't know. I feel like it's coming. It'd be like a clip on
Thrasher. Right. I saw the worst thing on Instagram yesterday. This dude, Italio Ferreri,
like one of like top five pro surfers, had like a whole surf section to a Marilyn Manson song.
And it was the worst thing I've ever seen in my life. Yeah. Definitely did not go. If I'm
thinking about a surf part, I'm thinking about a surf part. I'm trying to hear some like groovy,
like, I don't know. Like, I don't know. I'm not trying to like listen to some like crazy,
like hardcore shit. Not trying to hear the beautiful people. Me and him just got back
into surfing recently. Yeah. The same thing that you fall out for so long that, you know,
it was a big part of who you were and who, what inspired you to be who you are today.
And you get so caught up in like the day to day of just trying to like forge your path
as a creative and survive that you, those things kind of fall off. Yeah. But once you get comfortable
and like through it a little bit, you can look back and like, Oh yeah, I did like doing that.
And that did help me get here. Yeah, man, as part of you, man, like, like I said, dude, like I,
there was one point where I feel like, man, like this isn't like, I don't skate no more. Like,
you know, I'm saying like, I feel like I, I couldn't appreciate skateboarding as much as I
wanted to at some point, but you know what I'm saying? Comes back around, dude. You realize, you
know, the love that you have for it, like damn, like, you know, looking through a bunch of my
old skate videos, like it's a bunch of like Vimeo videos from like, oh, nine, you know what I'm
saying? Yeah, we got so many of those too. Yeah. You just have to like allow your relationship to
evolve with it. And it can't just be fixed on what it was at that certain point in your life.
Yeah, yeah, you're totally right, man. Is surfing hard?
Yeah, it's definitely hard. Because I feel like some people do make it look really easy.
I mean, looking at like, it's like one of those things where like, you can bring a different
mindset to it now. Like, like, back in the day, like, I never used to even think about it. I just
was obsessed with doing it. Like, we were just obsessed with going to travel to find amazing
waves and just go and just love doing it. Like I never actually tried to be good or get better.
But I feel like now, like the part of my life that I'm in now, like I can actually focus on it
and actually try to learn stuff and like improve techniques and like bring my evolution of my
brain apply that to surfing, like how I do everything else. Yeah. Have you ever surfed
like out in Cali? Yeah, a few times. Yeah, man. Like, bro, anytime I've seen like a surfing video,
it's out in Cali or like Hawaii, somewhere like that, man. All crazy remote places.
Hell yeah, bro. Just South Africa, West or West, the West coast of Africa. Yeah.
Yeah, dude, I want to, I want to, I want to try to learn how to surf. We can get you out there.
We can get you out there. This is the time of year where we get the hurricane swells in Florida.
Yeah, dude, I totally forgot about hurricane season. They're saying this is going to be like the
gnarliest hurricane season in a long time. I forgot it, bro. Just wait till phase phase three and four
of 2020. I just got through all my corona liquor. So now I got to go get some hurricane liquor.
We're going to get pummeled by hurricanes for the next three months and then the UFOs are going to
come around November or December. Yeah. And now I do like at the very end of 2020, bro, it's just
going to be like, we're going to see a fucking UFO drop down. The earth is just going to be like,
all right, I'm a head out later. For real, bro. We're on the fucking airplane mode right now.
Like the whole 2020, bro, this shit's crazy. How was 2020 starting up for you before everything?
Hit the fan. Really? All right. So 2020 for me, I'm killing this food right now. Yeah, I kill it,
man. It's making me sweat. Those eggs in there? Yeah, eggs, man. I've been dipping the eggs in the
juice. Yeah, juicy eggs. Oh, yeah. Yeah, dude, beginning of 2020 for me, I was just releasing
Big Baby Earnhardt. Yeah. So, dude, my mindset was full throttle, full throttle. I'm about to drop
this album. The beer is coming out. Because the beer came out the same day, Thursday night.
So the album came out that night, I believe. So I was just geared up, ready to go for the year,
man. And like, I think January, January was pretty good. And then I think, thank you, man.
January was pretty good. And then I think the first thing that like really fucked with everybody is
like fucked up. Everybody is Kobe, dude. Yeah, that was like late, that was like late January, man.
And I think after that, like 2020 is just, it was just like a domino effect, dude. And I feel like
it was the energy. It might have been just, you know, I believe in the law of attraction and just,
you know, we've been on a slippery slope ever since energy and you know, shit like that, dude. And,
you know, if you think it just brought the collective human will down, I think so, dude.
And like, you know, the corona shit came and then everything else. But I feel like, you know,
we got to go through the bad to get to the good, you know what I'm saying, at the same time. So
got to look at it as a, you know, glass halfway halfway full instead of halfway empty, you know
what I'm saying. So a lot of people think, you know what I'm saying, like the year is just going
to end like shit. But I mean, it's, we still got six months left, man. Six months can change your
life, man. Like who knows, I might be a fucking out of here, a fucking famous as fuck, you know
what I'm saying? End of the year, like who knows, dude, like. What are you, what are you trying to
do? What is your, do you have like a goal for one year, five years, 10 years? Like what do you
want to do with your life in the next one to five years? I want to be entrepreneur, man. Like
entrepreneur, definitely like music is always going to be like
forefront passion. Like I'm like an artist's first rapper first, you know what I'm saying?
It's got me, my talent rapping got me into, you know, what I'm doing now. So I'm gonna always be
rapping, but I do want to eventually like, you know, kind of branch off and just create content
along the lines of, you know, just like food shit and like just, I don't know, like funny shit, man,
like, like same thing Andrew's doing, you know, not like, not like interviewing or anything like
that, but just having like a platform where I can just do a bunch of like silly shit, you know
what I'm saying? And just leave the music shit where that's at, you know what I mean? The music
is always there and that was the launching pad for your true expressions. Right, yeah, man,
because like, I don't want to be like my thirties, you know what I'm saying? He's checking the AC
because it's a million degrees in here. Oh, this is big baby scumbag. That's Curtis. Curtis,
would you want some crab or a Bud Light? Yeah, we got Bud Light crab legs. You're welcome. We got
sausage, boiled peanuts, white claw, corn, corn. Can't help you there. Yeah, sorry. We go to time
out and check for you though. Pinellas Park's like 20 minutes away from here.
Yeah, the muscles are fire. Crispy crab. Crispy crab always coming through. Crispy crab with a K.
They big timed us on Instagram, didn't they? No, they commented on us. I mean,
they kind of big timed us. We like shouted them out and they like liked the comment.
If I did something... They didn't follow back though. They didn't follow back.
She wants some muscles. Dude, I'll go to Mr. and Mrs. Crab and get like a pound of crawfish
and kill that shit. They just give it to you in like a grocery bag, right? It's a big ass bag. Yeah,
nice big ass grocery bag and like they give you like a bucket with like gloves and shit, but
I like to get my fingers. You want to? Yeah, nah. Fuck the gloves, man. Fuck a plate. Fuck the gloves.
I don't even, bro, like I don't even use the bib because they give you like a bib. Yeah. You know
what I'm saying? Fuck that too, bro. Like I'm in there, bro. Fingernels dirty, all that. You don't
do it while you're playing video games though, right? You do it while you're playing video games,
eat the fucking crawfish while you're playing like skate three? I can't. No. Bro, like what was like
the biggest pet peefer, man? When I was a kid playing video games with my brother,
my older brother, and like he would be so messy like eating hot pockets,
fucking grabbing the controller. There's like hot pocket juice all on the fucking joystick.
Yeah, like I can't do it. How do you need a hot pocket and play video games? I mean,
that's not even that bad a hot pocket or like a pizza roll, like the fucking, you know what I'm
saying? Your hands are still getting greasy as shit. There's fucking pizza roll grease all on
the controller and shit. Chances are there's a mountain. This kid that we know, he's a professional
Fortnite player. He eats crab just like this from Krispy Krab while he's playing Fortnite.
Like he plays on the computer. So he's got like the keyboard and the mouse, and he's got like the
full on like garbage bag over his body with the holes in it for his arms. That's badass.
Pretty sick. Yo, I've seen this picture of this kid. He's playing Fortnite and like he has his feet,
like his toes are like pointing up against the wall, like his back is up against the wall like
this. And like he's like, it's kind of like some airbender shit, bro, the way he's playing. What?
He's just levitating. Yeah, like, bro, like my nephews are really good at that game too.
Are they? They eat, sleep, breathe, Fortnite, bro, like they, bro, they old, what?
You ever play? This shit is crazy. I'm all right. I'm all right. Are you? I'm all right. But it's like
I got to already like be playing for a little bit. Like I got to warm up for sure. Yeah, yeah, I got
to warm up to it. But my nephews, they'll be on that shit all day. Like literally like, like,
when they come stay with me for a couple nights, bro, they'll be up until like five o'clock in the
morning. Just yelling on the microphone. I'm like, bro, like, it's so addicting that fucking game,
man. Hey, man, that game, man, like, I don't remember a game like that when we were younger.
How about the Travis Scott concert? James Bond. Oh, yeah. 64-year-old night. Halo was for sure.
Yeah. I think Gears, Halo. Yeah, Gears and Halo was like the game of my generation, where like kids
were just Gears one crazy. What about, what about Quake? Quake? That might have been early 2000s.
Yeah, yeah. That was like, my era was like 2006, 2008. And then Splinter Cell, I was really addicted
to Splinter Cell. Yeah, Splinter, Rainbow Six. Yeah, Tom Clancy Games. All that shit, bro. I got a PS1
and I have the original Rainbow Six. And like, bro, like, I'm stuck on the first one. I'm like,
what the fuck do you do, bro? So, yeah, no, I gave up on that shit. But no, it's a pretty, like,
I love old school games, but a lot of old school games, they're very like,
like boring, stale. I mean, like back then, I'm pretty sure it was like the coolest shit ever.
I'll play like, what game, for instance? Oh my god, I was playing
NAA, like 97. NAA basketball, 97. Oh my god. There's some shit. And I was like, yo, there's nothing
like 2K. No. We're far away from 2K. Yeah, we're far away from 2K. Yeah, some of those old games
are super hard, though. I still love playing all the old Mega Man's. And I have the legacy
collection. I've gotten it for every system I've ever gotten. So I've gotten it for like PS2,
PS3. I got it for Nintendo Switch, and I'm probably going to get it for PS4. But there's
just something really comforting about visiting those old games that you grew up with that you
could beat with your eyes closed. Yeah, bro. They're really nice to play. My homies really
into Mega Man. He has one of those for the PS2. And like, he can beat this shit. Like I said,
like with his eyes closed. They just run through it. Like, I'm like, yo, how are you doing this
right now? The music is super underrated on that stuff, too. Yeah, man. Like a lot of,
what's cool is when I got into, so like, I was in the Zelda, like I was in the, like, I was like,
a little bit into Legend of Zelda. They're super into Zelda, too.
Breath of the Wild. Did you play for Switch? Oh, no, I haven't. That's the only game I haven't
played for Switch, surprisingly. I've probably put in like 200 hours on that game. It's so good.
Have you beat it? Like, are you doing like? Yeah, I beat it. Okay, okay. But there's like,
you know, it's just like any game like that. There's so many different ways you can beat it.
You can just like work through it. Or you can just fuck off and do all the side quests and like
cook food for two hours. Dude, like, I was, I was a fan of Legend of Zelda. Like, I was playing it
a little bit. And then what's cool is like, when I started getting into music, and like,
hearing certain beats, and I'm like, oh, shit, that's from that, that's from that video game. Or
like, like my homies will get me into anime, like certain animes. And then I'll hear beats or shit
and be like, yo, that's where that came from. Like a keyboard sound. Yeah, like, it'll be the,
it'll be the most like, minuscule thing. And I'm like, yo, that sounds really like I'll be
watching anime with my girl and like, like a certain like, like series of like sounds they're
playing. I'm like, oh, yeah, that happened to me like last I happened to me last week. I mean,
I'm so fucking out of like relevance as far as like hip hop right now. But it happened to me
last week, I was listening to randomly in the background, I had this Apex twin album playing.
And one of straight up, it was a Kanye instrumental from his latest album or from the,
I think it was from the Pablo album, Life of Pablo. And it was the same instrumental. Like,
he literally just bought the, bought the track from Apex twin. I forget what song it was.
But I instantly knew I'm like, this is the Kanye, this is the same fucking Kanye song.
He didn't even sample it. He just straight up popped it. He just said, let me cop that.
He probably added like one little thing to it. Yeah. All right. Yeah, I'm done.
But it's, I mean, it's like the perfect, it's the perfect combination. Yeah. You know what I mean?
Like Apex twin beats or Apex twin, like his instrumentals and, you know, if anything,
it's like Clams Casino and Lil B. Yeah. Like the perfect combo. My God.
When we talk about producer, rapper duos, they're in like top, top five.
One of the greatest of all time. I'm God. Are you kidding me? Okay. Top five producer,
rapper duos, Lil B and Clams. I'm gonna say Riz and Wu Tang.
Wakaflaka and Lex Luger. Gucci man and Gucci man and Zay. And then last but not least, I'm gonna say
Metro Boomin and whoever he's working with. I'm gonna say, I'm gonna say Metro Boomin
and Young Thug. I remember it. Well, no, I can't even say that because Thug, like Thug got
just as many shit with TM88, Southside. That without warning album. All those guys. So it's like,
it's a toss, but yeah man. Shout out Lil B. Shout out Clams. Thanks God. Hell yeah, man.
Yeah, that stuff brings back memories. That's like a whole era of my life, that Lil B.
Clams Casino era. They were just listening to Clams, but violate that bitch right before you
got here. Oh yeah, we were jamming that right before you got here. That's probably my favorite
Lil B song. It just sounds like, it's everything just sounds like it's maxing out. Bro, he had the
bass and everything all at the same time. He had that tight ass purple V-neck. The V-neck?
Belly button shirt? Yo, what the fuck? Lil B is rapping next to a dumpster behind the bush.
Lil B is tight, man. Lil B is like, Lil B might be an alien, dude. I don't know, bro. Like,
him and Elon Musk came from the same planet. Dude, Lil B is incredible. Like, he has time to do,
he has time to be on Twitter all day, Instagram all day, reply to all of his fans, retweet
everything, like everything. He replies to DMs. Replies to everybody's DMs. Do all this shit. On
top of that, drop like 100 song mix tapes. Every couple months, like, bro, like Lil B's to this day
one of the hardest working, you know what I'm saying, artists out there. Definitely. He's definitely
out there. Like, dude, I remember, okay, so when I was in like the fifth grade, that's when Vans
came out with the pack. And I remember back then, dude, like, no black kids were wearing vans, man.
So like, they put that shit at the forefront, like, yo, like, this is what we do. Like, we skate,
we wear vans, we gonna make this shit cool is what we do, you know what I'm saying? And I look,
that is like, damn, like, you know what I'm saying? Like, you can be yourself. Like, you can have your
own taste. Like, you don't got to rock fucking the Jordan's and the air forces and you know what
I'm saying? Yeah, yeah, you get a lot of shit for it. You know, I got a lot of shit for skateboarding
and growing up. But yeah, dude, like, when Lil B started doing his solo thing, it was the same
shit where it was like, you know, when he started the bass movement and being bass is basically being
whoever you are just being you. Yeah, I'm saying just, you know,
just not not really trying to try to impress anybody. Or you know, I'm saying, did you see
when he went on ESPN and he wore the dress with the ears? Exactly. Yeah, no, he was, bro, he was on
SportsCenter, ESPN. I think he was on, I think it was the NBA Finals and I had Lil B as a guest
speaker on SportsCenter, like in the middle, like the most watched, like the most like the part of
the year when like May, June, during the NBA Finals is like when ESPN gets his probably its
highest viewership of the year. And they pick like celebrities to come on there once a week to talk
about sports and talk about their favorite. They had Lil B on there wearing a full purple blouse
with long earrings and like a, like a, it was like, it was a sun dress. And it was like a, like a
like a, like a round ass hat. Like a round ass sun hat. Like a sun hat. Yeah, on garden. It was a sun
hat. It was something, bro. Yeah. He's on another, another, was that when he dropped the curse?
Yeah. Yeah. No, it was that. I think that was when he lifted the curse because he dropped the
curse on Kevin Durant before that because Kevin Durant wouldn't play him in one on one. Yeah.
And then, and Kevin Durant called him whack on Twitter. And then when he finally showed up,
that was when KD came back to came to the Warriors. So he's like, KD came to the Bay. I'm lifting the
curse on KD. Yeah. And he won. And he won. And he won. Twice. Lil B made a mixtape called Hoop
Life. And basically just the whole shit was based around like, he wasn't dissing Kevin Durant
on the whole shit, but like he dedicated like, fuck Kevin Durant. I remember that song. I remember
playing that on the way to the coast. We used to play that in the office. We're playing ping-pong
every now and then. But the video in the basketball court, in the video, like Hoop and this shit.
Yeah. Play me in a game in one on one. It's really fun.
Yo, y'all seen the video of Lil B and he's like, he's crying in the pet store?
Yes. Yo, I love that video, bro. That is the best. That's my shit, dude. I be feeling like that in
the pet store now, not that I got a lizard. I be in there like crying. They're like, damn, this shit is
so beautiful. Yeah, there's really something about, something to be said about Lil B and like
that whole attitude of just not taking yourself seriously at all and just doing the most wacky
out there shit and just putting it out there and seeing what happens. Like Lil B, he did it in a way
where it was like his whole everything. It seemed like he was talking about something
that was just completely out there. But then you could almost like Gucci before he went to prison,
he almost did the same thing where his lyrics were just so absurd, like higher than giraffe pussy.
Gucci was saying shit like that. It's just like so ridiculous. I got Gucci's autobiography.
I don't know if autobiography is when they write it, right? Yeah, I think Otto was when
he wrote it. Yeah. Okay, so I got Gucci's. Well, no, I don't think he, but it's in,
it's basically in first person. It's like, it's like him, you know what I'm saying, talking about
shit. So anyway, yeah, like he talks about like, oh, that shit, like before he went to jail, like he
was a lot of drugs, dude. You know what I'm saying? And like when he went to jail, he lost all that
weight. He stopped drinking lean and shit. You know what I'm saying? So yeah, dude, it's like,
it's, you know, drugs definitely cloud your mind. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, you got his mind back once he stops doing all this stuff.
But I mean, you got it. You can't, you can't deny the fact that that's someone's,
that was some of his best work when he was fucked up.
I feel like it's the most influential. I would say influential.
Like with the stuff knows, but like the early on stuff, the most influential official because
he got some shit now and I'm like, damn, this shit is hard. Like, but, but yeah, I would say
it's not, it's not classic Gucci though. It was stuff. No, whatever. It's too much, too much
ecstasy. Yeah. Pregnant belly Gucci. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, pregnant belly stuffy
nose Gucci man. Yeah. Congested classic man. And that's what a lot of my shit was influenced by,
you know, early on like jelly was a beat by pull a boy Saudi. And that was that was the
if you, if, if you looked up Gucci main type beat in the dictionary, the jelly beats right there,
that's the very first, that's the definition right there, dude. So how would you describe a Gucci
man beat? Man, uh, very sounds like you're in like a, like a church, like a hood church.
It's like that. It's like the Zaytovan keys plan. It's like the Oregon keys, you know, Gucci, Gucci.
Yeah. I feel like it's large. Yeah. Like shots out of Zaytovan man. He can play a piano or that,
that stupid beat. That's my favorite Gucci. Yeah. My favorite Gucci be either that or the original
first day out where he's in that the music video for the original first day out of my day with
that shitty dark video where he sit in the RV in the empty Walgreens park or the Walmart parking
lot. Yeah. Yeah. There's two of them. Yeah. Because there's one that he's in the tour van.
I feel like he's all Gucci down and shit. Yeah. In the tour van. I think Walker Flaka had the same
video in that tour van because Walker Flaka got a video in a tour van. It's called still standing.
It was like the intro to LeBron Flaka James. But yeah, man, I know that whole catalog front
the back, man. Like all Gucci shit, all Walker shit. Played a big influence, dude. You can hear it.
I mean, a lot of rappers that come out with like the, like the meme style, like that you,
you know, immerse yourself in, like they don't have the aggression and delivery that you have.
And you can really hear that, that Southern rap in you where you're just like in the mic and it
sounds like you're going to like jump through the headphones cameras right there. Can you like zoom
in on this crab leg? Yeah. Yeah. We can zoom in on it. Let's zoom in. Hold it closer to the
mic. I'll tell you where you're at. There you go. Right there. That's going to catch up.
I want to pull out a beautiful piece of meat right there. I'm going to pull out like a perfect
one. It's clean. I haven't done it yet. I've been pulling out just a little every crab leg. It's better.
Yeah. No, for sure. I want to put this on like a trophy stand. Hold it up. We'll use it as your
thumbnail. Do you like your crazy face? Do a picture real quick of it. Yeah, yeah.
Very proud of it. But yeah, man, I feel like, so Juvenile Hell was all produced by Lex Luger.
Yeah. You know what I'm saying? And I was just pretty the most real shit that could ever happen
at that point in my career. That opening song is aggressive. Juvenile Hell,
actual song, that song is. Yeah. All right, bro. So I told Lil B, I was like, yo,
I really want you to be on this tape. But I knew that like it might have not met the deadline for
him to like get his verse in. So I was just like, yo, like instead, just like record like a voice
memo and send it to me as like an intro or whatever, like a skit. So he was like, all right,
but so yeah, not put that put that on top of the song at the beginning. And it was a rap, dude.
But yeah, man, working with Lex was the most real shit is from like listening to him back in
a day to like making music with him. It was like, bro, like hard in the paint. Yeah, I feel like
like the first like the first few times I had texted Lex, I was like, yo, like is this really you?
I was like, yo, I've been listening to you since the ninth grade.
Yeah, it's like a weird thing. You got to you got to like not mark out to him too hard. And you
got to kind of be cool at the same time. You kind of you got to find the balance. So they don't
they don't be like fucking. Yeah, remember to be yourself and remember that there are people too.
It's a lot of dudes now. And I'm just like, yeah, I'll be texting them. And I'm just like, yo, just
be cool. Yeah. Just be cool. Chill. Fine. Like, I'll be like, I'll be texting a little b like
his own lyrics. Like, I'll be like, yo, I'm Bay's guy K straight for the bitch. I'll text him out
of nowhere. What does he say to you when you text him that left on red? He's always like love him.
I'm like, I appreciate it. Yeah, man. I talked to him on the phone once. Yeah.
And he was going to come do that. We're going to do the he was going to do the episode of the
podcast where but I was going to go up to up to him. And this was like two years ago. He saw
him speak at a college. Oh, yeah, we did. Oh, he spoke at a symposium. He did one of those
lectures at UF in Gainesville. This was like five years ago, maybe six years ago. Yeah. Yeah,
he yo, he was yo, he was on the road with those college lectures. Yeah, he was it was unreal
how many people packed that little auditorium to listen to him talk. Yeah, man. It was crazy.
Like what's so sick is like, he's really he's a big influence on on people like it's talk about
it that thing. I don't know. He just talked about his like creative process, how he comes up with
stuff, how like, he motivates himself to create music from when he was younger to where he is
now and like where he is in his life now, like talked about like his big life events, like his
house burning down, that kind of stuff. I don't know. It was a long time ago, but it was really
cool. He did he spent like the whole lecture was maybe an hour. And he spent at least another
hour just taking pictures and talking to people afterward. Yeah, the people's chant, man. He really
is. And the line at that thing, it started at like eight o'clock at night and the line at UF
and to go to that little auditorium, like went out of the whole camp. It was the first time I
been into a real college came out the whole campus outside and wrapped around half the building.
Yeah, we we stole two of our friends IDs to go get in there.
UF Gainesville shout out to them. Yo, my homie had let me borrow Lil B's book, his book that he
wrote at 19. Right. I remember listening to Lil B back in the day. And Lil B will be like, yeah,
like I'm the first rapper to ever write a book at the age of 19. Blah blah blah. You do a good
impersonation of him. Yeah, you do. Yeah. This is my voice for everybody. Actually sounds like
Lil V is like real like genuine and like I care and a little soft. That's my voice for everybody.
No matter male, female, whatever. But yeah, like he would be like, yeah, first rapper to write a
book at 19. I was like, damn, like, how do I get this book? And like, the book is so rare. It's
called Taken Over. Super rare. It's called a ultra rare. Yeah, it's called Taken Over. And
I remember a good friend of mine is Ned R from he produced a lot of stuff for Pete. He's part of
GBC. I was in LA. It was like two years ago. And he was like, yo, I got I have that book because
like he's a really big Lil V fan too. So I was like, yo, like, could I please bro this? And he was
like, yeah, bro. So yeah, dude, I'm reading the book. And a lot of stuff in the book, like it's so
like it's it's so like authentic, dude, like there's typos in the book. There's hella typos and
shit as if like, he just wrote all of this shit in his itunes notes. And just like
it's just like a stream of consciousness. Yeah. Like there's so many like misspelled words and
shit. Where did he get the book? I'm not sure. Like, I don't know where they were selling this
book when it came out, but it's super rare now. Like, yeah, you can't find that shit anywhere, dude.
But yeah, not it's so it's so authentic. And like it basically he's he's telling people like how he
started out and like, you know, the bass lifestyle and what that is. And like he talks about meeting
too short and getting signed to a label for the first time and all that shit. But yeah, man,
it's very inspiring. Very inspiring.
Love. Shouts out Lil Beer. Shouts out Bass God. What was it like having somebody like that to look
up to? Because I mean, you even said something about like, even wearing vans was enough to get
made fun of. So like to have somebody who comes out like Lil B say like, no, it's okay for you to
be who you want to be. Yeah, in this industry. What was that like? It's a it was a few people that
was on that shit too. Like there was like, it was like Pharrell and like any RD, you know what I'm
saying? And you know, that whole shit. And there was like, do like Kanye, like Kanye was. Yeah.
Yeah. So left the oddball, you know what I'm saying? Like wearing polos and Louis Vuitton
backpacks. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Oh, that shit, nobody was Dave Chappelle.
Yeah, that's my first introduction to Kanye. Yeah, you know what I'm saying? So
it's a handful of people that was doing that. So it was
it fueled the fire. You know what I'm saying? It was like, all right, like it's okay. Yeah, like
you don't have to, you don't have to be some tough guy all the time. No, you know what I'm saying?
Like or act like you have all this money. Yeah. Yeah, no, because a lot of these rappers are
act like you're already driving a Bentley. A lot of these rappers are trying to sell a dream and
and it's so like, you know, it's it's corny, bro. It's all smoke and mirrors. Yeah, it really is.
That's the one thing that I wish would change. I don't know. It's just the one thing that I never
found like cool about the culture of the like hip hop videos. Or I mean, it's not just the videos.
I mean, it's obviously everything about it, but it's I think it's changing, but it's always been
like show that you have so much more than what you really have. And it's always been about just like
making the money or having the cars and having the chains, having the ice, all that. That's like
the meat of the content for a lot of people. I feel like I feel like that started when
because in the 90s, it wasn't really like that. Like in the 90s, it was like
early 90s, killing early 90s was, you know, you know, I sold drugs, like, yeah, I'm selling
all these drugs, you know what I'm saying? It was about that. It wasn't really about like
how many hose, what car you was driving. It was about how hardcore like,
but there's also, I mean, on the other side of it, there's also like the fake it till you make it
thing. You know, if that's what you really want and you want to put that out there,
then that could end up being what you want. For example, when I help Rod Wave, she wanted his
first videos, we let him borrow Mark's Bentley because he needed a car for it. So he had a
Mark had a Range Rover and a Bentley and we let him drive the Bentley down the street,
walk into the store in downtown St. Pete and he literally let him drive the Bentley with
these girls in it or whatever. And Rod Wave couldn't afford a Bentley. I don't even think
he had a car when we shot that video. And now I guarantee you, he could buy a fleet of Bentley's.
Manifestation. Yeah, manifestation. That's how I always looked at it. It's like,
I think it's more like aspirational and like that whole secret thing where you're just like,
you will it into existence. So you just keep repeating it. Yeah. Repeating it. Yeah, for sure.
Repeating it. Always have it in your head. You just convince yourself that it's going to happen.
Always have it in your head. Wake up thinking about it. Go to sleep thinking about it.
Yeah, it's definitely, it's definitely it's a goal. It's a motivation thing. Yeah, it's a goal
motivation. People, they want to see that they associate that with moving ahead and getting to
like getting out of where they are and moving to like the next level. Everyone's got a mantra,
whether it's like negative, whether you think like, I can't do this, this isn't working,
or whether your mantra is, I got a Bentley, a million dollars and 10 bitches, whatever you
think you're going to do and get, you're going to get eventually. Fuck that. If you think that's
shallow and lame, then you know, whatever that judge people, that's what you want. Go get it.
Yeah, dude. There's, yeah, man. Just live your truth and be positive and don't mess with other
people. Dude, like there's this rapper named Viper. I don't know if y'all know who Viper is. I don't
think I've never heard of him. But there's, it's like, he's probably like this 40-some-year-old
rapper, but like 47, 40-some, 40-something, I don't even know. At one point, he had in his bio
the first trillionaire rapper. Hell yeah. See, that's, that is legit. Viper? Yes, that's Viper.
Oh my God, Viper. Where does he live? Whoa, look at his life. My homie D and shout out to D and he
showed me this dude. The first trillionaire rapper. Look at that album. He had on this, he had on the
bio the first trillionaire rapper. Yo, who is that group? I don't even want to think, I don't want to
even try to go down this rabbit hole right now. Let's do it. We're already here. I can't even think
of the name of them. They're like, they're like, they're not this, they're, I want to say they do
a lot of shows with the Suicide Boys. They're called, it's like, it's like three dudes and they
go on stage and they scream and they make weird sounds. The lead dudes got like this big afro
and he's like, makes these like fucking belches into the microphone and screams. What the fuck is
that band called? It's The Something. That's narrowing it down. Maybe we'll find it. Bands that
start with The. That's narrowing it down. See, that's why I didn't want to bring this up because
I knew we'd never find it to work through it. And they play with Suicide Boys?
Nothing's coming to me. Yeah. Shots out Suicide Boys. I've seen them perform for the first time.
Last August, me and Pablo was out in the LA. He was out there for like a week and the PR
that we was working with. They also do work for Suicide Boys. So they was like, yeah, like,
we can get you on the Suicide Boys show if you want, because they're here for the weekend.
And actually, they was performing at the same venue twice. So that was it. One, they performed
Friday night and Saturday night at the same venue just because the first night they fucking sold
out. You know what I'm saying? They ran the same fucking show back the next day. So I was like,
oh, shit, hell yeah, like I'm down. Because like, I'd already knew Scrimm, Scrimm and Ruby. They
had hit me up a few months ago, you know what I'm saying? So I was like, oh, shit, okay,
where? Be able to meet them. Yo, this show was nuts, bro. So we're like on the balcony looking
down at the show. And when they like anytime they said open up the pit, there wasn't just one
mosh pit. It was literally like seven, eight different circles within one big one. Because
there's one just huge one. And then there's other like multiple pits, like spread it out.
You ever seen anything like that? I've seen stuff like that. It's amazing to see. It's hypnotizing.
We're at the top balcony just looking at everything like, yo, this is good.
That's power. In LA, were you at the Will Turn?
Yo, what venue was that? I don't even know, dude.
You know, I can think of an LA that has a double story like that as the Will Turn.
You never seen nothing like that in LA. It was big as hell too.
Ran into Kenny Beats there for the first time. Shouts out Kenny Beats.
Oh, Kenny Beats. Huh? Oh, shit. You saw what?
Oh, oh, fuck. What was that? Sounds like a nightmare. Yeah, it does sound like a nightmare.
Yo, damn. Yo, so like even getting into that show was like so stressful because like,
when we had went there, Pablo had brung his camera and he had asked me,
he was like, yo, is it cool if I bring my camera? And I was like, yeah, yeah, bro, it's fine.
Bring your camera. So we fucking get there. And we talked to the people at Will Call.
We're like, yeah, like we're on the list, whatever. And they're like, okay,
you're on the list, but you can't bring the camera in.
We're just stuck with this camera. And now we got to wait for the people at RPR to get there.
And they had to talk to a bunch of people and it was, it was a lot for a camera,
but I get it. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, that's bullshit.
Because we did get in there for free. And we got the best seats in the house.
And he filmed it. And you filmed it. Right. It took pictures.
How often do you guys shoot videos?
Um, pretty often, even if we,
for like how many songs that you do, do you make a video for?
Yeah, yeah, like in a lot of shit that there's a lot of videos that are in the ball
that like have never been released. So in a lot of videos that are unfinished.
So there's a lot of concepts that we start working on. Probably don't finish,
you know what I'm saying? Yeah. And a lot of shit that like,
that we did a couple of years ago and we look back on now and we're just like,
oh, we don't really want to drop that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You feel different about it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. We'll just let it, you know, a bench.
Yeah, yeah. We got a video. Was that the pub sub song?
Yeah, nah, I was drunk as hell in Publix.
I mean, haven't we all been? You're not a real Floridian unless you've been drunk as hell in
Publix. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Were you grazing? Was that? I was, I was, I was.
Grazing is when you get fucked up in Publix. When you first, you got to crack a four pack
of some sort of beer and then you go up and down the aisles while you're shopping. You eat the food
and then you just leave the cart. And then you just, you're drinking the four pack,
you keep that right in the front of the cart, drink your beer and then you go up and down the
aisles. And while you're getting shopping, you just eat food while you're shopping. And then you
leave and you just leave everything. You don't pay for anything. Nah, I was already fucked up before
I got this was, this was set in stone. And like, what's crazy, I think we went back there twice
just to re-shoot it. Yeah, because they usually come down on you when he's tried to film in there.
He was like watching us from a distance, but he couldn't be around us.
Yeah, yeah, what's funny is I had a, so I got this little bill doll and like Chan,
Chan, I got a name tag for the little bill doll. So yeah, man, my little bill is officially a
Publix employee. I don't even got, I don't even think I got the name tag anymore dude.
What is it? Show me the pub sub.
Well, goddamn, we just did two hours, big baby scumbag.
We just went through it. Exactly two hours, how many minutes? That was about two hours exactly,
I think. Oh, I got one last question. What is it actually like touring for you? Because I have
my tour experience, and I just want to know what like your tour experience is like, because I'm
like coming at it from like, I bought a van off the Craigslist, and then we would play shows and
usually sleep wherever we played, like on the floor in somebody's kitchen or in a basement
with no air conditioning. All our money was spent on just like drugs and cheap beer and gas.
So like I want to know like rockstar though. Yeah, rockstar for sure. Crack rock, maybe.
So like I want to know like what the experience is as like a DIY hip hop artist.
It's pretty chill, man. Like, okay, like for me, me personally, it's like, I don't smoke,
but all of my homies smoke like, well, Paulo doesn't smoke you. Like occasionally, well,
at the at the time of yeah, not at the time that we was on tour,
Paulo wasn't smoking. So it was two people that didn't smoke on the bus. Everybody else fucking
you had a bus. Yeah, we had like a like a van, like a fucking sprinter Mercedes sprinter at that.
Yeah, you talk about rockstar. Mercedes sprinter. Yeah, that shit was a Ford. It wasn't a Mercedes.
It was a Honda Civic. Old Gatorade bottles in the back. It was something, bro.
Bruh. All right. So like, so our DJ, right? So this might have been right after a show,
bro. I don't know why Chuck was even driving. So our DJ was driving, right? We get to Seattle
and we're out of Airbnb. Our DJ is backing up and he fucking
yeah, not there's a backup camera on there. There's there's clearly a backup. That must have been a
sprinter. He wasn't using a shit. Yeah, nice. So bro, he busted one of the windows. So there's
there's two back windows for each doors. There's a window for this door and a window for the other
door. And he buses one of the fucking windows in the back, dude. And like, I remember the van
being with a broken window for like the whole tour because yeah, it was trash bag on it. Seattle
was like the third or fourth stop, bro. That was like a 20 city tour. Oh, yes. Yeah,
damn. We, yo, we had a fucking trash bag fucking taped on and like all you would hear when we was
on the highway. Yeah, but not tour tour was cool, man. Like, really, like that was my first,
my tour with Oliver Francis 2018. That was my first like nationwide tour because I had always been
on, I'd always been on tours like throughout Florida, like three, four or five dates at a time,
but nothing like 20 city tour. Yeah. Three international dates. So for me, it was just like,
I rode with the punches, man. Like, I didn't care about shit. Like, because really it wasn't even,
it wasn't that bad. It was some days that we did sleep in the van, but it was just like that whole
experience for me. It was just like, whatever dude, like, you know what I'm saying? Like,
because you're not just going through it alone, man. Like a lot of the homies that were on the bus
experienced experiencing the same shit. So, you know what I'm saying? Not only that, but it was like,
we were all just excited to have the opportunity to be on tour. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like,
we're here. Like, you know, it's something that you've thought about for so long as like, I just
want to go on tour. Like, what is that like? What is that like? And then you're there and you're
just, you're living in it. Yeah, man. Like shaking hands and shit with like all your fans and just
to interact and it was like, whoa, like every show, like I would look into the crowd and it would be
that one moment, like time would just like freeze. And then my head, I would be like, yo, this shit
is fucking crazy. I'd be like, yo, like I would be like my body would be there and I would be
performing going along with the words and shit. But my head was like, yo, like, what the fuck is
going on? I'm like, what? I'm rapping. Like I'm doing all of this. Like, you got to remind yourself
sometimes. Yeah, just like stop thinking about it. It's a lot of it'll a lot of shit happen. Like,
it'll be a lot of shit. And like, it'll like snap in my head like, whoa, like, this is real.
You know, I'm sure I can't think of none at the top off the top of my head. But yeah, dude,
like being on tour was a great experience. And actually what's so crazy is me and Oliver were
supposed to be back on the road. But this quarantine thing had happened. So that's postponed. But yeah,
man, it's coming real soon. Yeah, things will pick back up for you. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah, man.
Well, let's let's fuck in. When this shit in the world starts getting back together, let's
let's make something. Let's make a collab and make some sort of video, whether it be like a,
we were talking about like a little mini documentary or yeah, let's link up with me and Pablo and Luke
will try to collab on some sort of some sort of cool shit together. It was just some dumb
graphics or memes. Yeah, dude, like we can. Oh man, we could like document the next project.
Because I just I just now through our quarantine, I just finished up this new project. So yeah,
man, let's document the next one. You know, everything dude, I want to I want to get some
shots at the brewery. Yeah. Oh yeah, I did want to I do want to ask you all of your stuff. You
have you released I mean, I don't think you have released like a full length, like
single project album. Have you? Yeah, so okay, so juvenile how that was one of like a mix tape
just a collab with Lex Luger, right? Big baby Earnhardt was a full length album. It was nine
tracks. That had Toy Story had Nicole Richie with Lil B. Yeah. Del Earnhardt remix with
little Aaron. So yeah, when you came up with that project, though, did you have like,
was it preconceived to be like that? Like did you have in mind exactly what you wanted to do?
Like had you or was it just kind of like spur of the moment? You just want, you know, you had a
bunch of ideas, and you just wanted to get them out and then just package them up into one project.
Honestly, okay, so juvenile hell, I feel like that only showcased just a little bit of what I could
do because because obviously shit evolves, right? I mean, obviously you have an idea and then it
evolves into something or like, like one project could just be like a certain part of your life,
like the way you're feeling, the way you're feeling in that year or whatever. Yeah, yeah,
juvenile hell is very goes back to like the old walk of shit. It was very influenced by all of
that. So, you know what I'm saying? Like that whole project was produced by Lex, you know, so
it was cohesively all the same sound. So I didn't really showcase any other attributes that I had
as an artist, you know what I'm saying? And it didn't really show through juvenile hell. So with
Big Baby Earnhardt, it was like, all right, this is a fucking open play field. Like, you know what
I'm saying? This is a, you know, all types of different producers, you know what I'm saying? I
can work with whatever and Big Baby Earnhardt came from the Dale Earnhardt, you know what I'm saying?
The Dale Earnhardt single. So it was kind of like a prelude or a sequel to that single. That's why
the remix is on there with little Aaron. Yeah, man. So I just felt like I had to, you know,
just bring shit back to that and, you know what I'm saying? Give fans a full-length project, you
know. Do you like doing full-length projects versus just doing like spur-of-the-moment singles?
It depends. It depends because like, when I first started, it was just single, single, single, single,
single, single, single, single. And then like... Which has got to be fun to do it that way.
Yeah, hell yeah, hell yeah. And then like, growing as an artist, it kind of...
It's more thought more work to do a full-length. Yeah, and like, because I was doing that for like
two and a half years straight, just single out the single out the single. And I,
I feel like I was doing that because I didn't know how to make a project. Like, I didn't know how to
make some like, cohesive shit all the way through. I was just so used to, okay, single, boom. Let's get
it done, you know what I'm saying? So that, that was just my anxiety as an artist, you know what I'm
saying? And that's the way I was doing it. Now, I'm juggling both of them and I'm getting better at
making full-length projects and having it from the start to finish. Like, Paolo was just over at
my crib the other day and like, I was like, yo, I'm gonna play every single song front the back
in the order that I think it should sound. You know, let me know what you think. And yeah, man,
just, that's two balancing ideas off of each other and shit. Yeah, man. So, yeah, I feel like,
I feel like the right balance of singles and projects should be done. Like, I really like
making projects now. Yeah. Just because like, I got a lot of shit. That's, I wouldn't say it's not
single material, but it's, it's like, let me make for an example. There's this song on Big Baby Earn
Heart and it's called Niggas in Sweden. And it's an interview. I love that. I love that shit. So it's a,
it's a whole, it's a loop. It's a whole loop of a sample. My homie Katie Cutthroat had sampled it.
And I couldn't have released that as a single, you know what I'm saying? Like it had to have been
in the project. It fits in the project. It flows with it. Yeah. Right. I got a lot of ideas and
shit that are like that. And it's like, I want to put that type of shit out because that's just
some extra. So do you think you could evolve Big Baby Scumbags character and brand
as you create new albums? Like as you create new albums, you think Big Baby Earn Heart could
completely turn into somebody else? Definitely. Because I work with so many different producers.
Like I got a lot of homies that are at Matt Decent low key. I've been working with a lot of people
from that pizza slime, not pizza slime. I'm going to say Ricky Remedy, R.A. Lyon, Diplo,
of course, Valentino Kahn. Yeah, not those guys over there. They got some fire shit. And I haven't,
I haven't posted no snippets. I'm very like, me, I'm very like, you get it when you get it.
Yeah. So yeah, man, it can easily evolve into something else, man. I feel like I'm that,
I always say this, I feel like that one Pokemon, the purple one that like can fucking transform into
Ditto. He fucking like transforms into whatever dude. Like Toy Story, bro. Like I say, like that,
like when I made Toy Story, it was like me mocking a country song. Yeah. Let me see what's up in this
space. Like if I made a country song, this is what it would sound like. You know what I'm saying?
It was more like that. So now I'm taking this shit seriously. Like, okay, let me try to make
different genres of songs. Like, you know what I'm saying? Sometimes you got to chase those
thoughts when you have them as a creative. Otherwise, you just keep telling yourself no.
And if you keep telling yourself no over and over again, then you're never going to get anything
new out. Yeah. Yeah. Cause the rapping, the rapping shit, like you got to have to like,
you got to do other shit and then come back to the rap and stuff. Because man, like I've been
stuck in writer's block so many times, like just from rapping, you know, like I try something
else and it's just like, it clicks, man. It's like, yeah, I'm like, what? So I think, I think what
rapping, it is a, it's a lot about trying too hard. Like, like if you're trying too hard with
the rapping shit, then it's not going to come out. You know what I'm saying? Cause with what do
you mean? When you say trying too hard, what do you mean? Uh, just what rhymes? What like,
what word rhymes with this? You know what I'm saying? Like, you know, shit like that. Cause
with, with pop music or with country music or whatever, it's not really about what word rhymes
with what, you know what I'm saying? With those genres, it's more about just the vibe of that
shit. Like rap is the only genre where people are worried about the shit actually rhyming. You
know what I'm saying? That's what I mean by just trying too hard with the, with the rap, you know,
when I focused on doing other shit, it was like, oh man, like, I don't got to worry about fucking
be rhyming with. It just comes to you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Like,
it's not more, it's more so about the shit rhyming, but the shit just making sense all together.
And you can make any word rhyme with any word. I mean, the, on the new Gunna album,
the little baby rhymes like Buick with like, he was like, he says Burek to make it rhyme with
something. I've definitely always does that too. Yeah. It's like, you can bend words to fit what
you want. And you can bend them to fit whatever verse or rhyming scheme you want. And that makes
it more memorable when you do that too. Yeah. Like, that's not a word. Yeah. But it's like,
what advertising does when it makes up words for new, like, like family plan for like a phone thing.
It's like, you can make up anything. Words didn't exist at one point. Somebody had to make it
eventually. So why not keep making up words? Who's to say that you can't just in write your
language as you go? Toyota thought. Exactly. What the fuck? But you remember it. And it's so stupid.
It sticks with you. Yeah. That's the most important thing. You do remember it. And whenever I see a
Buick now, all I think of is little baby saying Burek. Hey, yo, T pain had the most memorable
one, uh, Wisconsin, man, Wisconsin, bro. Language is fluid. Exactly. Bro, Wisconsin, dude. And he,
bro, like he was making hats with Wisconsin. Like big T pain, top hats with a Wisconsin.
It was like dad hats. I was regular hat. Oh, dad hats and teachers with Wisconsin,
like fucking hoodies and shit. Yeah, man. We've been doing that, dude. There's a lot of words
that I didn't tweak the fuck out of just to like rhyme with it or like, I'll say it some type of
funny way. Yeah. Fuck it. And you come to mind? Oh, you know what? No, honestly, but on Black Joe
Dirt, there's this lyric specifically. And I say flex so hard, I ain't even got a rhyme. And it was
literally because I forgot. I don't know what lines comes before that. But I was like, dude, like I
fuck it. Flex so hard on you. I don't even got a rhyme. Yeah. But it was like a self-awareness
of it not rhyming, which is what makes it good. Right. What makes it land? That's one of the best
lines in it. So shit hits hard. Fuck yeah. Well, thanks for doing this, bro. Appreciate it. I really
appreciate it. It was great meeting you, man. Oh yeah, dude. Thank you, man. Thank you. Appreciate it.
I love this setup, dude.
