We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier
on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing
bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Feel free to go check it out or just get it a week late here on YouTube.
Hello, Woild.
On this episode of the podcast, we're joined again by Matthew B. Cox and on this one we
go deep into the story of a man by the name of Frank Amadeo.
For those of you who don't already know, Frank Amadeo is a megalomaniac hell-bent on
world domination.
He's also the founder of Mirabilis Ventures, a conglomerate of over 70 companies in various
industries including consulting, corporate security, manufacturing, employee leasing,
and hotel ownership, with over 40,000 employees and nearly a billion dollars in annual revenue.
The story of Frank Amadeo is part Tom Clancy, part Ian Fleming novel, and 100% insanity.
Since childhood, Frank claims to have been hearing voices in his head telling him that
he was meant to be emperor of the world.
He's absolutely certifiably mentally ill.
Specifically, he suffers from bipolar disorder.
Frank is a unique high functioning, subclassification, rapid cycling, access one bipolar with narcissistic
antisocial psychotic features.
Simply put, his mood shifts constantly between manic and depressive episodes during which
delusions of manic themes occur.
That being said, Frank is a highly successful attorney who managed to continue his law practice
from behind bars and in fact he was even able to knock 12 years off Matthew Cox prison sentence.
On this podcast, Matt explains every detail from how Frank was about to purchase a fleet
of F-16 fighter jets for 60 million dollars to how he almost took over the Congo in 2006.
That's the hook.
Please enjoy this podcast with Matthew Cox.
Welcoming the crowd favorite, Matthew B. Cox.
Good evening, Matt.
What's up?
Welcoming back to the show.
Yep.
Oh, look at the, gosh, some studio pens.
So Matt.
Artsy.
What?
Yes.
Are we going to talk about today?
What is the title of your new book?
All right.
I'm glad you asked.
It's insanity.
The bizarre story of a bipolar megalomaniacs insane plan for total world domination.
I think I went a little overboard on the subtitle, but you know, no, it's perfect.
I know it is.
You could do the scribes very well.
You think?
I could have written the, yeah, a small paragraph.
So this is one of your most popular stories.
It's a fan favorite about the one and only Frank Amadeo, the bipolar schizophrenic sociopath
megalomaniac with sociopath.
You said sociopath.
Okay.
Well, what's the actual title for him?
He is a rapid cycling.
He's an access one rapid cycling bipolar with features of schizophrenia.
And how did you first meet this guy?
He was, he came into the prison, I don't know when it was 2009 or 2009 or 10, in the low
and he was all drugged up for like a year or so, took him like a year to convince the
staff to take him off of the psychotropic, psychotropic, psychotropic, whatever, the meds.
And they took him off the meds, which helped them kind of clear up his thinking and he
started fighting his case.
Of course, by the time they took him off his meds, he was time barred from actually being
able to fight his, his conviction because you only have one year.
So by the time they take him off the meds and he's able to actually kind of comprehend
what's going on.
It's been past a year and he, it's too late to start fighting your case.
You only have a year.
So anyway, he ends up fighting, he's ends up fighting a ton of other inmates cases and
my case is one of the cases that he fought.
He was like the go to lawyer for all the inmates at Goldman.
Yeah.
He was a real trained lawyer.
He's a real lawyer.
Is he an actual, is he a good lawyer?
He's fucking, he's an amazing lawyer.
I'm serious.
What do you mean?
How much time did he get you knocked off?
12 years.
That they didn't want to give me.
That they absolutely didn't want to give me and I talked to multiple lawyers on the street
that said, you don't have a shot.
There's nothing you can do.
And yet he managed to get file 220, 255, get the court to appoint me to attorneys.
Both attorneys flew down and said, you know, who, what are you doing?
You know, they were like, oh, you wrote this motion, but you need to take the, you need
to take what they offered.
How many days did he work that he got a bunch of time off of?
A ton of guys.
I mean, like I got a, I got a list of guys in the book.
What about Devaroli?
Uh, no, no.
Devaroli.
No.
No.
No.
Devaroli got six years.
He got two four year terms.
Okay.
And it was actually part of it.
Devaroli, people listening who don't know who he is.
He's the guy that the movie War Dogs is based off of.
War Dogs.
Jonah Hill.
Jonah Hill.
Yeah.
Jonah Hill made Devaroli look soft and cuddly.
And you were, you were hanging out with him in prison.
Yes.
I wrote a memoir for, I wrote Devaroli's memoir, which is called Once a Gun Runner.
And we're talking to him.
He's, he might come on the show.
He might, he might be a guest soon.
He may.
We keep, he's scared.
He's scared of the being in the, in the, in the limelight.
He is.
He doesn't want to.
Does he laugh like, like Jonah Hill does in that movie?
Did you meet, you met him?
Oh yeah.
He spent years with him.
Obviously I spent a hundred hours with him.
Does he laugh like that?
Never showed up on time.
Not one time did he ever show up.
Never.
Never.
He doesn't even walk off for like, Hey, I'll be back in 20 minutes.
Never see him again.
Got to go hunt him down.
He'd turn around.
He'd walk in his cell and turn around and look at you go, Oh, oh, oh, oh, and then he
go, All right, I'm coming.
I'm coming.
I don't know.
I don't know.
He doesn't, I don't remember how Jonah Hill laughed, but Devaroli laughs.
That real high-pitched laugh was like really weird.
No.
He, Devaroli laughs like just like in your face, like, I mean, just like he's, he's,
he's crazy.
It's great.
What are, what are his, um, conditions?
Does he have any of these, these conditions that the emperor has bipolar, bipolar, bipolar,
narcissistic, arrogant, pretty much the same stuff I had, but, uh, how long have you worked
on this book about, uh, Frank Amadeo, the emperor?
I've been writing, uh, and why do you call him the emperor?
All right.
Let me, can I give you, you want me to get this, you told me, I want to know why, why
everyone calls him the emperor.
Because since he has been, uh, uh, in his teens, he has believed that he's hearing
the voice of God tell him he is preordained to be emperor of the world.
Now lots of people think that, lots of people say that, right?
Not lots of people.
What am I saying?
Lots of people, lots of homeless people say that, like crazy people say that.
The difference is, you know, he graduates high school, he goes on to college, he ends
up getting a law degree, he becomes a venture capitalist, he gets, according to the IRS,
he adds over 70, no IRS, this is the FBI, according to the FBI, he has over 70 companies,
he, um, committed a major fraud and he was hiring, they said, uh, he has hired retired
FBI agents, IRS agents and secret service agents to work for him.
Um, he had several like small black water, water style companies.
Uh, he puts this whole thing together and his whole purpose for building this whole conglomerate
is to ultimately take over the world.
He tried to buy fighter jets, I got pictures of him with the fighter jets, I've got, oh
not just, look, it's not just that, bro, Jesus Christ, look at this, this dude's gnarly.
This is, I'm looking at pictures of this goofy fat man, Frank Amadeo, standing next
to a fighter jet with his foot up on the ladder, like he's posing next to a fucking sports
car.
One of the other CEOs of his company is the guy that's sitting in the cockpit.
They fly in, I talk about it, they fly in like two, two airplanes, I forget what that
was, an F-18 or F-22 or something, they fly him in, but he's actually trying to buy, um,
like a squadron, like two dozen F-14s and F-15s.
How much are those planes?
I don't know, the total purchase was like 60, uh, okay, we're gonna, we're not getting
into that.
The total purchase of the planes was 60 million, so I don't know what a used F-15 goes for,
but if it's 30 years old, and that, you know, the technology is 30 year old technology,
but they're still flying them all over the Middle East and in Africa and, you know, all
over Europe, they're still, you know, what is it, Israel's still flying F-15s, F-16s,
he's trying to buy F-14s and F-15s.
Did Frank Amadeo give you permission to publish this book about him?
Um, yeah, he did.
I mean, he participated in the writing of the book, he participated in the writing of
the stock.
Does he know you published it?
I don't know if he knows, I, if I don't know if he knows I published it.
So you think it's better to ask, it's just that, it's like ask, ask for forgiveness
instead of for permission type deal with the book.
I don't, I don't, I don't need, I don't need permission.
Oh, you don't need permission to publish it?
How do I need permission?
You participated, you knew I was writing a book.
Cause it's about him, right?
I was writing a book, you gave me permission, you knew I was writing a book about you participated.
If you talk to a reporter and suddenly two weeks later you're, there's an article about
you talking to the reporter, are you going to say, it's freedom of speech?
Yeah, but I just feel like it'd be so scary to, you know, you've said how good of a fucking
lawyer he is.
You got 12 years off your sentence.
Like don't fuck with a guy that's that good of a lawyer because my God, listen, I don't
know.
It just seems like a sketchy thing to do.
It seems like, hey, maybe that could be a concern.
I feel pretty confident about the constitution in the United States giving me permission,
though.
Yeah.
Pretty sure.
Okay.
So if you were in public and you videoed someone, two guys getting into a fight and you put
it on YouTube, are you allowed to do that?
Yeah, you are.
You are.
Right.
He actively participated, actively participated in the book.
I mean, told me, gave me all of this information, he gave me all this.
What is all this information you have over here?
What is all this paperwork?
I mean, this is an FBI 302, talks about his company, he talks about how he's hiring all
these guys.
Let's see.
What is this?
What is this?
I don't know, man.
I didn't really have time.
Oh, these are articles about the Congo where he was, when he tried to pull off a political
coup in the Congo by backing a political candidate.
This is an article in the Herald Tribune.
This is one from the New York Times.
Wow.
The New York Times.
This is one from World News NBC.
Oh, listen to this.
So I looked up private military.
2006, this New York Times article was from, 32 charged in coup plot being sent home.
Congo said it was deporting 32 foreigners, including three Americans that it charged
last week with planning a coup before national elections in July.
Can you read it like Michael Babarro?
Who's Michael Babarro?
The guy from the Daily?
Oh.
I don't know how that is.
No, I can't do that.
I'm not even going to try to do that.
A coup before national elections in July, saying it would have taken too long to prosecute
them.
Officials said the men who also included 10 Nigerians, 19 South Africans, worked as security
guards and were found with weapons.
The American's employer, AQMI Strategy Corp of Orlando, Florida.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Strategy Corp of Orlando, Florida said they were providing security and campaign counseling
for a candidate in the elections and were not carrying any weapons.
A United Nations spokesman of Kinshasa, the capital, is that the capital of the Congo,
has said the organization believes the arrests are an attempt at political manipulation before
the elections.
All right.
Interesting.
You can see that Acme Corp.
That's his company.
That's his company.
Frank Amadeo.
Okay.
It was actually called Acme Corp.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
Acme.
So, I looked up private military companies, like Dinotac, and Blackwater and all those,
right?
Yeah.
Right here, this is like, this is the guy from Blackwater.
The Chairman of Blackwater and this is the company.
This is his company.
Right here is Acme Strategy Corp.
That's Frank's company.
Wow.
Same company.
So, he had a bunch of, anyway, what the point is he was a lawyer, he actually was
disbarred
What's wrong nothing?
I don't know what's the deal. I don't know what the deal. What's going on? Nothing. I was just looking at him. I
Can hear a mouth breathing from here?
I mean, I really only do like a short half chapter or chapter on his childhood
Him becoming they try to try to be rec the CIA tried to recruit him
Did I tell you I interviewed a guy from the CIA? Yeah, I tried to give you the I tried to get you to call him and take
Bring him on the podcast. Oh, yeah
Yep, I remember him so I interviewed a CIA guy all about his really. Oh, it's great
What the CIA get guy had to say the guy was basically saying because Amadeo said when he was about to graduate law school
The CIA came to him and they were they were basically in the law school and Emory and they were asking guy people
Lawyers are about to be lawyers that they were asked him to fill out
To take tests takes tests to see if they want to be a CIA agent
He took it and they came back and they said look, you know, we want to offer your job
They offered him job, but Amadeo before Amadeo graduated his father came down with a
esophagus cancer like throat cancer and so he couldn't do it
He had to like stay and take care of his father. So he never ended up doing it
He ended up getting a law degree. He became a bankruptcy attorney. He eventually ended up losing his license
You know, look, he's bipolar. So he has fits of he has basically he'll go through
He'll be kicking ass for eight months or a year. Yeah
Go into a deep deep depression for four or five days or a week and can't even get out of bed
Really? And the thing is he's he's also this is ridiculous. It's gonna sound silly. He's hypersensitive to caffeine
So he like I would sit there and you you're talking to him
He would drink a six pack of coke. Yeah, I probably probably drank 40 or 50 cokes a day or Pepsi's a day in prison
It's constantly drinking them
To try and elevate himself so that he didn't slip into a depression like a mood stabilizer
so
Yeah, but it's not like the opposite of a mood stabilizer because you're just gonna be fucking jacked on sugar
And then you're just gonna crash. I mean, maybe but the fact is is he's bipolar. So who knows?
He's up there. You understand. Look, we would be I'm gonna give you an example of what it's like being around him
Maybe he's just like trying to fight through the depression part with the sugar, right?
So he can feel it coming on so he drinks four or five of these things and it kicks him back up. Okay. Okay, so
Literally like the guy's brilliant, right? He's doing all this legal work in prison
But but I'm just gonna give you an example of what it's like being around him. Okay, just so that you understand that that
So we're all sitting at Stonehenge, which was this area in Coleman. We got a Stonehenge
We're all sitting around a concrete picnic table talking about law work talking to your mic
talking about law work. Yeah, and
suddenly
Me Pete Donovan Frank's there. They're all talking about law work and I'm just sitting there, you know listing and
Donovan says something and all of a sudden Frank goes. No, no
That's not gonna stand absolutely not. No, I'm not gonna let that happen when my legions
March on Washington. We will burn the Constitution and the president will bow it up my fate
And he sits there for a second and nobody says shit. Everybody just sits there
And he goes
Okay, we need to do a Johnson motion, so I'm gonna need a 2255 form and okay Frank
I'll get you the 25. All right, Frank. Do you need to read? Yeah, there's there's some go ask Thomas and B3
Okay, I'll go right now and take it and you walk off and he's never happened right and nobody says shit
Okay, it's just a momentary lapse of insanity. So that's like a tick for him. I a tick
I mean, I don't know what a tick is is he's fucking crazy
Like people with Tourette's sometimes they freak out and they start cussing and spitting at people
He might have a spike. He might also be in that manic mode for
30 minutes where he's talking about I mean, I've seen him tell call tell drug dealers
He's gonna fucking chop off the heads of all of their fucking of all their like associates
And he's gonna anthrax their entire village and I mean I had that one that has seen in the book where the guy's like village
Frank I'm from Palm Beach. He goes a Palm Beach then
He's gonna anthrax Palm Beach. I mean, he just you know, and what's so funny is this that's a clip the stuff that happens in
prison
What happened on the street is more insane because I mean he's literally trying to buy airplanes
He's he is actively trying to take over other countries. He steals nearly 200 million dollars from the federal government
And this isn't me saying this this is I've got the reports. There's news. You can look up Frank Amadeo
You know Frank Amadeo fraud and the it comes right up
200 million 200 nearly 200 they always say nearly because they start adding shit and really it was about 182 million dollars
I mean as if that really matters. I'm just saying
Once they start adding in all the fees and everything else they always say they always say nearly 200 million regardless
It was 182 million dollars is what he's his restitution is I'd vote for him
Can he run for president? You know, he was in
He could he could run for president even though he was in absolutely Wow Emperor I'd vote for him Emperor
Listen
His campaign managers. I would love to do is advertising
Listen, I don't a guy that thinks he's gonna be a Emperor of the world. I'm not sure how how much he's gonna scrutinize anybody that supports him
But yeah, Emperor though, you need like a somebody who's in charge of propaganda. I would love to take that on
I would meet you
With the strongest campaign slogan for him and I'm telling him for Emperor
2024 forever forever forever
He's yeah, this is good stuff. Oh, I think I showed you didn't I show you some of these
What what are you looking at pictures of him right now, so what's
What are you looking at right now and describe it for me Luke this looks like the best YouTube thumbnail I've ever seen he's
Cut out in Photoshop with a like a five pixel white stroke around him
He's crossing his arms like he's filming an HLN reality show. He's in the desert. There's missiles firing in the background
I'm a Dale for Emperor
Quote I will anthrax your entire village nice and then also signed off quoted Frank on the Dale
I mean love that. I've got I got a strong. I got the fist of love with it where it says, you know
I'm a day or for Emperor. It's got the fists. I make a strong yard sign, too. Oh
So what the fuck says deal he started out in his 20s going to law school, right? He wanted to become a lawyer. Yes
Yeah, dude, you got it
Good stuff. Oh, when did he get when did he fly off the rails?
I mean, he's in law school. He couldn't go to the CIA because his dad got cancer
He had to take care of his dad right at what point does this all start to go sideways? Well, you know, he meets he ends up working for a Hyatt
Hyatt legal services, which is like a bankruptcy firm. It's cut. You notice it's kind of like
It's like the people to do your taxes, right? Like what is it centric? Who does your taxes?
H&R blog like H&R block, but it's for bankruptcy was a company that started off
They were trying to do it. They had him all over the place
he goes in he starts running the company and he's doing and he's doing great and
He ends up marrying this woman by the name of Claire and so they get married and you know
He said that basically he's like I tried to suppress my knowledge
and this is the thing he always talked about it like
Claire's always known about it and in even a high school
He said that everybody knew about it and it was kind of like they just like laughed it off
He was kind of a quirky little thing was he well when I'm emperor and they'd be like emperor
He was well, I'm gonna be emperor of the world and I did and he like okay, Frank and they kind of laugh it off
Of course, you're a teenager. It's funny, which are also brilliant. They're gonna let it go, but it doesn't it never subsides
It's a continuing thing and people kind of accept it as being you know, if you're kind of corking
There's something weird about you a little odd about you, but it's also kind of funny
You're gonna let it go cuz I like you right so you're gonna let it go. Well, it progresses
He ends up meets Claire. They get married. He tries to be a normal citizen
He eventually drops into a suit a depression goes into the hospital comes out and this is back in the
80s and 90s and nobody's really thinking depression like they're not really what's wrong with him. He won't get out of bed
He's sick. He's tired. He's lethargic
What
Streams crashed
All right, that's why we keep rolling just keep rolling. So yeah, so he he as long as it's still recording
All right
What ends up happening?
Okay, let me try to think of where the
This one is okay, so
What ends up happening is he ends up getting in trouble because
According to Amadeo, I'm not sure that the so wait, where did where did all these?
Notions of being emperor of the world come from like that didn't just come out of thin air
Where do you think he got that from? No, I think he was reading some science fiction books when he was a kid and
Well, I mean he was a big fan of Star Trek, but I don't know he was yeah
But I mean so was I I don't think I'm taking over the world. I think he's bipolar with features of schizophrenia
I think there's it's a yeah, he had to have gotten that whole emperor story from somewhere
necessarily a lot of bipolar's or or or people with skins of he's not schizophrenic. He's
If he was schizophrenic, he wouldn't even be functional, you know, he just has aspects of it. So
What the I don't know where that came from
I don't know if it's just a prolonged
Floor delusion that has continued his whole life, which is essentially what the psychiatrists are saying because I actually have his
the
Evaluation of capacity from the from the government right here where it's got all the
These are all the these are all the the
The doctors and psychiatrists that actually
That actually look here here's the emperor of the world right here Frank Amadea. This is from the this is from the
This is the federal government ordered that report and he had to be interviewed by several
Psychiatrists and there's quotes in there
Taken from Frank and taken from the psychiatrist if that makes sense
Talking about how since he was a child. He's believed this. It's been a constant. So
Eventually what ends up happening is
He ends up he ends up getting in trouble and he goes to jail. He actually listen. He's supposed to get 24 months probation
What people are saying PayPal's are sent. Yeah. Oh really PayPal's are sent people are people are paying
I mean if people are paying you got to put your out. What do they pay for who paid for what?
Yeah, gotta be able to get you touch with occasion
I mean I got something. I just saw something like that check your check your phone. I got $1.99
99 who said yeah
The guy that this is a guy. No, he's well anyway, he said for coffee. All right, so
What happens is I
Don't know where I was. No, why oh the psychiatrist psychiatrist report
He's not a psychiatrist. Yeah, that was a psychiatrist report, but oh he gets in trouble
He eventually gets in trouble and listen. He's supposed to get 24 when this what are you in trouble for the whole company?
Basically, he went and started his own bankruptcy company. Okay, so he takes on a ton of he's got a few partners
It takes on some partners takes on a ton of clients and he ends up going into depression
They hospitalized them by time he gets out of the hospital and goes back to work. It's been weeks
Maybe a month or I think it's been over a month or so and basically his partners couldn't handle the volume and
There are all these complaints and he ends up getting disbarred because he doesn't even show up for the
For the for the trial and what happens is money that had been collected by them
Had been he says
That he wasn't in charge of the account and they had used the money for bills or whatever
basically was commingling of funds and several people lost money and
He ended up getting disbarred. No, I don't know what the police report says it police report basically says that there was money placed into an
account and that he essentially
Used the money to pay bills and that he was part of the whole thing and understood it
And then when he went got sick it caught up with them. Whatever my point is. Oh Nancy Grace. You don't know who Nancy Grace is
No, yes, but Nancy Grace Nancy great Nancy Grace
Nancy Grace was the prosecutor she couldn't prosecute him
So she ended up giving it to the the US Attorney Nancy Grace is a she's got her own CNN show where she's she's remember
She's like a 40-50 year old white chick with blonde hair like Alex Jones with a lady really
Vicious, so she she can't prosecute him, but she hands it over the US. She's Democratic Republic. I have no idea
Oh, I'm sure she's she's got to be what she's mad. She's just angry. She's an angry woman
Mad she's on CNN. So she ends up handing it to the US Attorney US Attorney and I tell him he's supposed to get 24 months
when they go to
When they go to
Interview several people they interview his wife and his wife says he's got to go to jail
She's you can't give him 20 24 months probation. She goes he'll never learn his lesson. He's got to go to jail
Wow, so they say well, you're going to jail
So they give them they send him to what's called shock boot camp
They used to have this boot camp and you go there for like nine months or something they let you out
So he goes there for nine months and when he gets out
This is in the middle of the basically the Soviet Union has fallen apart
this is probably around what some around 2000 something and
He ends up starting a company called Morables that is based on
That is based on his a thesis that he had written which is called capital Genesis capital Genesis is his
plan for world domination and if you if you actually
Listen him explain the whole thing. It's it's essentially its specter
From like James Bond. It's it's a it's a whole slew of these companies
It's great because with the CIA agent in the book breaks it all down. It's all and so does Amadeo. He's like it's basically
It's specter. It's all these companies that feed off of one another. So we all own these companies and we all give each other favorable
favorable contracts so that we can grow bigger and bigger and we have a shared agenda and
We're going to buy up all these other companies and just continue to grow and grow and grow and we all have a shared goal
He said the same concept is being used right now in the
Kind of like his own little government, right and ultimately he take he'll be able to
Spread throughout the entire
What's so funny Kyle Roberts had Nancy Grace titty popped out on Dancing with the Stars and that thing looked like a burnt salami
I
Need to get Kyle Roberts live in here
Yeah, anyway, he so yeah, he he ends up getting out he starts this company they start by he starts buying up
So he owns all these companies that are all buying
Serving each other he keeps go he goes in he buys these companies that are failing so you he goes in and he buys the company
he either bankrupt sit yeah, or puts it he might put in a bankrupt into bankruptcy and
Restructure the company or maybe he bankrupt his bankrupt sit completely pays off the debtors or
You know and turn or maybe he restructures it and turns it around
But he's able to use the bankruptcy laws to his advantage
So as the companies grow and grow this is what's interesting. I literally there is there are transcripts
Where look he's always said like people that came to work for him. They always know
Like if you're a CPA, they let him know he lets them know I
Have a condition. I'm bipolar like everybody knows all the lawyers that work for him know this the
the CPAs know
everybody knows they even bring in a
psychiatrist to basically monitor his behavior and
He keeps buying he's buying these companies he's bankrupting him
He's growing and growing he ends up buying a bunch of military style companies like he buys a military company that does
They build a portable satellites for the art for the military
He ends up starting several small like black water style companies
And I end up in the book. I explained that I basically there's like three of them in a basically it's called tactical
So I name them all tactical. They all have different names like tactical strategy such and such tactical
So there's not basically tactical tactical ends up getting a bunch of contracts
in Iraq no in Afghanistan, but they sorry they
They protect convoys of food. They protect, you know, they protect
Diplomats that sort of thing his company is his company. Wow. So and he's getting paid by the government. Yeah
Oh, listen, he's he's they also do what's you know, what black bag operations are the CIA guy goes it was a black bag
Basically look so you're a Russian hacker
Okay, you're like a Russian hacker. We have you indicted, but we can't go into Russia and get you
But then you end up going into the into let's say let's say you end up going into let's whatever
Whatever you you go to Brazil or something or you go to Norway on vacation, right?
so his still we can't go in there and kidnap somebody else but
What what happens is the State Department says or the FBI or CIA whoever they say look
This guy is gonna be in Norway. He's a Russian citizen. He's a hacker
We have him indicted if he shows up on US soil. There's a $200,000 check waiting
Wow, so what did they go in they watch him for a week
And then they hit him with a fucking taser put a bag over his head throw him in the back of the van
Drive him to a guy's got two planes bounty. They throw him in there flying back here. They call the FBI and say hey
Yeah, you know
Ivan, you know crotch ganache is here at the fucking airport come pick him up. They come pick him up and say there you go
I've seen listen. I've seen a lot. This happens all the time in South America. You know many South Americans that I've met from
So this was Amadeo's business was black bagging one of the businesses that his company, right?
Was in charge of was umbrella company. Yeah in charge of this business that yes one of them
And you know who who the the person in charge of the of these his little private military or private?
When you call our private mill it there their private security company was a guy that was a
Retired secret service agent. He's all over his name's Kevin Billings if you punch in Kevin Billings
He's all over he's right now. He runs a security company. He's a security consultant
and
Another guy named Joe Robinson who used to work for buddy guy who this billing this Billings guy
What's his name Kevin Kevin Billings? He also he ran he ran he ran on the security company of companies. Yeah, so
These guys are running the company. He's also one of the guys that gets kit that gets arrested in the Congo
Remember the guys?
Eventually what happens is Amadeo start he decides look he's got enough he starts withhold. Here's what happens in order to
In order to fund this insane plan for world domination. He's trying to buy planes and do all these things
Like I said the planes are like 60 million, right? So it's 60 million dollar purchase. So he's looking at planes
He's he's negotiating with the Cypriots to keep the planes there. He's already got Russians
You can't buy an f-14 or an f-15
Fully armed they basically call them declawing it they strip all the guts out of it, right?
So you can't buy it with missiles or even the missile equipment
But if you fly it over the bird, but if you fly it over to Cyprus
They can rebuild it the Russians will come in or you cranias will come in and they'll re put everything back in for you
Now I got yeah functional shit
So that's what he's trying to do and he's negotiating with the site with the Cypriots
But he needs money you can't just take over the world not that I think it's I know it's it's insane
Not that I think it's true that you could do it, but he thinks you can do it
Even the CIA guy was like you can't take over the world
It would take generations to be able to pull it off. He's like but he was I mean he the CIA guy said
I've never seen someone as capable and functioning high functioning as Amadeo that believed it was possible
so
What happens is he's trying to buy the planes he's trying to do all these things he's negotiating
But you need money to do that, right? He's got a ton of companies
But one of the ways he he figures out how do I get the money to buy all that to do all this stuff?
Well, here's what happens is you understand payroll. Let's say your paycheck is gonna be a thousand dollars this week, okay?
So the company is gonna send you're gonna get a thousand dollars. They're gonna withhold
$200 right for the IRS
So who who sends that money to the IRS thousand and probably more like 500. Let's say let's say 300
So you're supposed to get so that means the company keeps 300 bucks, right, right?
They keep 300 from me 300 from you 300 all he's got 40,000 employees paying 300 bucks
It's supposed to go to the IRS. What does he do? He stops sending it to the IRS
And that's why it slowly grows and grows until it's almost 200 million dollars and he's using the money to back
To buy planes to buy all kinds of stuff. Wow. He's doing just
Good stuff, right? And here's the thing cable. Well, here's how you how you do that by the way, which is legal
I have a company
All I have to do is report to the IRS. Hey IRS
We owe you a hundred and twenty thousand dollars this week. We have the money
But we're not sending it to you right now
We're holding it because we're having where we're considering going into bankruptcy or we're going into bankruptcy
And you're just a debtor so I can't I'm holding the money. We don't have the money to send you but we do owe it to you
Just like if you're of any vendor that I own money. I bought a bunch of equipment
We're making payments to you. Guess what? We can't make the payment this month
But we know we owe it to you and you may be included in our bankruptcy, right?
You can't come get your shit, right? The IRS can't do anything. They go, okay
Well, just keep keep us posted. Yeah, and so he negotiates with them eventually a lot of the companies
He might owe a million two million dollars
He goes into the IRS under the bankruptcy and says look we're they're gonna bankrupt it
You're gonna get virtually nothing or let us get on a payment plan
Except less than the million or two million we owe you except three hundred thousand and we'll pay you off over the next year
And they go, I mean is that or nothing, right? So they take it
So he's doing this actively doing this for years to the tune of two hundred million. He eventually ends up
He eventually ends up buying
I'm sorry backing a political candidate to run for president of the Congo that the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Why well because the Congo has is a lot is
Has the largest
I don't want to say surplus, but it has the largest
depository of minerals in the world
zinc
Everything it's got all all you know zinc. What is the other?
Um god, there's some other
Uncut gyms
Oh, you've got diamonds. You got gold. You got silver. You got you've got platinum
But it's also got you know, there's there's a metal that's in cell phones. That's huge
Okay, tight tank whatever it is. Well, I don't know what what it is
Cell phones the point is they've got tons of my neck. Here's the issue is that because there's these warring factions
Nobody can go in and get to it. They're they've been at war for 40 50 years, right?
Nobody can go so you they're gonna go in and wipe out the entire population and then just take it
Which nobody's gonna let you do or you hope that eventually the government gets a stable government. That's not corrupt
So he backs a political candidate. That's actually really almost an American
Okay, it's a Congolese that came here was educated here became a doctor and then goes back there and he goes in and he says
Look, I'm gonna run your campaign. I'll fund your campaign. I'm gonna provide security for your campaign
But once you're a president
You have to adopt capital genesis
Which is my idea of how we're gonna we're gonna structure the entire economy and he knows it very quickly the economy will
You know, it'll it'll stabilize and then he'll be able to go into other countries
He also plans on building the largest military in history
He's already got plays already negotiating
He at this point he was negotiating with the the World Bank
No, not the World Bank with the is the most his plan to do this with with every country in the world
Well, his plan was to go into Africa and then spread into, you know, whatever Nigeria and all these neighboring eventually
He ends up with Africa. He ends up with the whole country
So you've got a continent now we're a continent now we're moving where he's got the president of every country in his pocket
It may not even be the president. He may just come in the fact is once he goes into Congo. He's he's got a security force
He's gonna start training these guys and build his own private military and just take over the rest of the country
Just take over right. Well, why wouldn't I just not that? Yeah, the whole continent not the country's got country the whole
Continent I met what I meant the continent. Yeah, it's not hard to take over one of these companies
It's a guy named Simon Mann who actually there were actually
He Simon Mann brought had a small security company that came in and actually I think was Sierra Leone
There was a rebel uprising or something where they basically were had pulled off like a coup and they had to get exactly
but basically they'd taken over the country and
he came in and
With his hundred and some odd guys takes the whole country back like they'd taken the oil fields and everything he comes in and take
There's a whole documentary on it. Yeah, that's what they thought
Amadeo was they thought he was a Simon man
That was an issue for them because it was like a year earlier that had happened when he goes into Congo
So what happens is while his guys are in the Congo running this guy's campaign that by the way the guy's name is a
Was it a
Forget his name damn it anyway
So his candidate goes from number like 30 down to number three
The other candidates that are running is the current president and then the the second
Person in the polls was a general
by the name of bimba and
Bimba is a general so imagine if oh, sorry imagine if George if
if Schwartzkopf was was
General of the of the military and also running for president. Do you see what I mean? Like you can't do that
What are you doing? That's how it is there. So this guy has got his own army and the armies aren't all like together
Like you've got an army. You've got like you guys are all under me and they're like, yeah, yeah, we're under you
You know, you keep sending us money and feeding us and everything we're gonna stay here
And we're gonna you know, it's not it's not exactly like you're saying go over there and they're like, why would we go over there?
Why would we invade them? I mean it's a discussion. This is a
This isn't this isn't like it is in the United States, right? So he was running for president
They realized that this candidate is coming down
In the polls and he may end up winning the presidency. So Bimba
ends up grabbing
third all 32 of Amadeo's security
Staff and they grab them and arrest them and they bring them to a military base and they hold them for nine days
While Amadeo negotiates and the State Department negotiate to have them released. It's a whole thing the CIA is involved
It's it's a whole it's a
Actually, there's a documentary. Yeah nine days in the congo nine days in the Congo
It's on my channel go to my channel inside true crime
Matt Cox and inside true crime and you can watch nine days in the Congo
Yeah, it's great. It is it is it's great and you can see Amadeo. There's interviews with Amadeo
He's great. He's like five foot four. He looks like the little Caesar guy. He's amazing. Is he taller than you?
No, I think I I think I'm about an inch taller than him
Maybe two inches with a good pair of shoes with a good pair of shoes for sure. I'm taller Wow
So Amadeo goes in he goes in hard and fast like a prison rape
They try and grab they try and grab the the Congo. They arrest his guys
He has to negotiate to get the guys out the CIA is involved. It's it's a whole thing. He threatens the
He oh he hires this this whole he hires a
bunch of
Personaries to basically fly in and rescue the troops
He doesn't have to do it, but he does actually hire them and they're waiting to go in
So while this did I tell you that most of his this is I love this
Most of the meetings that he has like to arrange these types of things like he has a bunch of meetings with some people from a is it
To jikestan because he also tries a coup in Tajikistan. They they have their meetings like at at Disney World
Just perfect like the whole thing takes place in Orlando. That's perfect. I mean, that's so it's so fitting
For somebody who thinks he's gonna take over the world
Yeah, so it is after after they get the guys back they then he's also trying to
He also was approached by some
oligarchies who want to take over to jikestan because they're having an issue with Putin
and he's basically they're trying to get him to
To to pull off a coup and to jerk to jerk to jikestan to jikestan to jerk a stand
I think it's to jerk enjoy kistan joy kistan jerky
So that's happening and then so the other thing is okay
So look once he gets the guys back right so he gets him a how's he get him back?
Well, I mean they basically let him go like there's just so much pressure on them and they're you know
They're and what is it they do that to try to like derail him?
Yeah, absolutely because his guy now ends up taking like he ends up running or he ends up coming in like fifth
I'm the guy was like third and he may end up have having won
But now you just you just basically just decimated his entire campaign
We just took 32 of your Congo guys. So these guys are basically like, okay, we're done
Yeah, these guys will basically just grab us and shoot us in the fucking street. Yeah, you know, I like you
I want you to be president. It's not with me dying. Yeah, so
So in real his guy ends up getting I think comes in fifth
Amadeo come though Amadeo ends up being invited to the White House
I've got pictures pictures of him that's president Bush saying you seen the picture of him. Yeah, yeah
And not like it's not like a photo op. I mean, he's in he's in the Roosevelt room with people from NATO
And they're all sitting there talking and you know, it's not a photo
Think he made it to the White House the White House standing there with those people and this guy's trying to take over the whole fucking world
You know, and you know what's so funny is but think about if you had a buddy who said is it everybody that's in politics somewhat thing
You don't you think everybody politics is kind of like him not to their little they're there. It's got a little
Foundation of that
way of thinking
Look, I feel like is in some way or another in the people's minds that are in politics
What that they ultimately want to take over the world nothing they like I'm not saying to that exact extent
But like a watered-down version of that. I mean, yeah
I think they all think that they may all think that they want to make some some massive changes and we keep in mind
He's his he's trying to dominate off the rails. I mean the world. Yeah, he's trying to
He's thinking look we're gonna I'm gonna do it economically or
I'm going to do it with force, but it's gonna happen and he's actively look if you gave me two hundred million dollars
I'm still never gonna think I
Can't I can the world now I can start in bed. Well, yeah, I got I can start invading countries now
Yeah, it's not gonna I'm gonna go buy some planes. I'm gonna get these guys
It's never even gonna enter my mind
This is the other thing it kills me about him. So he's got him a lot of money
He's got hunt not not million hundreds of millions of dollars
You gave me a hundred million dollars. I'm gonna have I'm gonna have a penthouse filled with strippers
I'm driving a couple Ferraris and maybe a portion a Lambo
This guy doesn't do anything. He's driving like a like a a five-year-old Mercedes. Is that what you would do with a hundred million?
That's a goddamn lie. One of the straight to your hairline really things well
I get one how many how much money would you spend on the hair one more? I just need one more surgery
Seven grand. That's all you need seven grand. That's nothing
Seven stacks and now seven racks. We could probably get that in the chat only worse
Can we get seven racks in the chat for matt cox's hairline?
Racks in the so racks in the chat racks in the chat. He then ends up
So here's where it goes wrong rats in the chat. He ends up
He ends up sponsoring of the nato summit and Latvia
Riga no and Riga Latvia. What am I saying in Riga Latvia? I don't know. You're looking at me. I have no idea
Listen, I was I was I was educated in south. I didn't know there was a rush in you
I didn't I didn't know there was is that russian? I don't know. No fucking idea sounds okay
Point is is that he ends up sponsoring the the summit part of the summit?
He sponsors some of it while he's there. He ends up going to a cocktail party
He actually meets with the cia too, but that he it's too much to get into
At a cocktail party. He ends up having a manic moment. That shit hits, right?
Hmm that oh, yeah
He ends up he ends up having a manic moment where he ends up telling a bunch of people at a cocktail party
They ask him about the congo and what his plans were for africa and he basically tells them
He's going to build like a million man army and he's going to
Take over all of africa and eventually the entire world and then he says we won't need nato anymore
so
By the time he actually flies back
To the united states they're serving subpoenas on his companies
They're digging in it takes about a year or so for them to finally come up with something they can charge him with
Um, he won't he won't take a plea. He says i haven't done anything wrong. I had absolute
I had the right to use those funds because they realized he's now he's using funds that were held for the irs
he's saying i'm allowed to use those funds
And and we can argue that out in court when he ends up happening is
the u.s. Attorney and his gets together with his lawyer and they get him
um, they get him ruled uh as a
um as a a ward of the state and he becomes he's uh
He's basically he's incompetent and they they grant him they give him a guardian
they then send him to a
psychiatric hospital
Where he's drugged and when he comes back they convince him to sign a plea a plea
And they say look you're gonna sign up and open what's called an open plea
You're gonna plead to the charges, but we're gonna allow you to go in front of the judge and explain the situation
You're probably you might get probation or a couple of years. You'll be fine. He's completely drugged out of his mind
What kind of drugs is he on?
listen
If you read the transcripts of what he was on yeah, I mean it just goes on and on and on
About that, you know deppacoat and all kinds of just ridiculous. Did they give him any psychedelics?
I don't know about psychedelics like any kind of like acid or anything. How would I know?
I don't know anything about drugs. They wouldn't have listed it in there. I mean you would have seen it
If you would read it. I don't know. I don't remember the name of all the drugs people acid
What are you talking about? Charles Manson?
I don't sure he was giving himself acid
He's giving himself most of it. What no the cia was giving him acid, bro. I'm sure he tells that
How was the cia giving him acid? You don't know about that. MKUltra, what are you bro?
What are you doing? No, that and that's Charles Manson was waiting to see the podcast
I'm doing next week with the dude who wrote a book about that. You don't know MKUltra. What's that about me?
MKUltra was an acid. It was a program where they were giving. I've never heard that. It's fucked up.
Weren't they giving weren't they giving prisoners? Was it prisoners or was it the military? It was both probably. I'm pretty sure it was the cia
How do you just give somebody acid? They were dosing. There are prisoners
Yeah, they were trying they were doing mind control shit that they were testing on prisoners
To use with military people to basically convince somebody just to go kill somebody and like completely drain them of all emotions and all empathy and everything
Let's see if they can sign them up and just yeah, he's on 3000 milligrams of depacote daily eight grams of
Gia-done daily and
Okay, LeBat LeBat LeBatall
Libtar whatever daily two milligrams of a sleep-induced agent
which helps accelerate the medication
which is
razzle more or
Matorra full bro. I can't even say that this is all the stuff he's on. He said he's basically
Yeah, it sounds like a goddamn golden corral of cocktails
So
Anyway, he ends up the judge. He talks so then they take him off the medication
They never tell us they never tell his guardian. They have him sign a plea here sign the plea
You'll get to go in front of the judge. You can explain what happened the judge. You know, you probably won't be in trouble
It's not a big deal, but you did break the law sign the plea. So he signs the plea
You're you're a war of the state
You're you're you're you're you're incompetent. You were given they know he was given a guardian
Why are you asking me to sign a plea? I'm not allowed to sign a plea. You know, I'm not allowed to sign a plea
They never tell the guardian
You know when the guardian finds out that he signed a plea and was found guilty and sentenced to prison
He calls him from prison two weeks after he gets there and the guy's like, okay. Well, hey, frank. I'm glad you're doing
What's and he he's like, well, let me know when the trial is he's like when the trial is what are you talking about?
I've been sentenced. I'm in prison. I got 22 years
So he goes in front of the judge they take him off the medication and they say go on in there and explain
What you were doing frank he goes in there and starts talking about world domination and all this crazy shit
They just said yeah three days later the judge is like look
You're done. Boom 22 years
It's so funny too because when I was doing the transcripts like one of the things that happens is
The the the doctor says to the judge your honor
Mr. Amadeo
Realizes he could face up to five years and the prosecutor goes 25 years your honor and he goes 25 years
So the doctor's like 25. He's like we know it could be significant. Anyway, I mean that you read the transcripts is hilarious
Wow, you know else is hilarious listen
He actually goes to a board meeting one time wearing a Darth Vader mask
Fuck yeah, I mean a board meeting goes to the board puts the Darth make goes in sits down and conducts an hour-long board meeting in the mask and he's so
he's so um
you know manic and just
Off the rails and you just don't know what he's going to do like nobody says anything
Now it's a perfect character brand Darth Vader. Yeah, it is. That's a good thing. That's who he wants to be
That's actually I interviewed one of the uh, do you have any kids where it sounds like the stories make sense now
Where do his kids live?
One's one lives in australia and the other ones in orlando. So
Anyway, so one of the people that I I interviewed one of the guys one of the
CEOs I think it was a CEO that I interviewed of his company
He he says
Amadeo was like a little Darth Vader being followed around by stormtroopers
I love that image
He said that would have been the cover of the book that should have been the cover of the book for sure
So then like I remember hearing about the meeting, right?
Then when I was reading the transcripts this chick edie
her name is uh
Shit, I don't know. Anyway edie she ends up saying in there. She talks about how yeah
Oh, listen one time he came into a meeting wearing a fucking helmet a Darth Vader helmet conducted the entire media
I would so I heard it. I'm just probably just dying laughing. I was like, oh my god
So I mean, I can't get into the whole book, but bro. It's so over the top insane
I think I spit on your mic. I'm sorry
Um, it's so over the top just insane
I'm actually gonna do those
Um, it's so it's possible over the top insane that I mean I can't get into the whole thing like you read it and you go
This why is this not a movie? Look, so when I went to LA I met with two producers
About the book like they were you in LA last week last week
They're like this is this is nuts. Oh, yeah, we talked about for like an hour. They're like this
This is this is this is insanity and the thing is you can look it up and you'll see
You'll see little bits and pieces of it when you put it all together and realize what was really happening
It's it's just I want them to make a movie about
It's insanity and I want Jonah Hill to play Amadeo. Don't wait Jonah Hill. Can't what? Yeah
Jonah Hill is perfect for Amadeo
Jonah Hill Jonah Hill is amazing
I might need like Joe Pesci. No, like no, he's too
Look, come on
He was probably in his late 30s early 40s when most of this has happened Danny DeVito in his 40s
How old is no Danny the videos tool didn't he play the penguin? He did. Yeah
Anyway, Joe Hill Wolf of Wall Street like those teeth and everything. Oh, yeah, that's perfect
When he plays Deverelli he kills that too. Yeah, he does. So I got the after action report from the Congo
I've got the medical reports. I've got all the transcripts. I've got
Buy it now. I got the anyway the books on amazon crazy the books on amazon amazon dot com
It's a great book. It's amazing. Everybody buy the book and it's only 160. It's only 160 pages
Matt cock 69 at gmail.com. Send some money Matt cock 69
I love it
So
When's the last time you actually talked to Amadeo?
Oh
The day before I left prison
Like I can't talk to him because he's I mean I could not allow to talk. Yeah, I'm not allowed to talk to him
I I could I mean because he's a fellow I could if I told my probation officer look
I wrote a book about this guy. I'd like to talk to him, but you know, I haven't and he you know, you think he talked to you
Yeah, I think he would I think he can't I know he talks. What do you think he's doing now?
I don't know. I I think I mean, I know he was running
I know he he was playing on starting some type of a
A company or something to do
post-conviction work for prisoners
But I don't know how well that went. I haven't really reached out to him. I haven't he hasn't reached out to me
We basically there's a guy named Donovan Davis
Donovan Davis's wife like I've talked to his wife several times and
And Amadeo talks to the wife. So she's like he's doing good. He's doing that and you know, but that's it
Like we don't pass messages. We don't really talk because I could call him
You know, I could ask her. Hey, what's this phone number? What's this?
But I would half-ass my p.o. And I know I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna call him. I don't really need to do that
Yeah, there's no reason to do it. He's got to be up to something though. I can't just picture him sitting at home doing nothing
Listen, he's he's he's got to listen. He got 22. Here's the thing. He got 22 years, right?
So when I leave when I left he still had 10 years to go
And then when six months six months later to a year
How the fuck is he out right now? He got he got his no
He got it through like the second chance act or something. He convinced the court to
to um
Basically allow him to serve the remainder of his sentence at home under house arrest because they said he said that
They don't have the facilities to treat his mental illness
So he has to be at home. So they said, yeah, you're right. We don't we can't really give you the right, um,
you know counseling and
and drugs and monitoring so
We're gonna let you go home and so you can go to an actual hospital and and do that and that's so he got transferred to a home
Combinement
Which is is 10 years of home confinement. I've never heard of that in my life
But it never happens, right? Never. That never happens. That's pretty insane. Yeah
It's nuts. He's the only lawyer to ever do that
Of all I'm the only inmate. I've ever heard that's done that
And he happened to be both his inmate. He was his own lawyer, right?
Uh, yeah, he I think yeah, uh, well he is now
Now these we are once you're locked up. They don't give you a lawyer. You're done. Are you just filing shit yourself?
You're pro se paypal ain't working bro
What is the deal somebody sent me people are
Complaining that they can't send you money
Well, that's that is upset. I just that's upsetting. I just sent you
I just sent it to you. What did you send to me my paypal? So send it to him. I don't have my phone with me
What I mean, what is the deal? I've got a paypal. You leave your phone in the car. No, it's over. They're charging. Oh
So, I mean, this is my paypal. I showed you what if you have to text somebody during the podcast
Just copy and you can't copy and paste the link in there. You didn't send it to me
I'm trying to give me your phone. I'm write your phone number down. Tell it on the chat. Okay, look. Yeah, okay
So that's you know
seven two seven
69
four twenty
Matt six eight eight oh four nine three. Okay, so that was a throwback. Okay. Oh, I was thought. Oh, yeah
You're right. I'm gonna type with pal. You know if I typed it. You know, so what else do you do when you're out in uh,
Man, California, but the homeless population in in in California is
Yeah, actually change the laws now they can actually keep all their luggage out in the streets
It's ridiculous. Look somebody told me. I don't know if this is true
But this is what the guy told me that they don't they'll arrest you like if you steal and it's under 500 dollars
They'll arrest them. They take them downtown. They process them. They release them
So the every place you go to downtown has an armed guard
Well, I don't know they weren't armed if you steal and it's under 500 dollars. They don't prosecute you
They arrest you take you downtown. They they print you and they book you and let you write back out
So every place downtown has a uh, they all have
guards
They all have security in a weed shop on melrose and there's this like seven foot dude with his giant fucking
He had like a full-sized glock on his hip
And it looked like just homeless people every one of those many that's a lot of socias out there
Oh, I'm telling you
It's uh, that's a social galore
The buffet that's a social buffet. I mean this guy figured it out
Yeah, he sent a dollar 99
25 bucks sign a book for him. Kyle Roberts. Kyle Roberts paid you 25 bucks. He's five bucks shorter get inside the book came through
He almost got something all right
Sign a book for him. I mean, I'm going to I'm gonna he's gonna go a wall if you don't do it right now on the podcast
Yeah, sign it on the camera. Do you want to do it? Yeah, what if you want something special?
Like I want to see you do it on the camera so you can see what I mean
Give the people what they want what the people that's daniel. I'm saying what if you want something special?
What if I see says hey say this just make it up say
Kyle what do you what do you want him to say? What do you want me to say bro?
Yeah, two fucking
What do we got?
Hey, what was it when they used to what we used to call Kyle?
owl
Kyle albert's
Hey, wait a minute. Does does Kyle want its insanity or does he want his insanity?
Of course. That's what this podcast is all about. It's its insanity. Oh, somebody just dropped 100 bucks. Whoo the doctor
The doctor. Oh my god. Matt your groupies are blowing it off. The doctor is all the guy who bought the painting
Did they actually donate it or did they send it to his PayPal super chat super chat hondo?
Don't refund it, please doc. We appreciate your support. Uh, uh, yeah, he's he's keeping the nightmare alive
Oh, I went to special drawing. We went skydiving message. We went skydiving. Yeah
As a matter of fact
If you go to my channel right now, I'll release this got my skydiving video
I got a skydiving video
You're gonna release it right now exclusively for our viewers. Sure. Why not? It's matt cox and inside true crime
Subscribe i'm gonna do it right now. I'm gonna release the skydiving video
That's a good idea. That's a great idea
It's a little exclusive
bonus
You don't have to pay you don't even have to knock
But where's my view videos i'm going into my
My uh
You don't even have to knock
This is here to him and an ashtray full of pudding. Oh man. This is really this is hold on chocolate pudding
All right, let's see
unlist
save
Wow, unreal. Wow
Shit bird
The liquor's talking. Oh, look at him
Matt cox going skydiving with a mask on
Damn
Did you have to wear a mask when you were skydiving? Nice
No, just in the plane up, you know, you'd take it off obviously
Yeah
Bro, that's the worst when you got it when you go right up to that door
And then do you know what the worst is you just got another five dollar paypal night
You know what the worst is from kyle roberts. He sent you five extra
Oh, yeah
He said he left the message in the chat in the thing. You know what the worst is the worst is watching the guy in front of you jump
Because you see him go whoo just he's gone and you're like
Oh
Yeah, and then you and then they just jumped out of a plane
I have no desire to go skydiving. Are you serious? It's great. It's look at that bro. It looks fine. It looks cool
Listen, I went with the doctor the doctor's got his own stuff his own shoot. He's damn
He's jumped like like a a couple god. I think he's jumped like 30 or 40 times
Could give you hair implants while skydiving
I mean, did you imagine doing a hair implant operation while skydiving and but they're so sturdy
They don't come out while you're skydiving subscribers matt. Oh, yeah, there you go. There you go. That should happen. All right
You're right. Yeah. All right. So what did kyle say? He said he left it in the paypal message
He wants a special message special message. What
Who wants matt to go skydiving while getting a hair implant from the doctor? He did he just put okay
That's the price. I mean, that's
That's seven grand for the hair a couple hundred for the plane jump
I mean you're talking eight grand now easy eight grand
And then you got to pay us like a couple of film it. Yeah
You guys are something else man
The hell that's all the time. Is it what is your probation officer? No, you went skydiving
What's the jurisdiction up there?
I'm still in the middle district
I'm pretty sure so if you went like like
50 miles offshore out into the international waters, would you be allowed to hang out with amadeo?
Or hang out with other felons
Yeah, but if you're in international waters, are you allowed to you just like
I don't see what i'm supposed to
Let me see a message. Let me see it max cox
Not allowed in international waters
He's probably not allowed. I'm not allowed to leave the county. Oh, he just sent you his address
I mean, you're leaving the state at that point. You're leaving the nation. Yeah. Yeah
So that's his address. Let's write him a nice little note draw a little picture
So another hunt god damn. So we're gonna get two another hundo from the dock another. I know it's not to him
Doc, thank you doc. $200 to the blimp says the doctor comes through for matt cox
What are you doing? Stop sending money to him the doc sending money to him
What are you doing? You made five grand the last podcast. This guy's loaded. Now you're telling everybody not to send money to me
He's not sending the money to you. I'm pretty sure he's sending it to me
I think he knows how to send it to you matt. He said you get like four grand the last right you probably
He did not so you stop saying that it's you keep raising the figure
How much money did you make the last podcast we did? I honestly? I don't recall
It goes so much. He couldn't count. So there was a comma in the number. Okay. That's all that matters
So i'm gonna chew. It was a comma. Gio. Kyle
All right, you cock sucker. Let me go. Call him a cock sucker from your partner in crime
Secret
I want my book signed too. He said he wants a picture of danny with a micro penis and a rat face
Who said that?
most wanted
Okay
Give him all the cheese. Yeah, is there a hold on matt after you sign this. I got a question for you
A really important question. Okay
All right
What's the difference between a snitch and a rat?
What is this a planned question was the difference? I don't know what what did uh
What did uh morgan freeman say doesn't matter what morgan freeman said
I only care about what matt cox says
I don't think there's a difference at all really. Yeah, let's see a difference at all
Why didn't you say you went into podcast in la and you got you got you got now you got in a really fresh heated argument
It actually wasn't a heated argument because it was awkward. What was it? What would you call it?
It was awkward because the guy was
300 or 290 pounds and probably close to six foot tall
and he was extremely animated and
It could have gone bad
Could have gone bad for me, but it didn't so what happened survived. What did he ask you? Oh, we got super upset
I mean, he so he told me he knew with my story. Okay. I know your story. I know your story
And you you admit it that you you were a snitch. Yeah, I fucking ran it on everybody
I fucking could think of the cut and get out of here to use your words
You said you cut everybody's throat. You could everybody's start. I could yeah could give a shit
Fuck them. What was that quote that you said fuck him earlier? What?
The was it the the guy of the general
Whatever, what's his name? They said Amadeo. Yeah, it was a quote in the book that oh, yeah
Oh, uh be polite tracks the whole village now be polite be professional and have a plan to kill everyone you meet
Wow
That's uh general james mad dog madis
James madis. How do I know that name?
He was in front of congress a few times
He was running. I think he was the military. He he was the general who was running
I want to say afghanistan that during the surge. I believe I could be wrong
Yeah, it looks like a green rectangle covered in metals whenever you see him on. Oh, yeah, he's a green rectangle
Yeah, he's got some great. You know that Kanye. No, this is like army suit. It's so square like the roblox
He looks like Kanye West and bullpump in that video
I love it video
I love it video but like in military fatigue because he has so many medals they had to expand the jacket for him
and what
Jesus what are you what are you reading right now?
Matt's okay for people listening that don't aren't watching matt's on his phone just scrolling
And he's saying things like oh
I'm saying there's just a bunch of I got a bunch in the last three minutes four minutes. I've got a bunch of uh pay pals
No, I don't know. I wish going through his youtube comments. Yeah, just comments
Just comments good comments. That's cool cox. I used to I used to and the doctor
They'll scammer the doctor's coming through again another hundo. No hundo from the doctor
He said he sent you a buck 50. I love the doctor
What does the doctor do? Why is he out here splurge? Is he actually a doctor?
um
Matt cox become what matt cox becomes marcus shrinker. I don't know what that one is
He's calling you a liar. Oh, wasn't there another comment too that you said was really interesting about your feet and shoes and
What you think people okay, so let's say back to the snitch rat question
Why could you think it's gonna bring in some uh viewers? What is it? I think it's interesting
I want to know so how did it go when you said the guy was really
He was really intimidating. Why was he so upset? He was upset because he's a pen guy, right? So he robbed the bank
So the problem robbed a bank. Um the guy who's hosting this podcast that you were on. Yes, okay
And he's like an x con podcast. They could do you a true crime podcast or something?
Yeah, he does it's supposed to be fresh. It's like you're fresh out of prison. Okay, and it's like, what are you doing now?
Okay, I got it. So he says uh, you know, okay, so what did you what did you do?
And he said look, you know, you talk for about 15 20 minutes about what you did and we'll talk about what you did in prison
Then what you're doing now is like, all right, it's cool. So we start talking
We talk about I said, okay, so here's what you know, here's what got me into prison or got me locked up
I start going through the whole motions. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. He's like, all right. All right. All right
And then we get to the point where I say, okay, and then I got arrested. They're basically gonna give me 154 years
They're saying if they stack it, they can give me 154, but that probably wouldn't happen
I'd probably end up if I went to trial and lose. I get probably 32 years
I said, well, I mean, I'm not fucking doing 32 years. I said, so my my US attorneys are not sorry
My public defender says, you know, or you can cooperate. Everybody's already cooperated against you
This is just how it works. You know, this is what's going on and I was like, okay
I was like, what do you mean? What do you what what and oh, you just got to be interviewed by him?
I said, okay, cool. I'll be interviewed. So at that point he's like
He gives me the look
You're a snitch at that point. Yeah. Well, now he's realized because you agreed to cooperate. Yeah, he's like, uh
Yeah, and I went so I and I realized that's when I realized
Oh, you don't really know my
You've you've never really seen my story. Right. You're saying you have but you haven't and then I'm like
He just saw the views
Yeah, he he maybe watched 20 minutes or something, but he didn't see it and I realize
I've seen all the guys you've interviewed
You know, yeah, and I know that the guys that he's interviewed if they cooperated they skate right over it
Does that make sense? Yes. He doesn't like talk about it. No, they of course, you're not going to say it
Who's going to say that these guys aren't going to say that they went to a pin or they went to a medium and they're
You know, I I sold this many, you know, if you start doing the math
It doesn't really matter
I got called this minute's kilos and this mini and this and this all these guys and this and this and this
And yeah, so I did 10 years. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. You did 10 years
Yeah, that's a fucking life sentence, but they never he never goes into any of that
It's never so I say so boom I cooperate and I said but then I don't huge ingredient
I have to go into that cocktail to make it be 10 years. Right. And so
He sits there and he goes
Well, it gives me this look and I went. Oh, I said
Oh, I said, that's right. Nobody really says that to that. They don't and they don't admit that
Yeah, and he's like, you know, he's kind of like
Well, I just don't believe in that and I went. No, I understand. I said, well, yeah, because I didn't tell nobody
I said, no, I understand. I said, well, you're you're unique. So
And I keep trying. I tried it. Let's just, you know, like, okay, let's just keep going and he keeps coming back to it
So you you you you you told on people? Yeah. Yeah
I'm like, yeah, everybody told on me. I mean, that's just the way it is. That's what everybody everybody's fucking ratting on
Everybody. Oh, I I wouldn't tell on nobody. I wouldn't tell on nobody. I'm like, yeah, I understand
But you're you're unique and you're going to a pen
And you're not looking at 26 years
You're you're a guy from the street. You're going to a pen
You you say something you might get killed. They're not sending me to a pen
I can't go to because he's like, man, if you went to the pen, I go, yeah, but I didn't
Because I can't go to a pen
Because the truth is is that they don't send people like me to a pen, right? I'm I'm I go up and then I said
I go, bro, I'm a soft white guy. They're not going to send me to the pen
And then he was like because these guys couldn't dare admit that they're soft
Right. It's all about just pure
Anger and toughness and no weakness and this is the guy who he tells kids
Part of it is well, what would you tell kids? And so he ends up saying to me, what would you tell kids and I went?
I tell him not to commit crime and he's yeah, but I'm saying if they get caught I went
No, don't commit crime. You won't get caught. No, I'm saying if they did you're telling me if they did
Commit crime you're saying
Oh
Read my super chats
Who the doctor he wants to know how much has the doctor contributed to the cox fund all together in the last three months
It's the cox fund
The doctor wants to know how much he's contributed. That's what he said. Yeah, I don't I I don't know. It's significant
He bought me. I've got a computer
He's helped me with the computer. He's helped me with the camera equipment. Wow
He's uh, I mean, yeah, the doctor's awesome. The doctor's awesome shout out to the doc
We we went skydiving shout out to the doc. Heck yeah, we went to uh dinner a few times. What kind of doctor is he?
You know
I mean, come on. It can't take that long. He's probably the kind of doctor that has a billboard
No, he's not definitely not. What kind of doctor is he now? I know you know
You know, I I don't know what kind of doctor you never asked in that. I mean, you know
You know what? Listen, what am I supposed to say? Dr. Feelgood? I mean, I could ask him what kind of doctor
No, I mean, I just thought I thought you fucking knew
No
I do what kind of doctor question mark
Read my super chat, bro
So anyway, what if he's a plastic surgeon and you never asked him what he is or he does hair transplants because we would have come up
Because we talked about we talked about the hair
Maybe that's why he's giving you all this money to like seed that idea
Seed that let me go just like spend this money back on the doctor and a little bit more
Huh like he does hair transplants. No, he doesn't so he's giving you this money
So you're gonna go spend it back on him. No, that would make any sense
I don't think it makes perfect sense. I don't understand that logic. It makes perfect sense
He's trying to recoup when you think about it
You trying to recoup? Do you think that's what did he message you back yet?
No
No, he's probably playing with his kids or on the computer or
He's in the chat watching the podcast. So why didn't you ask him what kind of doctor?
He's throwing money at you like you work at mon's venus
I'll show you you throw me a note. You put enough money
I will
People really want you to eat shit tonight. Huh people want you to eat dany's poop. That's what people are saying
That's been the main topic of the chat. It is you know, it's amazing how
How
Disgusting these fuckers are and cruel and mean they say no and cheap they say horrible things
They want to see it. They want all the action, but they don't want to pay for it. Yeah, that's not action
That's disgusting depends on who you ask
The internet's a weird place
Man talking police place got weird when I was going
What the fuck happens? Oh, what were you just talking about? I fucking forgot
Um
Oh, yeah, okay. Okay. It was getting weird. The guy was like, why would you admit to being a rat or being a soft white guy?
Yeah, he's going on. No, he didn't he didn't actually say that he just keeps going and going and going
He just keeps, you know, and I'm like, okay. Well, you know
Um, clearly we're we're cut from a different cloth. So I said so anyway, and I'm like, do you want to keep talking about this?
He's like, no, what I'm saying is this and this and he's going on
You know, I'm saying you with this you with that. I'm like, yeah
You so so you saying you're gonna get caught
He goes, you're gonna get caught you get caught doing something
now first he said
It's your duty as a soldier or something along those lines that I was like soldier
He's yeah, like if you're a soldier and you get caught and they torture you you got to hold out
So you don't tell on your platoon and I went am am I a soldier in this?
I'm a I'm not a soldier. Have you ever seen the movie batman? You ever heard of the joker?
Yeah, that's me
I'm taking so shiz. I don't know about soldiers. I mean I I just
It always kills me these guys that are selling crack in the they're selling crack in the park
You know to pregnant women and then they get caught and you think that this guy's not gonna tell on you
Or he's gonna hold strong. Nobody should tell on me you
You're just a scumbag, bro. You're selling fucking crack
Yeah, and you're you're selling crack or you're kicking in people's doors or you're committing fraud
Or you're doing scams
And you get caught and now you have principles
You're just a scumbag
Or someone else gets caught this
Stand your ground on now. I'm good. You gotta don't tell on me. I won't tell on you. Are you serious?
That's the line you're fucking ripping off little old ladies pension funds. Yeah, what are you talking about? Yeah, but we're bros
bros
Here your bro's gonna fuck your your there's no street code your bro's gonna fuck your girl when you're gone and take all your
Shit, that's what's gonna happen. He's taking his life station. Right. That's not, you know
So I'm and I remember I said I go so I'm supposed to go to prison for 26 years
And he was like, you know, I'm like, I'm not going to prison for 26 years. I'm not doing it
He's playing fortnite on your account on your couch
His feet on your table. He's spending all your v bucks. I know a guy
I know a guy that got out of prison and told the guy to go to his go to my
He actually sets the guy up like you can stay
I talked to my wife
She'll let you stay in like the spare room until you get a job and get this and get that listen two months later
He he calls he calls and the wife says
Don't call anymore. I'm with so-and-so now
The guy you set up in prison
That your wife's gonna help out that you're gonna help out
Your wife's been running with you for four or five years now. He's fucking your wife. This is your buddy
That's what they're all they're all scumbags. Now if you're a guy if you're a guy and you're a stand-up guy and you go to a pen
Now I can understand you telling me
I didn't say anything not because I'm a good guy because you're not
But I didn't say anything because I was afraid that when I went to the went to the pen
They might kill me if I showed up with paperwork that said I snitched on everybody. Okay. I got it. I understand you're going to a
Pen you can't say anything. You know what it's like. You're going to a california pen. You're just fucking done
I'll take the fucking 10 years
so
But the difference is that it's it's that or my family's in danger
I know that these guys will kill my family because I know they've killed my family before but guess what that's not me
Danny's if I fucking told on Danny, he ain't killing nobody. No, Danny's not going to bust a great
The worst Danny's going to do is sue me. He's right. That's it
And no, but I have a few people I could pay some money to that would really not make your life very pleasant
I mean and I have a really good friend. He said he's the 500 bucks who who would uh
Burn your house down
What?
A neurosurgeon he's a neurosurgeon a neurosurgeon sounds like what he's a brain surgeon
I mean, I guess it's that's what he's holy shit. He's got so much damn money. I don't believe it
Prove it listen. He's got like listen. He if we could do brain surgery you could do your hair transplant
That's where that's true. His wife's car is like a hundred and fifty thousand dollar
Was it like a land rover or something or range rover or something? It was his wife's car. Wow
What's he driving? I I don't know. He was in like in the shop or something. I forget he's like
Rory's in the shop picked it up. I was like Rory. It's always in the shop
So yeah, so yeah, that podcast did not go well
He was disgusted by me
It's really broke my heart too because I thought we were going to be friends
But then he left and when they were leaving when he was leaving in a cameraman the cameraman couldn't stop
Where did you guys filming at in my hotel room in your hotel room? Yeah in downtown
It was the uh, was it was I'd say the hilton hilton
Hilton the airport checkers. No hilton checkers in downtown. It's a really nice hotel. So
um
We do the whole thing they gather all their stuff up
They go to leave and when they're leaving this cameraman never he never he couldn't stop smiling
Like he was just he this guy and I kept saying I go boy, you're really upset about it. Well, I don't believe in that
I'm I don't believe I said well, I understand you don't believe in it. But you know, it happens
Even after you stopped rolling as we're still talking about this. Oh, yeah, he he he stood up. He's packing up his stuff
I go you really seem upset. I said it like five times during really you really seem upset by this. Well, I just I just this I
I just don't feel right. I I would not do that. I wouldn't say I understand
I understand
I think he's like, you know, and even here's the problem is that when we were on film and we were arguing
We weren't really arguing because there was he was so animated. I thought there's a good chance this guy fucking swings on me
And I'm gonna let me let me be perfectly clear if he had swung on me
I wouldn't have survived it. I mean, right. This is a big
Fucking guy. You've been calling the neuro doctor
He couldn't have helped the doctor couldn't have helped. I mean, so I'm sitting there
So he's making these ridiculous giving me these ridiculous scenarios. What's the doctor saying?
Um, what do you say he said you're an asshole for not telling me you were going to be on the podcast
Yeah, why would you tell him? I didn't tell him because
Well, I don't have to fucking tell him this I can tell him right now. I didn't say anything because I why didn't I I didn't really
Oh, no, you didn't you told me yesterday. Yes. I told you Monday. I think earlier. I forgot
I think Monday we decided to do this Monday or Tuesday. I believe it was Monday night
Well, he knows I told Luke right after
He's a busy guy. He's flying to LA and shit. He's on vice now. Oh, you're on vice now
Tell everybody how you did a fucking uh documentary for vice. It wasn't documentary. I'm a I'm an expert scammer
Yeah, you are on on on vice. So I'm one of the John Madden of scamming
So I'm one of the listen it was that was a pretty bad shoot like I mean they had me doing all kinds of like, okay
Can you go would you mind looking out the windows?
I'm like like through the blinds and I go like some kind of peeper. Well
You know, like uh, just some yeah b-roll. That's a
I'll be a peeper. Let's do this. Come on. They did a documentary on lanny pavo
And he was telling me that they spent like two full days
Shooting b-roll like him walking through the park sitting at the on the bench feeding pigeons
You don't understand. I'm only they told me these things are like three or four minutes long
They're like you're literally only going to be on camera for a minute or two on on three different episodes
Took six hours. Yeah
So
That's a professional. So listen when the cameraman's leaving right matching cameras. Thank you doc. Hey, can your doc?
Is he sure can he install the uh, can he install the
I thought you had to watch fucking a game or something. I gotta go watch tv
No, we got uh the mba the last game of the season the mba finals. Boy. I'm animated. What am I doing?
Lebron james versus the miami heat
I'm all like fucking waving my arms and
Are you watching yourself? I just saw myself waving my arms get out of your head. Um
Forget what I was gonna say
You're just so in love with yourself. It's like when you look at yourself. You're just oh my god. What the fuck is this guy?
Why it's matt, huh?
Are you serious? What is this? All right, should we wrap this up?
By the insanity by its insanity and this was the shortest matt pox matt coss
Oh, here we go podcast in history. Oh the perv is kicking in kid
Tell you what
Oh
Check. Oh, okay. Everybody. Thank you matt cox's paypal is matt cox 69 at gmail.com
You can contribute to his hairline. He needs seven thousand dollars for his neck surgery
Even though I think that hairline looks pretty good. It looks pretty solid to me. That's decent
Very decent at least better than my hairline definitely better than mine
I've never seen a hair out of place on that beautiful head of yours. That's what seven k gets you know
The tan even goes into the hair two of you
I mean with all three of you guys is because normally like when you get you know, like you get a really close fade
Sometimes it's like white. Oh, yeah, but yeah, like your tan goes all the way into your yeah
How do you get that tan so perfect?
And like in your hair you die you die here your scalp is tan
So are you 24 seven when you're out in public is your hair slicked back like that all the time whenever you go out
I mean, I don't even know what's slick back. I just
You clearly gelled it back. I don't wear a hat when you pay for hair
No, I don't wear a hat. I wear a hat because this is like a luxury. It's a you know, it's just there
Like if you pay for it, well, you're so young and you have all your hair. Yeah, I have a thick head of hair
Wait, how would you think his how do you grade his hairline? Oh, it's it's it's amazing
He could you listen your hairline his hairline is farther back than yours
But he's got a good hairline. He's got a good hairline. Thank you. He couldn't use a touch-up
How do you think a little scruffy? Do you think he needs a surgery? I
Not on the hairline, but maybe on the nose and the teeth
This would be wasted money here. It's a bad investment
Gotta wait and see if it's no, but how do you the tan? How do you the tan so I didn't even think I'm tan
Am I tan? No, like he was talking about how the tan perfectly hits the hairline
It even goes past that goes in like blends your probably because it's so thin the sun hits my scalp
Science science
The solar the solar flares penned the uv penetrates the
The hair transplants and hits the scalp perfectly activates it activates it
Oh my god, all right
I think we've had enough. Yeah, well you gotta go with the game starting
Well, we can watch who's winning. It hasn't even started. Well, who's gonna win the heat
Is that who you want to win? Mm-hmm you want the heat to win
I only want the heat to win because I bet him 20 bucks the heat would win and
I really like jimmy jesus jimmy jesus
Jimmy buckets jimmy buckets aka jimmy jesus
They're the underdog and I think they can come back three to one like lebron did versus the gold state warriors in 2016
But I think lebron's my my my my head saying lebron's gonna win my heart's saying heat. Please win
We'll see
Some turmoil, but I'll probably lose 20 bucks, but thank god the neuro doctor donated about five hundo. Yeah, thanks for the chicken fingers tonight
Yeah, thanks doctrine chicken figure is gonna help pay for matt cox's dinner because I always pay for matt cox's dinner podcast
matt cox any last words?
uh
Buy a book and buy a book and sign and subscribe to my channel matt cox and uh inside true crime
Books on amazon books on amazon
Danny's gonna put the put it in the link. Yeah put the link for the
Put in the description. Fuck bro. I'm so tired shark in the housing pool. Oh my god
Christ, what do you know? I know what a hold it up hold it up so they can see it
Shark in the housing pool
He just threw it
Shark in the housing pool and it's insanity
Boom who just did this buy some shit buy it motherfuckers
You
