Today we have WWE legend Luke the Bushwacker on the podcast.
Luke, thank you for blessing us with your presence today.
Whoa, good day Danny.
It's bloody good to be here, mate.
You're looking good, mate, but you smell like sardines.
And I've had that for breakfast for many years.
Have you really?
I've known you for a long time.
You used to run the gym on Clearwater Beach.
Clearwater Beach.
You had your own gym.
We used to always work out together, me, you, and the Hulkster.
And those were some good times.
Some good times, mate.
That evolution of time, we have to move on.
You've got to move on.
Every once in a while, you've got to just move on and write a new chapter.
Exactly, mate.
And I'm moving on.
I don't know what the next chapter is going to be.
But, well, I've got a few ideas, anyhow.
Have you?
So, how you been?
How are you?
Good, good, mate.
Good.
I just got back from Quebec, a town.
I worked in a town on Sunday afternoon.
It's the first time I've been there since 1972.
That was the last time I wrestled in that town.
And I had a few people that came up to me.
They were old.
They said, I remember you being here many, many moons ago with Andre the Giant.
That's crazy.
So, you're, how old are you now?
Hey, quiet.
I'm, two other girls out there.
I'm 25, 26.
You don't look a day over 30.
No, no.
I'm 73 at Christmas, January.
And you're still wrestling?
You're still in the ring, entertaining.
Wow.
You could call it, it's called entertaining.
Why is it called entertaining?
Well, that's what I do.
I entertain the people.
Is that what everyone calls it?
Is that what all WWE wrestlers call it?
WWE, it's called, WWE is World Wrestling Entertainment.
Okay, so it's just, you don't call it wrestling.
People just call it.
No, you could call it wrestling.
It's wrestling and that.
But when they look at me and they say, you still wrestle, I say, I'm entertaining.
Right, right.
Sounds better.
At my age.
You don't do any kind of like hard jumps or take any big bumps.
You kind of just take it easy now.
I give them.
You give them.
You give them.
I'm a giver, not a taker.
Remember that folks, and all you women out there, whoa, whoa, and I'm from Down Under.
You know what I mean?
And I'm a Bush wacker.
Where'd you get that?
I hate being told those.
Most of them tell me today, but I'm shaved.
Most of the women when I say I'm from Down Under and I'm a Bush wacker, they turn around
and say to me, well, I'm shaved.
Oh, the women say that to you.
Yeah.
That's hilarious.
So where did you come up?
I mean, so we've had the pleasure of having many WWE superstars on this show.
We've had Jimmy Hart.
We've had Lanny Poffo, the brother of Macho Man.
And now you're the third WWE superstar.
So how did you get into the business?
Like, let's talk about like your early days.
Where are you from?
How did you get started in this crazy, wacky world?
Funny part is the next door neighbor.
I was born in a town called Lower Hut, New Zealand.
It's a suburb of the capital, Wellington.
It's about eight miles out from the city of Wellington.
And my next door neighbor was a bodybuilder.
And he went into Mr. New Zealand and he got placed.
And the judge in Mr. New Zealand was a former Mr. New Zealand, a 1950 Mr. New Zealand.
He was a judge.
Plus, at this time now, he was the resting promoter for the only promotion in New Zealand.
And he said to my next door neighbor, my buddy, he said to him, you know,
why not make some money with that body?
So my neighbor's name was Brian Ashby.
So he went into the gym.
It was in Wellington, you know, eight, six or eight miles away.
And it was the gym was like the gym in the first Rocky movie.
If you ever remember that, the steam pipes rattling and had a steam room.
The old school gym.
The only two machines that had, or racks that had was a bench press and a squat rack.
All the rest were kettle bells and freeways laying around the floor.
And there was two rings there, 20 by 20 rings.
The floor, the floor of the rings were hard as the floor is this room.
Or hard of the payment on the roads around here.
And the boxing rings, four ropes.
And they were, and the wrestling rings were four ropes through New Zealand at that time.
It was, and they were, the governed the wrestling rings.
And the wrestling shows were governed by the police.
And they came and checked the rings before to make sure it was 20 feet by 20 feet in the ropes.
Now, what the hell does that mean?
You know what I mean?
If it's 18 feet, but fucking police came and checked and measured it.
And everybody too had to put the, the promoter had to put everyone's name in two months ahead of the show.
To see if they had any criminal record.
This is how it was.
The police, the police sat ringside.
And if you did anything illegal, they hopped up in the ring.
There was no punch when I, anyhow, there was no punching and no kicking.
So it was either forearms or the British under uppercuts and you could do a knee drop.
Anyhow.
That's crazy.
How, so how old were you when you got into this?
15 or just turning 16.
Anyhow, how I got into it.
He said to me after he was going for about a month and he says, why not come in there?
I was 175 wet, 175 pound wet at the time.
And I started going in there to the gym with him about six months down the line.
I went to my first wrestling match, live wrestling match.
And one of the opponents didn't arrive in the, in the light, well, junior heavyweight or light heavyweight.
And that next minute I got a fair of boots thrown at me and a tank top thrown at me.
I had jeans on and that's how I went to the ring.
And don't ask me about the match because it's a blank.
That was my first match ever.
The arena was full.
It was, you know, 3000 people at that time.
And I'm talking about 1962 in little old New Zealand where they roll up the, the sidewalks at 6 o'clock at night.
You know, the bars closed at 6.
Everything.
Wow.
Just to go down town, any little townships.
637, you're lucky to find a cafeteria open in any of the smaller cities.
In the capital, you'd find them, but in the smaller cities, the sidewalks were rolled up and the lights were out.
Really?
The blinds were down.
That's wild.
Yeah, we didn't have, and we didn't, everyone sat around a radio at home.
They sent us soap operas on radio.
We never got television till 67 and it would start at 3 in the afternoon and finish at 8 or 9 o'clock at night.
That's how when we first got it.
Crazy, huh?
That's some crazy shit.
We were 20 years, we were 20 years behind the States and behind Aussie at the time too, you know?
What were you doing in New Zealand this whole time?
So you're shagging sheep.
You were shagging sheep?
Shagging sheep.
Shagging sheep.
That's all you did with shag sheep?
No, no, no.
I'm an engineer by trade or turner or fitter.
You know, lathe work and with, you know, turning the steel with the lathe and doing welding, arc and arc, arc welding, arc and arc, gas, gas, brazing and all that sort of stuff.
Yeah.
Dilling with steel, putting stuff together.
Okay, so that's what you did for a living when you first started working?
Yeah.
I did an apprenticeship.
Okay.
I did the 10,000 hours.
That's a five year.
I did a lot of overtime and I did it in four years.
But meantime, in the meanwhile, I was resting too because I'd finished work at four and that in New Zealand, you can hop on a plane from the capital and you can be at the end of the other island or over in the south island anywhere within an hour.
Once you're on the plane, everything goes close.
The islands, New Zealand consists of two island, 600 miles long each and each about 150 miles wide.
So that's it.
And we're way down south for you people out there don't know where we are.
We're south, southeast of Australia and below us is South Pole.
America, I've got a base in the South Island and the southern, the South Island where they take, go down to the South Pole.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Wow.
Did you ever go to the South Pole?
No, I never.
Never.
Never flown.
It's two hours from Christchurch.
Really?
Two and a half hours and you're over.
People fly over tourists.
America just go down there and they go on the charters and they fly over the South Pole.
But we're a mountainous country.
What you call mountains over here, we call hills.
Our mountains are 40 from 12,000 feet to 20,000 feet.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, okay, so you're in New Zealand.
You're an engineer by trade.
Yeah.
You're doing welding.
You're doing all kinds of crazy work.
Yeah.
And on the side, you're wrestling.
You're wrestling, doing wrestling gigs.
Are you making any money doing wrestling back then?
Back then, if I told you.
While you were in New Zealand, were you making money?
Yeah, when I tell you, I was making three pounds, two pounds or three pounds a match.
And if you know what, a pound is those days, that's a pound was equal to two dollars.
Wow.
And I make.
Two bucks a match.
Yeah, and a wage at that time would be a good wage, would be about 15 pounds a week.
A wage.
And that's for a, not a professional, but that's for an average worker was 10 to 15
pounds a week.
Wow.
By accident, you kind of like fell into this.
This was never like a dream for you.
No, no, the next to a neighbor.
And I went into that, hung out in that, you know.
So, when did you develop that whole, that whole moniker, the whole, whoa, with the.
No, that's what, that came later.
That came many, many moons later.
We left home in 1970.
Yeah.
Why did you, why did you?
Yeah, go back, go back.
Let's go back.
He mainly had Europeans wrestlers from Europe and England when they come over.
We actually ran three times a week or twice a week, three times a week and a guy would
come over for, for say, two months, three months.
And that, and that's when we get most of our work.
And in 68, I started going to Australia, the American promoter from Atlanta, a well-known
promoter who, who got Ted Turner to put the wrestling up on the satellite on TBS.
Well, he was over in New Zealand and that was WCW.
He was over in Australia.
I'm sorry.
And he come over there in 65 and opened up Australia.
That's when the, that's when the Vietnam War was on and all the troops were coming down
to Australia for R&R, Rest and Recreation.
And he was there.
He opened up in Australia.
He bought out the, the roller derby and then bought a whole American crew in and started
running.
He would go over there and work, work against Americans and that, maybe three times a year,
go over there for a month or three weeks and work against Americans.
Now, when, when Ted Turner was, he was basically syndicating wrestling shows across the world
and in, in lots of different countries.
Yeah, but it started with the U.S., right?
Yeah, but he didn't, he didn't start the, the satellite didn't go up to, to 76, I think.
You know, the, um, it was called WTBS.
It was called WTBS.
TBS.
Yeah.
WTBS.
And then he dropped the W off it and just TBS.
And what was the wrestling program called?
It was W, it was World Championship Wrestling.
That's what Ted Turner's, what's called?
Yeah.
Ted Turner.
Well, that was Jim Barnett's company.
Okay.
Jim Barnett, the Australian promoter, actually owned part of Florida Championship Wrestling.
He owned a part of a lot of companies around the States, but he was on, in Atlanta, he
had WCW.
Okay.
And that, and then later on in life, you know, when, when, um, all the small territories
went out and Vince was the only one.
And that's when Ted Turner bought, Ted Turner bought NWA and it changed from NWA to WCW.
Oh, okay.
The name and that.
And that's when they had the Monday night wars in the nineties.
But here we, we're going back to the sixties.
Right, right, right.
We jumped well ahead here.
Fuck.
Anyhow, so I met a lot of Americans in that and Andre came over to our country too in
69.
Andre the Giant?
Yeah.
So Butch and me worked against Butch, my partner and myself.
We partnered up in 66, you know, locally and that, we never started touring overseas
to, you know, the, to the, um, Middle East, not the Middle East, to the East, Singapore
and, and up in Bangkok and that till 68.
Andre come over to New Zealand and 69 and Butch and me worked with him for a whole month
around the country.
Really?
Yeah.
Holy shit.
What was that like?
Andre was only two, three 50 then, three 50, three 60 and that and with a big out throw.
He looked skinny.
You know what I mean?
Well, six foot, seven foot two with a big out throw and only three, three 50 year remain.
That's incredible.
Yeah.
So a month with him.
So that's how when I first met Andre and that, and of course too, I met the big names
like killer Kowalski.
He was the biggest, one of the biggest names in the heels in the, in the world at the time.
Yeah.
Who, who was main event at Madison Square Gardens in the 60s and in the 70s.
He was a male.
He was the main bad guy and he's the guy that actually got Australia going for Jim Barnett.
You know, it's all, our business is Cowboys and Indians and that, and, um, he was the
guy that they bought in and he actually popped Australia and got it up going, you know, for
Jim Barnett.
Wow.
So when I come over in 72, Butchamy came over to North America for the first time.
And what, what, why did you guys come for the first time?
What was the reason?
You know, Hollywood, if you want to be a star in, in movies and television and that, you
go to Hollywood.
If you want all the wrestling magazines, you know, we, we, we didn't get a wrestling show
to 76 in New Zealand on television and that.
So we, we got wrestling magazines in the 60s and that, and you know, they all come out
of the States.
Everything came from the States.
The States was where it was, you know, for wrestling.
So it was bigger than England and Europe and all that sort of stuff.
So you guys like, you know, we're doing it.
We got it.
We, if you want to make it big time, we got to go to California.
No, we didn't come to California.
That was for Hollywood and actors.
We just got two promoters that the New Zealand promoter knew very well that they, they were
the Vashon brothers, Morris Vashon, Mad Dog Vashon, he's dead now, his brother, they just
put out another movie out about them this weekend, but they were two Frenchmen, well
well known throughout the States and they owned a territory in Montreal called Grand
Prix.
So they bought us over there.
This territory was running three towns a night.
This promotion was running, they had a crew.
This was a big, a big promotion running three towns a night in, in the province of Ontario
and Quebec and, and, and Northern part of Vermont and, and upstate New York.
They'd come into that and that, and it was at a Montreal.
And so we, they bought us over there.
And of course the main heel was Walter Korsky and the main baby face, a good guy was the
giant.
So we, we needed to, Andre, he, he just, Andre, Andre had just come to the North America
the first time six months before we did.
Oh shit from, and where was he living in France?
Yes.
Okay.
And he was living, working Europe and England and he came in, he came in a year, six months,
eight months before us.
So when we come in, he was over like hell, that was drawing this, this, this territory
was on fire.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
So when we came in, we knew the two main guys and, and after about a month, we were one
of the main events in the third town, you know, one of the towns and that, you know what
I mean?
We were used, we were used right.
That HBO, that HBO documentary on Andre was insane.
Yeah.
The stuff that he had to go through like everyday life, flying in airplanes, how much of torture
that was for him.
Oh yeah.
Going to the, going to the pooper, I got to tell you about that later on going to the
pooper.
He could never get on.
Oh yeah.
He can.
Anyhow, we're not, we're going back.
So here I am in this territory and at the time to Pierre Trudeau was the prime minister.
His son is the prime minister now and he's not so would like the prime minister of, of
Canada.
Canada.
Yeah.
And he was going out with Mick Jagg as his wife Bianca.
He was effing around with Mick Jagg as his wife.
It was, you know, Mick had broken up with her, but that was a big thing at the time.
So his ex-wife?
Yeah.
And, and at the time too, when we came into party, Quebec was trying to break away from
Canada and be its own country.
It's crazy.
You know, the politics then.
Yeah.
So, you know, it was wild at the time.
That's pretty insane.
So anyhow, we were there working, we were working there.
We worked there for a year and a half, you know, and we were used, used on top, semi-final
on top.
And one of the towns and that, and they come up to sit to us, you know, if we, you know,
we can move you out.
You know, now you sit to, you know, we have to start jobbing you, jobbing is getting beaten
all the time and put the new, new people over, or we can move you out and bring you back
later and move you to another territory.
And we said, where are you going to move us?
And they said, there's a promotion course, stampede promotion.
Now we never heard of stampede.
This is a notorious promotion in, in wrestling in those days.
Every one of the name has worked in it and it was owned by Stu Hart.
We didn't know who Stu Hart was.
Bret Hart's father, Stu Hart had 12 kids that are a senatorious family in Canada.
And that, and you know, Bret Hart was WWE champion for many years and, and Owen Hart
is a fill out of the roof at one of the paid reviews and got killed ringside.
He was on a hoist.
Remember if, you know, he was in Kansas City come, he was coming out on a rope, you know,
and they had them down and it just, the clips that come undone and he, he, he fell to the
pavement on a, on a paid reviews.
Yeah.
That was a big lawsuit.
Anyhow.
What was that?
So what was, what year was that?
That was in about 92, 99, 2000, anyhow, getting back.
So we, so we moved into Stu, we moved to that next territory and we never knew the first
night we're there.
We're working against the champions and we, and we got disqualified, you know, wrestling
for your range.
Anyway, we, we got disqualified.
We started beating them up with a New Zealand flag.
We always carry the New Zealand flag, right?
Next minute, these kids were thrown into the ring and that, and I'll tell you who by in
a minute and, and we were told beat them up, beat them up.
So the two champions who we just got disquieted, squandered from the line there and these four
kids from 11 to about 13 are thrown in the ring and two of them are bleeding.
And I'm, I'm putting, we're putting the boot to them and that, and then we leave, we did,
we, we left the ring and we go back to the back and we hadn't met Stu Hart yet and Stu
Hart's there.
He says, what the, what the hell are you doing?
And we said, well, the guy through the minute and said, the guy through the guys, these
kids in the ring said beat them up.
So we beat them up and that, you know what I mean?
Cause we, we came in to get over, you know, as the bad guys and this was televised Friday
nights were televised in the Pavilion, you know, in the fairgrounds and in Calgary.
There's two arenas, the Pavilion, it holds 3000 and then now it's the Saddle Dome that
holds 20.
All, all the big shows and the, and the paid previews are done and all that stuff.
Yeah.
And, and the promotion did two, did, did, um, three shows a year where they did the Friday
and they did the Sunday back to back.
You know, so anyhow, we beat them up and that, now these are Stu Hart's kids.
He didn't know.
And who was throwing them in was Abdullah, the butcher.
Are you, are you, have you heard of Abdullah the butcher?
No.
He, he, he, he, he, he, he, blood crazy.
You know what I mean?
He, he, he cut them all and threw them in.
What?
Yeah.
And the kids.
Was that planned?
Uh, no, he didn't know.
He was hoping us get over.
Abdullah was the, Abdullah is a heavy name.
He drew the biggest houses in Japan was, was king Brody, anyhow.
If you know, wrestling fans know all about the butcher.
Right.
Right.
In the art.
That's fucking nuts.
And a bit controversy with Vince McMahon.
Anyhow, so we put the boots on and he told us we were his kids and one of them was Brats, believe it or not
And the other one was Owen was too young at the time and there was other kids, you know some of that
He had 12 kids, eight boys and four girls
Stu, yeah, that was our territory. So that was a Friday night. That was played on Saturday morning
So when we come to the show, that was a doublehead of that weekend
The next Sunday was in the big arena
Because they flew Talented for a big show and when we went out we got stuff thrown at us
That's how hot we we didn't get the drawing power, but we were hated already
You know, it was hated you guys were known as that you were you guys were like the go-to heels. Yeah, you know
You know, we didn't have the drawing power yet, but you know when you come into a territory
They they feed you guys to beat up and you know get over
To get you over so you can go to towns and draw people it usually takes six weeks
If you're good heels it takes six weeks of television
You know six television shows and you're knocking the people on the mic and you're beating people up
And by then if you're good heels you get over and butcher me get over
Over to draw get over get over means win to get over to get over as a bad guy to be main event is
Okay, either to get over, you know, they feed your talent to get over
Get over means you beat them up whether you win win one two three
But you get over to get over as a hated talent, you know, I mean
because the the name of our game is
The good guy beating the bad guy, but you're gonna have the bad guys gonna go get over as a bad guy
To draw houses. How do you think that Muhammad Ali?
People bought tickets to see my hymids get beaten
He got over because he knocked people out straight away and he said I'm gonna knock them out in three and he blah blah blah
That cocky bastard we bought tickets
That's why he got over so big because people bought tickets
Because they wanted to see think they wanted they wanted to see him get beat. He always, you know
Really? Yeah at Tyson look at Tyson
Yeah, definitely. He was a heel too. Yeah, I said was he'll too
George Foreman was a baby face. He was he was liked, you know, I mean
Did you draw any kind of inspiration from guys like that? Yeah? Yeah, we draw inspiration from, you know, killer Kowalski
Here's the guy that went
Who Muhammad Ali followed gorgeous George?
Yeah, gorgeous George was an old-time wrestler a fag. You know
He was a fag, but no, he would work the fag gimmick. Oh, he did. Okay. Yeah
Overstrong and he give out Bobby. You know come out flamboyantly. He died, you know, his rollers in his hair
That's what I did earlier on in my career. I was sweet William
Sweet William. Yeah, I wish I did you come out with a sheep. I worked as a fag
For the first five years I worked as a fag six years Wow, and that was a New Zealand
Yeah, and Australia and you drew and you drew you drew more emotion out of people because
Oh, yeah, because I had I had a woman in my corner or a male the corner and I'd slap him around
Step the woman around, you know, spray me with perfume had rollers in my hair
That's I've go to woman's salon hold my hair done. Is there a footage of that on the internet? I want to see that
But I got photos and all that
When I was doing that gimmick, yeah
Oh, I went off flowery clothes, you know with popped out shoulders. Yeah
What would you say
Yeah, did you have to
In a lot of your matches, did you have to like hide a razor blade in your mouth and like cut yourself make yourself bleed?
What are you talking about?
You know, I mean did you have to know I don't know what you mean. You never did that
Look at my forehead. Is that what why your forehead looks like that from you cutting yourself?
I'm not saying that but just look at it. I can see it. That's why a woman. Why a woman with long toenails
How's that?
So, you know, like you don't you don't talk about that people don't talk about that
Well, you know, it's been it's been told people talk. I don't talk about it. No, okay
But um, but it's it's pretty gnarly like a lot of the guys that want to make it and they want to get over
Yeah, they have to do crazy shit like that. They have to cut themselves
When I said blood capsules, there's no blood capsules. I've never used blood capsules at all
And I squirt a blood out to as far as where you are
Fuck yeah, I've hit main veins in it. Oh
On your face
Yes
If you want to go and see bloody stuff matches go to go to the
Um
1986 in the Superdome New Orleans the sheep sheep herders versus the Fantastics
Anyone go see that that was
Herders, I was the sheep herders the bushwhack
Sheep herders well before the bushwhackers Vince check Vince changed us
for two good guys and
And he changed the names of the bushwhackers because he wanted to own us
He didn't like the sheep herd. Oh because he wanted to change it so we could own it
He didn't he wanted us to be
The good guys he says, you know it's time for you to change to be the good guys
We'd been the bad guys. I'd been a bad guy from
1962 to 1988 what's with the whole sheep gimmick? What what what where does that go to him?
It's because New Zealand has got three million people and a hundred million sheep
No, I heard that I heard that
There's really over a hundred million sheep in New Zealand is evergreen mate. They burned all the the rough
Gorse and all the the the plot weed and all that and they
um
They they put grazing they grass seeded the whole the whole country sides the hills and everything
We were the first country to do top dressing on planes
You know when they they they drop the seeds out of the wings and they're coming over the pastures and that yeah
Yeah, feed the pastures
New Zealand was the first country to do that
The whole country's mountainous like that. Yeah, you got big mountains, but we just covered in sheep
You know sheep everywhere. Did you have any bad sheep? Huh? Did you have your own sheep? No?
No, I did I was a bit the sheep farms, you know the sheep farms in New Zealand
The they're three or four miles, you know some of them are two or three miles by three miles
Really? Yeah, that's a big big farms a hundred million
That must be a big wool export and yeah, it was till synthetic came in
We were big and big and farm products, you know, they are butter and and they are wool
But now I've been synthetic. That's why that that killed our
Economy when it when that is synthetic stuff come out six since the synthetic wool and all that they said
Oh, that's tough. Yeah, New Zealand was big exported wool
So for your gimmick you guys were the called the sheep herders
Did you guys and I just and I we used to come out in sheep jackets, too
You know white jackets with sleeves off thick wool thick wool like that
Did you guys ever bring a sheep with you?
Like to walk out with a sheep?
Can't bring a sheep into a WWE match. I mean Stone Cold brought out a giant fucking beer truck
She put us in mate. We were the we were the bushwhackers. No, I'm talking about when you were the sheep herders
No, we yeah, we we never had a sheep. We just carried the news that on flag
We were known for being nasty son of a bitches
If you go online that says the sheep herders were hardcore before hardcore became a name brand
Wow, so what did you guys do that was so nasty?
The way we worked and we were blood and guts just roughed them up roughed them up blood and guts
You know a lot all of our that's why we worked a lot in South America
And a lot of you know in the territories where was a blood where they had bloody matches all the time
We would have and we came up with a lot of different matches that um
We are the names of a lot of matches those days there were territories mate
When we come over here everywhere you it ran seven nights a week even when we went into that Grand Prix and that
They ran seven towns
They were running 21 towns a week
You know what I mean and that is every night and you come back to you do programs with guys
You might say Ruddy Piper which of me worked was Rick Matilda and Ruddy Piper for a year
Every night where you could we go into six man's they'd bring in
Jesse Ventura or they bring in the the giant and we'd bring in another guy to be an outside
and we just worked with those two
The town so you can have story lines and and plan things and do things
You
Spike it and then you'd sell out then you'd go down to three quarters of the house and it start when then you spike it again
And come up. You know what I mean? That's what you have television for to do angles
The sense to plots
Yeah, yeah, and then that's when the hill does stuff to get to get the people going
And that's where Vince is like at the moment because being a being a
Public company and he's got all this stockholders in that he can't do heavy stuff like he did before so I mean
So when Vince bought you when Vince when they asked us to come in there
So what was that like? What was that like? Did you meet him to reach out to you?
What was that? Well, we were we were working for Turner at the time. Yeah, and that and we were working to get the main main guys there and
I
Was it we were working Cincinnati on a Saturday night
I'll always remember this and I'm in the golds gym with butch in the morning and I never worked my drum out so much
Which way's work does drum at the end of a workout drum the drum your stomach?
Oh, your drum. Okay. I never heard that. I like that
You gotta put your drum out. That's why you got a restaurant
I love that or your boiler my fukin drum, mate
Yeah, but your boiler and I was doing that so I went to and to pick up my messages from my home
I was living in Charlotte because that's where the that's where that that was the headquarters for NWA and
That they were running all over the country
As far as as far as Baltimore and Philly and we'd go to Long Island now and again
But we never went into into Manhattan or any of their or up on up the East Coast there
WW
WWW F was up there. That was Vince's Vince senior
Ted Turner's television was never strong that his thing wasn't in the program in the packages of the cable
You know TBS wasn't strong up there, too
I'd say
90
88 90 TBS got strong in the northern parts and it's strong everywhere now. You know, I mean, mm-hmm. That's 30 years ago, but um
USA Network and W's is a WN
What's another cables a few cables they're strong up there anyhow, so we wouldn't come up that far and I anyway
Anyhow going back to Cincinnati when pulled up my messages and there's a voice that's pat here
He says when you got time give them give me a call Pat Patterson. Yes
Wow, oh, you know Pat. I know Pat Patterson. Yeah. Yeah, Pat Patricia
One of the one of the best tag wrestlers ever now. He's like one of the top executives right at WWE
Yeah, but one of the top, you know, he was one of the top him and Ray Stevens
The which of me copied their love bit of their stuff too. They were the best tag teams ever. Anyhow, you said give us a call
So I said that's funny. So anyhow, I give it a I give them now go to call and I'm on speakerphone and
The speakerphone they're in Vince's Vince's home not in the office. They're in his home and I said
Pat then he's here Pat. He says, uh, yeah, there's a guy here wants to talk to you and
Then the voice in the background says
Kiwi
I'd like to use you I said who you see I've been speaking man here
I'd been sending tapes to this fucking bastard
Since beta max if you know what beta max is. Yeah
Early 80. Yeah, I've been sending to the dad the beta max and then I said and I can't every year
I send tapes to them. Can you use this because that was the number one
One of the number one
Companies in the country. I mean, right?
They only worked up north at the time. They only come down as far as Philadelphia and Baltimore and they did Boston
They did all that up there, but it was big money there, right?
So I've been trying a bit. Anyways, they didn't take us smaller guys at the time. They they had big guys
I'm talking about guys six foot four six foot three and
Two sixty up, you know
So he says he says yeah, and I said, yeah, I said yes, I'm interested
I'm interested. He says when can I see see when can I talk to you and I says
You just named the time and that's no and we were working planned every day and
For NWA and he says right when you get home to be tickets at your door at your door
There'll be tickets at your door when you get home. I gave him my address on the phone and
He says next Wednesday
So and he says all you do you don't have to bring anything with you
When you fly up there, you'll be flying home the same night. So we flew into
Kennedy
There's limousine up there waiting for us. We are straight up to Stanford, Connecticut, which is an hour away from Kennedy
Met Vince Vince Junior Vince Junior. Yeah, senior was dead
Okay, senior died and
for
Three or four eighty three way four and that we met
Met him and that's funny partners who went into the office at and was sitting there and he says to us
You know, I'd like to bring you in his baby faces good guys. And of course I
Pipe love and said to him
Bring us in his heels first and turn us
And he says no, I don't do things that way
And then I then I found out you don't tell Caesar his nickname was Caesar
You don't sell you Caesar what to do. You know, I mean, yeah
He says that and I'd like you to be between the sheep herders and the moon dogs
Work like between the sheep herders and the moon dog the moon dogs were two guys and had bones big heavy guys
Were crazy and had bones. You know what I mean? Yeah, I know a heels up there
And that he says and I'll start bringing you up every week for the the next month
To do vignettes, which you know what vignettes are small movies two to three minute movies, you know to get you over
so
We we got home and when we got home and that there was the tickets there two days later
Bush calls me up and he says fuck. There's something here a
Package here. They've sent the wrong names. That's for the for the bushwhackers
And I says the butch
He says they must have sent them the wrong person
I said, no, he's changing our name because he wants to own it. You know what I mean?
He's changing our name. So that's that's how we became the
The bushwhackers
Whackers like you even know what he was gonna call you until he until he sent you that no
You know a bushwhacker know like no like back and forth about it at all. He just made up
No, no, you know, you don't have a choice, you know
If you want to work for Caesar anyhow a bushwhacker, it's like a Robin Hood
Steals from the rich to gives to the poor. Okay, you know, I mean
Mm-hmm, and they did they did a thing like that with Mick Jaggers in Australia that movie
I forget the name of it. That's what he was
You know a bushwhacker, so there's so there you are
that's the the name in that so he kept bringing us up and at the time which was exploding on television was
Crocodile crocodile Dundee. Yeah, and that's so all the vignettes were written around like that
You know driving on the wrong side of the road and
Talking and that and we did a lot of vignettes and that crazy ones
Going going to a drink machine and putting and you know and shaking the machine saying have we get these drinks out and
People on the street say are you drop put quarters and then the can have come out and how do you open them?
I
Took out my teeth and popped them with my teeth guys. It's kind of like caveman. Yeah caveman and that you know what I mean
Yeah, and doing all sorts of stuff and and then we asked the guy how do for directions and we turn around and put
These Americans are great. They even tell you where to go
You know, but we'll put it the way that they tell you to fuck off. You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah the way and we did a lot of vignettes, you know
Went into restaurants and that and they served the stuff
We ordered the whole menu and we threw away the knives and we we ate from down under
You know with our hands and that and all that sort of stuff
We did a lot of vignettes. So the time we got a month was over and see we done every time we flew up
We did two or three different vignettes. Wow
So for a month we did 12 vignettes and then when did you guys get into and then they boy
then they called us up and we started on the road and
Had to start we will we didn't some he never gave us the arm swinging or the head licking
We came up with all that because the moon dogs we said which said to me he says the moon dogs were on
Beed on USA Network for the last five years and we've been on in the on tip turner network
I don't know from 79 to 88
So let's create something different and when we were when we're working until turners
Studios we were every time we went outside the ring with swing up our arms and go whoa
You know what I mean to scare the people, you know, I mean we got there
Whoa and that and so he said let's go. Let's start swinging our arms going to the ring
So that's how we got the March and then we added the lick which I grabbed their head
But I always lick the back of my hand
Yeah, you know I mean
He had licking butch got staffed later on that's why he got real sick. You got staff
Oh, yeah, we'll get to that. He died. He died twice. He died twice. He died twice
Yep from licking heads. Well, he got staff infection and that it could have been from licking
But it all could have been from a thing a
liniment called DMSO, which they use for horses and heels and heels turning ligaments and muscles overnight
You know you rub it on and that and it goes with DMSO and it's very strong
You know you can you can you can put it in your hand and use the thing a sound ultrasound under here
And it will bubble in your hand
You know it goes right through and that a lot of people have used it
If you've got bacteria on you here and you rub it and you're gonna scratch that'll take it right to the bone
What we don't know that he got the stuff from that or it was licking, you know sweaty
Sweaty is and that you know and all different people because he used to grab them and give them a lick
Fuck that shit. That's dirty. I shit man. Yeah, anyhow
So anyhow, that's how we went through that. We after about a month. We got our gimmick down patch
You know I'm marching in that yeah, and now arena as soon as we start our music come on
Everyone will be standing and doing this. Yeah, I mean and even on NFL guys would go behind the line for a touchdown
And then you know, you know the March. Yeah, they'd be to March in that. That's how I got over. Yeah, much in the late 80s
That got over happy and when I went to when I was working on Sunday, you know
I come out of March all the people are swinging their arms upstanding, you know
Considered they hit the music the resting fans, right? They know it. Thanks. Thank God. Thanks to WWE Network
They play with our old stuff. Yeah, we've got it. They've even got a sheep herders. We're we were bad guys
Yeah, but all that stuff, you know, the network's good all the stuff on that's that keeps us that keeps us alive
Right. Yeah, every time they do the Royal Rumble, which is the pay-per-view in January
They always show the one that I was throw as I got up on the apron
Earthquake grabbed me and that and
Took me over the ring and and went out and I soon as I landed
Yeah, that's all that video that's been good. That's been played since
1992 every year. What's the most amount of money you ever made wrestling is it like one match that made you the most money ever?
What was like your week? What was the best week you've ever had?
Just like estimate just rough it doesn't have to be exact
Because we
10 or 12 grand 10 or 12 grand
Wow, how many matches did you have to do that week a full week full week every day?
No, I've made more than that, but you know, that's the biggest one and a pay-per-view. That's the biggest pal
I got a pay-per-view. Okay
Yeah, damn and that what was like your biggest match was like the peak match that you okay
There's two different ones that I remember for a lifetime and that is the first one is
the
Wembley Stadium in London the old Wembley Stadium the last show before they pulled it down to build the new one
We butcher me and Hacksaw Duggan were against the nasty boys and
Mountie there was
94,000 600 people there and we were we were the first match to get the people up
You know the crowd had been sitting there and that first match is a big thing
Yeah, because if the first match sucks the crowd's down for and it's hard to get them back
You know, I mean we walked out there and that was
The people were fucking on fire
Because you know what's it a what's it what's in a football match?
There's you know, how many is it living on the side in there? How many is it over in a football team your football teams?
You never how many people on a football team? No, there's like there's like 20 or 30. I thought yeah on the field at once
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, I don't know, you know now but now but when you're in the ring
There's only six of us in that ring, right? And you've got all those people looking at you
You know what I mean? And if it your single match, you know, I've been a lot of them
We've been in tags me and butch and it's been 76,000 but that was that was the biggest
For one the biggest for me was 94 6 walking out there the aura
The tension, yeah, it's got to feel crazy. It's just fucking
Mind-blowing, you know, I mean and you don't have to do nothing
You just have to go whoa and the the whole people go whoa you go yay
They said it was me and butch go whoa and yay and hex was dying and go
So that it was fucking wild
You know, we could have done that all night and not have to do to do any action
We did some we did some wild stuff, you know, we didn't have to do much because the people were there
They were just there's just loving it. Yeah, it's insane now match
Being the first match and that's you know, since then it's been you know, they did a hundred and four thousand in
Texas Stadium three three WrestleMania's ago. That was how many hundred and four hundred four
Yeah in the Texas stadium. I went to my first WrestleMania last year. I think it was last year
Maybe it was two years ago. It was in New Orleans. Yeah, I was there
Yeah, that was the first WrestleMania ever went to and it was I did not expect it to be that
Insane because I don't need watch wrestling matches on TV before that. Yeah, and when I got there
I luckily I got like I got like floor seats. I was maybe like eight rows back on the floor and and
Dana White was actually like a few rows in front of me. Yeah, and
Just the fucking the show the fire and the lights and everything was just so
Over the top the the the thing that stood out to me the most was the undertaker's intro
Yeah, everything like out of nowhere the whole stadium just goes black and then it's just like that that
Sound that fucking that bell goes off and then the light shines down on him. It just it fucking made my hair
It made my hair stand up. He didn't have to be a wrestler like the ultimate warrior
You know, he was a bodybuilder stop eating. He was a bodybuilder
And he didn't care about the wrestling in that but the smoke and mirrors that him running through the ropes and shaking the
Ropes shaking the ropes all he had to do because he couldn't do god bless him up there
But he'd have to do much more. You know, I mean, yeah, and that's the smoke and mirrors
Yeah, they do a great fucking job at the smoke and mirrors though
The pyro and and the lighting and
Insane it's ridiculous. How how much money they have to be able to they spend
Shows he's got about
15 18 wheelers to 20 18 wheelers outside with all the props and all the stuff two of them as the
Broadcasting units where they're editing and sitting up to the live editing, you know, this is alive
There's two there's two trucks doing that shit, but the rest is I
Wonder if there's a documentary on like what it takes to run behind the scenes of
And the rig is to rigging beforehand, you know to rig everything up
It's literally it's literally like a major motion picture budget for a one one-time live show. Yeah, so so, you know
and that's what he's doing
What he does too, you know like he did the Bradley Center in
There's this
In Brooklyn, what's it called the Barclays Barclays Barclays Center?
Friday night was NXT
You know, that's okay now
That's on Wednesday night right now on on USA Network NXT. That's the the other the guys coming up, right?
NXT he did on Friday night in the Barclay. He did Saturday night. He did
The Hall of Fame in the Barclays Center Sunday, they did the outdoor and meadowlands
The rest of mania. I'm talking about in the New York
Last year the year before then he come back on Monday night the Barclays Center Tuesday night the Barclays Center
Monday night was raw Tuesday night was Smackdown. So he's the Barclays Center. So he just once set up. Oh
Yeah, that's what they did in New Orleans as well. Yes. Yeah, that's what they did. Yes
And it's coming to Tampa this year. Yeah, that's gonna be there. That's gonna be insane
Amelia Rena for the the shit Emily arena Emily arena for WrestleMania. No, no
No, it's a buck stadium
Oh, he's Raymond James. Yeah, right here. Okay, and that is for the
NXT the Hall of Fame and then Monday and Tuesday
Raw and Smackdown. Okay
Yeah, I'm real. That'll be a long week. Yeah, that's gonna be wild. Yeah, and then are you gonna be there?
Yeah, and then I don't know for them. No
Yeah, and then there's you know, when there's WrestleMania
There's usually about eight wrestling shows around it all the big independent companies in the States go to you know
New Orleans, there was stuff going from Thursday. Oh, yeah, no, they had WWE had their stuff
Wrestlecon and all that there's Wrestlecon. There's
There's ROH, there's there's all these different other companies running, you know
This year ROH will be running and they run they run Lakeland
That's the closest they can get their building and that all the other places have been bought by different companies
You know, I mean, it's gonna be insane. That's what the guy the mayor in Orlando. That's why he he gives them everything for nothing
WWE because it brings so much tourists from overseas
To his place because when they come to rest, you know, WrestleMania draws from Japan from all Europe
And that from New Zealand Australia brings draws from all over the world, right? And that's so when so, you know, Orlando
They've got
See well, they've got everything there
So that's why he gives it because the tourists not only come for WrestleMania. They catch everything
Now that tamper tool, they'll get they'll get them because people come here to go to to Orlando to catch everything
I'll do
Okay
Yeah, it's the whole city doing that rail
They should I don't know when they're gonna get that rail going but they're gonna have that rail running to a from Orlando
To Lord of Dale. It's a tamper. Yeah, that one is
Whatever it is or something like the bullet that that's in the makings. I don't know when that's gonna be fucking nice
Oh, yeah
the time you drive to the place and
Then get sit around get on the plane and then get off and that is quick as I get to the plane like the bullet
120 130 mile an hour 150 mile an hour train cruise it's easier to do, you know, yeah
I was gonna ask you. Anyhow, where will we what kind of fucking like
Injuries have you had? Have you had some pretty terrible injuries?
Yeah, you had to have like surgeries and back because I know Hulk's pretty messed up
I've held off from back surgery, but I've had to write knee replacements
Oh, yeah, first replacement. I wore out wrestling and that and I did 40 last of 40 years in the ring
Oh
And the new one has got spy, you know where it goes into the bone and goes up in the other one
Yeah was round before so it's the spike that it goes up and it was smooth now
There's little but there's little spikes on it
So when they cemented in with the spikes that can't get loose, okay
Yeah, the last one I had a tour in England and it was loose and it was it was like electric shocks in my leg
Oh, I was I was loaded on
Pain killers pain killers. Yeah, I had to do a tour some like some Xanax or something
Were you taking Xanax or like, you know, it's not a pain killer
Value
Good stuff that's the value. I'm sorry. I'm sorry the Xanax is what you feed the sheep first
Yeah
Anyhow, yeah, so
So my career, that's where I came when I then I came to the States. I've lived in Hawaii
You know, I worked on across across Canada, you know right across Canada in the 70s
and
And a wee bit in the States, but I was living in Canada and then it was 79 79
I came 78 79 that came and I was living in Hawaii and we used to we were working four islands a
Week in there and I used to fly over
Diamondhead every night and see Jack Lord and the crew doing
Hawaii 5-0
Right low that and I could look it right down and see him doing Hawaii 5-0. That's cool
That was great, but I mean in Hawaii I
Just kept my head above water. Yeah, I didn't make any money. You know me right money to survive
I lived right across. So I lived on Waikiki Beach and
That got up every morning went to the gym by 10 o'clock. I was on the beach every day and
530 I was just fly out to one of the islands
But we had our the probability had his own planes would fly to the islands and do an island
I'd be back back in
Waikiki around
10 o'clock every night. That's where the rocks from right? He's from Hawaii, isn't he rock?
Yeah, he used to live in Hawaii when he was
Yeah, cuz cuz um his grand
his grandma and
grandfather
Peter Marvia, they owned the promotion
Down the road they owned the promotion and he was born in the States
He lives in New Zealand too for two years. Yeah, I wrestled
I wrestled the Rocks grandfather me and boys
Are you serious?
Yeah, you know in Hall of Fame we told the story about that
We we wrestled Peter Marvia the Rocks grandfather and then the Rocks dad
I've wrestled I still see him a lot and that I wrestled him in Australia
New Zealand in the States no way the Rocks dad everywhere, but
The Rocks grandfather, I wrestled just in Australia and in New Zealand were they anything like the Rock or those guys like
Yeah, but the Rocks third generation right what do you think he got it from exactly?
It's before my time. So that's why I gotta ask now the Rocks grandfather
Peter Marvia was a high chief
Right old chief and that and he was in the first James Bond movies
He was a lot of movies bit parts. Oh shit
He's what I had to fight and went through the screen and in the movie with Kendricks at the start of that first
Was that doctor?
Doctor no, what was the first first James? I can't remember. That's going way back. Yeah, but
He was a he was in those movies and then then Rocky Johnson. He was a big name. He was the first him
I
Him him and Tony Atlas for the first black people ever to have the WWW F
World belts. Hmm. You know, they were the first black people to have the world world straps and in wrestling damn
Rocky Johnson I work with him
All over the all over the States. Yeah, and in Australia and in New Zealand. That's wild
Yeah, I actually I actually met his his mom at
Rick Flair's wedding
Yeah, I went there and I made a little video
I made like a little documentary about his wedding and his mom was there and I got to talk to her
I did a little interview rocks mom rocks mom and dad
They're like super involved in in wrestling
They're super close to so many different people like like Ric Flair
They're broken up now, but they've still live in the same street and that who's broken up. It's a rocks mom and dad
Oh, yeah, they live in the same street as the rock down a Davey, but uh
It was Rockpool all the homes for the family there. Where where is that at down Davey? Where's Davey?
South Florida like Lord of Dale. Oh, okay
Yeah, anyhow, um
Mom and dad used to come to our restaurant when I had the
Bushwankers down at a steakhouse on down Maybury and that used to come near all the time. Yeah neat
Why are some why are there's it seems like there's everybody lives in Tampa every rest life because there's a weather mate
The weather sucks here. It's so hot
They like it, but you you don't know what it's like to live up north
Yeah, that's true. You have to put clothes on to go outside
You come inside you have to strip off when you go outside you have to double up clothes
You have to double up every so is it because all these WWE wrestlers
They've been exposed to every country every city on earth and they've found that Tampa is by far the best
Just Florida general the tax laws and everything to the tax laws are way better here for sure
Yeah, the cheap to and if you go to bankrupt see you um, you still keep your home in your car
Hell yeah, a lot of wrestlers go bankrupt. No, I've been I've been down there the restaurant is a dead doubt one of Dale
Mabry I come back and it was three quarters of a million in debt
I went I went overseas for I went overseas and stayed up in the Middle East
This is after WWF and I came back and it was
780 780 thousand in debt I had to go bankrupt there who the hell job running that operation
No, that's only two people had the the the
to the back door and
But time I got back and they sent to me everybody was coming in we're open from 11 to 12
11 a.m. To 12 p.m. Midnight, and they were going out and
After midnight and parting on the strip and that you know the restaurant the city bars
Down around there and coming back we sold lobster
Street, you know fill him in yarn and all that shit, and they were taking out
Cube rolls slobs the tails and drinkin the alcohol
Five because I went to the company was doing in the
The service for us and they said they gave me the sheets and they said this is what's been happening
Everyone had the key code
Anyhow get back to wrestling so anyhow that was that
That's crazy, man. Yeah, anyhow after you only come into the states
That's when I got into the booking side of it
You know my first territory is a booker if you know what a booker is a booker is the guy
It runs the back of the house for the promoter and that the wrestling promoter
Does a promotion books the arenas I have the television and does all that sort of stuff
You know he doesn't write but the booker writes the television and
Brings and books the talent and lays out the matches and writes it and writes the television show
And I yeah, and I started doing that in 83, and I did that right up till I went into WWE
and when I got out of WWE and
To until I won I went down to Puerto Rico and ran a company with I w a there to 208
And I had all Latins there here. I'm an English-speaking person, and I had three Latins working for me
Oh my gosh in Puerto Rico, and it was Telemundo first
We could have we could use other we could use other music
You know any music and that and we could use you know the rock songs and all that sort of stuff
And then Telemundo was bought out by NBC and then we had to tighten the whole show up
You know it had to be right on the second for for commercial breaks
No, we had to buy we had to buy a generic music and they had to change it
I had the whole front of the thing who is the guy that got murdered in Puerto Rico
Bruiser Brodie bruiser bro, and his wife is a Kiwi. I still talk to Barbara on the internet
You do really his wife. His wife is from New Zealand yet. Wow. Yeah, Laney was talking a little bit about that
He was a good friend of mine. He drew a lot of money with me with Abdullah the butcher. Did he really?
Yeah, Abdullah and him drew they were the biggest stars in Japan ever from what they say is that he was like a big-time
bully like he bullied people a lot or he was like a well
Not like not like in the ring, but like behind the scenes. He was like kind of a dick and kind of a bully to people
That's what that's what I've heard from like documentaries about him, and that's yeah
I know him from a different point of view
He wasn't when he went in when when he got booked to go work in a territory
He went there to get over as the bad guy
Yeah, and he got over straight away because if you don't get over you don't draw any money
He was always main event and that he was gonna he was gonna get over because the debate the good guys gonna have someone to beat
You know there's always a good guy in a territory. I love the local good guy
Yeah, I mean and you feed the bad guys to him all the time
Why once a good guy bad guy gets over he has a good strong run
Then he goes and they have to get another bad guy over and the good guy stays there. You know, I mean yeah
Like Jerry Lawler stayed in Memphis all those years. Yeah made it. You know, I remember when
when
The guy from taxi
He's dead
The guy from taxi came in and that and he was on the David Letterman show
Remember the show taxi. Yeah, I remember the show. I don't remember who you're talking about though
Who was the main star Andy Kaufman? Okay, Andy Kaufman?
He's the guy came in a wrestled woman and that from New York and that and got over and that and
He wasn't big and that but that he did a big program
I was there when they did the bird Jimmy Hart was the main part of this too
Did he ever did he tell you about the Andy Kaufman thing? No, oh, that was the big thing David Letterman came down
They did the whole big the Letterman show there. No way. Yeah, that's what they did the burning and that and
It's Kauffman
It was the hell of an angle an angle is a thing that you do right draw to draw the houses down the line of that
Okay, you know, you know, I did this to the big thing there. Yeah, so what are you doing now?
So what's next? So what's what's your future? What's the future for the for the bushwhacker? Well?
For the loop to put my marching boots on a march just gonna march into the sunset. No, no
No, I'm going back. It looks like I'm gonna go back into the
Restaurant bar business. Are you really? Yeah, it's a tough business. Yeah, I know
Tough business tough business. I know I've been there the gym business also. I mean you just got out of the gym business
I
Got out of that because of the rent, you know the guy the plaza was sold and
And then my contract they raise the right come up and that and the rent was one and a half times
What I grossed Wow, yeah, that doesn't work the brown box is taken over that and the Japanese restaurant. Yeah
Brown box is gonna put a stairway up and to there for you kidding me. So they're gonna be
No, I'm not kidding. Yeah, that's gonna be insane
Yeah, they're putting a bowling alley in games room and up top
No, oh down below down below you're gonna dig a hole and go underneath course
They're putting a stairway up the top and going straight up. You're not gonna put a bowling alley on the second floor
Are you many bully? I think they're gonna put a mini a games a games
You know like the tavern token that he did that did shit on the South Beach
But they're gonna they've always had the idea Dave and Buster you do it, right?
If that's a good spot for that, you know, that would be pretty
That place is fucking jam-packed every weekend. I've been down there in years
Now, you know that you know the the hallway there between the Japanese place and the gym
Oh, yeah, that's clothes gonna be closed off
Okay, and that is an elevator there and they're putting a stairway they're putting a stairway there down
Down into right into the brown box. Wow. That's insane. So that's gonna be
There's a bit there. Hey, that's gonna be a big job there
Yeah, it's gonna be at least I'd say a half a million to it's gonna be a million-dollar job
Oh, yeah, so where are you working out now that you don't have the gym? Where are you?
I went there to there today to the
To clear what a beach fitness I sold the name and all the equipment I sold with the media and all that stuff everything
Okay, everything. Are you still working out there though?
I worked out there today, but I've been going to the Hulk to the goals on
East Bay with Hulk. Yeah, okay still hanging out with Hulk a lot
No, I haven't been hanging out with him big haven't seen him
You know, I've been on the road before the gym and that but now I've got more time and I'm looking to do
Something on the beach and wait for him to open up there to see but that's a long job open up. What you know
Hogan's hangout
It's been sitting there ready to open up for for six months. I don't even know what Hogan's hangout
We're in the corner next next to the brown boxer in the same plaza. Well, they have the beach shop
You know, you know with the surf shop
Yeah
They've had that for three years. They've done it all up. It's ready to open and what's it gonna be?
Hogan's hangout. Is that gonna be a bar?
Hogan's hangout. What are you talking? You're walking in your hangout. What do you do?
Okay bar restaurant. Yeah
That's gonna be crazy upstairs is open. It's got inside out outside. It's already open. No
It's ready to open. I'm chomping at the bit. I want to go hang out with Hogan
For the last three months. I don't know what the city is doing
You know
They want to you know, I can't what a beaches. Yeah, that was three years in the makings
They started doing this three years ago. Yeah, you're behind time. What's going so is he doing it by?
I mean, who's he who's he got working with them on? Is that all confidential or do you know?
Is he like working with somebody who's someone else's he's just given his name
Like Hogan's Beach. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's it. That'll be cool. I can't wait to check that shit out
It's already built and it's got the big signs up
That would have been perfect right next to your gym, man. That would have been so great right next to the gym
Yeah, right the gym because it would have been good for traffic, but I would have been great
Yeah, but they would this guy as soon as he came in and bought the plaza the word was he wanted to make it all games
all, you know
food restaurants and
Games and that you just got all the all those, you know, he's got the plane and all that stuff
Simulation
Three or four of those place in that plaza now. There's three or four rooms there now
Yeah, they escape room and there's what's the name now the pokey bowl place and that's there's
Another another bar there where they make all the slushy drinks. Okay, you know
Yeah, it's a it's a it's a it's a tourist. It's a tourist
Wanting to do that. He's one so I got the message in even I told him that when he first come there
I said a gym is always good to have there because it brings people to the plaza and
They spend then they can eat and get the hair or the bullshit, you know, maybe he wanted to get rid of me
I used to drive I used to drive across town
I used to make a fucking 20-minute drive almost every day to go to that gym. I love going to that gym
Yeah, that was the the last of it and everyone around the country it came there
They come in there and they always gave me good write-ups, you know, it was a I had a
4.9 and 5 star on Google trip advise. Yeah, you did. Yeah, you did. You had a great place. You ran that place, right?
That's for sure. Yeah, and it was 24 hours. Yeah, but that's it
Well, I'm sure the new restaurant bar will be will be it was already there. It's a guy
I'm trying to get rid of me use my name. I'm doing the same thing. Oh, yeah. Yeah, okay. That's smart. We're second to be yet
Well, I mean, I can't say some positive. Yeah, stay out of stay out of the fucking bean counting and then the liquor sale
Rent your name out. I don't want to be doing the wages. You don't want to be in the business tax
Yeah, just like a tax man license the Luke name and and that's it
That's it, mate. I want to do that. Well, cool. Thanks for coming out and sharing your stories and sharing your I haven't told any good stories yet
I've just been telling you about my life. Let's get a good story. What's the best story?
Tell me the wackiest crazy as fucking story you got well, and I will end it with like a crazy fucking story that'll blow people's minds
Because I don't know how far I can go you can go. No, this is a YouTube video. So you can go
Oh, here's one you can go so fucking far, and you know, you'd say
In the NWA we did a lot of towns and in the south there
And you know the the southern cops and a lot of these little towns and that it was one town
when we used to do TV in
Can't even think of the name of the town now, but we had to go through smaller towns to get to it
You know do the TV there and the cops used to wait for for the boys to come through it to give them tickets
You know what I mean, right? It's one of those things you're doing 65
55 45 and you come near the town. It's 25 and then it goes down to 15
Anyhow
When we go through that town and then we pick up speed and get out of town and there's righty piper me and butch
we're drinking and and this is going back in early 80s having a couple of toks and that and
Couple of toks couple of bumps. Yeah, and then they're no no bumps
No bumps. That was like the drug of choice back then
I heard some crazy cocaine stories
I can tell you some too, but I don't want to tell the cause people are still alive
Anyhow, there's just your pseudonym names
anyhow
We get out we get on the road there
We just get out of out about 20 minutes away and a guy had been following us
We didn't know and now we've put some speed up on that and we get pulled over
Yeah, and the fucking
The cop is a real southern red net cop and that blah blah blah
He says he says they're gonna take you in
You're caught at doings. I think was 70 we're doing 70 and a 55 miles
He says and he said he took the driver. He said you follow me
He says one of you's come in the you put one of us in the police car and one of us had it was righty piper driving and
We and we take us back to the little town and he took us back to the courthouse
On the way back to the courthouse. He called the judge
The judge gets up and that was the time we get there
We'll wait in our side the judge's home is next door's the little courthouse
And it's one of these little towns you blink as you go through it. You know what I mean?
You blink as you go through it and
We wait for me comes across from his home to the courtroom in a dressing gown and slippers
Let's a sin and we go we sit in front of the bench and that and blah blah blah
And he finds Roddy right there and then so much and if you don't and if you don't pay it
Then they take your license. So you they hold your license there till you till you pay it and
And and you get your license back anyhow, I don't know what happened whether you took the license
But we scraped up between the three of us the find I think or he took his license anyhow
The hammer goes down the fine pay we go to leave we go outside
Now he's sitting at a table like this, right and it fits like that and
About where those those things there is the window where you've got your other monitors there
Maybe closer half the distance and he's sitting here
He's sitting at his desk about here, and there's a monitor's there
We come over into that window there and Roddy gets up and pisses pisses all over
He could turn like just like that and he could see the piss hitting the window
And that and I was freaking out
He didn't give a fuck
And he was pissing I can imagine if you just turn around and saw it he come out we would have been locked up that night
All right, dude, thank you. Thank you for the stories Luke
I want to get some really good one
Here's one then we're up in man. We're up in Bangkok with Singapore. Yeah, boogie street
You know you sit down boogie street's a market street during the day and at night
It's a market street people walking up and down and his market and restaurants, you know
Little restaurants at night the streets closed off. It's notorious in the world
Yeah, this and all the hookers and everybody else there as on boogie street, right?
There's little tables guys don't own restaurants to that
But they put a little table out with four chairs one guy might put one table out or two tables out
And that's how he makes a living he brings your menus from about four or five restaurants around
So you you sit at his table and you order booze
He'll go and get it off someplace and that and he's gonna mean you as you choose where or what mean you?
And you sit at his table like the rest of the restaurant. You know what I mean?
Yeah, he runs the restaurant brings the menus over there now
He brings the menu with all the girls on it. Yeah, and there's all the trinkets too on one
You know I mean and the live shows the dog shows the donkey shows and all that
and
He brings the menu over and and we look at through the the
the girls and that and
Menu menu of girls. Yeah, and look for someone here. So that she don't look too bad
You know, we were living over there for a hundred dollars a hundred dollars a week
We were living like Kings hundred dollars away. It was a Singapore Singapore. Yeah
This was this was
1669 I think and that's
1769 and that and what kind of girls what kind of girls were on that menu or
She mails and males and females and everything
Damn we were living at have an apartment overlooking the harbour
Singapore's a gateway to the east all the container ships come in there
And yeah, we were smoking the Swede and my partner never smoked
Tystick before and that this is
Tystick, okay. Tystick is you squeeze the buds of juice trips. That sounds heavy and that's all yeah, you'll hallucinate on it
We're sitting in the apartments and that when there's all rank sliders and there's a balcony
You're overlooking the harbour and all the
Container trips container ships are there and the lights are flashing on them and that and butch thinks there's a war
Going on
We've got the big you know like you see in movies the big wooden fans the props are about you know, this wide the big
They're like that. They're that wide and they go like that. It's
He's thinking this helicopter's coming in on us and everything he's freaking out
Yeah, I'm just telling you how we were on the first time he smoked. I stick over there
We was living on three dollars worth of stuff a week
It's crazy
Eating all our washing and food was cooked for us our washing was done every night
The clothes you take off the housekeeper would come in early
She'd about Tommy got up all our clothes been washed what we wore the day before
We were living the life like
King's over there getting your hair going in for a massive fit to get your hair shampooed and that and hair done
You sit in a chair the woman would massage your feet and clean your feet and massage your feet and trim your nails
And all that and then massage your head and then you know shampoo
You mess it your head and your hands and trim your nails and that and and
You'd be as high as the kite
That's three dollars. Oh
Yeah, this was unreal and all the shi males you could ask for anyhow
Butch points out this one on this menu and boogie street
And he says that's her over there and that so
We have a few drinks that we go over there and we take we take these two girls home, right?
Back to the apartment. Yeah
Butch's wife doesn't hear this
Anyhow we go we're up in the apartment
All of a sudden I hear a scream and butch says fuck I've got a hand full of fucking rocks
Oh, no, it was a guy
Beautiful tits everything and I says fuck it turn around and fuck her
Yeah, it's unbelievable. That's insane. You've lived one hell of a life
That would that was in Singapore band cockers you've heard about bad. Yeah. Yeah, that's just like that's crazy over there
Yeah, that's a different life show. I watched it. I see the donkey shows and all that sort of stuff
where the girl comes out and that
With the with the girl and she can't get satisfied then the diet guy comes out and then she can't get satisfied
Then I bring the donkey in the harness
And it's got a little and it's got a rubber band and like a little tube around it's John Thomas
And there's there's a harness the donkeys in the harness, you know what I mean?
She's she's in like this and they'd load the donkey down. Oh my god
Oh
Goes it gets wild
Yeah
Anything probably went back then, you know the girls from New Zealand the drag queens used to from the sea
New Zealand used to go over to Singapore and or you know Australia but Singapore and they get the cut and tuck done there
You know cut and tuck that was done over there a few years ago the surgeons and that and get it
You know get all the they get their implants and all that stuff. Yeah, you know the ones are working in Australia, New Zealand
When I was now, I don't know if this is true or not, but can you is it true?
What used to tell me at the gym about the sheep?
Sheep were you joking with me about the woolly girls the woolly girls. That's all he goes. What is that?
Sheep's pussy is the closest to a woman
The what they call woolly girls
We were called as a bush wife sheep herders we were called the sheep shaggers the sheep shaggers
Is it true? I
Don't know. I haven't shagged one. Oh, I thought you did you don't I believed you know you used to say like the tongues
Somebody does it tongues agree. That's it. Yeah, you got to get them in the morning early to kiss them before the tongues get green from grazing
That's all he said all the people, you know when we come in here
When we come over this side of the world the people in the front seat will be driving us and they say what language you talk
They they could understand me and butch because we talk so fast. Yeah in English
Yeah, I mean now if you go to see if you go in the Caribbean and you go to Trinidad and Barbados, that's really piglet
Pigeon English. Yeah, really pigeon. Yeah, yeah, man
You know, but they talk so fast and that a friend of mine was down there
We're working and that he and we're in a bar. He says what do they say? What language is it? I said that's English
Couldn't understand any of it. Yeah
Yeah, it's down when those I don't live I work those islands for years Trinidad Barbados Jamaica and that really yeah
Sunfest I've been one Sunfest
Yeah, and that was Bob Marley's son there then. Okay, you know the dad had died
He's a god, but they you know that music
Reggae music is big time. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, it's beach music. Yeah. Oh, definitely. Yeah
That's where a lot of that's where most music came from was reggae music. I mean, you know that guy too
Tequila, what's his name? Now? He's still around 70 and he's still singing and bare feet
Tequila's oh, yeah, oh
No, I forget you know barefoot on the stage
Still selling out of
Not Jimmy Buffett. Yeah
Tell me Jimmy Buffett. Yeah, Margaritaville. Yeah, he's still he he's semi-reggae, but that's beach music, too
Oh, yeah, he's still doing it, but he's still selling out arenas. Oh, yeah, big time summertime. He's big time
He is big time. He's always he's he's fuck boy guys that guy's got some money
Yeah, there's voices cracked, but he has girls surrounding him now beautiful girls singing harmonies
And he gets on that stage knee brace and all and jump around
He's the guy who did it right when it comes to licensing your name for restaurants. That's a guy who did it right
He's got weed named after him. Those are the dispensaries and stuff. Yeah, he's got his own brand of we Margaritaville weed
I forget the name of it. Yeah, it is
That's wild. What was it like being around like Andre and Hulk back then in the prime of stuff
Oh, Andre was we were like he Andre looked down to me and butch as I said
We come from New Zealand. He comes to use in the world before he comes to the state. Yes
He took he made sure that we were always taking care of Andre. He was good to us really and then his last match for WWE
He's in our corner. If you if you go to the crutches on crutches
Yeah, and if you go go online like WWE's last match, he's doing a promo Andre and the bushwhackers. Yes
He's behind you guys. Yes. Yeah, I watched
Yeah, he's Andre was always good to us. Hulk's always Hulk's one. It got me to move here
Really, you know, I would I'd been lived in Florida before and over in Hillsborough Hillsborough Avenue on Hillsborough River on the
Hillsborough River just off the Hillsborough
Have you know, yeah, yeah where the river is I live just an apartment's there
79 80 when I come here. He lived on
Madeira Beach and I lived on Indian shores because Madeira Beach bus onto Indian shores and the and there was a
Blair lived on in New York sure in New York, too
Yeah, karaoke place there. There used to be a karaoke place there and that just you when you come off the bridge
Park Boulevard, you take a left and there was a bar on the friendly tavern friendly tavern. Yeah
Yeah, well, I need I lived as you come over the bridge. I lived right in front of them the water there
I lived in shore house. Okay, first one as you come over to go to Krabby Bulls that way
The first home on the road you go straight in and drive under my place. No way. I lived there for 15 years
Holy shit years. I bought the place and I and I got off at 800,000 and fuck
I didn't take it waiting for the million and and then I went down Puerto Rico
I ran I went down there to run a territory for a guy for eight years and the fucking thing dropped to 220
You know when that way don't tell me you sold it back when it went down to 220. Ah, no
I had drawn on it as a bad. I don't want to tell the story there bad story. I lost everything
Fuck cuz I bought the properties and I do and I wasn't a Y
I wasn't awake to win that when it went to a white when that went
Mm-hmm bang. Yep. I fucked over a lot of people that a lot of people lost their shirt. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's crazy
Well, cool. I think it's a good time to wrap it up. It's been about two hours. No, he joking almost
It's been an hour 45. You're joking. No, we're cruising. We're cruising through this shit man. We're telling stories
It's time to fill the boiler. Yeah
Fill the boy I'm fucking starving Luke
I gotta go fill my boiler up with some grub with some grub and some grub fills the drum
Cool, thanks again, man. Okay, mate. It's good to be here made and thanks for coming. What's the name of the podcast?
Concrete podcast concrete puzzles and I've got a daughter
Who has or who's just opened up?
Um
Instagram it's D. D. Bush waker arts. She's 11 years of age and she's an artist. She's your daughter. Yes
Wow, so
She's a great self-taught artist
And she's been doing it since she's seven six or seven and that's some great art
So what's the name yet? What's the Instagram name D. D. Bush waker arts? Okay?
Yep to check that out. Yeah, we'll put it and I will be to
And Halloween I've got to check this out here
I'll be a spooky Empire on the first and second of
Of November
Over in the convention center in Tampa. Okay. Oh, right spooky Empire. When is that?
November would you say second first and second first and second starts on the 31st? Okay same day is Halloween
Spooky Empire at the easy dude in Orlando this year. They're doing it in Tampa. He's he draws a lot of people
Hell, yeah, come check that out. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, cool. All right Luke Luke the bush wacker, baby
Wax and bush guys see you down the road
You
