How tied into the cartels are you right now and are you going to put yourself in danger
by talking about some of the shit on the podcast?
Yeah, well, like I said, I've never been a member of the cartel, just to get that clear.
I've never been a member, but I grew up with a lot of friends and it's just like I was
telling you that movie Slumdog Millionaire and Forest Gun where the guy's just at the
right place or maybe at the wrong place at the wrong time, I don't know how it depends
on the perspective, where I've met these people in different situations, most of them I met
them doing graffiti, to be honest, when we were just bangers and we were just kids tagging
and fighting each other, fighting with rocks, if anything, just like, hey, that goes whoever
and we chase them down, and then he passes a certain blog and then we don't chase him
anymore, that type of stuff.
But eventually all these little, and it's funny because it was like the leaders of the
crews are the ones that actually became leaders in what is it now, like little sections of
cartels and stuff, and that's how I communicate with most of them, I got my fair share, I've
been locked up, I've done my, that's the life I want to live at some point.
But you said you were never an official member of the cartel, but you obviously had, it could
have been very easily happened that you could have been a member of the cartel, because
a lot of the guys you grew up with are cartel members, right?
Yeah, if I could, I'll get my membership like tomorrow.
But now man, I mean, shout out to all you, all of you know who you are, those who speak
English, but I mean, it's a really like a gray area to consider yourself part of like
a cartel, you really have to be like, like working for them, like following their instructions,
you know what I mean?
Because a lot of like, let's say when I was 19, I used to cross people, like illegal people.
That's what I was arrested and that's what I was charged with.
What do you mean when you say that?
Well, crossing.
I used to work for this guy.
He will bring people from South, you know, like just immigrants.
And I was like, I was wanting, when I was young, bro, I was crazy.
Like I would meet all these like older cartels that weren't like my friends, whenever young,
like older cartels.
And I just be like, Hey, what's up?
Hey, what's up?
Hey, like, what's there to do?
You know, like, I want to make some money.
Like, you know, I was always down for that.
I was just looking for it, you know, that's why I was in jail at 19.
But eventually he, he, it was this guy, we rest in peace, Don Sergio, he, he was pretty
chill, man.
He only, he never got into violent stuff or anything.
He only crossed people, you know, he had like drivers and he had people like me that walked
them over because he actually like, he liked me, he didn't want me to like, he just saw
how I was asking everybody for jobs and stuff like that.
So he was like, look, come here, you're going to do this for me.
And it's like the easiest thing you could do to like, keep you farthest away, but keep
you working for me and like, keep me on his watch.
So he will have these safe houses where he would keep the illegal people and like the
immigrants that came in.
And if you, if we use papers back then, like if he had like boxes of visas and like all
these papers that weren't reported stolen or anything.
So if let's say you got this white guy from Wadahara, I know he's illegal, he's trying
to make it to, trying to make it back to Florida.
So we find a visa with a, that has a USC residency.
So you, you can't work over here.
So okay.
So what we do is we give you a uniform, which we have tons of uniforms, like gardening uniform,
construction, job uniform, all types of shit.
So we'll dress you up as you, like if you were going to work, you know, give you a little
lunch bag and everything and you would just follow me across the border.
Cause he never wanted me to do the driving and like the hard stuff, he was just like,
just walk him across the border, take him to the trolley station, whatever, the H street
or whatever.
And somebody would be there to pick him up.
And that's what I did for when I was, when, when I started, when I was younger and, and
what, like, what are your, what are the things you have to like look out for?
Like, what do you have to do when you walk him across the border?
What do you have to be aware of?
That's why he gave me that job because that's basically the easiest, you know what I mean?
Like my charge was aiding and abiding or abiding.
I don't know how he's, how they're not abiding and abiding.
They couldn't charge me with transporting them because they were in my car.
They were just following me across.
But eventually one of them got arrested and they saw me that like a few of them got arrested
and I was on the cameras, I guess.
And one of them eventually snitch on me.
He's like, yeah, that's the guy that, that I was following.
How old were you?
No, when I got arrested, I think I was 18 or 19, 19, yeah, I believe.
And so, yeah, that's how I got arrested.
I just crossed the border one day and the, it was actually a girl, like a 17 year old
girl.
She crossed too.
She was following me like a couple of people behind me.
So she crossed too.
And once I waited for her and I seen she crossed, I was like, all right, we made it.
I got her on the trolley.
And this is the funniest part because while I was on the trolley, it was just me and another
guy.
And we, we both had people following us.
But his didn't make it and mine did.
And all of a sudden, I kind of had this feeling and I was talking to him and, and he was like,
hey, I think, I think that might be onto us.
And I was like, I don't think so, bro.
And even if they are, I mean, even if this white guy next to me was the cop, he could
just go fuck himself, bro, like, what the fuck is he going to do?
What is he going to charge me for?
And he wasn't the cop.
It was the guy behind me.
We were being followed.
Like when I made the drop and they picked up the girl, as soon as she opened the door
to get in the car that was picking her up, all these cars like undercover cops just started
pulling up with like the little red and blue on the, on the grill.
And I was like, oh, fuck.
And it was like, it was ironing at that moment because I was like, damn, they were following
us.
You know what I mean?
So I'm outside this roster, just fucking with my hands against the wall and my friends
getting arrested.
And they're just like talking shit to us.
Like, but they're referring to me as pinching boy or pinching me granted type shit.
And I remember I told this.
I was like, what the fuck are you talking about?
I'm a US citizen.
And he was like, what?
And they took my passport and then everything went like a little, a little quiet.
I'm not saying they got scared because I was still arrested, but they, they, like they,
they look, they watch their words after that.
They were like, oh, we got a USC.
We got a USC.
And then they put me to the side.
They were like, are these too tight?
You know, like they started treating me like a little bit more respect.
But at first they were like, yeah, we got you pinches, boy, you pinches, he got this.
What year would this have been when you were 18, 19?
It would be 2009.
Okay.
2009.
Okay.
So, so yeah, they put me in the back of this car where it was, there was like a child seat
next to it.
And it was like a, a man and a woman that were driving me.
So they just taken me over and I'm like, fuck, because that day I was actually going to roll
to adult school because my mom had been giving me shit about not, not doing shit and stuff.
So I was like, all right, I'm gonna, I'm gonna roll today as soon as I finish with something,
I'm gonna go to the adult school and enroll in that shit.
So I got to, they took me back to the border and they made, they let me make a phone call.
So I call my mom and she's like, what happened?
I was like, well, don't say anything cause I got arrested.
I mean, I'm like in front of them right now and they arrested me because I had illegal
people with me and stuff.
And she was like, oh, what's going to happen?
I was like, well, I don't know.
My budget is going to sit here till they send me to the MCC.
And I just can't mention the MCC because she was arrested and when, when she was arrested
and my grandma, they took her to the MCC and like, they just take everybody to the MCC
to be honest.
The Metropolitan Detention Center.
Well, over here is the MDC, but over there is MCC.
So it's just a federal prison.
There's others like the CEO, the GEO and the CCA's.
But when I was growing up, they were, my mom and my grandma, they were involved in like
some, you know, some shady stuff with some people from Sinaloa and I didn't know I was
too young.
It was, this was like, I was like two or three years old, probably something like that.
But as you're growing up and stuff, you hear, you hear like the news or like the gossiping
and my mom having when she was like 17, 18.
So I was like, and she's the oldest of her brother.
So I was like the little brother, kind of like they, they just took me everywhere.
And I kind of have these flashbacks of stuff.
And sometimes I asked my mom, like, hey, remember this house?
Look at like the bulletproof windows and stuff like that.
And she like, how the hell you remember that?
You know, shit like that.
But eventually they got caught.
And I was really young.
I barely remember this.
I just, I just know the story because we, we, I've talked to her, but eventually, yeah.
My grandma tried to work for somebody else and, and actually it was a good luck for them
because they used to cross things, you know, they used to cross it's like heroin, I think,
back then across the border.
What year was that?
Like the early nineties, like 93, I want to say something like that.
So, so yeah, my grandma just, she was working for this one dude and, you know, she was making
her money, but then his work stopped for a little bit or slowed down as I understand
something like that.
And she got, she got a job, a work from somebody else.
So I guess this guy, I mixed up the story right here.
But one of the guys actually used her to get like another bigger load, you know, so they
snitched on her.
So they will catch her and well, she's getting arrested, whatever, a bigger load crossed.
So instead of sending her with drugs, they sent her with like cut.
I don't know why you say it in English, but they just sent her with like,
when they ran it through, it was like, like less than 10% heroin, you know what I mean?
It wasn't, it wasn't really drugs.
So eventually they got like three months in jail, whatever.
And she got deported and, and my mom got her papers back again.
I can't remember, well, back then the laws were a little different.
So, but after that, my mom just went straight arrow.
Like she didn't want to do, she wouldn't know anything about that life anymore.
She like, she works from Mondays to Sundays.
She's had like two to three jobs from times, you know, because she raised me by herself.
I got two sisters, two younger sisters.
But, but after that, she she just went like that.
But at this point, I started listening to like the music.
I read a lot.
So I hear names in the news, in the newspaper.
And then I'm out in the streets now a little bit because I'm like 13, 14 and stuff.
And I'm hanging out with these older dudes.
And they, they hear names like the Arianos or like a chopper or shit like that.
And it's just things that I've heard in my house out of gossiping, you know,
just like the news, I mean, maybe they never met my grandma or anything.
But like, it was just when you're around that world, you know, it's just the news
and stuff, the gossiping, the friends that come over and they're drinking
and they say stuff and I'm there playing around.
So I get to listen to everything and you know how it is.
They're like, ah, he's a kid.
He doesn't understand what I kind of did.
Like I didn't understand, but as I grow older, everything started making sense.
You know what I mean?
It just stayed there.
So I was always a fan of music.
I started listening to music really, really young and I was listening to like rap.
And Mexican music seemed to me like, like old people music, you know what I mean?
Because it was like, I would just see like old people drinking and listening to like sad songs.
That was my perspective of it.
But then one time I remember I got this, this CD and I heard a narco corrido,
which is like a song for the dedicated to like the story or not.
Back then there wasn't that like they are today.
But, but it was a story and I love stories.
I love reading.
I write myself.
I consider myself a storyteller.
So when I heard it was a story, I really got deep into it.
And I just started like playing more and more and more.
And then all of a sudden like names, you know, like last names started popping out that I knew
what I have heard before, like from like the family that my grandma used to work for.
So something clicked in me and it wasn't really like I didn't really get it.
But my grandma, she's kind of still of a fan of that life or still was.
Back then, like it wasn't like my mom, my mom, she was like, no, I don't want none of this.
Like fuck this.
But my grandma, she was still kind of like, she was willing to introduce me to some of
the people when I grew up a little bit, you know, yeah, she, yeah, she was a gangster.
She was a gangster, just a little bit of background.
My grandma, she, she met like some of these names that you, you hear now, like back then
when El Chapo wasn't the chapel that you know now, it was just like another mid-level dealer.
And my grandma will be one of those ladies that she had her best friend.
She would be dating the dealers and my grandma was like, hey, go bring us food.
Hey, go bring us this.
She would like, she would do like secretary kind of like stuff, you know, like made,
you know, clean around the house stuff like that.
So she was around and she, she got her fair share of things, you know, she got her fair
share of knowing people.
So, so whenever I, I came up to ask her, I was like, hey, I heard this in a song or whatever.
And she's, she just break the whole thing now for, she's like, oh yeah, that's, that's him.
He's married to this lady and she's come out with this lady, their, their fathers to this guy.
She would give you the whole thing.
And, and that's how he started like, because my mom wouldn't tell me if she didn't like,
she didn't like me going like that way, you know what I mean?
Which is, was clear where I was going.
So, but she was always working, you know what I mean?
And as a single mom, always working and stuff that she was living in TJ.
But then as soon as she could, she found like a place to stay in San Diego with like a roommate.
And so like, we'll cross the border every day because I'm going to school there,
but I lived in TJ.
So we cross the border every day, bro.
I'm telling you, like, like from Monday to Friday, half my life was in San Diego and
half my life was in TJ.
What is like the biggest misconception when it comes to your experience
living in Tijuana and Mexico and dealing with these guys and what you see on the media,
when you see people like reporting on what's going on, just when people,
they make it sound like it's just a war zone down there like that.
I mean, there's a lot of legitimate people reporting on it.
Like Louise, shout out to Louise for hooking us up and making this happen.
Yeah, shout out to Louise.
He's one of, he's one of the rare guys who are, I feel like,
actually in it, like reporting on what's really going on.
Yeah, that's why I actually kind of connected with him and actually liked him and because
I see his work and so I have a lot of reported friends like on kind of enhancement stuff like
that, that he knows too, but they like, like I explained it to him.
I don't like how they like, I'm going to give you an example.
We're cooking it.
It's the same thing.
There's this author that write about Narcoco Rios in Mexico.
I forgot his name right now.
And one day they invited me to one of their presentations and they were going to talk
about like the Narcoco Rios stuff like that.
So I'm like, I got excited.
I was like, okay, academic people talking about like all this.
So I show up there and it's really all academic.
Like I was the only, I felt awkward being there, you know what I mean?
So I was telling Louise, I was like, I don't like how they talk about like this world.
And I was right there and they were looking at me like I was a little monkey in a lab
type thing like, oh, instead of like, like talking like you mean like, hey, how's it,
like, how's your fly?
You know, like just regular people.
Shit.
They were like, so how does it feel to be like, you know, they were really like
investigative type thing, like psychological.
Like, I don't know.
I felt like I was being observed and watched and it wasn't really like they invited me
because I thought, you know, I knew one of them and I thought they were, you know,
it was going to be just like some, where were these guys from?
They're from Mexico.
They're the author.
They have a lot of books and stuff like that.
But, but that's how it feels like, like people, nobody dares to, like Louise,
nobody dares to go in the, like we call it the wolf's mouth.
You know what I mean?
Like they just want to look at it from afar and report whatever they see.
So they just get like, like splashed on little information.
But like Louise, I've been, I've been giving Louise like some real good like,
hey, this was happening and nobody's talking about right now.
And he's been like looking into it and stuff like that.
Yeah.
What he did going into El Chapo Stump's house and filming all that shit,
that was pretty mind bending stuff.
That was crazy, man.
Like he was legitimately risking his life going in there and doing all that shit.
I mean, if he would have got arrested, he would have been fucked.
I don't think there's no arrests going on in this situation like that, bro.
I mean, it might make it look like an arrest.
But most likely I think they would have handed it over to like the right, the owners of the house.
You know what I mean?
I think he said that he met,
yeah, I've seen the video.
What was El Chapo Stump's name again?
Ovidio.
Ovidio.
He met Ovidio's mom and his lawyer when he first got there and he'd like waited for them to leave.
And like, I was asking him like, what was your biggest fear?
Like running into Sicario there or whatever he's like.
And he said, he said, honestly, he's like,
my worst fear was having one of the police come and throw me in a jail in Sinaloa or in Culiacan.
And that would be worst case scenario for a journalist like me is being in a fucking jail
there with those guys.
Yeah.
I don't think, I don't think jail would have been different, bro.
They call, they have this thing in, over there, the owners of the house and them.
It's very well known.
They brag about it on their songs and stuff.
I don't know if you heard the term la tabla.
It's, it's a...
A table board?
A board.
It's kind of like this, uh...
That's what they call a surfboard, la tabla, the surf yard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They say that too, but not this kind of tabla is used for way different reasons.
It's one of those like a...
Yes.
He told me about this shit.
Yeah.
So this, this is very common to happen over there, bro.
So I even tell him, I was like, bro, you're about to meet the tabla with that video, bro.
Like, I'm pretty sure if you go back and like, if one of them guys...
Good luck for him that he does his stuff in English.
So like, that kind of keeps him, like, uh, not a lot of Spanish speaking, like,
can see him because those people watch podcasts, bro.
Those people see podcasts.
Those people listen to podcasts.
Which people specifically?
Like cartel people, like the owners of the house type of people.
You know what I mean?
They have time, bro.
They have time, trust me.
Like, I've told them before, like, yeah, they, they...
I mean, like I said, lucky for him, it's in English.
So his audience is like mostly on this side on the U.S.
Because if it was in Spanish, that video would have gone probably viral in like the,
like the Mexican media stuff, like all the cartel,
TikToks and all that stuff that goes around and shit.
I think that, I think that would have made him viral.
And yeah, I don't think the police station would have been,
would have been the place he was going, bro.
He would think it was probably, I mean, everybody would have known like,
hey, they caught somebody in the video stuff.
Oh, like that would have been the news in Culiacan, you know what I mean?
Right.
Yeah.
He also said that out of all the journalists, like a kid,
I mean, I guess more journalists die in Mexico than anywhere else.
And he said they're all Mexican journalists,
none of them are American journalists.
Oh, no, no, no.
They, yeah, they, well, they know the kind of attention they're going to get if they,
they do something to, I mean, they might scare them.
You know, they might do something like that to them,
but they will let them go home.
So they don't want to hate on them unless he reported on some shit,
like where he really lifted up a lid on something.
Well, yeah, yeah, you know.
But I mean, many of these reporters have died for like stupid reasons, to be honest.
I mean, and it's, it's sad.
It sucks.
But, but then again, it's like a friend was telling me, he's like,
what do they want to report?
He's like, what more do you want?
What more do they want to tell people?
Like it's already known.
Everything is known.
Like why the thing is, like sometimes, and I'm not justifying the deaths at all.
Like it's something sad that should not be like happening,
but sometimes they get so involved in like reporting on,
on a certain type of individual or a certain cartel or something.
And I understand it's reporting and stuff like that.
But if you're the guy that they're looking into,
you might take it personal too.
You know, you might be like, Hey, why are you not reporting on them and them?
And, you know, why, you know, I'm not saying this happened and within,
with any individuals or something.
It's just something that I was talking to a friend about.
And yeah, he was telling me like, bro, we know everything that's going on.
Like there's way too many news outlets.
Like it's not like we don't know that there's bodies hanging.
It's not that we don't know who's doing this, who's doing that.
Like, why do they, why do they want to go so deep?
You know what I mean?
And then Luis talked about this too.
He's like, it's just a part of like a reporter that knows that,
that is like grimy, like doesn't care about anything but the, the story.
You know what I mean?
And I was like, yeah, that's why I'm, I don't never want to be a reporter.
That's why when I write, I tell people, I tell stories.
I don't tell gossiping.
Like if you come read my stories, it's just, yeah, they're based on like real stuff,
but I'm not telling like real, real, real shit that, you know?
Because I don't want gossiping.
I don't want to tell like cheese mess what we say in Spanish.
You know, I don't want to, it is not a page of where you're going to come here
and find out about who did this and who did what.
It's like for entertainment, you know?
But reporters, man, they get in there and it's sad because in Mexico,
people die every day and, you know, and it's pretty easy.
How many of your childhood friends ended up in cartels?
Wow. Oh, shit.
Alive or dead right now.
I don't have to say more than 20.
More than 20.
Yeah.
When I, when we were young and I had this graffiti crew,
we became very popular as a graffiti crew just because we threw big ass parties.
Like, our families did good back then.
Like, well, my family is from San Diego.
So everybody would work in San Diego and live in a Mexico back then.
It was really, you were making money.
Like, you know, you had all kinds of groceries in your house and, you know, all the stuff.
So when we started throwing parties, like other, other of my friends,
families that were doing good as well.
So we just threw like this for, for like 14, 15 year olds, we threw big ass parties.
We just got a bunch of alcohol.
My mom would buy me like, I'll go like, because she would see like,
it was just like tagging and, you know, it was nothing, nothing like in parties.
And she's like, as long as they see where you're partying at,
that's cool because we rented houses.
Like we did, we did like real nice parties.
We did like flyers and stuff.
So, so we became pretty well popular in TJ with our crew.
So when everything, when everybody's transitioning to these other lives,
I'm already well known, you know, like, and I'm, and I'm doing stuff too.
Like, I'm not, I'm not innocent.
You know, I'm not trying to say like, oh, I was just watching.
Now I was in the shit.
Like I was looking for it.
I like, and when you're like trying to get into it, like I was,
you just do stupid shit for free.
Like you're not even like, they're not, you're not even born.
Not born, but you just want to like build a resume type thing.
Yeah.
Like, like nobody's going to hire you if you don't have no experience.
You know what I mean?
Like you got to get this experience somehow.
Got to be in, got to do internships for the cartel type thing.
You know what I mean?
You start hanging out with people and you start doing shit with them for free.
Just typical.
Oh, hey, you want to go with me?
I need, I got something to do.
All right, let's go.
And I was already looking for the shit.
You know what I mean?
So like, so when I'm 19 and I get to jail,
I already have my fair share experience of dealing with like,
cartel friends, cartel activities and stuff like that.
But I'm not a member, you know what I mean?
I'm not in there yet.
And then, but I just keep getting like, like I said, now I'm in the MCC and I'm 19.
And I'm kind of known.
So when you show up to MCC and like this federal prison,
there's all this, all this conspiracies and people with conspiracies,
like all the top dogs, you know, the most wanted fools are there and knows this shit.
And I was young.
I remember I was really quiet.
And, you know, I just got there and started talking to some people and stuff.
And one day there was these three dudes talking to another guy.
And these three dudes, when I first got there, they kind of bullied me.
They saw me that I was well dressed and stuff.
So they thought I was like a good kid.
You know, that did some stupid shit.
So I didn't say anything.
I was like, I was already ready to fight one of them.
Like the next time this was like, I didn't,
he wasn't picking on me that bad, but I don't need you for me to pick that better.
I mean, for me to get like, I'm, I'm like, you know,
I'm Machacorta type thing, what they say in Spanish, you know,
I don't really take a lot of shit.
So I was like, all right, next time this guy sees me that way or says something in the room,
I'm just going to like, I'm just going to ask him to fight.
But they're talking to this older dude that just came in for like,
have a ton of marijuana or something like that.
He has like a big conspiracy.
And you hear about these conspiracies.
We hear they're like, oh, these guys are coming.
Like you see the news and she's like, oh, they're coming over here.
Like hell's angels conspiracies and all this big stuff.
So, so he's talking to them about, about some people and, and they're like,
they're kind of bowing down to him because he's like a real like top dog.
Like, like he's a boss.
And then he starts mentioning some of my friends, some of my childhood friends.
One of them, his family hasn't been involved in the cartel.
So when, when he joined the cartel, he was already like,
he got a good, a good job in it.
You know what I mean?
So when he mentions him, I was like, I know, I know,
shout out to handle is still in prison.
I was like, I know, and then one of the other dudes that like didn't really like me.
He's like, how do you know?
And you're not a fool.
And then I told the guy, he's like, yeah, his parents with him and we grew up.
And he's like, oh, no, he knows.
He's like, no.
And after that, everything changed.
You know what I mean?
They're like, let's start saying like, yeah, no, he knows because I was young.
And I looked like a, like a kid, but I was already on the streets.
Like I was going everywhere.
Like, I remember I used to steal my, my mom's cars and stuff like that.
And I would just drive to like no places.
Like a lot of people don't leave their hood and, you know, their surroundings.
And I was just like, I learned how to drive when I was 12.
So I was just like, steal the car, like get a little pillow on the seat.
And I get my friends like, hey, let's go.
I pick up my friends and stuff.
And we just drive all over, man, and just go meet girls and like go to places
where other people didn't really want to go because they couldn't get a whole little car or whatever.
And so I've always really been out there, you know?
So, so when I get to prison, well, the detention center,
because I never really made it to prison.
I just start meeting people and like, we all know people that know people that know people,
you know what I mean?
So that, that gets me a seat in the table somehow.
And, and yeah, when I get out, I still do shit, but like, I get out.
How long were you in there for?
Well, here's the thing.
My, my original charge, the census was two months, 60 days.
So I get off, but I get three years probation, which sucks.
So I don't recommend, if you could do your time inside prison and get off without probation,
do that because probation, they just want to, they're just going to grab a hold of you.
So eventually I violate my probation.
I smoke, but like I said, I smoke a lot of weed.
And I go, I keep going to TJ without permission.
I see it doesn't pop out on the computer.
So it becomes easy for me to go every day.
What's it like going there?
How do you cross the board?
Like what is it?
What is the border crossing like going to TJ every day?
Are you just walking across?
Both car.
Well, at this time, my mom has a house over there in San Diego now.
So she lives there, but I have my aunt and my cousins that they still live in TJ,
but they either work, go to school in San Diego.
So like they'll cross real early, spend like a few hours in my mom's house
till it's ready, till it's time to go to like work and stuff.
So they're always at my mom's house.
You know, they come and going every day.
So whenever I want to go, I'm like, hey, Tia, can I go?
Can I catch a ride with you?
Okay.
And she's going to my grandma's house and I'm going to my grandma's house.
So you know what I mean?
So, and I'm crossing with family.
So they never say anything on my way back.
I thought it was going to be like, oh, you're in probation.
Like where's your parents?
Like because you need your parents.
So, but then once I cross, I don't pop up in the computer
because I didn't get arrested at the border.
I got arrested inside San Diego.
So like the people that get arrested on the border, they, they, it pops up for them.
But not for me.
So once I figured this out, I'm 20 bro.
Like I'm just going to fucking, I just kept going and stuff.
Eventually they should get caught up with me, catches up with me with my probation.
He's like, you've been going to teacher for like 150 sometimes on registered times this year.
You came out dirty in like two tests.
Like you're not going to school.
You're not working.
Like what the fuck?
You know?
So I'm like, nah, come on.
Like give me a chance, whatever.
So he sends me to the halfway house.
He sends me two months to the halfway house.
And that there is just like, it was just boring bro.
Cause I never really like looked for a job or anything.
I was just fucking doing whatever.
Everybody was smoking spice in there.
I don't know if you're familiar with spice.
Everybody was smoking spice.
So I started smoking spice because I don't want to violate the probation again.
So I just started smoking spice.
And eventually I get out the halfway house and then the, I violated again for some,
I can't remember what I did to be honest.
Oh no, they, they switched my probation after I come out the halfway house.
They switched my probation and the other guy is like, he, he, he wasn't having it.
He was like, he, he, as soon as I fucked up, I can't remember.
I think I came out there or something.
He sent me back to jail for four months.
And after getting out to jail another four months in the halfway house.
So I was pissed cause I was like, I didn't even come in a crime and I'm getting charged.
I'm getting, doing more time for this than for my crime, you know?
But this time I mean like, I met more people.
Like there was this big conspiracy.
So like the most wanted people that actually now I've become good friends.
And not because we did a little shit.
El Gordo Villarreal, one of the most wanted people back in like 2008, 2009.
El Gordo.
El Gordo Villarreal, yeah.
Now he's writing his book.
So I helped him.
He, he found out like that I'm editing and like I've got a sense of writing and stuff like that.
So he reached out to me.
He's like, Hey, what I like about your writing is that you use our words and our lingo.
So I want to see if you could help me out.
And I was like, yeah, yeah, for sure.
So that, that's in process right now.
And, and another guys that was with him, he's doing, he's trying to, he, he did 11 years.
El Gordo is still inside, but another guy, one of my friends, his name is Fausto, shout out to Fausto.
He did like 11 or 12 years.
And right now he's, he's doing straight.
He's, you know, but he's trying to get into like the music business stuff like that.
And I'm connected to that.
So we hooked up on that.
And I, I got him, you know, some, I got him some corridos too, because he wants some corridos.
So I helped him out with some of my friends and stuff.
But there are these people that I met back then, you know, on, on that shit.
And now they're trying to do like some different stuff.
And coming back to what you asked me earlier, how's my communication with
It's kind of like this, you know, like, like I said, some of them that are still very active,
my only communication with them is like, Hey, what's up, bro?
How you doing? How you doing?
I'm not just here, bro.
Like chilling.
Like I was telling you about this, this other guy.
I want to shout him out, but he doesn't speak English.
So I don't know, it would be pointless.
I got to get this podcast translated to Spanish.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So like, like I was telling you in the truck, I hadn't talked to him in a while for a few years.
Last time I talked to him, he actually had to, I don't know if he had to,
but he killed another of our childhood friends, like we knew from.
What?
Yeah, it's just politics.
And it happened at a party or something.
So, so when the word gets out, you know how gossiping is they get the, you know,
like they start mixing information.
So they were saying that, that he was dead, that somebody killed him.
So I was like, Oh, fuck man, you know, so I try to reach out, like reach out to a couple of people
like, Hey, you know, if he's all right, whatever.
And so he somehow he gets a hold of me.
He calls me.
He's like, Hey, what's up?
I hear you looking for me stuff.
Yeah, bro, how you been?
Like, are you cool?
Like everything cool?
And he's like, Oh, I thought you were asking about the other so-and-so.
I was like, Oh, no, what happened?
I was like, nah, he's the one that died.
I was like, Oh, shit, man, that sucks.
Well, I heard of one of you guys do that, but I don't know.
I was trying to find out who, but I don't know this.
I had to find this out.
Like, how do you call it?
A hindsight, whatever.
Yeah.
He was actually trying to find out if I was trying to revenge my friend.
Oh, fuck.
Yeah, man.
I, he was like, he was like, Yeah, you know what happened to him?
I was like, nah, do you?
He's like, nah, man.
But what are you trying to do?
You trying to like go off to the foods that did that to him or what?
Let me know.
I was like, nah, man, you know, I'm not really like, I'm not, I'm not to do that anymore
because I was, I was already like away from like, I was trying to wait.
I was like, nah, man.
I was just like, you know, you guys are home.
He's like, whatever happened, that should, that should get to me.
You know what I mean?
He's like, all right, all right.
And when he said that, I kind of like, what?
Like, you know, I sensed that shit and he's like, all right, all right.
Well, I just want to know if you were trying to like look for those, you know,
if you're trying to do something, you know, and I was like, I think he's high.
You know, I thought he kind of sounded something.
He sounded mad or whatever.
I was like, nah, nah, man.
I mean, you know, that's how it is.
You know, motherfuckers die every day.
Cause that's a typical, the typical line of streets.
Like, you know, fools die every day, man.
Just like, you'll be careful, man.
Watch your bag or watch your bag.
He's like, all right, man.
Cool, whatever.
So after that, I didn't talk to him for like two to three years till him.
And at this point, he's like a, probably like a second level boss in the Tijuana
Cartel right now, currently right now.
Okay.
So two or three years go by and him and his boss and like a few other guys, they want some,
one of my best friends is a singer.
He's really famous.
Eric Garagon, I got his head right here.
Oh yeah.
Hold it up.
Hold it up next to your face.
So people can see it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For a coiciao.
Yeah.
So he, he, he, we became best friends before he popped off.
Yeah.
This, this logo.
Is he, he's got a microphone in his hand.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he did a corrio for two of my friends that passed away.
So I, I made his logo into my friends.
I put them in my, my fingers.
Oh wow.
Yeah.
That's wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You got some cool tattoos.
Yeah.
So yeah, we become, I'm become best friends with them for,
because we started, we just clicked up and we were both looking for the dream type thing.
You know, he wanted to be a singer and famous and stuff.
Yeah.
And, and at this point I really didn't know what I wanted to do.
I just wanted to do something creative.
Like I said, I've always loved music since I was a,
How are you making money?
What are you doing for work?
Just selling weed.
Okay.
I try to keep up with the weed because that's the least, like I was saying earlier.
It's like cartel won't fuck with me if I sell weed and like,
not even the law sometimes, you know, because they think it's like,
they think I'm selling Reggie, but I'm selling like this fucking medical marijuana
from San Diego.
Oh, because this, if I start talking about this, it's going to be whole.
I'm going to go into a whole new thing because I'm one of the first in TJ that started
trafficking weed from America to TJ.
Back to TJ.
Yeah.
Back when nobody was doing it.
I started doing that shit and I can, I don't give a fuck who's like,
I could show this podcast to any other fools from TJ and I stand on my word.
You know what I mean?
I know what I was doing back then.
There wasn't really that many and that's why I got a lot of good clients
because there wasn't really that many people willing to pay
15 bucks for a gram.
You know?
That's one of the things that blew my mind when Louise told me this.
Yeah.
You didn't say it about you, but.
Yeah.
No, no, we talked about, yeah, me and Louise talked about this too.
I'm talking about like, shit, bro, like.
How the fuck did that happen?
20, what, 2010, 2011, 2012, somewhere around there?
Like, I mean, don't get me wrong.
I did some other shit too that made me money.
Like, well, this is a lot of years back.
So sometimes my friends, my childhood friends, they would be like,
hey, I had some friends in San Diego too that were, they were just robbing fools.
They were just robbing cartel fools.
They lived in San Diego.
They moved from T1 up to San Diego and they just started robbing like cartel fools
and they stayed in San Diego so they wouldn't get killed.
You know what I mean?
Oh my God.
So they just started doing this shit and I know them because they grew up on the
on the block next behind my house.
So I know them since they were a little kid.
They're actually younger than me.
So, and I was staying in San Diego at this point because I was, I think I was, yeah,
I was living with my girlfriend.
So we were living in San Diego and well, I'm just hustling.
I'm just trying to find ways to make money.
So I call these guys because they're my friends.
I don't know they're robbing at this point.
I don't know they're doing all this shit.
So I'm just thinking like, oh, I'm gonna try to sell them some stuff, you know,
either like some middleman shit, you know, like, hey, I got my friend that has like
certain pounds of something.
Do you know anybody that needs them?
You know, shit like that.
And, and we start kicking it.
We start smoking, whatever.
And I find out all this shit.
Like, I found out what they're doing.
And I was like, oh, no, no, like, you know what I mean?
Like, I didn't try to do another shit.
So one of my friends calls one of them and they're like, hey, there's this guy that stole
from us.
Like, could you guys go get him?
Because they know what they're doing.
Like a lot of people in here know that they're doing what they're doing.
And some of them don't even care anymore because some of them feel like, hey,
that's how the game is.
You know, some of them, like some of some people actually want to kill them.
But a lot of people like they would rob from each other and they were still cool.
You know, they'll be, they'll still be talking to each other and shit like that.
And it was basically like, all right, you rob me right now and then next time I'm
going to rob you.
Not like a, not like a word for word thing, but it was like, you know what I mean?
Like something like that.
Yeah.
So eventually one of my friends calls them and he's like, hey, can you guys go get,
you know, these guys are, they took some of my shit and they didn't pay me.
So at this point, I'm not looking at it as robbing.
I'm looking at it as, okay, my friend, you know, like a mission for them for, you know,
for this was, so we go start doing shit.
You know, we started getting into like our fair share of, of licks.
You know, we started getting people and stuff and robbing.
I didn't really like it, bro.
To be honest, I only did like three times, but I was really broke and I was really
needed some money.
But after I did it, I didn't feel good.
You know, even, I mean, I've done some other shit.
That you should be like, boy, you did that and you have a problem with this.
But this didn't, I've never liked to steal.
You know, I've never been the robber type.
So eventually I started feeling that kind of like, you know, I don't want to have that
shit on my resume, you know, robbing.
What kind of other shit did you do that was worse than that?
It's just so shit.
I've witnessed and shit I've seen in Mexico, man.
In Mexico, like you see people getting shot.
You see people getting the tablazos.
You see people.
Yeah.
We got off that.
You were explaining that and Louise told me that you never actually explain what
happens with the top.
I was trying to see if I could find.
And you can, he can Google it.
What's it?
How do you say it?
Can you Google?
How can you Google it?
Probably La Tabla.
I would say La Tabla.
La Tabla.
Culiacan.
Culiacan.
Or cartel.
Yeah.
So just keywords.
Cartel La Tabla.
I'm sure we'll find it.
Yeah.
La Tabla for La Cartel.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, they use this to discipline people.
They, there's this Corredo singer.
There's a singer that he sung a song about somebody and he didn't ask permission.
So the guy got offended, called the guy in.
Shit.
I was about to say something real specific.
So the guy, he has a, you know how people use code names over there.
Yeah.
And it's usually numbers.
So this guy, the guy that was offended, he has a certain number.
Okay.
So he gave him that, let's say
50, you know, that's too many, but let's say just 50.
You know, he, let's say his, his, his, um, his code name is 50.
So he gave him 50 Tabla's.
And it's, uh, it's you either like put your hands on the table or whatever, uh, ass out.
You get spanking.
And you get spanking and people shit themselves.
You know, you can't sit because you don't get like, like a small spanking, bro.
It's this four by four Tabla and they're just laying it onto you.
Like, like, if you know, like if you just diss their mother type thing,
there's videos.
I mean, I don't know.
I'm sure you can show that on YouTube, but if you want to see it,
there's videos of people getting the tabla.
So it looks like a two by four.
It looks like one of these, what's this sport?
Like one of these, like one of these, this table is made out of.
Uh, yeah, yeah.
Kind of like this, probably even thicker.
But yeah, with a handle on the, on the edge.
So you can hold it, right?
You know, so when you're hitting them, doesn't, you know, and, um, and yeah,
it depends to what kind of discipline you're getting, the number of Tabla's you're getting.
And that's really common, bro, because people tend to fuck up a lot.
You know, the, the watch out that corn is the punteros, the guys in the,
in the motorcycle that are watching out for the, well, if, if military came in
and you didn't see them and you didn't let people know on the radio,
you're going to meet the tabla, bro.
Yeah. You're a singer.
If you sing without authorization about somebody,
they should break bones.
Nope. But it leaves your ass black.
It leaves your butt cheeks black.
Oh, no, this is a video.
Turn it. Don't, don't, don't, oh, oh, he just got the tabla.
Yeah. He just got it.
Oh yeah. The whole bat.
No, don't show it.
The whole back of him is completely black.
Well, there's videos of people getting it.
Like that's the aftermath.
You can't find a picture of what this thing looks like.
The, the, the, the Tabla.
Oh, okay.
Yeah. It's a famous career.
They, it's a really famous career.
And it's called the tabla.
And it's, it's, it's like a warning to people.
I, what does it say?
It just say like those who are like stepping out of line
and gonna meet the tabla.
And these guys who are getting the little tabla,
they'll willingly just accept it.
Like I got to go through this.
Yeah. Well, well, if you say no, well, you're dead.
Yeah. So it's like, look, you get the, you fucked up.
Right. We get it.
You're going to get the tabla,
but then you get to go home and rest and recover.
Or you could get this bullet in the head and not go home for me.
You know?
Yeah.
But, uh...
So how did you get into bringing weed back into Tijuana from San Diego?
Well, because I'm a stoner first and foremost.
I'm, I'm a pothead myself.
You would think they would have plenty of weed down there.
They got Reggie.
They got Reggie.
And, and, and remember, I'm going to school in San Diego.
So in San Diego, they're smoking that back then,
that scondiso, that a white widow, that OG Kush, you know?
And, and back then, you know, the famous song I got five on it
because four of your friends will get,
put $5 on it and get a gram.
And then get somebody to buy you a Swisher.
And then you smoke the whole thing by four dudes, you know?
So I just started buying like little grams and eight.
Well, at this point, I was working.
I got a job.
I got a legal job in San Diego.
I got a girl.
I live with my girl.
I'm trying to do right now.
You know, I got, and, uh, but, uh,
I want to make a little bit extra money.
You know, I want to quit my job
because I'm out of probation at this time.
Dude, the day the probation call me,
he's like, look, bro, you've been doing.
I will just close this up.
Um, I go to jail for four months.
I meet a bunch of people and then I go to the halfway house.
I meet more people.
One of them I'm going to talk about right now,
but I only stayed there for three months
because I got kicked out.
We're just so bored and we're just so like full of like
energy stuff.
We just started to like checking each other.
First, it was like the other people from Tijuana
like, Hey, everybody got to be,
got to be on their shit.
And if you're not on your shit,
like we just started being everybody.
Not beating about like body shots.
Just cause we were bored and it was,
most of us were like on our 20s.
So it wasn't like really older people.
Like there was a bunch of 20 year olds.
So we're just full of fucking energy and shit like that.
And we're just with all the criminals and shit, you know.
So we just started getting in trouble
with like being playing body shots,
but we started playing like,
it wasn't friendly body shots, you know.
And I was all like, I have fucking bruises and shit.
We left all the people bruised up and shit.
So one day the guard see that one of the guys
is all bruised up, kind of like the guy with the tabla.
Oh yeah, there it is.
All right, play up.
Don't, don't, we're just going to react to it.
Don't put the video on.
Yeah, he's about to give you a seat.
Oh shit.
It's just like a big paddle, giant paddle.
Yeah, that's the word paddle.
That's the word I was looking for, my bad.
God damn, bro.
Yeah, if you move like that.
Yeah, he, oh, he only got two.
Yeah, he's lucky.
All right, I get it.
I see what it is.
Well, we said he was going to bring one next time he comes here
so I can have it and like put it on display in the background.
Yeah, you should.
Cool.
All right, I'll put it on the shelf.
Yeah, well, he was about to meet it.
It's talking about the...
What?
Oh, Luis, he was about to meet it.
That's what...
He was about to meet the tableau?
Well, if he, if he would have been caught or, you know,
he did the dispensary thing and, and they, they...
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah, man, he should, he should be careful
maybe because it's, it's small stuff
that are not going to get him killed,
but it's enough to give you some tablaces,
you know what I mean?
Like, they're not like, you could go to the police,
but like they didn't kill you.
So they're not going to make a big deal out of it, you know what I mean?
Yeah, well, that, that dispensary story with him was crazy
because the dude, I guess the dude he was talking to...
He kind of backed out of like the...
Yeah.
Like he was already like balls deep into the story with him.
Like he was letting them in and he wanted to...
But the guy wanted to like, he wanted to like let Luis in
and tell the story, but he didn't want to give him too much.
Pardon this brief interruption,
but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor, Verso.
Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know
how obsessed I am with health and longevity,
which is why one of my favorite guests to have on this show
is nutritional scientist and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino,
who actually introduced me to this stuff.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold a potential to increase longevity.
The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells
or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life.
These zombie cells infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process,
causing things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia,
and everything in the realm of aging.
What scientists have realized is that we can manually induce autophagy,
meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing them with new ones.
Verso's new clean being, which I take every night,
is a powerful blend of synelitic molecules
that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes
like autophagy and apoptosis,
promoting better cellular health,
supporting lower inflammation and natural cardio protective functions,
while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine,
lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression
and are essential for cell growth and proliferation,
specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Concrete at Checkout
to save 15% on your order.
I linked it all below.
Now back to the show.
Yeah, well, he wanted to keep the names out of it,
but Luis was going in for the names.
I mean, what's the point of talking about the expensive?
You're not going to talk about who owns it, you know what I mean?
And I get his point, but I also get the other guy's point too.
And I didn't want to be that guy.
That's why I talked to my friends,
be like, hey, can I say this shit?
And can I say this?
Can I say that?
Because, I mean, I'm not going to change this, bro,
even if I were to like turn like full on snitch or whatever.
And like, I'm not going to change anything.
You know what I mean?
I'm not trying to, but I'm not helping them either.
You know, I'm not, I'm not doing anything bad.
I'm just staying on my way and anything.
But at the same time, well, there's two of my friends and like,
and the people that are not, I don't want to cause them any trouble.
I don't want to get in their way at all.
Like I don't want to cause them trouble or I want to help them.
I just was so like neighbors, you know what I mean?
Like, you know, just say what's up to them and keep it cool.
And everybody goes on their way.
It's crazy watching like the history of Mexico
and how the cartels became cartels, you know,
from the, from the day of the plazas to the Jalisco or the,
to the Guadalajara cartel.
And then that being broken up into all, you know,
the main cartels you see in Mexico right now.
And it's, it's, it's wild to think about like what,
what is going to happen in the next decade?
I wonder, do you ever think about that?
Yeah, always.
Yeah, especially because, yeah.
Well, right now I really go to TJ because it's,
it's a full on word right now.
And yeah, if you, if you're like a, what they call out here,
like a civilian, if you don't have nothing to do, well, yeah, you,
they might get, you might be pulled over for, you know,
for whatever reason sometimes,
but you're not going to get in any trouble.
But now it's to a point where like you get pulled over and everybody's a suspect.
It's just the war has gone so bad that like-
Everybody's paranoid?
Yeah, not with like, I was telling you that cops are paranoid.
I mean, they've arrested all kinds of people that look all sorts of ways.
So it's not like they're looking for the people that look,
you know, dress or type of wear and they're just going on for anybody.
You know, they, they, they've arrested girls with their kids, you know,
they're arrested mothers, they've arrested all kinds of,
so it's just like everybody's a suspect, but it creates this tension where like,
the cops are not nice at all, bro, especially-
What, that's a good thing to explain right now.
What, what is the dynamic between the cops in Tijuana and the cartel?
There's one cartel in Tijuana right now.
No, there's three.
There's three cartels in Tijuana.
Yeah. Well, kind of forward with police body.
Let's say three.
There's, there's three, there's three, there's three.
So that there's three different cartels in Tijuana.
Guadalajara, Sinaloa, and Tijuana.
But it's funny because they all branched out from the Tijuana,
from the original Tijuana cartel.
Once the original leaders started getting arrested, killed and stuff,
everybody just started finding other ways because the thing is with the Tijuana cartel was,
it was based on the family, the Ariano Felix.
Right.
So when the Ariano Felix didn't, like when the, the, the,
well, it's a big family, but I understand and not everybody's involved,
but when the guys that were involved either got arrested or killed,
like, well,
Ariano Felix, for people that don't know who Ariano Felix is,
he was one of the main founders of the Tijuana cartel.
They, they, they're brothers.
They're, yeah, the two brothers.
Yeah. Well, there's a bunch of others,
but the only like four of them were involved with the cartel.
But I believe there's like eight.
And there's a picture, I don't know if you want to put it,
there's a picture of the whole family.
Who was the brother that was on the David Letterman show that they like?
A Ramon Ariano.
Ramon Ariano.
He was a violent one.
He was the guy who killed Ramon.
You got Ben Hamin, which is the brains.
And he was also violent, but it's mostly the brains.
And you got Ramon, which is just like the general.
He was the killer.
Yeah.
He was the guy they started filming.
Yeah. But they, they all had a,
I think we're getting into all of these different.
I know.
Yeah.
But the thing with them is they were mostly rich, rich families.
So they all could go to, could cross to the U.S.
before they were even criminals.
So, so they would come and go to LA.
And I guess one day he was in where they filmed.
I think that was in LA.
LA, yeah, LA.
And you could see, well, if you don't know him, you don't really,
you can't tell.
But you can see he's kind of trying to like,
what do you call it?
We're like a costume type thing.
Like, because he has like-
Oh, the skies.
Yeah, yeah.
The sky.
Terrible disguise.
Yeah.
And, and, and, and, but to the, the production guys there,
it's funny to them because he looks kind of funny.
So they keep putting the camera on.
He's like, nah, no hablo espaol.
He's like, he's probably thinking about shooting them.
If he was in Mexico, he probably,
because he has that reputation of shooting people in the face.
Like there's this story where he's getting out of a club or something
and he's like on the street and he's drinking and he's talking to a girl.
So eventually a cop comes up to him and he's like,
hey, you can't be drinking on the street.
And he just pulls out a gun and shoots him in the face.
And that's how much power they had.
You know, he just drove off from that and nothing happened.
So I'm guessing at that point where the David Letterman guy is like,
putting the camera on his face and he's like,
no hablo espaol.
He's like trying to get him to like-
Hey, you had that like fanny pack around the shoulder.
Yeah, yeah, that, that, that everybody wears.
So he's like, no hablo espaol.
There it is. Oh my God.
He looks like Tim Dillon.
And yeah, man.
I mean, you'll be right next to him in LA,
you know, waiting for the light to, you know, to change
and you wouldn't even know.
And that, and that's, that's really the dynamic in TJ, you know,
there's another really famous comedian, YouTuber out there.
His name is Adrian Marcelo.
Shout out to him.
He, he, he came a couple of times to TJ for presentations,
but he's kind of like interested a little bit
because he hears the news and he's, so he's like,
he's curious.
He asks about stuff.
So last time he came, he spent a weekend there.
And then on his last day, I was like,
so how was it?
Did you feel like unsafe or anything or whatever?
Or did you feel like, he was like, no, man, not at all.
And I pulled up a news story and it was like,
16 people died this weekend, bro.
And it was like a high, for Mexico, still like a high,
high number for a weekend, for three a weekend.
I told him 16 people got killed in TJ
while you were here and you didn't like,
didn't even feel like nothing, you know?
And that's, that's the dynamic and like,
all this shit is going on.
But if you're like on your, on your thing,
like you might not even know, you know?
Right.
Now as TJ is, is it, is it so violent in Tijuana
because all the cartels south of there
have to travel through Tijuana to get to the U.S.?
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
I talked to one of my friends.
The difference between like, let's say Sinaloa,
their history with like the narcos is usually
because people don't have opportunities.
You know, they live in rural areas, you know,
the country and the government doesn't give a fuck about them.
You know, some of these people don't have lights.
You know, they don't have shit like that.
So they come out of that and, and, you know, they,
they grow, they get into the business, you know,
for bettering the lives.
But in TJ, the people that get into the business in TJ,
in TJ, we got opportunities, bro.
Like people from the South Carolina,
TJ to find jobs or to work.
So like people over here, we do it because we like it.
You know, it's more like the thrill of it.
Like also this, this, this culture from,
I was telling my friends from Nuevo Len over there by,
well, like Juarez, like Luis,
he gets, he gets all this like Texas thing.
It drips down to Juarez, but as we get LA,
so we get this gang culture also.
So you see like, like the low-riding culture is,
is pretty popular in Tijuana.
Like all this, all this stuff that just fucking boils down
to, to like this American culture just boils down to us.
So this gang culture is really settled in.
That's why they say we were the tag bangers,
you know, we did graffiti,
but we like the like gang banging thing
because we listen to like NWA or, you know,
like gangster West Coast music.
So we grew up on that.
And then you mix it with like the oldest traffickers
and their gang life.
And it just becomes a whole nother thing, you know.
So that's the difference between this,
like people in the South and, and the people in TJ.
And that's why it's more violent
because that's what I was saying with the Oriano Felix,
most of them, and they had,
they actually had a group of, of their cartel
that was called the Narco Juniors.
And it was this people, it was this guys,
like the wealthiest families of TJ and San Diego,
their sons just became members of the cartel.
So that's like, I was saying, like in, in the South,
you got this people like doing it for, you know,
for looking for opportunity, lack of opportunity.
But over here, you got like literally these guys,
like sons of like neurosurgeons
and like all these important people.
They're like the wealthiest kids, bro.
And, and they're like with Ramon and them, like killing people.
And like, they're actually like, if you make it seem
like characters of a movie, they actually were like the real
deal because they had money and they had everything.
And they did the shit themselves.
Like they were the Sikaris, like they, they had Sikaris,
but they were doing shit themselves.
They were doing it for the thrill.
You know what I mean?
They were doing it for the, just to leave like,
you know what I mean?
So Narco Juniors, they really left the legacy
because it was this really rich kids that,
that were cartel bosses.
So that's like, well, like 25 years ago.
So now you got this new generation of Tijuana cartel.
And the day I was, you called me, like I said,
I was talking to one of them and I was like,
hey, so they want to ask me in this podcast about like,
what's up, you know, about the life and shit.
And I thought they were going to be like,
nah, keep it low key.
You know, like, like, don't say much, whatever, bro.
They're like, nah, tell them where the shit.
Tell them like, yeah, there's all the cartels,
but we're the ones, you know, like,
tell them with the new Narco Juniors.
Tell them if he knows about the back then,
what we're the new Narco Juniors.
And he would show them this Narco Carrillo.
Like, I'm like, I'm not going to play him no songs or what.
I'm going to tell them like, I'm going to let it know.
So, and I mean, this new Narco Juniors, you look at them
and they're like, I mean, they're wearing like,
they look like rappers, you know,
they're wearing like fucking $50,000 outfits
with like their chains and like fucking expensive shoes.
They go to Dubai and like for fucking two weeks,
and you see them in Lambos,
you see them buying expensive shit,
like taking tours in helicopters, like just,
and they're like, they're not Passer 25, probably, you know.
And I know some of them because they're the little brothers
of my generation of friends, you know,
their little brothers now grow up.
And now they're like, hey, I remember you used to be like,
and I'm like, damn, that's you.
And I see him like all, you know,
like all with like fucking old Gucci out and all shit.
And we're a private party with like all kinds of like,
you know, shit.
And now they're like the head of the cartel.
He's like, he's looking out for them
because their brother was like a really,
he was respecting the cartel.
He got shot, he got killed.
And now the guy, the boss, he's just looked out for them.
He's looking out for them in a way, you know,
just giving them easy jobs and stuff like that,
way to make money and enjoy life, you know,
because they can travel, they can go like Dubai
and Columbia and stuff like that,
because they're not looking for them.
You know, they're not wanted yet and stuff like that
because they're young.
Some of them are like 21, 22, you know what I mean?
They're barely starting and they're already living, you know.
And that's why they tell me that like,
tell them we're the new Narco Juniors.
And if you see the Narco series, Bad Bunny plays
the one of the most famous Narco Juniors.
He plays the one that became a snitch though.
Well, that's what, yeah, yeah, he's not,
because a lot of Narco Juniors, they went back, bro.
When they got out of jail, they went back.
Really?
Some of them went back and so a lot of them,
like they turned like the one that Bad Bunny plays,
he, he's, they never seen him again.
Well, I'm pretty sure like the family is because
they, they, it's like a mafia thing.
Like their families are, you know,
like I'm compassionate to your kids and stuff like that.
So they call each other family.
Everybody calls each other Uncle Theo.
Hey, that's my Theo.
So now it's a generation of a new generation that,
I mean, like I said, this is 20, 25 years ago.
Most of these people get like 25 years in jail,
but with good time, they get out in like 20.
So some of them are out and, and yeah,
I don't want to say more, much more about them
because they didn't let me talk about them.
But, but yeah, some of them are out
and their kids are like, are, are doing,
following the same steps.
So we kind of like distracted, but the main dynamic
in Tijuana is there's, you said four,
but there's three main cartels there.
Yeah, we just say four because the cops sometimes act
like a crystal of their own.
So my question was like, what is the dynamic
with the cops and the cartels there?
Well, what percentage of the cops
are bought off by the cartels
and just working with them and communicating with them?
And how many of them are just like rogue
completely against the cartels?
Completely against.
I would say it's, I don't know.
I want to say half, I think I'm just trying to be fair
because I know there's a lot of good cops.
I actually know a couple of cops that are not that,
not that corrupt.
Like they'll take your 20 bucks
if you ran over a red light type thing,
but they won't kidnap you or they won't, you know,
they won't like do shit like that.
So you'd say half of the cops in Tijuana are pretty corrupt.
Maybe, I want to say something like that.
Oh, shit.
I want to say more, but I want to be fair.
Like I don't want to talk out of ignorance,
but I'll probably say more, man.
I mean, because just the shit that I've seen,
like I don't want to, I don't want to disdain
my respects to all those police corporations over there.
But yeah, man, sometimes they don't get fucked.
Like they'd be ruthless, ruthless.
Like, did they work for all the cartels?
Well, they kind of have to, to be honest.
Like, but different sections though.
Like I'm trying to find a way to break this down.
Like let's say one cartel had bought off the homicide department.
And let's say the other cartel has bought off the, what do you call it?
When you sell drugs, but not in a big scale,
but in a lower scale.
Narcotic?
Yeah, when it's like narcotics.
You know, like they have, they have bought off like different
sections of the police type thing, different cartels, you know what I mean?
So it's not like back then when you just showed up
and you bought the commander or the captain
and like now the whole police was on your service.
No, now it's like some people were for these guys.
Some guys were for these guys.
And actually right now they're actually fighting amongst each other.
Right now, actually, oh, I remember this.
I was showing Luisa a new story.
They're having, eventually it was going to happen because, you know,
they're serving a lot of people.
They're fighting each other because they act like cartels.
Sometimes they arrest the cops and this is public news.
They were arrested, cops like trying to sell weed that they confiscate,
not weed, I mean, drugs that they confiscated, mostly meth and cocaine,
you know, or fentanyl, like the pills.
But yeah, they've actually caught like other, like police have caught other
police trying to sell the shit that they confiscated.
And you know, because like they go and confiscate like, let's say like 50 keys
of cocaine from a certain cartel.
And if the cops go and present it to like the authorities and do the right thing,
like the cartel won't even trip.
But if they don't find out anything about the shipment and they just lost,
well, then that means the fool stole it.
So now it's personal, you know?
So now you see this, what do you call it?
Like when they leave the signs and messages on the bridges and stuff like,
hey, comandante, whatever, whatever, you took this shit from us.
You better either sell it back or give it back or, you know,
because one thing is getting confiscated and doing your job and, you know,
presenting it.
And one thing is you stealing it from them.
That's not a police job, you know?
So that they've been having a lot of trouble with that.
That now it's even, like it used to be like the guys that they were robbing
against the police, but now it's like other police against themselves.
They have this really famous group in Facebook where they're actually looking
for the, like they're, they just post every time they see the state police.
Because they've been getting this really infamous, what do you call it?
When it's a bad rep of just kidnapping innocent people now.
They used to do it to like-
The state police?
Yeah, they used to do it to criminals.
They used to like, you know, if you cartel, oh yeah, we got some money from you,
all right, we're gonna let you go, but we're not gonna keep this 50,000 bucks.
And you know, as a criminal, you're like, all right, cool, you know, fuck it.
You know, you know the drill, you know what's up.
But there's been news coming out where they've been doing it to like a regular businessman.
You know, you don't have nothing to do, but they see that you have money.
They can get a quick 10,000 from you, you know.
They might be like, you better give out this money or we're gonna present you to the
judge with like, I don't know, the fentanyl or something.
And they're gonna say that they caught you with it.
And even though you can prove that they didn't, it's gonna take months for you to prove that
which months that you can do in prison. So you don't want to do that, you know what I mean?
So if you have the 10,000 bucks, it's like a kidnapping, you know, it's just like a kidnapping.
So they've been, they've been really having bad rep because of that,
that now they created a famous, I mean, a Facebook group.
And it's not even cartel people, it's civilians in this group.
And it's like, like, it's like people just reporting on them.
Hey, they pulled over this car.
If anybody of you is like, if you know them, whatever, you know,
they've had them there for like about an hour.
And there's this other thing, it's illegal to check your cell phones
for the police to check your cell phones, but they don't get a book.
That's the first thing they, when they put you over, that's the first thing they ask for.
Really?
Yeah, they take your phone, if it's locked, you better unlock it.
And what are they looking for in your phone?
They look for the pictures, they look for the messages, they look for your notes.
They look for everything, like if you have, I mean, there's a bit of times where there's
like girls who are like, hey, I have like intimate pictures and be like, I don't care.
Better unlock your phone right now.
And one of my friends once said, I can't unlock it, bam, are you sure?
All right, unlocked it.
And I mean, I think anybody, you go to their phone, you've got to find something suspicious,
man.
I mean, even if you're innocent, you know what I mean?
I believe that anybody has like, because there's always this talk, like I got in trouble
once because I had some of my friends, they were like, hey, what's up?
Where's the weed at?
You know, they just wanted to smoke.
And he was like, hey, why is he asking you for weed?
Do you sell weed?
I did sell weed, but I didn't have proof that I sold it.
So I was like, nah, man, I'm just a stoner.
I was like, we smoke joints.
I don't drink.
I was like, it's like, if you homie calls you and he's like, hey, let's, let's drink a
sex pack.
I don't drink sex packs.
I smoke joints.
So my friends call me to smoke.
So I, that's how they, they, they got, I got off with that one.
But there's been times where I haven't gotten off and, and I've met, you know,
I've been through that drill, you know, the back of your head drill, you know,
tied up behind the police car.
How long ago did this happen?
I don't know where.
I pray, let's say about two years ago.
Two years ago.
Yeah.
I was in, like I said, I've been trying to stay away of the whole thing, but this,
this, this thing that came, there's this white guy, like ex-military and he gets a
bunch of guns and he sends them to TJ.
And I bought off one from one time, but it was just for me for like, for my house,
because you're in TJ, you know what I mean?
Like there's people like bringing in your houses, maybe you're just, you know,
whatever reason I just, you know, you feel safer.
I'm pro guns, you know?
So I'm like, I just had it in my house.
How could you not be in living?
Yeah, but, but, but once I bought that one of them, I bought that one gun.
My friends like, hey, would you get that gun?
I was like, oh, this white guy has it.
And he's like, oh, can you, can you give me one?
I was like, yeah, show.
So I hope.
American guy?
Yeah, he was ex-military.
He goes to these gun shows or a game, you know, where they do like expos and stuff and you get
cheap.
He has like a membership.
He's like a very well-known buyer.
So he gets a bunch of guns and he used to sell them and like get them in Mexico and stuff
because they're clean guns.
So like, I got one for myself just to keep in my house.
My friend wanted one for himself just to keep in the house.
But my friend's friend, he wanted three.
So I was like, yeah, he has them.
Like for me, it was like, yeah, he's right there.
So he bought three, you know?
And then he bought like another three.
Then he bought like four.
Then he bought like two AKs and stuff like that.
And I kept being the middleman because I was making like a few bucks on the side,
but I sometimes I didn't even see the guns because they were, they had their thing going.
Like, you know, they know who pick it up or whatever.
So they just, my friend just got the money to me.
So I get pulled over and I have all these messages with pictures of guns and prices
and the people I'm selling them to and shit like that.
You know what I mean?
So, so yeah, man, they're like, hey, what the fuck are you doing?
You know, like, like I said, sometimes they get innocent people,
but this time I was fucking up.
You know, I understand, I recognize I was fucking up.
But on my mind, it was just something like, it was, it wasn't that big of a deal
until I was with the cops.
So you got pulled over and then.
No, it was, it's some fucking bullshit.
I started, I've always been really careful, but really careful.
Like I've never, my house never got raided because of shit I've done.
Like I've always stayed like, I've never been arrested in Mexico or anything.
I was arrested over here, but it's American and I was crossing shit.
And I was young.
But, but after that little trouble, I've never been in trouble again.
I've never been arrested even though I kind of like fucked up sometimes.
I've gotten away with shit like that.
So, so at this point, I was doing that shit.
And I'm in TJ and my friends like, hey, let's go to Swami and I got to buy this computer.
So I'm like, all right, let's go.
I just rented a new house and I have no furniture and I only had like my bed, I think.
So I don't want to stay in there.
I didn't even have Wi-Fi.
So I was like, I'll go with you.
Cause he was like, wait for me here.
I was like, nah, I'll go with you.
So he's using an Uber to maneuver around because that's, that's the,
that used to be the easiest way to move around because you don't get pulled over.
They see it's an Uber.
They're like, you know, it's like, whatever you said in the bag,
the guy has the Uber application on his phone.
So it looks pretty clean.
So we move around like that.
We get to Swami.
We imagine being a fucking Uber driver in Tijuana.
Them overdrivers be moving stuff, some knowing and some not knowing because I've been in there
and the Ubers were like my backpack full of like two or three pounds of weed and like
edibles and just all kinds of dispensary shit.
And they don't even know.
So, yeah, we go to Swami.
Just to give you a little context, there's been reports of like
extortion going on.
Swami or like they are like little, little, you know, little shops.
What do you call it in Swami?
Like little, yeah, little, little, little different types of shops.
Some of them sell drugs or some of them are being distorted.
So we're not there to extort nobody.
We're not there to say anything.
We're just there to pay for a computer that my friend bought
for his kid that he's learning how to stream.
But as you can see, I look like a fucking Maro Salvatrucha with all my tattoos and shit like
that.
So I'm just like, I got sweats and I'm like, I just got out of the house.
So I'm not even dressed like, you know, like I'm like a sweatshirt and my friend,
my friend is like, he's dressed well.
So you put us together, you know, it kind of looked like some cartel shit going on.
You know, it's all well dressed.
He has a cholo with them all tatted out.
Like, and they always say this is like, yeah, you're the hitman and he's the boss.
Like, no, no, no, no, like we're whatever we're different.
So we pulled up to the shop with the computer.
And then what he's doing, the business, you know, they're showing on the computer,
the shit that it has.
And he, he's both out of the money.
It's like a thousand bucks to pay for it, but he has like, like 3000.
And then all of a sudden I hear a cop coming by because I'm just like on my phone,
like right outside the little shop on the alley.
And then the cop comes and I just seem like staring around and looking at me.
He's all fat and like, he looked more like a mall security.
So I see him and I'm like, whatever.
He's like, everything good.
I was like, yeah, what, what would it be, you know?
So I just keep minding my own.
And then I hear all kinds of radios and walkie talkies and keys.
And I looked him all right and four cops, four or five cops just coming our way.
At this point, I'm like, I'm the only suspect in here.
Like, there's no way they're coming for somebody else.
So my friends dealing with stuff with the computer.
So they just come grab me and throw me in the, the curtain, the metal curtain that they,
they used to close it.
The other shop was closed.
They just threw me against that shit.
And I was like, Hey, bro, you're tripping.
Like, I don't have shit on me.
Like, what are you doing?
He's like, nah, shut the fuck up.
They just came for, even the guy that was saying as a computer was like, Hey,
they're, they're just wired.
And they were like, Yeah, shut the fuck up.
You shut the fuck up.
So they didn't even ask us anything.
They handcuffed me and my friend.
They let the Uber go.
They let the Uber go.
We don't know if he's, if he's the one that, that, you know, like, that, uh,
said something for us to set us up or something.
So we're going to, to the, they're taking us out to Swami going to the patrol car.
They use pickups over there.
So, um, I'm like, these are stupid.
We only have like a wait pen.
Like, what the fuck are they?
Cause they're local police too.
They're not state police.
I'm scared of the state police.
So if they're local police, I'm like, Oh, these two is like, they're cooler.
You know, they're more understandable.
I thought they're more like, they're not that mean.
So I'm like, they're probably going to take us to, they're probably want money.
At first I'm like, they're probably want like 50 bucks or something.
Cause we got a wait pen and they're going to threaten us to, you know,
take us to the judge if we don't give them some money.
So, you know, I'm thinking this is going to happen.
But the guy takes our phones and puts a handcuffs us and throws us in the pickup
truck, but in the back, like in the bed and just facing down.
And at that point I was like, all right, all right.
This is not like, I've been a red light.
Like I've been, I've been through that shit a bunch of times as I was a kid,
a bunch of times.
I haven't run with the cops lots more than a hundred times probably.
And I know this is not one of the regular shit.
So we're riding on the back of the car and, and I kind of know where we are.
It's like the other side of the city I grew up,
but I kind of know where I, because I had a girlfriend over there.
So I literally see we drive past the police station.
And at this point I was like, whoa, whoa, whoa, what the hell's going on?
And some months back or something, I have some friends that were beefing with a cartel.
That is from the area that they were taking me.
So I'm like, oh, they probably think that I'm from you.
They probably think I'm associated with so-and-so and their beefing.
And they're taking me over here.
So I'm like, oh man, like, you know, this is not good, not good at all.
So yeah, man, we go up the hill and it's like dirt road and stuff.
Like just fucking, you could barely hear like cars and like people.
And they parked, cop gets off and he starts talking to us.
Like, come on, just tell me, tell me who you guys are.
Tell me what you guys do and we'll see how we can help you.
And we're like, what are you talking about?
You didn't catch us doing anything.
Like there's nothing you can catch us.
But like we just had a pen.
And my friend, I had like 300 bucks on me.
My friend had the money he was going to pay a computer.
So he's like, bro, I'll give you the computer money.
Just let me go.
If it's for the wax pen, like, I don't want, just let me go.
But at this point, my friend was, he's active.
The friend I was with, he works for this in the law and he was active.
He is active.
So he starts getting messages because he was,
well, what I mean when he's active, because I don't want to get,
there's all sorts of branches in the cartel.
He's in charge of like setting up cars to cross the border.
Okay.
You know, he doesn't sell over here.
He doesn't do anything and he just sets up cars over there.
And like, that's his thing, you know,
he's like the, what do you call it, like the freight or like the U-Haul.
Like the U-Haul transportation.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so he started getting messages of like some transportation
shit he was doing right now.
I didn't know because I'm not, I'm not like asking like,
Hey, so what are you doing around?
How many, you know, I don't care.
Like it's just regular shit.
So I just see him, he's working, whatever.
So he started getting messages and the cops are seeing and he starts like,
nah, you guys are not.
Nobody's like, tell me what you guys do.
And they have his phone.
They got both of our phones.
And they haven't unblocked them yet.
They just, they just seeing the tabs on the, but just from the tabs,
he could see what the fuck was going on.
Right.
So he's like, come on, tell me.
And then they have us like on our knees on the bed of the, of the pickup truck.
So we're kind of like face to face with him.
Oh shit.
And he, since he, they found his messages first, they, they're like unblocked
and he has that face, the unblocked idea.
But the sun was setting him on his face.
So he kept going like, oh, it's not working.
Bam!
Just fucking a right hook.
He sure is not working.
Come on.
Like he, and before going.
Punching him in the face.
Yeah. It was just pulling him in the face.
But, and then my friend was like, before he unblocked, he was like,
come on, man, help me out.
I'll give you a thousand bucks.
You didn't catch me with anything.
Why do you want to go through my phone?
At this point it comes like now, now I want to go through your phone.
So we have to unblock our phones.
Mine's digital.
So they just put me, put the, the fucking thumbprint and that was a wrap.
And, and like I said, I'm always careful.
I was always erasing my messages, keeping everything clean.
That's why I got him pulled over a few months before
and now I got away like clean because I didn't have anything on my phone.
They went through my phone and I didn't have anything.
But the other stuff that I was doing was like two, two days prior type thing.
And I was basically like going and coming and going to San Diego.
So in San Diego, I don't have to worry about raising messages.
So somehow they were still there.
But it was funny because after this, everybody was telling me,
bro, you're always erasing messages.
You're like, you literally forget what we're talking about
because you raised the messages and pictures.
How the fuck did they get you?
And I was like, bro, we all have her fucking five minutes of superior.
Like everybody, everybody, like there's no way you're going to be.
I mean, I've been in this and I've never had something like this happen to me.
Well, I've done some like really big shit and stuff.
And this is the first time.
And I think I got away pretty lucky after this.
Well, let me finish the story.
So, so yeah, man, they start finding everything.
And by this time, the local cops don't want nothing to do with us.
They're like, oh, you know what?
They put me back in handcuffs and they're like, and we're like,
so what's going to happen?
And they're like, oh, no, you'll see what's going to happen.
And this one, I'm like, oh, I'm dead.
Like if they don't want to take the money, they don't want to do like, what the fuck?
We're dead.
You know, why would they want to kill you though?
Because I thought they were working for the cartel.
That's beefing with my friend's cartel.
So I'm thinking there is some sort of confusion because you thought that they knew that yeah,
because they took me to that area.
The way it works over there, it's like, like certain sections, you know, like I'm by the beach.
So most of the part by the beach is run by one people.
And then next to the beach is by other people.
And then over there away from like to the east is like other people.
So like, let's say the guys from the beach are beefing with the guys from the east.
And I'm over over there.
And then all of a sudden they start taking me to like their main, their main area, you know, like,
so I'm like, oh, fuck.
And like I said, so like a few weeks before this, something big happened between them.
And we got it with people that that I know people from both sides.
So like at this point, like my consciousness is just betraying.
I'm like, oh, fuck, these guys think I'm, you know, I'm in the middle of this or something.
And that he didn't take the thousand bucks.
He didn't arrest us.
I'm like, what the fuck, you know, what else does he want?
Like everybody would take a thousand bucks just for a wax pen.
Like any car would take him.
You know what I mean?
So he just lays the left side, like tied up on the back of the car for 30 minutes.
I know this because my Google maps, my locations is on.
So afterwards I looked at all the places I've been because they took me to like different places
and it tells you how long you, you were there.
So I was there for like 30 minutes.
The longest of my life, bro, to be honest, the longest.
I was just thinking, I was, I was, what do you call it?
When you like just accept this situation, I was like, I'm gonna die like right now.
Like they're gonna shoot me like, and then I just started thinking like,
You had accepted it?
Yeah, I just, I was just making my mind up like, well, just for a little,
I always had this thing with death.
Like I always had like, you know, like, I was trying to like understand it.
Like I always had a problem.
Like every time somebody dies, it just hurts me a lot, you know?
So I started working with like the therapy and stuff like that,
just kind of like accept it somehow, like, you know, and,
but it kind of helped me because it changed my, the way I started, I lived.
Like that, that's one of the things that made me want to get away with it,
with get away from all the stuff because I was like, I don't want to like,
I don't want my mom to remember me as this cartel friends guy that always did stupid shit, you know?
So I just went through a lot of shit like that.
And at this point, I feel like I've changed, like I've done,
like I've done the music thing.
I've been with the music.
We made it big with the music.
My friends, he went like, for like star famous.
And I just keep working.
Like I manage a group of rappers in the Poco Locos Collective.
I do my writing.
I started the podcast.
So I'm, you know, I'm doing my, my other stuff.
So at this point I'm thinking I'm going to die.
And I'm like, well, you know what, man?
At least my mom's going to be like, well, at least he had a chance to fucking change.
You know, at least I got a chance to see him in a different face, you know?
Because if I would have died on my 20s,
they would have just remembered me as this fucking, oh yeah,
he just fucking was up to no good or all this shit.
But now I was like, thinking if I die now,
it's going to be a whole different perspective with me.
You know what I mean?
Even my shit's going to be viral.
You know, even my social media stuff, they're going to be like, oh,
because I'm pretty well known out there.
And among, now among the some famous people and the streets.
So you started like thinking about how you'd be remembered.
Yeah, I just, I just started setting, I just started accepting.
I was like, well, at least fucking, you know,
and then it got to a place where I was just so calm, like so, so, so calm.
Like I was impressed of how calm I was knowing or thinking that I was going to die
because my friend was scared, bro.
He was like, what do you think is going to happen to us, bro?
I didn't even want to tell them.
I was like, you don't want to know what I'm thinking, bro.
Like they're calling somebody else to pick us up.
I don't know who because that's what I heard.
It's crazy that this guy was more freaked out and he's actually active.
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, so 30 minutes go by, which seemed like two or three hours.
And we start hearing these tires again, the dirt road.
So we hear like, and then we hear all doors open, the cops get out the car too.
So you guys are, at this point, you guys are face down just in the back of the truck?
Yeah, we're face down, tied up in the, in the truck.
And I hear, I'm wearing yellow sweatpants.
So I hear the cops, the local cops tell the state cops, the one in yellow,
not in the face, because he's a U.S.
They said that in Spanish, but this basically, they said,
don't hit him in the face because he's a U.S. citizen.
They found my passport.
So at this point, I was like, all right, I'm getting in the body and we're getting hit.
That's one thing I know for certain, you know, they didn't say nothing about,
I mean, they wouldn't be worried about hitting me in the face if I was going to die.
So at this point, death is kind of like a little bit out the way, but still not much.
But, you know, by the things that I kind of put together, I was like, okay,
they're beating us up for something.
I thought when you said in the face, I thought you're meaning like shot.
No, they meant don't hit him in the face.
Got it.
So, so that's when I was like, okay, death is not, what's next?
Maybe it is, but not right now.
So right now it's a beating, which is kind of worth like shit, man.
I mean, the shot to the head would be, but you don't know what you're getting.
So yeah, they just come over, they pull the door down of the bed of the truck.
And we face up like this, you know, because we're all tied up and we're all scared and shit.
So they look at us and at this point, I know who it is because I see the state police uniform
and the patrol and they see my friend and they're like, and I don't think he meant it.
He just wanted to hit him to make it, make us know that they were for real
because they didn't hit me in the face and my face was the only thing available.
So they looked at my friend, he's like, I've gotten you before.
Bam, bam.
And they gave him a quick one too.
And my friend's like, nah, I never been ever shut the fuck up.
Bam, bam.
So they just drag us out the pickup truck.
I barely stand on my feet because I had hurt my leg.
I was doing a mural and I almost fell off the stairs.
So I landed a little bit back.
So I was, I was limping.
So I'm fucking trying to get in the other car that they were taking us to.
They put us in the other patrol car.
Now they put us inside, not in the bed of the car.
They put us inside, but with my, with my head in between my knees
and they just lifted out the, like the handcuffs in the back.
So we're literally, you know, fancy shit.
And they just keep hitting us on the way.
It's three cops.
It's one next to me.
It's in the back seat.
It's my friend, me and a cop and two guys in the front, the driver and the boss.
The boss was a copilot.
I don't know if he was like a commander or something,
but they kept calling our A commandante.
That was, that was the guy doing the orders.
And they take us to another place.
And they pulled me back in the, in the back of the, in the truck.
And they just start interrogation starts and they just start hitting us, man.
I mean, they start hitting me in the body, like in my legs and my, my belly, my chest,
back of my neck, you know, my back places where you couldn't really tell
that they were hitting me, but it just fucking hurts.
And, and my friends and, and I guess they were asking me some stuff, but they didn't really,
we had some, they were, they didn't know how deep we were, to be honest.
We found this out later.
When they kind of like lower down their, their attitude, but they just start finding all kinds
of shit on my messages, man, because I didn't, I didn't erase a lot of shit.
And they were actually playing like, fuck man, I have his friend.
He's in jail right now, but he used to tell me every time he killed somebody.
Every time he would send me audios while he was shooting people sometimes.
Like on messenger, he was like, Hey, I'm about to do a job right now.
These fools, they'd be fucking up, whatever.
And I was like, damn for like, I just like kept going.
Like, oh, dang, you're crazy, whatever.
There's nothing.
And then an audio like, look, look, look.
Hey, hey.
Like you hear shit in the audio like that.
So I had an audio like that.
And while it was playing, I tried talking to the council.
He wasn't listening.
I was like, Hey, hey, no, but let me tell you something, you know,
I try to like fucking come up with something.
So, and he's like holding my phone, like turn it here.
And it was, and I tripped out then because he didn't say anything about it.
He kind of like, he was like, what the fuck?
But he tripped out on the guns because there was more like, I had this conversation.
Let's say like you, you have cameras.
And then let's say one day I'm driving by out here and I see cops outside of your house.
And I show you a video.
I'm like, Hey, what's up with all these cops inside your house?
And then you showed me a video inside the cameras and you're like, nah,
I'm watching everything.
It's all good.
So they see that.
So they know exactly where it is because they got a video of the outside
and they got a video of the inside of the house.
And that's the guy that was buying me the guns.
So they, and I didn't, there was all this miscom,
mis, the cops actually told the cartel that I snitched on them.
They try to get me in trouble with them.
But the point is they found, they found this on my, on my messages and stuff like that.
And they were like, who is this guy?
I was like, I don't know.
I never met him because in the messages that there was like a middle guy,
like I was telling you, like the middle man.
I wasn't really sometimes not even seeing the guns, but I have pictures of them.
And the ones I had, I have pictures of them with this hand.
So my tattoos were showing.
So I couldn't really say it wasn't me because it was like, let me see.
And then they grab my hand.
Oh, that's you.
Yeah.
Bam, bam.
They just start hitting me in the wrist.
Because I wasn't admitting to anything.
Like they just kept going, no, no.
And then they, what are you saying?
No, but like, what the fuck?
I'm not going to say, yeah, like, what the fuck?
And so yeah, they found this stuff and they wanted me to take them to that house.
And I just kept saying, no.
I was like, no, I guess I don't know who he lives with, whatever.
And they put the bag on my face.
They actually took it from my friend because he was inside getting tortured and stuff.
So I seen how one, one cop, that's how I know it was too calm.
The cop was like, no, he's too calm, bro.
Like he's too, like, he's too chill.
Like fuck that.
He went inside.
He grabbed the bag from my friend's head, went outside and put it over my head just to like,
so I knew it was real.
But at this point, I don't know how it was a calm.
I thought, like, inside it was shit scared.
But I guess I wasn't showing it.
And because I thought I was just like, I was like calm.
But I was like, ah, fuck that.
I want this shit to end, you know.
And they put the bag over my head for a few seconds.
And I just kept saying, like, I don't know, bro.
Like, like, that's the only thing you see in the conversation.
That's the only thing I know.
So what would they assume from you being so calm that you were just like,
you've been through this before.
You were, you were cartel.
Yeah, they thought I was just way too used to this.
They thought I was way too used to this, that I was well protected,
that I was like, you know.
If the situation to come across where they had actually captured a guy who was a cartel
and was not afraid of getting, getting killed and knew that, like,
there would be repercussions, that guy would not show any sort of fear.
Well, maybe, well, it depends what kind of cartel.
Like, like my friend, he doesn't get violent.
He's not a violent person.
He's cartel because he moves stuff.
He works for them, but he's not a violent person.
So he was scared.
He was like, nah, just let me go.
I want to see my kid.
You know, he was begging for his life and shit.
The first thing I thought about was like that video of Ovidia,
the first video of Ovidia getting raided.
And he like comes out, he walks out.
He's on his phone.
He's like, hello, make a phone call.
He was like, so calm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, that's, that's kind of like that until most people have.
But, but if you're like, like my friend, he's just like a real family dude.
You know, so he's more of a, he was really nervous.
He was like, but, but like on some, like, I'm, I, you know,
I kind of grow up more of a violent in my room, I wouldn't say.
Yeah.
And, and I do have my run-ins with cops since I was young,
like just a lot because I always dressed like, like baggy and stuff like that.
I always looked suspicious type.
I was always getting thrown in joey.
They take you over there for like overnight shit.
You know, if you're walking late or whatever,
for whatever reason that would take me.
So I knew a little bit, but I, I still get scared, bro.
Like don't get me wrong.
Like I still don't want to deal with, I always, I'm always nice to them.
I'm never like, I'm never like on my, my bravado type.
And I'm always like, Hey officer, you know, I'm like,
I'm doing good, like whatever.
I don't have license, but I don't have any drug, you know,
like I try to play cool.
And, but these guys, they were just like on it.
They, they didn't want no fucking nice part of it.
They were like, nah, nah, nah.
So, uh, so yeah, they're, they're, they're looking at me and they're like,
you're too calm, whatever this and that.
They put the bag over my head.
They find this stuff.
And eventually they just started asking me about like, all right,
just give me a house, give me a name or something.
I was like, bro, I'll give you my gun.
I don't want to like, I don't have nobody else to snitch on.
Like I'll give you my shit.
Like I'll give you my gun.
It's in my house.
Let's go get it.
Like, uh, you don't even have to like rate it.
Like literally somebody can go out there and give it to you.
Like that's the only thing I have.
And, uh, at this point, uh, they start getting calls because one of the cops
took a picture of me when they found the, the houses.
And when they found the pictures, one of the guys took a picture of me.
Apparently he is connected with, uh, my friend's cartel.
Sinaloa?
No, no, Tijuana.
Okay.
No, no, no, not the friend I was with.
With my other friends.
Got it.
So apparently, uh, yeah, he shoots, they got this like telegram and apps like that,
where they, they got the whole group in there and you shoot a picture and like,
Hey, anybody know this guy?
Because he snitching on so-and-so.
So the cops have some sort of a telegram channel connected to these cartels?
There's always like in a, in the group of cops, there's always one or two that
aren't in groups to stay connected with the, with the cartels, whatever,
whichever they're working on.
For example, like in case they kidnap somebody who's part of the cartel.
Yeah, like if, uh, let's say for instance, I would have been a son of somebody important
or something like that, you know, they would have been, uh, and I didn't tell them because,
because like, even like when you brag about being somebody, that's not well looked upon,
you know, unless you're like really, really somebody be like, Hey, I'm this guy,
like don't fuck with me.
But at that point, they know, you know, but when you're like coming up or when you're like,
we're not even like a real member, like I was nothing, you can't really be like, Hey,
you know who I am.
Like, you know, that's not even the attitude, especially if you want to,
I've always been a negotiator type.
Like I don't get, like I get crazy sometimes, but with the cops, I'm always negotiating
because you're not going to beat them.
You're never going to beat them.
So it's better to negotiate and be friends with them and be on the good side, you know.
So, um, so yeah, I mean, at this point, yeah, one of the cops takes a picture of me.
I didn't realize, but I was, I was handcuffed, takes a picture of me and sends it to a group
and everybody knows me because he sends it to my friends group.
And, um, and once everybody starts like, Hey, what's up?
Like, why are you getting like, cause I'm not involved in, you know what I mean?
I'm like, I'm like super like their party is such.
So everybody's mostly like surprised that they have me there and tied up and saying that it's
nits. So, so now they're like, they're calling the cops.
They're like, Hey, what's up with my boy?
You know, what do you need for, for him to let him go?
Like, so now they start getting calls from, uh, Sina Loa too, because my friend,
he's connected to, so I guess they send the picture to of him to the other group.
So now they got these guys looking for us.
And at first nobody knew like they had us, you know, cause they just caught us like
an assault me, like some random shit, but now they, they actually made everybody know.
So now they're, they just want to hurry up.
They're like, okay, so what are you going to give me?
And I was like, like I said, I got my gun in my house.
I'll give you that. How are you going to do it?
I was like, well, my friend, he's a, he's a psychologist.
He lives right in front of my house.
He's my childhood friend.
He does not have nothing to do with it.
And he knows my family.
I can tell him, go in, get it.
He'll bring it back out to you.
You guys don't have like my grandma lives there.
Like I was in TJ.
I was like, it's my grandma's house.
It's all family.
Like you don't, there's no need, bro.
Like there's just a way to time you break into my house.
Like I literally just will give you what I have.
And they're like, all right, call your friend and tell them to get the gun ready
and take it to the also, you know, or 7-Eleven.
And so I'm doing this negotiation.
My friend is doing another negotiation with the ones he's dealing with.
They're asking him for $3,000.
After all of this shit they saw on her phones,
they only want my gun and $3,000.
Well, at this point we were in together, so we didn't know.
But I was like, damn, they only want my gun?
I was like, they were asking me for all of these kinds of information and shit.
And now they only want my gun.
I was like, okay, you know, what's going on?
So, okay, so we, we, we come to an arrangement.
I'm going to give them my gun and they're going to let me go.
So they put me, okay.
They put us back in the, in the car, you know, same again.
Head between the knees, hands behind your back.
And it's a long drive because I live on the other, all the way to the other side of the city.
So we're just driving.
And they're, they keep going through my phone and they were like,
so what, you got a podcast?
What's up with all these pictures?
Well, it's famous people and stuff like that.
Well, I was like, well, I do, I've been telling you, like,
cause I've been telling, I was like, I've been telling you, I do music.
Like I do this and that.
And I got a podcast and, and you know what?
You should come to, you know, you should come in.
Let's talk about this at the podcast.
I'm tight up, bro.
I'm like, my head between my knees and shit in the back of the patrol car.
And, and we're having like a little five minutes of bonding.
You know, like they're forgetting I'm arrested.
I'm forgetting I'm a victim.
And we're just talking about like podcasting.
We're talking about El Caldern.
Shout out to Ed.
I don't know him personally, but I was, I was telling him like,
Hey, you ever seen this guy, El Caldern?
He's like, because they've, oh, okay.
Just going back.
They saw pictures of Gordo Villarreal, the one I was mentioning.
He goes way back.
So the guy in charge, the cop, he's like, Hey,
what do you have pictures with him for?
Like, what the fuck is he up to nowadays?
And I was like, what do you mean?
Like, you know, he's like, I used to chase him back in the day.
Like I'm, I'm from, he mentioned Ed's team.
He's like, I'm from, I'm from the team of Liza,
all that type of thing, whatever.
I used to chase all these motherfuckers, whatever.
And I was like, well, you should come and talk about this, bro.
Like, I'm like, you should talk because I interviewed Gordo
and he's still in prison, but you should come and talk about this.
And that, that's where I was like, you know, El Caldern?
He's like, no, what the fuck is that?
I was like, what do you mean you don't know El Caldern?
And I was like, and, and the guy had my phone.
The guy next to him was like, Hey, can you pull up the Instagram?
He's like, what, what do I type?
I was like, can you type Ed's manifesto?
He's like, how the fuck you type that?
I was like, put it on my, put it on my head.
So I fuck, I type it from, and they're going through Ed's.
Um, I actually texted, I don't know Ed, I never talked to him,
but I actually texted this to his Instagram to tell,
told him the story.
They're actually going through his Instagram while we're tied up
and we're driving to one of the houses going through it.
And they're like, nah, man, he's a phony.
I never seen him, whatever.
I was like, nah, man, I think he's the real deal.
He's like, man, all these people coming out.
If I were to come to your podcast and I told the stories, man,
I would be given a real thing.
I was like, what was so, you know, when should we do it?
And they were just, they were not going for it because like I said,
there was only like five to 10 minutes of bonding
after we started getting close to, to,
I thought we were going to my house.
When they made me look up, we were outside my friend's house.
Like the pictures that they found, we're outside that house.
So at this point, I was like, oh yeah, we're bonding.
We're just going to my house.
I'm going to give them the gun.
They're going to let me go or whatever.
So I was like, hey, all right, shut the fuck up now.
They slide me in the back and he's like,
levanta la cabeza.
So I look up and I was like, oh, shit.
And, and I see my homies block.
And I like, nah, I don't know what house it is.
I was like, nah, bullshit, what house it is?
I was like, I don't know.
Like, like you seen in the pictures,
like I just drove through the box.
I don't know.
I just know because he sent me pictures
of his inside of the cameras,
but I don't know what house it is.
And the same cop that took a picture of me,
he was a driver.
He looked and he was like,
well, that's the only house with cameras.
So he took a picture of the house with cameras
and he sent it to the text again.
And he sent it to the group
and he was like, he's niching on this house.
I don't know this.
They told me this afterwards,
but he was like, hey, he's niching on this house.
And, and that's like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, that's,
that's one of our houses.
Like don't, don't, don't fucking go in
whatever this and that.
And I didn't like, they would have gone in
if I would have told them like,
hey, that's his house,
shit's in there, whatever.
They would have gone in, bro,
before even like texting the house.
But since I didn't want to give it up,
I guess the cop kind of like,
he was like, all right, let me ask first.
I guess, I don't know.
But once he asked, they were like, no, no, no, no, no,
not that house.
So they didn't go in the house.
And after that, they just busted a U-turn
and they took me to my house.
So now we're getting to my block.
I call my friend.
I'm outside of, I'm like, hey, what you doing?
He's like, oh, no, man.
I just saw my way to also get a,
get me a beer you want.
Like, can I drink it at your house?
Cause they, they drink it at my,
I got a little in my studio.
It's like a spot.
It's like right here if they come in and chill,
like they like to drink beers.
I don't drink, but I let them drink at my house
and I smoke.
So he's like, hey, I'm on my way to get a beer.
Can I drink at your house?
You at your house?
I was like, uh, not, not yet, man,
but I need a real big favor from you.
He's like, what, what's going on?
I was like, can you grab my gun?
It's in my purse and one of my baggies.
And just take it also.
I'll pick there.
I'll pick it up there.
He's like, hey, dog, everything cool.
I was like, yeah, yeah, it's just, just, just handle, bro.
Like this is real serious, bro.
Don't fuck it up.
And he's like, yeah, yeah, no worries.
But he's like, he's like, whatever.
I'm just going to give my friend, like,
like that's what I was telling you before.
He's, he's in the middle of something,
but we're so, we're so used to like this life.
It's nothing like I could have asked him for my jacket.
You know, it was the same shit.
You know what I mean?
So, so he, he, he gets that shit.
We're parked like a block away and we're seeing my friend go
from his house to my house, get the bag,
go in his car and drive to the ox.
So that's two blocks away.
So he's like, that's him, right?
It comes out like that's him, right?
That's him.
I'm like, yeah, that's him.
So they go and they, and they pull up on him
and they act like they are like, are arresting him.
Like they get him out of the car and he's scared.
He's like, what the fuck?
And he's thinking that I snitched on him because later on
he's like, bro, I thought he snitched on me.
I was like, bro, you're fucking psychologists.
You were just giving me my, like, how am I snitching?
He's like, nah, I wasn't, he was like that friend
that thinks he was in the middle, like a big ass fucking.
Yeah.
He was like, nah, man, like, but then after a while,
he's like, nah, he was just fucking around.
But he's at this point, he's thinking like,
I fucking call the cops or something.
So they take the gun from them, they search
and whatever they get the gun.
And one of the cops is like, hey, man,
don't be hanging out with the wrong crowd.
This way you get for hanging out with friends like this.
Don't be hanging out with this kind of friends.
You're a good guy, bro.
Like he starts to give him a lesson.
But then they get in the patrol car again
and they just start acting like they just wrap somebody.
Like, go, go, go, go, go, go.
And the guy is driving and like, go this way, go this way.
No, no, no.
Turn this, no, I know this road over here.
There's a lot of cops over here.
Go this way.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
We're in the patrol car like running away from the cops.
Like, damn.
So now we're going to my friend's house
because he lives all the way on the other side of the city.
He promised them $3,000 at this point.
I don't know, but that's what he told me.
So we go, we meet his mom at a public place
like a car junior or something.
And the lady hands over the money and they lay my friend go.
So the guy in the back, he kind of actually like,
I think he follows me on Instagram
because he was asking me like my social media.
And I think he follows me.
He was like, hey, so we're going to let him go too, right?
I asked him about me.
I'm all tied up and shit.
And one of the cops is like, no, no, no, not yet.
And I was like, whoa, like, whoa, bro, like you got my gun.
You got the money.
Like, what do you mean not yet?
You know?
And they just close the doors.
They get in the car and they just drive off.
And I was like, what?
And then they took me to this like little industrial blocks.
And they just like, get the fuck out of the car
and don't look back.
Don't look back.
Like a fucking kidnapping.
And they're like, don't look back.
Look, walk straight.
And I'm like, bro, I don't fucking want,
like I just want to go home at this one.
Like you got my shit.
Like I don't want to, they were scared.
They kept telling me like on my way,
when they were going to drop me off, they kept saying like,
hey, bro, remember, I'm doing your favor.
Don't go up.
Don't go crying to, you know, to, you know who.
I was like, no, I'm like, bro, I'm straight.
Like just let me go.
He's like, no, no, no, we've caught many people like you.
And I help him out.
He was, he was like, look at this fucking site.
He's like, I help him out.
And then they fucking, they go and tell the guys, the bosses,
and now I get shit.
So like you, I call you slipping today.
I'm going to let you go with some money.
And that's it.
Be like, take it as a man.
And he was kind of right.
You know, I was fucking up.
I was doing shady shit.
You know, I should have been arrested,
but the streets and TJ is different.
So I didn't get arrested.
He let me go home and they took my gun from me.
So it's even, you know what I mean?
But I can sense his,
he was scared, you know, like not,
maybe not scared of me, but of a backlash of some stuff
because all the people that just were like,
Hey, I know him.
I know him.
So he was like, don't go tell them.
Like don't go crying to them, you know?
And I'm like, bro, I don't fucking want nothing.
I just want to go home or no smoking,
join me with my fucking dog.
You know what I mean?
Like, so, so yeah, they just dropped me off
at an industrial complex and they gave him my shit back
and they just drive off.
And I was already fucked up on my leg.
So now I'm limping like for real.
My ribs hurt, my knees and shit.
And I get my phone down.
And the first thing I do, I get the Google Maps
and see where the fuck I am.
Cause I don't know where I am.
I'm like, all right, I'm on the other side of the fucking city.
So then my friend calls me, the one that they just,
he's like, Hey, where are you?
I'll pick you up right now.
Like, and I said on my, my location, he picks me up.
And on my way to this house, I'm checking my phone
and there's just all kinds of messages, man.
Like, Hey, what happened?
What are you doing?
And one of the guys I trust the most, he used to be a military.
He used to be, what do you say?
How do you say teniente in English?
Like lieutenant, maybe it's something like that.
I want to say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Something like that used to be, yeah.
But now he became a personal security guard.
Like you could hire, like, you know how you hire
ex-military shit, but a lot of cartel people hire
that type of security guard too.
So he, he's got connected that way with them.
So he has communication.
He doesn't work with them or anything, but he has good,
they respect them and he has good communication.
So he was telling me, he's like, Hey,
this is the word that's going around that you snitched on this guy
and you better fix that shit because, you know,
so I'm like, what the fuck?
I, I'm thinking like, okay, I got off my shit.
Like finally they let me go or whatever.
And now I got handled with all this fucking pressure
from the cartel and shit like that.
The cops that you snitched.
Yeah, I didn't know that.
That's why, what happened?
Like, why are they tripping?
He's like, well, no, they're saying that,
that you, you took them to this house.
I was like, if I would have said the shit was in there,
they would have broken in because one time it happened to me,
they caught my friend, they found pictures of shit I had in my house
and he said they were in my house and they broke into my house
and they took them.
So I was like, if, if I would have said that they would have
did the same shit, like it's, it's exactly the same case.
I was like, I didn't, I didn't say anything.
I mean, that's why I got the fucking bag on my head.
You know what I mean?
Like, and, and, uh, so, so these days, probably week,
week and a half go by of just negotiations of just
trying to convince them and trying to like,
because they were like, nah, the cop told me, bro,
like, I don't know why would he lie to me?
I was like, why would I fucking lie to you?
He's like, well, cause I could kill you if you were late.
And I was like, nah, but I like, you know, so eventually, like,
the guy, the house they showed up to,
the guy, he's actually my friend.
Like it's, it's not only a business.
He was actually my friend.
So, so eventually he was like, ah, you know what,
but I believe you, bro.
Like, like, like, I know I was tripping at first, whatever.
But, and like I told him, like, I was tripping
when somebody snatched on me.
Like, I feel you, bro.
Like, I know I, I've been in your shoes before,
but this time that wasn't it.
Like that's why they didn't bring him to your house.
Otherwise they would have just gone in and burst it in.
Like they always do, you know?
But I didn't say anything.
Like whatever they found, I know I fucked up
because I didn't raise the messages.
You know, everybody even like, like the boss,
I don't want to say them, but like the,
the real head of the cartel right now,
he's like, eh, no suspendejo borra mensal.
He's like, come on, don't be stupid.
Raise the messages next time.
And it's funny because like I said, everybody knows,
like, bro, you always erase the messages.
Like what happened to him?
The cartel told you that?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Because he, yeah, because he was in the group
when they asked for me.
And I, I've met him like a couple of times.
I've shook his hand before and we're been like at the party.
And, and I know people that work for him.
I know a lot of people that work from Seoul.
So it's just this like familiarity of like,
like, like he probably said he knew me,
but he doesn't really know me.
You know, he's like, oh yeah, I know him.
Like, you know, that type of thing.
But, but yeah, like people next to him know me.
People like on the same level of him know me too.
So, so I was kind of like, kind of like protected,
I could say that from that occasion.
But at the same time, I'm now like, okay, we backed you up,
but now you got to respond to us for what the fuck happened.
But at the same time, I was like, what am I responding to?
You guys didn't get anything confiscated.
You didn't, your houses didn't get raided.
Like nothing happened to you guys.
You know what I mean?
Like I'm the one that paid for my shit.
I gave him my gun.
Like I'm the one that got beat up, you know?
So yeah, eventually it was just like a little tension
the first couple of days.
And then now I'm cool with my friend.
You know, like, I would sound like, bro, like,
I know my fucking like cute fools like years later.
So I'm just going to trust you and, and you know, like,
and know that we're cool.
But not, not like, I trust him.
And I know he, he understood the situation and what happened.
Like I said, man, the good thing is that I never get in trouble.
Like the cartel never had to do this type of things for me.
Like, like it's not like, oh, they always got to be answering.
You know, this is never, that's why when,
when the one and only time happened, they were like,
what the fuck?
Like, why do you have him for like, you know what I mean?
It seems like the cops are making shit worse down there.
Yeah, they kind of are because.
It seems so backwards, but it seems like it's true.
It seems like if they weren't there,
there wouldn't be all this fucking bullshit happening.
Yeah.
And the thing is back then, we were talking about,
you know, Ramon and them, they used to have,
they used to be very violent with the cops.
Like back then, bro, like even when I was like 17 coming up,
you could like literally be drinking in your car, whatever.
If the local cops pulled you over, you would be like,
Hey, what the fuck are you doing?
Like, let me the fuck are you like,
you could be like a fucking pain in the ass for them.
They, they would have to bow their heads out
because they were like.
They were terrified.
They were terrified of the cartel.
And like, I don't know if I told you this over the phone.
What time I was like, yeah, like 17, 18,
and I was with one of my, I was with him,
one of my friends that passed away
and he was very well connected as we were young.
And they pulled us over, we're on our way to deliver some,
he used to sell Coke.
Like he used to sell like AIDS and stuff like that.
And we just on our way to deliver.
I was with him on our way to deliver.
And we got pulled over by like two local cops.
And he was trying to like, you know,
I feel like he was one of the good cops.
He was just in a, he was just surrounded by guys
that weren't backing him up.
But he seemed like one of the good cops
because he wasn't backing down.
My friend was telling me like,
Hey, I work for such and such.
Like, you should just let me go.
Like we're being nice.
He's like, Hey, I work for such and such.
I'm just on my way to do something.
Let me go.
Like, you know, I'll give you 15, 10 bucks.
Back then it was like 20 bucks, like the rate, you know,
for just getting pulled over.
Usually like, Hey, I got pulled over.
Oh, just give him something or buy him some.
But because they come to the coca, to the coca,
that's what they say, you know, to the coca, you know,
usually like 20 bucks, you know, whatever you have something.
So we're trying to get away with that.
And the cow was like, no, no, no, no, no, whatever.
He was like standing his ground.
So my friend called his boss and he's like,
and his boss is like, Hey, hand them over the phone.
Tell them to answer the phone.
And the cow was like, No, I'm not talking to anybody.
And back then it was like, Oh, you know, and so my friends
like, Hey, he said he's not picking up the phone.
So my friends like, we saw his boss was like, Oh, what?
Give me the patrol number.
So we look back.
He's like, all right, P two, nine, one, whatever.
He hangs up probably like a minute and hey,
and they call them on his walk and they're like,
You better let my nephew go right the fuck now.
I didn't hear the rest.
I'm guessing, you know, what they said.
But the cop came back.
He's like, Hey, why didn't you tell me you work
for such and such?
We told you, but we look young.
Like if I, I look young at night, 18, 18, I was,
he looked like the youngest.
So we took, we looked like two kids, you know,
trying to play hard, but we were the real,
like my friend was connected, you know,
so he didn't believe us.
So he was like, why don't you tell me you guys
work for such and such?
And my friend was like, I told you, he's like, Oh man,
you just got me in trouble or whatever.
Like, bro, I told you, like, I wasn't even trying
to get you in trouble.
Just trying to get on my way.
That's how the local police cops used to be treated back then.
Now it's just like, well, what I was saying
is back then they used to keep them in line with,
the narcos used to make way more money
than what they do now, like what the bosses do now.
So they had just way more power where they like,
what could just buy the whole police
and they could kill like, like police bosses, you know,
and police chiefs and stuff.
Why don't they make that kind of money anymore?
Because it used to be a one organization,
but now it's all broken up.
Now you got three cartels.
If they work together, they could become what it used to be.
But it's not, that's not the thing anymore.
Not even in Sinaloa.
Like everybody, all the big organizations,
like what you see in narcos and all that broke down
and everybody just start, it just keeps branching out,
you know, every time they catch someone,
two guys come out every time they catch them.
Which makes it where it makes the situation
way worse, way more violent.
Yeah. And it also, but it makes it violent amongst them
because now like nobody wants to kill cops
because it's too much heat.
It draws too much heat so nobody wants to fuck with the cops.
They're shooting some, like the ones that they killed recently,
like from, I don't know, like seven years from,
yeah, probably like seven years now,
they killed them because they've been stealing,
they've been, you know, they've been messing with the cartel.
But back then they used to kill guys that didn't,
that like didn't want, you know, platoploam or remember that,
like they worked for us or were dead.
Well, back then they used to do that
and that's how they ran the police.
Like that's how the police will bow down to them.
Right now nobody wants to kill police
and I'm not saying they should,
but right now nobody wants to do that kind of activity
because it creates heat and they don't, they can't,
they try to worry about more as businessmen to make money.
And the guys that are fighting,
the guys that is violent or anything,
are the guys that are fighting the little drug houses
where they sell meth.
And usually in those houses, they sell,
like their biggest income is meth,
but they sell like, like little Reggie, they sell pills,
they sell like, like...
Yo, can you turn that back on Austin?
Shit's fucking loud.
It's a, what's the difference from wholesale?
It's wholesale and...
Wholesale retail.
Retail, yeah, it's like little retails.
Like the retail, those are the ones that are killing every day
because that's like gang violence.
That's like one block is run by Sinaloa,
or another block is run by Jalisco,
and like the other two blocks are run by Tijuana.
And then like the blocks in front of it, it's all Sinaloa.
So it's just like gang fights.
It's just like Crips and Bloods.
And that's one section of the cartel fighting.
They have power over police too,
because the bosses of certain areas, they also pick up.
So like, recently they had this other cartel
trying to come in where I'm from in TJ,
to this area where the same people have ruled for like years.
And now they're like, many people have tried to come
and take their stuff, but they're always like,
they're always standing around.
And so some guys actually opened a little retail trap house
in one of their blocks.
And the state police showed up and they went in there,
they took everything and they left to their bodies outside.
And I only know this because a big deal,
it was right next to my friend's house.
And like three different friends live in that block
because this is a closed street, it's a no-out street.
So they all know each other.
It's like a little, they're always hanging out together.
So they know everybody.
So this happened.
And now the owners of that turf, they went back
and they're like, hey, we want to see the cameras of your house
because we want to see what cops did this.
So my friend, my friend doesn't want to be in the middle of it.
He doesn't want to let you know.
So he just, he didn't want to show,
like he didn't want to give out the camera, the videos.
So they found that they were going to kill him.
So he had to move.
He had to leave his house because there's this war going on
in this fucking neighborhood.
And his cameras got what happened.
And now, you know, and that's the section of the retelling
trap houses part of the cartel.
That's the most violent.
The guys that work wholesale, it's very well known
when one of them dies because most of them are pretty chill.
You see them out in clubbing.
You see them out.
They're like businessmen and they're like,
do you see them in parties?
You see them, you know, you know, they're the bosses,
but they're not in like, yeah, they're more businessmen.
So when one of them dies, you're like, oh,
shit, like that fool like either became a snitch for the DA
or he was, he stole from somebody.
He switched cartel.
Like, you know, like something, something out of that sort.
But all the other like 10 killings you see during the day,
all the other 20 Joes, the article, John Doe's that you see.
That just meth heads.
That's just a friend's of meth heads, you know, junkies.
Yeah, junkies and a lot of innocent people too, man.
A lot of innocent.
I know when TJ, when somebody dies,
it's very well known that, oh, he must have been
in, you know, something.
But now, man, many people, like I was telling you, like,
it's like, if we're just having lunch and we're just friends,
maybe we just met or like, I got to tell me that he used to play soccer,
but he was involved with the cartel and he was with other,
with a soccer player celebrating after,
and they just came and shot up the place.
You know, and it's this place where like, bro,
who shot the place?
They were, they were going to get one of them, the cartel guy.
But he was celebrating with the soccer team.
So they just showed up to the.
The shot the whole place.
And just shot the whole place.
And that's how many innocent people die.
And they're not involved.
Like, how do you, like, if you're in a soccer team
and a cartel member, do you just like, oh, you know what?
I don't want to be in the soccer team anymore.
Because he's playing.
Do you really do that?
Like, really?
Really?
Do you really do that?
Not really, man.
You know, you don't, you, your first thought is going to be,
well, I never see this guy.
I don't hang out with him.
I only see him in soccer play.
So whatever, you know.
Well, also, Louise was telling me that when they raided
Ovidio's house, that the army killed tons of, like, not tons,
but there was a lot of civilians who got shot and killed
during that whole shootout.
And they, and apparently from what I understood,
is that they captured Ovidio.
Like, they had some paramilitary guys come in
in a helicopter, take Ovidio out,
and then they started the big fucking gunfight.
If you hear the radio frequencies, you could hear
when they're like, hey, where is the, we're getting raided
by the white people or like the whereos, you know?
Like, they're, you know what I'm saying?
You got those whereos, you got those whereos.
They're actually reporting because, you know,
they use Mexican military too, but they also,
white people, like the agents, they do operate.
It's so well-known that they mention it in Corridos.
And their own Corridos, like when they're bragging
about stuff and anything, there's this couple lines
where they're like, oh yeah, we're looking out for the Marines,
but also those undercover DA Marines,
those DA that dressed as Marines.
Yeah, we see you, we know you're there.
You know, they say there's lines like this in their Corridos.
So it's well-known, man, because they're patrolling the streets
and they're pulling people over.
And if they pull somebody over and they don't find anything,
let's say they pull me over and they don't find anything on me,
but I see that some of them are white, you know?
Some of them aren't speaking well-gothed Spanish.
So I go and they let me go.
So I tell my friends like, hey, there was white people with them, you know?
So this word just starts spreading around so much.
They see them so much that now it's like they're recognizing me, you know?
So in the frequencies, the radio frequencies that they get on the social media,
you could hear them saying, hey, we're getting right by the whereos,
like the whereos nos callero on a video, like, you know, they're getting a video.
So, you know, it's stuff like that that's not mentioned as well as the people that died,
you know?
Like I was telling you earlier, like, when they're going to,
when they want to clean something, you know, it's kind of hard to pick and choose
who's guilty and who's not.
Because like I said, it's not certain type of people, you know?
It's not like, oh, only these guys are, like, only the guys that dress like these are.
Nah, man, like, especially in those rural areas where, look, man,
all these rural areas in Mexico, they never had a good relationship with the military.
If you go back to, like, the days of the revolution and stuff like that,
they were always fighting the military.
It's always the military against the countryside people, because they're forgotten,
you know?
The government doesn't do anything to them.
So this hate doesn't come from, like, the narcos, you know?
It's been, it's just been boiling through generations and generations.
So these people, obviously, are going to back up their local, you know?
In this case, Ovidio or Chapo.
So you, as a cop, you're going in them and telling you that the whole town is against you.
So, like, I mean, I'm not saying they did it on purpose, but if you're fucking shooting
and in adrenaline and then you see a couple of kids or guys running somewhere and fucking
shoot them too, you know?
Maybe they were just trying to get away.
Right.
Because if you see the shootout, they're shooting in the middle of the town.
It's not like, I mean, it is in the outskirts.
It is a rural area, but it's still a lot of houses and a lot of families and a lot of stuff.
It's still like a neighborhood, you know what I mean?
So the military has this rep of, like, just picking up the dead and disappearing.
You know, even in, they started happening when they have this big shootout,
back in, like, 2009, 2010, when this big shootout started happening, when they're like,
everything became militarized, you know?
Like the setas and all this stuff.
And it was funny because you would see this news where it was like,
14 sickarios killed, one arrested, and one military injured in the leg.
You're like, really?
Like nobody gave up.
Like you killed the first two guys and nobody gave up.
And then stories started coming out.
Like they were just killing them.
They weren't arresting them because they would eventually be like, go by the judges.
So after the shootout, they just killed everybody.
Even the guys that were begging for the lives or, you know, they're crawling.
Like they would just shoot everybody.
And it's common sense, like, there's no way the 15 sickarios
fought to the death.
You know, at least there's going to be five that is going to be like, you know what?
Fuck this.
You know, like, fuck that.
You know, that's human nature, you know?
So it just, if you, like, like I said, yeah, I've always read news and stuff like that.
I've always been on point with that.
So you started seeing all these stories.
And I asked my military friends, I was like, this is military propaganda.
You can't really say that how many military men are actually injured, right?
He's like, nah, man.
The lieutenant, he's like, because if we do, we lower the morale on the, on other places.
And they're going to think that we're losing.
Like there were some places where like, it was only main news that militaries died because
the cartel will leave like stacks of bodies in a very well known road.
What made it like fucking like obvious, like you can't hide that, that you guys are taking,
you know, deaths too, you know?
So I asked my friend, he's like, yeah, we, we can't really, what do you say?
Like the void or we can really say, we kind of hide that information because we don't want to
lower them or also the troops that are actually fighting out there, you know?
And because it's semi-logical that, you know, like only one military hurt and like,
I mean, I know the car is can shoot, but you know, like, I would expect to a few more,
especially when they're like getting ambushed, like sometimes military will be like parked
in a gas station and then bam, another convoy of cars just pulled up and started
shooting at them and then it hit nobody.
Like really?
Right.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I'll see what you're saying.
Well, what sort of plan is there?
What is the president of Mexico talking about when it comes to trying to eradicate the violence
between all these cartels?
Like what, what do they say they want to do?
Like what is their plan and what is actually being done?
And do you think any of this shit will work?
Do you see any end to this?
I have a lot of friends, not only the cartel, but I have friends in politics.
I have a lot of reporter friends a lot.
Like I like all the stuff, but what I've seen with this government, anything they,
they, well, his, you know, his, his slogan, right?
With the hugs not drugs?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hugs, not bullets, abrazos, no balazos.
He's kind of stand on it, to be honest, because the cops are crazy.
Like I was saying in my city, they just, they're just taking advantage of like,
of the situation, you know, they're, uh, most of these, maybe even in Sinaloa,
like the, the, the bosses right now, they've been bosses for like 10 plus years now.
They haven't had no like attempts.
Usually used to read about, oh, they were close to El Mayo.
Oh, they, they almost caught a chopper.
He got away or, or whatever it was.
But the guys that have been here for like the last 10 years,
they've been, they've been like, you see them at parties.
I see them at parties.
I've seen them like in, in, in, but why, why Ovidio?
Why did they get him?
I think my, my hypothesis on that from the different information I gather is that,
you know, how they, they say they stumbled upon them.
They didn't know they were going to get them the first time they got them.
Like when they ran into them, I, I think this is its version where he's like,
when they get them, they're like, oh, shit.
They didn't know it was him, you know, but sucks for him.
But now they know who he is.
And now he, well, the fact that they, the whole thing happened,
how they took him away from the government.
Because it was public.
They had to admit they now, like, if he would have been arrested that day,
he would, he would have probably made it like, uh, with money, you know,
probably bribing a judge.
He probably would have gone out because he wasn't that big.
He wasn't that known.
Like, like his, his brothers are like in the, in the most wanted, you know,
cartels and stuff like that.
But he wasn't really that much.
Like he's well known among the things, but it's different to like,
there's a lot of narcos that are not in the most wanted list that are big narcos,
you know what I mean?
We said that Ovidia was like the one son of El Chapo who, uh,
El Chapo didn't want him to be in like the cartel business.
He kind of like tried to shade him for that.
Well, they have many sons like that.
They have other kids that are not known.
They have other.
Oh, really?
They, they become known once they, they go to the dark side,
but there's people like I was saying in the Ariano family too.
There's brothers that never, there's actually one that I believe he's in the
Vatican that he's a priest.
What?
Yeah.
You should look into that.
There's one, there's one that's real.
That's why when the whole, what the hard thing happened with the cardinal and stuff
like that, they, they, they actually were getting a little bit of a backup from the church.
And I mean, from like the church, not like local churches, you know,
they, the, because they were wealthy family, you know, how wealth and church is always like,
you know, so they were always that family.
And uh, yeah, man, one of the brothers, I believe he's, I think he's in the Vatican.
I think he's a priest.
So, um, yeah, I mean, many, many members of these families, they're not known.
They become known once they do something like a video.
Once you start doing like the social media and stuff like that, they start getting on.
But there's Chapo, how many sons do you think he has?
You know, he's, he's just fucking, he was just fucking all these like virgins and
shit, you know, like fucking, and it's like a prideful thing for like, you know, well,
older generations to like get like these like virgins, you know, that's why he's,
you know, like some of his last wife is the younger than his, than his older son, I think,
you know what I mean?
Right.
Yeah.
So someone's just telling me about that.
And as well as Pablo was like a sick fuck like that too.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like he, his wife was super young, married her and he, she was pregnant when she was like,
like 13 or something.
And that's, that, that actually goes a lot in the country over there.
And it's not like, I'm not trying to justify him, but actually girls like
want to, you know, like girls look for these guys.
Like if a chap was hosting a party, all the little girls be like, oh, let's go and see
if he fucking marries me or some shit.
You know, they actually like, and then it's all glorified and agriculture and stuff.
So it makes it like, like it makes it for them to think it's okay.
You know what I mean?
Well, they're just looking for opportunity, right?
Yeah, but it's also, also this old school way of like getting young girls.
Like, because it's not even the narcos.
Like, like nobody's, like, nobody's are getting like young girls too.
And young girls are getting older guys.
It's like, it's weird.
You know what I mean?
It's like, you know how they, back then they wanted like boys go to work and girls get married.
You know what I mean?
So that's kind of the thing in those areas.
It's country, bro.
It's not, it's not like, you know, they got people that come and go to the city and they've
been out, but it's, it's very, it's very country-ish.
You know, it's very, well, yeah, it's a rural area, you know, old school ways.
Yeah.
And, but yeah, I mean, the, when, once they start getting known,
it's because they jumped in the doctor.
Like I was saying, you know, the oldest son, Ivan,
he's been into the life since he was really young.
Like, I don't think he ever wanted to be like, I don't know,
but I don't think he ever wanted to be like a straight up kid or anything.
Because him and El Maio's older son, they were like the, they were basically,
um, I feel like they were teaching them to take over the business.
You know what I mean?
That's why they got, they got so powerful.
Like Ivan is very powerful.
And El Maio's son, the one that became an informant, he was very powerful too.
Like, uh, and there's sometimes where people take charge that you're like,
yeah, people don't respect him.
He's in charge, but people don't respect him that much.
Well, these guys, they are, they are loved.
They like them, you know, they're more like, and so they got,
they got the whole thing to, to be the boss.
So like, like him, he's always been in the spotlight because since he was young,
he was, he was the son of El Chapo.
He's the oldest, you know, he's known in Culiacarno, the fucking Ferraris and everything.
And eventually he, he went to jail for a couple of years, I think.
And then he got out and he's never been arrested since.
And he got out in like, I want to say like 2007 or something like that, 2006.
He, he wasn't a crash in a car accident or something like that.
And he did like three years.
And they say that, oh, okay.
I remember, I remember how these stories connect.
They said in the streets that, you know, how El Chapo went to war with his cousins,
the Bertrand, Bertrand Leyva, I don't know if you've heard of them.
They used to be like this Federation, but they broke up once.
They used to back up El Chapo when he was in jail and stuff like that.
So when El Chapo gets out, they still help him out and everything.
Is this the guy who helped El Chapo escape the first time?
No, I think you're talking about El Licenciado, the guy that turned himself in too.
Yeah.
No, no, not him.
This, this were actually other side of the cartel that was really strong.
I don't think, maybe you've seen a picture when the military killed him,
they just filled his body with bills and there's pictures of him with like his body
and they actually got in trouble for that.
But, but yeah, it was just this other section.
It was just like another version of another chopper, another Mario,
but they were brought up by Bertrand Leyvas.
It was Alfredo Bertrand and Arturo Bertrand.
And they were the same, but when, when Chavo got out, they started like beefing
and they said, this is the word in the street.
It's not, not nothing I, you know, I'm thinking, but they said that El Chapo turned
one of them in so that his son could get out.
Because when, when his son got out, they arrested one of the other guys.
And then after that, the brother of the one that got arrested, he's like, nah,
you motherfuckers, niche on my brother and he just went full on war.
And that's the word starting in 2008, 2009, over there with them.
And it was like one of the worst.
And who were the guys, and there was two guys that were a big part of Chavo's
final arrest, the two guys that were in Chicago, those two brothers.
The brothers, yeah, that they're working with 50 Cent now.
I don't know if you've seen it.
They're make, they made a, they made a podcast telling their stories.
I saw that.
50 Cent.
Louis was telling me about that.
I seen an, I seen this interview of 50 Cent where he's saying,
he's saying how he met them.
I guess back in the day when they were deep in the game, one of his artists,
they snatched his chain.
You know how over here, you guys, you know, they snatched rapper's chains, I guess.
And I guess one of the twins got it back for, for 50.
Oh, sure.
And that's how they met back in the day.
So now that 50 is a shot of 50 Cent bro.
I love his series.
I love it.
I read his books.
And I got, yeah, he's, he's one of them.
I look up to that guy.
But yeah, man, I like how he's turning all that into
into like entertainment, you know, and he's turning like the BMF thing.
You heard about the BMF guys.
Yep. Yep. Yep.
He made a series about that.
And he put the, the, the son of Mitch, he's playing Mitch.
That's like getting a son of a chopper to play a chopper.
You know what I mean?
Wow.
That's crazy.
That's pretty wild, man.
Yeah, man.
Good for him.
And that's, and that's, and that's keeping it pure too.
That's keeping it like in the, you know, you're not just hiring any actors to do this.
You're actually hiring actors that know what the fuck happened and that are close to the,
to the thing, you know.
But yeah, man, shout out to fucking 50 cents.
But yeah, he was working with the, with those twins.
And, and I mean, my street side is like, man, these guys are snitches, you know,
like these guys turn on everything.
Like they weren't, they weren't in Mexico, but they were over here.
So that's how, that's why they were, it was easy for them to snitch in a way, you know, because
I think their father did get in trouble.
So I don't know if they, I don't know if he passed away or something, but I,
I've seen a little bit of their interviews and stuff.
And because their wives also had like a book or something.
Yeah.
And I think they got in trouble for that too.
So, but yeah, man, I mean, it's while I, I, like, like if my son tried to do it,
I don't think he could do it.
I don't think he could just all of a sudden turn a YouTuber, a storyteller,
and, and just going around telling a story.
I don't think he's just too street for that, man.
And I'm not saying the twins are not, but it's really different when you,
when you grew up in the cartel and like them, like family,
like, you know, that's going against all of your values, all your.
How come, how come you don't hear about Elmayo?
He's not in any of the shows.
He's not in Narcos, right?
No, he's in El Chapo series.
He's in the El Chapo series.
Yeah.
But it's funny how it's not in Narcos.
They don't mention them or anything.
How, I feel like a lot of people don't mention him.
Uh, well, it's probably a tricky man because I think Luis mentioned this here,
how he has like this background with the CIA and like all the stuff.
And people keep like blaming them every time somebody gets caught like,
oh, he probably snitched on them and like, you know, stuff like that.
I mean, I think.
Yeah, Luis was telling a story.
I think it's on his Instagram now where he just like made this whole video
about how a guy who was like a former police officer or CIA officer.
He became his brother-in-law.
Who became his brother-in-law, who got Elmayo into the cartel.
And Elmayo son talks about this in his book.
His book came out like, what, five years ago maybe or more?
And this is information that's been there, but nobody reads.
You know what I mean?
Nobody reads books.
It's not in a video.
So it's, so nobody knows about it.
Nobody knows about it.
It's in a book.
A paperbacked book.
It's in like two pages, in the two pages of like a book.
So like nobody knows about it.
Might as well be on a stone tablet in some sort of fucking crazy bowl somewhere.
And just a little, a little thing there.
One of the things when I started writing, I actually, I actually, uh,
how do you say that when you ferment?
Is that the word fermenting reading?
Because all my friends that don't read, I made them read.
They read my shit.
Like, uh, they like just because it's my shit.
And they will call me and they'll be like,
Hey bro, I read that shit.
You publish.
I mean, I don't read.
But since it was you and you're like talking about life,
that shit was cool, bro.
Keep it up.
So I was talking to one of my writer friends.
He actually interviewed Benjamin Ariano.
He wrote a book with him.
And he was like, and he was like, bro, you're actually making people read.
Like people that don't read, you know what I mean?
That's pretty cool, man.
Yeah.
And, uh, yeah, that's just something that's, uh, it's still up to like,
because I keep getting it from my friends like,
Hey man, I read that shit.
You, or I will have books and it will be like a shoot out like in pages.
And now, and I read it and I'll be like, Hey, read from 24 to 27.
And now I have them reading in my studio.
Like fools that will never pick up a book, bro.
They were reading and they'll be like, Oh, well, find me another one like that.
You know, and then now we'll have to find them another like shoot out or something.
You know, but yeah, man, most of these people don't read.
So, oh, that, that's information, that information about the CIA,
Brolin.
No, it's in the book.
And I mean, yeah, he has this background.
Oh, that's in his, that's in his book.
Yeah.
His son talks about it.
You haven't read the book?
I haven't.
No, I haven't.
Oh my God, bro.
You're, you're missing out.
He, he actually, I think in the book, he talks about how while he's arrested,
he calls his dad while he's with the DA agents.
And he's like, you know what?
I think that's when he tells like, he's going to tell on his dad's like,
Yeah, do whatever you need to do.
Like say whatever you need to say.
Like you do, you do what you need to do to fucking save your ass.
And, and I mean, the way he tells in his book, it just sounds so fucking like,
like drilling like an-
What's the book called?
The Trader.
The Trader.
He wrote it himself.
And it's the cover.
It's him with a clown face that he drew himself.
His own face.
He, himself, he drew himself.
I don't know if you can find the cover in the, I don't know.
Where is he at?
Now, what is he doing now?
Well, he's probably living in one of those random cities in the U.S.
where, where they hide.
Oh, he's in the U.S.?
Like, cover, like he's got some sort of witness protection.
Well, he's, he testified against the chapel too.
He testified against everybody.
Oh, that's his book, The Trader.
No way.
He drew that himself.
That's wild.
His, uh, his attorney contacted one of the most-
Oh, it's on audio.
There you go.
Yeah.
His attorney contacted one of the reporters in, in Mexico already.
If you've heard about her, uh, Anavel Hernandez.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, his attorney contacted her to talk about the book and they became,
they, I think they, I think it's over five years of writing the book.
She, she kept talking to them and the lawyer and stuff like that.
And, and she's the one, she's the author on that.
And, uh, yeah, man.
I mean, that, that's a really good read, bro.
That talks about the whole background on El Mayo.
With his, his son is telling about it with his dad's author, authorization.
Like he's literally telling a book how he called his dad, what he's with the DA.
Imagine-
Are there, are there any interviews of El Mayo?
Yeah, it's only Rindo.
They never released the recorded one.
No recorded video.
No, he, uh, but there's pictures where you've seen, you've never heard about this interview?
No.
There's this really famous, uh, magazine called Proceso.
I don't know if you've heard of it.
And, uh, I believe it's one of the founders.
If not the founder, he passed away already.
He was like this really respected, uh, journalist.
And, uh, I guess in my, uh, admired him and he, he reached out to him and, uh, he was like,
yeah, I want to do an interview with you.
So this guy, there's a picture of him.
I don't know if you could pull that up too.
Because, uh, his name was Julio, uh, I'm forgetting the name of the, of the journalist.
But, um, Julio, something, and he took a picture with a Mayo and they talk, I, I, I read it.
This is like 2011, 2012, I think.
So, um, uh, when I read it, I remember they're talking like in one of Mayo's cabins.
And, and he's not really answering questions.
He's more little, I think he's like letting them talk more.
This is a long time I read this, but it's, it's really interesting.
It's really interesting that a Maya wants to get it like something out there.
You know what I mean?
That, that's, I, that's something that I was telling Luis like, Hey, how do you know when-
Well, he's getting older now.
A Mayo?
Yeah, he should be really old, man.
I mean, I heard he's sick.
I think diabetes or something like that.
I don't know.
Yeah, that's what Luis told me.
But yeah, he, I mean, he must be, he's, he's old and all the stress, bro.
Like just like, I was talking about the stress of flying.
Like, you know how your belly hurts and like all the stuff.
Just imagine knowing every day, every time you wake up that there's tons of people looking for you.
Yeah, bro.
And I mean tons, literally like enemies, military and Interpol, like DEA, all these people, like
your head is worth $20 million.
Imagine the stress of that shit.
That's it for him?
Yeah.
20 million?
Yeah.
That's why he has a Correo.
He's like, they're offering $20 million for me.
I spend that shit on a horse.
That guys, that guys have got to be worth billions.
And as Correo says, he spends that on a horse.
He literally says that that's-
Oh my God.
He's like, $20 million to get me.
I spent $20 million on a horse.
If that's not bars, if that's not rap bars, bro, I don't know what the fuck it is.
That is a fucking bar, bro.
And coming from the guy, you know, I mean, I know he didn't write the Correo,
but he had to authorize it.
So it's, you know.
So yeah, man, I mean-
What makes the most money for the cartels right now?
Well, illegal immigrants right now, it's a good income.
Illegal immigrants.
Right now, they're going for like-
More than any drugs?
Not more, but it's a good money because they're paying like $20,000 per people.
Like if you were trying to get across, you will pay around $15,000 to $20,000.
And that's for one person.
And that's not like, and that's like, I could put two people in a trunk
and just drop them off in San Ysidro.
That's my 40 bucks right there.
How has that shit changed since-
And what was the difference between when Trump was president and now that Biden's president?
Because we were talking earlier and obviously the relationship between-
Oh, that's a picture.
Yeah.
Oh, that's the journalist?
Yeah, who you share.
Yeah, that's the name.
That was a long time ago, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, that should be like what, 2009?
I mean 2009, 2010?
It was 2005.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
13 years ago.
Yeah, I remember when that came out, everybody was stunned, you know?
Like, and the reporter talked about how you recorded the conversation, but he never released it.
I think he did have a recording, but it's only on, he only typed it.
And it's not really that long or anything.
It's just like a little small talk.
But I mean, coming from Amayu, you wouldn't hear anything.
Oh, of course, yeah.
You wouldn't know what fucking food he ordered and shit, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
How has the border changed since Trump was president to now?
I don't think.
Have you noticed anything?
Any difference?
It didn't really change when Trump was in.
It didn't change.
Not really.
He, I know one of his campaigns were like the wall, but the wall's never been a problem.
Right.
You know what I mean?
It was just some sort of like.
Yeah, it worked for him.
It worked for him.
But I mean, you see all these videos, you see tunnels, you see, we have, I mean, not we,
but literally cartels have catapults.
I don't know if you've seen them, but there's this places in like Arizona and stuff where
it's mostly desert.
So they just use like medieval catapults, you know, have you seen the ramps where they
jump the cars over where they jump like the like the Baja cars with like the trucks?
I don't think I've seen the ramps.
Bro, if you can, you should pull it up.
There's ramps literally going over the wall.
Is there videos of this shit?
There's pictures.
I know there's pictures because I think he got caught.
But there's, there's one with there.
I mean, if there's one picture.
How tall is that wall?
What like 50 feet tall?
The one that, the new one.
Yeah.
But the one that was before, I don't think it was that big.
Okay.
And like I said, there's places in the desert where there's no like, where it's just a fence.
Like once you get it, like, I know there's big walls like in the cities.
But once you get like deep in the desert, like when you're going to like like Erma Sea or
like all the stuff in the desert, like there's places where there's just like,
we just move the, just move the little thing, you know, and just go in.
And that's why you see all these videos of all these illegal immigrants with backpacks
because they're making money off of illegal immigrants and they're having them carry stuff
across.
So that's, you know, but yeah, I mean.
So the drug stuff is kind of like small time now.
No, no, I think, I think it's still, it's still up there.
The low coke, that's always going to make money.
Coke.
Marijuana was not that, not, not really unless you send it to like the states where it's still
illegal, you know, because I know, I know people that send marijuana to states where it's like,
I think like Mississippi or no, like places where it's still like, where we're still illegal over
here.
And I guess they're still like a market for Reggie, you know, or like really good Reggie.
So, but I mean, but yeah, man, I mean, coke is always going to be there, you know.
What would change if drugs became legalized in the U.S.?
How would the, how would the cartels adapt?
They survive?
Like what, were the violence changed?
Well, I see it like this.
Look at California with a weed.
You still got a black market.
I mean, you got legal dispensaries.
And at first people were like, oh, even myself are like, man, they're, they're taxing.
Like I don't want to go like tax, I'll just go to my dealer, you know, he's still selling.
So like there's, like in California, it's the best place for weed.
Like I'm pretty sure you know, but it's still a big, a large black market on it.
Like a large black market.
Like they're doing, and I'm doing it because I used to sell with like, you know what I mean?
So I, I would get it from like, at first I would, before I found the dealer,
I would go to all the dispensaries and get all the like first-time patient deals and all this
stuff and just fucking buy all this shit.
But eventually like first-time patient deals ran out and all this shit.
And I was getting it for a third person price.
So eventually I connected with people with like locals in San Diego because I never really
grew up in San Diego, you know?
So I didn't really know like the streets in San Diego.
So eventually I started getting to know like a little bit of locals and street people and stuff.
And I eventually came up with some people like growers and stuff like that, that, that get,
that actually I met them because they did this biggest events of weed where it's just like,
like a group of vendors would just show up and sell the weed.
But there was events with like rappers, giveaways and shit like that.
And they were four hour long events.
So like by the time the police got a report on it, it was over.
And they would do it like in this empty empty warehouses or shit like that, you know?
And they have a little community and it's like, okay, the next event,
we're dropping off the addy at tomorrow at a certain time.
And they drop the addy and then you go out, you know, get free gift in the entrance and you show
up and there's like 40 vendors of different kinds of weeds and shit, all illegal.
And this isn't a place where weed is legal, like where you could, you know?
But it's expensive to put a legal expense around, you know?
It's like a million dollars or something like that, all these kinds of things.
So like, I mean, cookies, that's how it came up, you know?
The backpack boys, that's how they came up, you know?
Eventually you got to rise up, but it leaves this margin for like black markets too.
And I think that's kind of what's going to happen with, like let's say if they legalize cocaine,
it's going to be, the government is going to have control of it, you know?
It's going to be probably not as pure, you know?
Probably not as good.
People say, no, it's definitely going to be pure because it's going to be better because it's
the government, but I don't, you know, like I don't try to make the most money they can.
Exactly, you know?
Or giving it, selling it through pharmaceutical companies.
So if they're cutting it, but you still got this dealer, you know, that you always call,
like why would you just change, why would you just start going to the pharmacy when
this guy's always been selling to you since it was legal, you know?
He gets a good shit.
He drops it off at your house, you know?
You know, so there's this kind of connection with the dealers.
I think maybe it's still early.
Maybe if they legalize it and then in 50 years, maybe, you know, everything changed.
But it's going to take a while.
The problem with cocaine is the dealers in the U.S., right?
Because they're the ones that are cutting it with shit, like accidentally cutting it with
fent no more, cutting it with other shit that people don't know what the fuck they're getting
at low level.
But then at the same time when, when...
Because cartels aren't doing that, right?
No, they don't like doing that shit.
It's a bad rep.
But then again, you've seen users where they're like, they find out somebody, oh,
dude, and now they want to get that shit.
You know what I mean?
It's also like kind of the users for two, where instead of being scared of like, oh,
he OD'd, like, I'm not buying from his dealer.
They go like, oh, no, where, where'd he get this shit from?
You know, they want the strong shit because in their mind, they think like, oh, he died,
but I can't handle it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, that's crazy.
And there's people that think like that.
They're like, I want this shit that's going to, I want to be flirting with death when I'm
taking that shit.
And it even becomes a joke when I see like, there's this famous video where a rapper passing
out from a dab where he couldn't handle the dab.
So he just starts fucking coughing and he just passes out.
And me and the homies were like, I want to have that shit.
Like, I want to get what he, you know, but it's that like addict mentality, I think,
you know, where you think like, oh, that's too good, but he couldn't handle it.
I can handle it, you know?
So that's the, I think that's what fucks up also because instead of the users being like,
hey, no, like taking care of each other type thing, no, they want this shit that's killing
people, you know what I mean?
And it sucks because if, let's say you're a dealer that's cutting your shit with fentanyl
and one of your clients died, but you keep getting more clients, you're not going to stop.
You know what I mean?
You're going to be like, oh, it makes it hard to also know what the fuck they're doing.
Yeah, put fentanyl on this shit.
You know what I mean?
So yeah, man, I mean, it's a, I know it sounds like a cliche, but it's also a very lack of
education on drugs because I remember when I, I've always liked to research everything,
and when I was young, and we only have one computer in my house and you have to be like
off the phone to use the internet, I would research, like I would be out with my friends
and when I started, like some of my friends were doing coke really young and I didn't,
I didn't do coke till I was like 19, but some of my friends were doing it like really young.
And I was, I was like, you know, like I kind of was like a mama's boy.
Like I was raised by my mom, like well, but I became a bad boy.
So all these things like marijuana, I kind of thought it was cool and I researched it.
I was like, what does marijuana, like when they taught me how to use Google in middle school,
they taught me how to use Google and ask jeeps back in the day.
Yeah, I remember.
Yeah. So I would, I would type everything, bro. I love research stuff.
So I would research like, what do these drugs do? What does this drug do?
And once I Google like meth and coke and I was like, oh, like, oh, what the fuck is that?
You know, like, I don't know that shit.
Eventually you see people doing coke all the time or you say, that's whatever.
I do a bump.
And I, it wasn't really my thing.
Like I was telling you earlier, uppers are not my thing.
I'm always like, we chill guy.
But it was just all over.
Like everybody's doing it.
Everybody's drinking and having fun.
And he's like, I would have really do a couple of bumps.
And you eventually become a coke.
If you know, you're doing this every weekend and you think it's just socially,
but now every weekend that you drink, you want to do it.
Yeah.
You know, and other drugs that really, really cause a lot of trouble.
And I want to speak on this.
It's actually, I was thinking about this before, are actually the legal drugs.
Like there's this drug, I don't know.
I don't know what do you call it in English?
It's a ribotryl or clonazepan.
Cannot, uh, colonopin?
No, no, clonazepan.
Clonazepan?
Or ribotryl.
I think they give it to people that have seizures.
It's a, it's a, it's a downer.
Really, epileptic people?
Yeah.
Like epileptic people.
I think it's like a downer.
It just, if people take it for anxiety, it's like, what's the other, what, what, what,
can you name me some people?
Like Valium, Xanax.
Valium, bike it in.
Something around that.
Not as strong as Xanax, but it's something like that.
And it's legal.
It's, it's like a real thing.
Like just like, like legal in the US.
Legal everywhere.
Okay.
And, but, but, um, this is one of the Sicarius favorite drugs because it just blacks you out
and you don't remember anything.
And, um,
So they do that, like when they, when they go out and like commit murders.
Yeah, literally before they go, they pop too with a coke.
That's, that's a little combo over there.
With a coke.
Yeah.
Um, they, it's, it's just saying that with coke it gets faster, but it's just, you feel the gas
of deteriorating the pills.
So it feels like it's, you're getting a much faster hang, but it's just the same shit.
But, but yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's kind of like Xanax, bro.
You know how people pass out on that and they just don't remember and they black out and they're like,
Oh, I woke up with like new clothes and shit like that.
Well, these, these drugs, particularly these pills, they're very much used by,
by Sicarius and by like regular people.
And like regular people are like, I, I, I know a lot that they're like, Oh, well, I just use it to
sleep.
Well, yeah.
But, but you know, take it, you get all irritated and you're fucking yelling and you're
hitting your kids and shit like that.
And like, that's like meth.
You know what I mean?
Like, what's the difference?
Right.
And, and people, like I said, I have friends that before they go commit a crime, they pop that
and they're drinking the coke and they smoke maybe a little J and they wait till that shit
and then all the dry over there, they do what they got to do.
Next days go by and they don't remember that they did it.
So maybe they remember a little bit, but not that weight in conscience.
No less if you like fucking did it, you know?
Well, like, yeah, it's just, it's so, the lines are so weird when it comes to what's
legal and what's not because like coke, it's, it's illegal.
But we have fucking Adderall and all these other things that are basically just,
they're like one, one molecule away from being just pure meth.
And, and I think 90% of students in America are on Adderall every single day.
And I feel meth is worse than coke.
If Adderall had coke, I don't think it would be like as strong as it is,
because coke is not really that, I don't feel as strong as meth.
And, and that's, that's, that's something else too.
I really hate meth, bro.
That's, that's something I, like, I have close people, like, like family members
and stuff that can't get over the addiction of meth.
And it's one of those things where it just sucks because like I tell people,
like, at least heroin, at least it kills you.
You know what I mean?
At least you're fucking no Dean one day and that's it.
But meth, it keeps you alive forever.
What is the difference between, I've never done meth.
What is the difference between coke and meth?
Well, meth is like, I know the differences.
Like, I know what the actual difference is between the, between the two drugs,
but like, what is the experience?
Well, the part about coke is that it comes from a plant.
So it's kind of natural.
You know, it's mixed with other stuff that get the, the, the, what do you call it?
The, the ingredients, the ones that you want to get out, they get them out.
But meth is straight synthetic.
Meth is straight fucking medicine, metastate pills.
It's cooked up.
It's, it's all, it's just, it's, it's, yeah, it's, it's the worst.
What is like the high, like, what is the difference in the hot,
getting high off meth and get, and.
I've never tried meth.
I've always been scared.
I'm from the generation where when I was young and the older guys, they were like,
they would be like, Hey, if I were to see you smoking meth, I won't be like, don't do this.
And then just seeing them, bro, like seeing them there.
I was like, I don't want to look like that.
Yeah, no, I see breaking bad.
Yeah, I remember I used to watch like, like the first movies I, I kind of saw marijuana in it.
It was like Friday, you know, like smoking stuff.
So you see like parties and it seemed fun.
Like for me, like, I love listening to music and chilling in my room.
So like with a joint, it seemed perfect.
You know what I mean?
It kind of seemed like the vibe.
But I've seen like the meth heads and all these other fools are all dirty and like,
you know, all scrubbing shit.
Scratching themselves.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That, that's the, that's the heroin.
Heroin makes them scratch themselves.
Oh, okay.
And, and, but yeah, I mean, there's people that mix it.
There's people that like to do meth with heroin.
And there's people that, one of my friends, he said,
he injected once meth and heroin.
He said it felt so good.
He said it felt, it was the best.
He, yeah, they like, like, they like stretching themselves,
like getting high on the upper and taking the downer and like riding the roller coaster.
He said he ejaculated.
What?
Yes.
He said he wasn't even hard.
Holy shit.
He said he wasn't, he was, he was literally like just fucking like all, all fucking on heroin.
You know how they get all like, oh, fold it up.
And he said that, that he was feeling so good.
And then when he got back to his senses, he was, yeah, he was all stained up because he, he came.
And he said that was the last time he did it.
He's scared of, he did meth, but he never did both.
And he said that time that happened and he was like, nah, fuck that.
That's too good.
I mean, he, he, he got shot like a few years ago, you know, resting peace.
But he's one of the guys that at first he tried to bully me in jail.
Then we became really good friends after, after he tried to bully me and he,
he saw that he couldn't, we became friends.
And I, when I got out, I tried looking for him, but they told me that he was,
he was bad in drugs.
And then they found him dead one, one time.
But yeah, like I was saying, at least all the drugs kill you, man.
And meth just keeps you like a zombie forever, forever and ever.
There's one of my, one of my friend's dad, the doctor told him like,
the doctor told him, bro, don't stop doing it.
If you stop, you'll die.
Like they literally like your body is so like used to this that you wouldn't take a,
what do you call it?
The withdrawal, your body wouldn't, yeah, it will kill you.
Like just keep doing it.
Bro, that's fucking, I mean, yeah, I, I, I hate that drug, man.
That's one of the drugs I've, I've never tried.
I've lost friends over it.
I, I, like I said, I've even some family members that just get lost into them.
And I think that's the worst that's just, that's one of the things like, if I was ever
like in charge, like a president or something, I would be like against meth, like,
all of the, yeah, Adderall and all that shit.
I think it's, when I was in a couple of years ago, I was in, um,
a couple of years ago, I was in, um, Puerto Vallarta.
And when I went down to like the streets and I was like riding around,
I noticed on every corner, there's like these little pop-up pharmacies
with all the fucking drugs you could possibly imagine.
And they got a list knockoffs.
Have you seen the list?
I was telling a Luis cause he was, he wants to do a story about NTA.
I was like, look, you just, um, exit the United States walking
and just walk to downtown in Tijuana.
It's a, it's a like a couple of miles, but you're going along like, uh,
places and stuff.
So it's not that long of a walk, but you see all these pharmacies
with like, uh, a sign in the front door with a Cialis, Adderall, Valio, all the,
all the good shit, you know, all the good shit.
They just advertise it there.
Like they're not a fucking advertising the fucking, uh, I don't know,
Pepto or nothing else.
You know, they got the shit that they know the Americans are coming for.
Who is making that shit?
Cause it's not the real, it's not the actual like brand pharmacology stuff.
It's like, it's like, it's not really hard to make pills.
You seen how they press pills before?
Like how they make the ecstasy pills and stuff like that.
It's not really that hard, man.
I mean, but who is doing that though?
Is that the cartels?
Uh, that's kind of hard to ask because I don't think, um,
shit, I've never been, I've never gone down that railway hill to be honest.
I mean, because I'm guessing they have to get it from somewhere.
Maybe the supplier that's getting them.
I don't know how it works for like pharmacies.
I don't know like the owners in charge of, of, of putting together his suppliers.
I don't know if the chain of pharmacies already has a supplier.
I don't know if they know what's going on or only the supplier.
You know, I don't know.
I don't really know how, but, but just thinking that it's not that easy to do.
It's pretty easy for anybody to do it.
You know what I mean?
Any cartel member that buys a couple of pharmacies,
he could do that shit with his pharmacies, you know, just, just fucking make some fake
Seattleis or I don't know what the fuck or the, what are the other ones?
The Adderall and all that.
Yeah.
You know, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it just seems like just from talking to you and talking to Louise and, and Ed Calderon
and all these people, it's, it's this war just seems like it, there's no end in sight to it.
And it seems like it started back.
I think it started like, it's just, you know how when you try to put together a puzzle
and you fucked up on one piece and now you could take everything out.
I think that's what happened.
And since the beginning, they put something off and then they just on the thing fucked up.
And then now all the fuckup has just been going on and they,
we need like a reset button or something, you know?
And I mean, it's, yeah, man.
It's a, I can't remember who saw that.
It was talking about, I think it was Louise about legalizing and stuff like that.
You asked him something like that.
There's this story.
There's this, this newspaper in Tijuana called the CETA.
It's like the most famous one because even before social media, that was like our social
media that they had the news of the cartels.
Like that was literally like, you read that shit for like cartel information, you know?
Eventually it kind of got worn down because they started getting into politics.
So, you know, now if certain people is related to politician that they're involved with,
they're not going to talk about it.
So, you know, it got worn down.
But at first, and they got this video on their website.
It's like, I think it's called a metaphor.
They talk about this medieval times where there's this town and they have this dragon.
And the dragon is a metaphor for like the narcos.
And this dragon is always causing trouble in the town or whatever.
And eventually the town finds a way for the dragon to cause shit and doesn't affect them.
Because they try to kill them too many times and they just came back worse.
So eventually they just became friends with them.
And now, you know, and they try to make this as a story for like our country.
And I think that's kind of what's going to have to happen, man.
I mean, some sort of legalization with like amnesty.
And like, because I know it's like, you know, the Americans, we don't negotiate with terrorists.
I know it sounds bad, but if that's the only way to stop it, what's stopping you from doing?
You know what I mean? If, you know, they're going to be, like I said,
some amnesty or something, but some of them can keep some of their stuff,
maybe do some time or maybe, you know.
Like what they're doing, your metaphor for the dragon is like, it's also like the hydra,
where you cut off the fucking head of the snake and it just grows another head.
So now you keep cutting off, you keep cutting off like,
Ovidi, like you arrest Ovidio, you get rid of the Los Chipitos.
Well, now you're just creating a power vacuum.
We're going to create more heads of the hydra.
You're just creating more and more factions.
This creates more and more violence.
And all these people have generations waiting to join, bro.
Like there's kids right now.
I don't think he's going to be able to find it.
There's this video, there's Corrido that's really famous right now.
And it's about the Los Chipitos and their main security guy.
Oh, Chuck and Little?
Yeah.
And Luis was telling me all about this guy.
He just evaded some sort of raid.
Yeah, yeah.
He watches podcasts, bro.
He watches podcasts?
He watches English podcasts?
I don't think he speaks English, but he watches, he's aware of what goes on in the
social media.
He's very well aware.
I was telling Luis this.
And but yeah, there's this Corrio about him right now that is so popular.
There's videos popping over like kids in like school buses singing it in field trips.
Like if you know how they roll, roll, roll your boat.
Well, now it's like, you know, they're singing Corridos, man.
Everywhere, everywhere.
So all these kids, like, I mean, most of them don't get me wrong.
Most of them, they see it as music is what it is.
But there's always this one or two kids that are like, yeah, I want to be that.
That was me, bro.
I want to be them.
Like when I started seeing like, well, I'm from in TJ, I didn't grow up around any famous
singers, no famous rappers, no famous nothing.
The only guys that had money either you worked in the United States,
the construction job, you had your nice drug, you know, and your well paid check.
Or you were or you were in the cartel and you had a bunch of you were cool
in the community.
You know, the girls wanted you, you go to clubs.
You don't have to wake up early.
So you do whatever you want with your life.
You know what I mean?
So so yeah, man, I kind of, I wanted to be that too.
Yeah.
And when you see these guys that have money too, they're driving sick cars.
Yeah.
And and at first you don't see, well, even if you see the bad thing, you're like,
yeah, I want to be a bad guy, you know, I want people to respect me.
I want, you know, and then and and that's, there's all kinds of kids growing up like
this, you know, looking, that's why when, when I started with my friend that he
became famous and stuff, and he just from a hood, just like mine, we started getting
like this sort of like inspiration for young kids, like to let them know, like, look,
we made it out of that shit without having to risk our lives or anything.
We can chase our dreams, you know, if you want to be a musician, you can do it.
Don't think because you don't see nobody around you doing it.
You can't do it.
Nah, you can do it.
So me and my friend have this kind of like, we started this shit in TJ, you know, and
he sings corridos, but he has a lot of songs that are that are not not corridos.
It's just corridos talking about how he struggled to become where he's, you know,
kind of like the narco story, but in the legal way.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So, so we started this little wave and now even corridos became more popular because now
you don't have to see, be a narco to listen to those type of corridos.
You could be, you could relate, you know, to, to just some people that is in a struggle,
like rap, you know, just so you could listen to a rap song and you can relate to the rapper
that he's singing about his struggle, how he had to sell drugs to get by.
Now he doesn't sell drugs, now he does good, you know.
So it's the same story.
We, we, we actually, that's actually, I love rap.
So I told him, I was like, look, rappers do this.
We should do this with you because you got the swag and it's a generation.
We started the whole trend.
So yeah, man, I mean, now TJ has a lot of famous people.
Now we have famous boxers that became popular because there's always been like sports and
stuff, but if you're not into it, you didn't know about it.
Now we have, now they're famous because of social media and because we,
there's everybody just trying to like make a change too, you know.
There's this famous painter that he paints faces of like, or famous people from TJ or
just any Mexican and like bridges and stuff in TJ.
So now you drive around and you see like all these people faces and they're not like narcos
or anything.
They're like UFC champions, you know, Brandon Moreno, it's from TJ.
It's a stage in a bridge, a big bridge and just like this, like different,
I think all this movement started and now there's a lot of good inspiration.
You know what I mean?
Because the narco was always there, the culture, it's nice, bro.
Like I've told people, I love it.
Like I still love it, but I want something else.
Like I'm passionate about creating too.
Like I'm passionate about music.
I'm passionate about writing.
Like that moves me too.
So now that I want to like do stuff more family and like want to get on my way.
Like it's not, it's not taking me, what do you call it?
It's not that hard for me to give it up, you know, because this I'm passionate for this as well.
But if you found another path.
Yeah.
But once I talk about that shit and everything, I'm passionate about that too.
It's like, I, because I grew up in it and just the culture and everything.
I know it's fucked up and I know it's all that I've suffered from death.
I cried from every day.
Like I still do from my uncle.
He passed away last year just for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
You know, he, he was a real hardworking man, but on the weekends,
he liked to smoke a little bit of meth and he wasn't like a meth.
He was just like, right after work, he would go, he lived in TJ.
He worked in the shipyards in San Diego.
Got it for working Fridays.
Went to TJ, stopped by the connect before pulling up to this house, you know,
take a couple of hits and then go home and do whatever he needed to do with his family.
But on one of these stops at the, at the trap house,
um, some guys came in and they thought he was from Placina Loca or so and they shot him.
There's a hardworking man that he just liked to get high on the weekends.
You know what I mean?
I mean, if it was legal, I'm pretty sure like he would have a safe place where he could get high,
you know, but like I said, if it became legal, it's going to take years for the program to
everything get together for the black market to shrink and everything.
So yeah, man, that's like that.
Like that's one of the worst deaths I've suffered recently.
He was like my brother.
He was only like eight years older than me.
And, uh, and it's tragic because he never, you know, I mean, he, he, he did his time or anything,
but right now he was just a working man and a family man staying away from shit and everything.
And, uh, shit happened, man.
And I mean, I could ask my friends, you know, I could be like, hey, who did this?
Who did that?
But I'm not trying to get it back into that.
If I'm going to ask is because I'm planning on doing something about it, you know,
and many, you know, many of my friends were like, Hey, just tell me who it was.
Tell me what we need to do.
We'll do, you know, we got you and all this stuff.
But on my mind, I was like, if I do this, that's just pulling me back in.
Right.
I mean, I know my uncle would probably like that for me,
but I got to look up for my, my own path, you know, the, the whatever I want for my future.
And I had already, I was moving out to San Diego and like getting away from stuff.
And like, but when that happened, I, like, I still had like a little bit like the weight
thing and stuff or like the guns and stuff.
But once that happened, that was it.
That was it for me because if I go out looking for the guys that did it,
if I, I know I'm going to find them.
It's just a small place into you.
I know I'm going to find it and I know I could do whatever I want to do too.
But, but, but yeah, man, it was just, that was just the end.
That was just, that was like, yeah, this is it, man.
Let's see this now or never.
Are there a lot of guys like you who have podcasts in Mexico?
Are there a lot of like Spanish podcasts?
Like you were mentioned that I got chicken little listens to a lot of podcasts.
How many podcasts are there that are like deep into narco culture?
Deep into narco, not really many, but in Culiacn, there's a few podcasts that's been popping up.
Really?
Yeah.
And it's funny because they, they, they don't care about, it's like they're recording for their
own people, but they don't know that all these people from all over the world are looking at.
So they're just telling stories about, about tablazos getting tablated out.
They're just telling stories about people I used to work for, for whoever, or the podcast
became popular with the COVID. I mean, I've been listening to podcasts since,
I've been listening since satellite radio, like Patrice O'Neill and all that.
I've always loved to listen to all that shit.
So, and I always thought like, man, they should do this in Mexico.
Like, but, but nobody like really care about it.
Like just listening to long ass conversations of people you don't know.
Like it didn't seem attractive, but once COVID hit, it's like a couple of podcasts,
one of them is one of the most famous ones. It's called creativo in English, creative.
And he became, he kind of took the Joe Rogan vibe and he's very intellectual.
He's very smart and great, great evil.
Yeah. Creative in Spanish, creativo.
And where's he based in Monterey.
In Monterey.
Yeah. Monterey has a few podcasts pretty good right now for comedians.
He's not a comedian, but I think he's trying to be.
He's one of them. And Adrian Marcello, he's one of my really good friends.
Shout out to him again.
You should check him out his pocket.
He's a comedian. He's really funny.
It's not Spanish, but he's really funny dude, man.
And, but yeah, in Culiacan, a couple of podcasts started coming up too.
And one is called, I think one is called, I want to say Los Alucines,
which is basically the, what do you call this?
Not the wannabes, but like the kind of, you know,
just this person that talks like he, that talks about like shit that's been through,
but exaggerates, you know, kind of like, that's what that's the name of the show.
And I, and I think they have like, like lookouts.
They, they interview like lookouts and stuff like that.
And they have really funny, like, you know, like, like pieces.
And that's the kind of shows that the guy we're talking about.
Watch, you know, and I'm pretty sure he watches a bunch of different
because now the algorithm, now they put you all together.
What, what kind of people do you have on your podcast?
I started with the singers, the artists.
Because I don't know many of them and famous and like,
there's a really big music scene in Tijuana.
So that's kind of like where I'm starting, but I'm taking a cartel members.
Some of my cartel members are willing to show.
You're gonna like put masks on them and change their voice?
I asked him one of them said no.
One of the ones that shouted out that he was in, that he did like 11 years.
I think he said he'd be down and just do it.
And like I told him, like, hey, bro, don't don't say anything or get in trouble.
Like, say shit that you already did your time for, you know, say stuff that you're cool.
Because as long as I want that view or the views,
I don't want to get you in trouble.
You know what I mean?
I'm not no snitch.
I'm not no fucking black TV.
You know, they're fucking blaming for shit.
So I always tell him this, but yeah, I mean, El Gordo Villarreal,
I have his interview now recording everything, but he recorded with a.
You recorded from prison.
Yeah.
And contraband cell phone.
So he's like, just wait till they move me to another prison.
And then you can publish it, you know what I mean?
So we're waiting for that.
Wow, bro.
And then there's this other guy that just got out.
I don't know if I should mention his name because it was national news.
Him and his brother just got out and they were the size of like Ramon Ariano.
They were they worked with side to side with him.
Really?
And and their case became really, really in the news because the United States
let them stay here with with work permits and everything.
They did like 20 some years or more.
But but apparently what the guy was telling me, I'm going to interview him.
And just he just like getting comfortable.
But he said yes.
But he told me that his attorney got the judge to approve them to stay here because
they put this thing where like they said if they were sent back to Mexico,
they could suffer torture and stuff like that.
And there's a right against that for in America.
So the judge, the judge gave it to him and now they're living here with permits to work
and live here.
And people were in Mexico bitching about like,
oh, these killers, they have charges.
They haven't done time in Mexico, but they were they were extradited from Mexico.
But it's just it's just this never ending of people wanting people to do time forever.
Right.
You know what I mean?
Like because I have friends who are like, you know, people change, right?
You know, like there's people that come out of jail and don't want to go back.
What's the point of keeping them there 30 years if if with 15 it was enough?
You know what I mean?
And I mean, I get it that like there's the other side of the coin where there's people
that did 20 plus years and they just come on.
They're like, yeah, I'm cartel 100%.
I know people like that.
And it's crazy to me because I'm like, damn, like really, like I love that shit too,
but I'm willing to like, you know, but everyone's different, man.
Yeah, man, it's good.
I think it's going to take some sort of like evolution of culture to change this and and
you know, seeing people like yourself trying to like rise out of this shit.
You know what I mean?
Like rise out of I think you see more people like me as the time is coming.
I think it's all this podcasting and all this creative stuff that just came in hand for like
people like us that like, I mean, I've always like music drawing and everything,
but I never took the time to go to school, you know, like and all that,
which I would have if I would have learned how to do this shit, like I'll probably be like
my podcast would be doing good or maybe not even a podcast, maybe something
something else. But I mean, with all these opportunities that you see and people like
me setting example for like younger kids, you know, like I was posting that I was coming here,
you know, that I've been posting my little journey, you know, my, what's your podcast
called? He can pull it up. El Bordo. El Bordo. Yeah. On YouTube. Yeah, on YouTube.
And yeah, I mean, I know people from all like reporters really interested, like Luis,
people from his level. I know writers, I know cartel members, I know sport people,
UFC people, artists, comedians, like I was telling you, I just been, I don't know, man,
like I'm not famous, but I meet famous people and they like me. We become friends. Yeah,
we just become like, every time they come to CJ, they hit me up. Is this you? Yeah, yeah, that's
me. El Bordo entertainment. There it is. My, the logo is the highway in CJ next to the border,
but it's a very well site. So like it, once I published the, the lower everybody was like,
oh man, that's cool. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's dope. Yeah, I only have like four episodes because
the guy that was recording me, it was his equipment and he moved. So right now I had to like make some
legal money, which is took me double amount of time. So now I bought, I bought my mics. I bought
my camera, I bought two cameras. I bought my, my mix cast. So yeah, I'm shooting now. I actually
shot my first, well, when my equipment, I shot my first podcast last week, which should be,
actually I haven't checked, but my, I should have posted it today that it was coming out tomorrow.
Okay. So yeah. And that, this one's going to give views because of the artists that I have. It's a
real, real, how do you say like in Spanish is polemical. I don't know how you say in English,
like very problematic, not problematic, but he has, he, he's, he's a character that people
want to listen to him because I was telling him, he's really into like the, he really sung to
the Tijuana Cartel only kind of like, it seemed like he was part of the cart. Like he was there
chilling, you know? So like people, many people grab, he grabbed many people's attention because
at first he started singing with his face mask with the, or the face mask. He wouldn't sing,
you know, because he was singing just so, his, his lyrics were so,
he wasn't playing around with his words. You know, sometimes you play around with words,
so you don't say shit directly. He was like controversial. He was saying, yeah, he was very
controversial. That's the word. He's very controversial. And we actually helped him meet
my friend from Coachella. Well, mostly him, he, he, he got him to do a, do it with him,
like a feature. And my friend is already in the commercial level. So he, he was doing,
he was a real good underground artist with like millions of views. The guy I'm talking about,
that guy interview. Yeah. So once my friend opened the door for him, everybody was like,
hey, I met you before, I've heard your music, but I, I didn't know how to approach you because
you give this like, this vibe that you're cart, you know, like you're more of a cartel than a
singer. So not many people wanted to like, you know, work with them, people in the industry,
the music industry. But now that, that he came with us and like we opened all these doors,
everybody was like, yeah, like I heard you. And he was all psyched up about it. He's like, yeah,
man, like I've been trying to go commercial, but people think I'm cartel because I only stick to
them. But they're the only guys asking me for corridos. Like I don't see seeing a lot of people
asking, but now they are asking him. But at first, there was no other people asking him to make
songs about him. And he can't make a song about somebody without their authorization. You know
what I mean? So, um, so yeah, so I interviewed him. And since he has cartel friends and I have
cartel friends, he's never been able to talk about that in other podcasts. So with me, we,
we mentioned names we talk about. And that's dropping tomorrow. Yeah, that should be dropping
tomorrow. Hopefully if my editors got around to the, yeah. Sorry, you got time. This won't come
out until next Monday. So we got time. You got it. It'll be out by the time this goes up.
It'll be in Spanish, but I'm pretty sure some of you. And I'll, I'll put links to your,
to your podcast in the description. But look at now how to find it. It's, it's fucking 2am. I'm
fucking, I've been up this late in a long time. Really? Really? Probably because of the flight.
And I like I said, I slept the whole flight. So I know. And you, I'm bitching, but you traveled
all day to San Diego. But yeah, man. I mean, we missed out on a lot of stories, like
famous rapper stories out there in Mexico, you know, being escorted by the cartel.
That was a great story. We can't tell that guy's name though.
Nah, man. But you saw, you saw both of them and they're both famous and they're both relevant.
The artist and the guy that was, that was a, but yeah, man. I mean, some of these rappers and
artists, they, they, they have to. So that, that, that rapper was doing a show in Tijuana.
And no, not in Tijuana, not in Tijuana. Some other place in Mexico. Oh, some other place in
Mexico. And when they got there, they realized that, oh shit, these people that are escorting us
are cartel. Yeah. And I, and why, yeah, yeah. As soon as they got there, like as soon as the,
yeah, man, I wish I could give you a little bit of detail, but uh, but uh, yeah, it was.
Hopefully we can do, maybe we can do this on another episode. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tell who the rapper is. And I'll give you the other, yeah.
This will be a good, great cliffhanger. Yeah, it is, man. And uh, yeah,
cool man. We'll save it for next time. I appreciate you, uh, coming on here and sharing your
perspective. I think it's, uh, going to be extremely eye-opening for a lot of people.
Yeah. Well, yeah, I mean, uh, I don't do this for people who want to get into the life. Hopefully
try to keep it from them. You know, there's other stuff better to do with your life. I mean,
this sounds exciting. This sounds like a movie type thing and everything, but I mean,
right now I was just saying you the, the cool parts. I mean, I'm not telling you the other
times I cried for my friends. I'm not telling you all the people I have doing life in prison.
My friends that call me and they, they get motivated by me because what I'm doing now.
And they're like, yeah, man, when I get out, like, I'm going to do like some positive shit too.
You know what I mean? And, and that, that's the message I hope I spread with, with like these
stories. You know what I mean? I think that's what you're doing, man.
All right. Hopefully. It's just extremely powerful, man. Thank you again.
All right. Thank you. Time for bed.
