I go in, I get a real driver's license, right, in the name of a guy named Scott Cugno.
So I got a Scott Cugno driver's license, real license.
I have his real social, everything.
So one of the checks I had issued to Scott Cugno for $29,000.
So I go into SunTrust, I walk into SunTrust and I say, hi, I'm Scott Cugno, I need to
cash this.
And the guy goes, $29,000, why don't you just deposit in your own bank account, Mr. Cugno?
And I said, well, because my bank account, you know, I'm in Georgia, it's in Florida,
I'm going to hold it for a few days and I need to cash.
Okay, well, okay, well, it's really odd and you know, okay, well, here's my driver's
license, here's my, here's a credit card, driver's license, here's my social security
card.
I'm good.
You need a thumb print?
Thumb print.
I'm already wanted.
So, you know, he's like, okay, well, go ahead and have a seat.
I have a seat.
My cell phone, give me my cell phone is, is my Razor, Razor, Razor, Razor, Razor is there
and Becky's sitting in the car.
So I wait, the guy comes out and he says, okay, this is like the president or whatever,
the manager of the bank, he comes out and he goes, okay.
He said, look, why don't, I don't understand, what do you need the cash for?
And I went, I said, we're, I cash checks, I said, I'm a general contractor, I just did
a job for somebody.
They paid me with this money and I have to, I said, I typically write checks to the guys
that work for me and I cash the check so they don't have to go to check cashing companies.
And he goes, okay, that makes sense.
That makes sense.
He knows something's wrong.
Right.
Right.
He just can't figure it out.
Right.
He walks off, but I'm not leaving.
Yeah.
If something's wrong and you start asking those questions, you would leave.
Most people would leave, but I know you can't.
I'm thinking he can't, he's not going to figure this out.
Yeah.
He's like, phone rings, boom, boom, phone rings.
I pick it up.
It's Becky.
She goes, hey, she said, what are you doing?
What's taking so long?
I went, calm down.
The guy is, he's a jerk.
You know, he's been a jerk about it and didn't want to give him the money.
Well then leave.
I go, no, no, I can't leave.
I said, he's, he's, he's checking on stuff.
So she goes, well, well, I go, look, look, calm down.
She's all nervous.
Yeah.
You go, if the cops show up, you see two, if you see two cruisers pull in, call me.
Yeah.
I'll run out the back.
You meet me at the, at the 7-Eleven down the street.
Right.
So she's like, okay, okay, hang up the phone.
A few minutes later, he comes out.
He asks some other question.
What about this?
What about that?
What I'm like, where'd you get the check?
I said, I, I got the check from the homeowner and he goes, okay.
And I said, wait, I don't understand what's taking so long.
I said, it's a cashier's check written from your bank.
Yeah.
The money's good.
Yeah.
He's like, no, the money's there.
There are certain protocol we have to go through.
I said, okay, okay.
So he leaves, phone rings again.
What do you, what's taking so long?
I don't know.
The guy's a dick.
I don't know what to say.
He's taking forever.
He's, he's checking.
Checking on what I don't know.
Comes out again.
And I said, hey, what is taking so long?
And he goes, well, we're trying to, he said, turns out that the name of the guy is Michael
Shanahan, that the guy that owns the house.
And I went, oh, keep in mind, I'm Michael Shanahan.
Right.
You're Michael Shanahan.
So I went, okay.
And he says, uh, and we're just trying to get ahold of Mr. Shanahan.
He's the guy you did the work for.
I said, right.
He goes, we're just trying to verify the check with him.
They're now trying to get in contact with Michael Shanahan.
Wow.
Who I've pretended to be using this zone.
Right.
And I'm like, and I've already signed it for the check.
I borrowed 400,000.
So I'm like, Jesus, it's Christ.
So the phone rings again.
It's Becky.
Boom.
Hey, what's going on?
She goes, what is taking so long?
I said, he's trying to verify the check with Michael Shanahan.
She, it was complete silence.
And she just suddenly goes, get out of there.
I'm like, I can't get out of the bank.
I'm walking out with the money.
If the cops show up, call me and I hang up the phone.
So I'm sitting there.
The phone rings again.
I look at the phone.
I don't recognize the number.
It's the bank.
It's the bank.
I pick up the phone.
I go, hello.
They go, hi, Michael Shanahan.
This is Jennifer from SunTrust Bank.
And I'm like, yeah, she's right behind you.
She's behind the window behind the touch.
She's 30 feet away.
I'm in a glass cubicle.
Oh, man.
I'm like, you're looking right at her as she's talking to you.
Yes.
And she goes, hi, we have a Scott Cugno here at the bank.
He's trying to cash a check that apparently you had issued off of a refinance that you
made.
And I go, yes, we just need you to verify the amount and that it's Mr. Yeah, I believe
it's Scott Cugno.
I'm pretty sure it was for 29,000 even.
And she's like, that's right.
And I appreciate it.
And thank you very much.
And I'm like, we'll real quick.
I said, how did you get my number?
This is numbers on the list.
And she goes, oh, we called the title company and they gave us the phone number.
Had she called information, she'd have gotten the real Michael the real guy, but she called
the title company because they did have that that's where they banked.
So she called them, they gave her the number.
They call.
I said, OK, she said, OK, she's not a problem, not a problem.
No big deal.
Thank you very much.
Boom.
Hang up the phone.
Sorry.
Wow.
So yeah.
counts out $29,000 and stares at me.
And he gives me the 29,000 and I remember I'm cautious,
but I'm also feeling real cocky.
Oh yeah.
So I stand up and he goes, Mr. Cugno,
he said, I'd like to let you know,
I feel very apprehensive about this transaction.
I go, really?
What is it exactly?
I mean, that was stuffing money in my pocket.
What is it exactly?
And he goes, he said, I can't put my finger on it.
And I go, I'm sure it'll come to you.
And I walk off, I get in the car,
tell Becky what happened.
I'm like, you're not gonna believe this.
Holy shit.
Drive off.
I mean, she's like, oh my God, oh my God, wouldn't it?
Never, I never even tried to cash a check for that large.
Ever since then, it was always under 29.
It was always under 10,000.
