Tell people what it is you do.
That's a complex question.
I'm sure there's not many people that don't know, but for the people that aren't aware.
I'm basically an instructor, first and foremost.
I train people how to survive and live in and go through non-promissive environments
is the moniker that I've been given by the people that I've trained.
Specifically my background is working for the government in Mexico and that gave me some
experience as far as how to survive some of the conditions that are down there.
When I came to this country about four years ago, I started getting invited out to different
security companies and people that offer training of that nature.
So I became a subject matter guy as far as how to not get into bad situations in foreign
countries or in this country as well, escaping from situations of abduction, for example.
How to manage emergency situations in places where you don't have the means that we have
access to in this country.
From osteo-medical management stuff, which I have people that I know that give that specific
type of training and I set them up for some of these instructive courses out there in
the world.
Also, I've become an advocate for people that don't have a voice in Mexico or not a clear
voice that you don't hear a lot about up here, specifically people who are in law enforcement
and who are a part of that weird undeclared war in Mexico, the drug war that's still raging
on down there.
This whole joke about coming to this country and going to a veteran event with some Marine
friends of mine and they all had hats with where they served on it and they jokingly
made a drug war veteran hat for me and put it on my head with the Mexico symbol.
So I do a lot of advocacy related to bringing a bit more awareness and a voice to people
like myself that went through that conflict, that have seen things from the inside and
are now on the outside of it and bringing awareness and a voice to some of these people
who are still in the fight, the honest ones, because anytime you mention law enforcement
in Mexico, they're all kind of labeled in the same way, all corrupt, all evil, all bad.
But I know that there are a lot of good ones out there doing the job, a thankless job,
you know, a job without retirement, a job that could end abruptly and leave you without
a lot of options.
And so in a lot of ways, I'm also an advocate for some of those people.
And Mexico as a whole, you know, trying to bring awareness to what's happening down there
up here.
Can you show us your shirt?
Sure.
There you go.
I was drugged and left for dead in Mexico and all I got was a stupid t-shirt.
That's amazing.
It's a movie reference, but also maybe, you know, half the part true was on my end, you
know.
It's from a company called Black Triangle Group, shout out to them.
They, you know, sent me this t-shirt and said, you wouldn't dare to wear this on a podcast
and, you know, here I am with it, you know.
The thing, the crazy thing about Mexico when it comes to right now is that everyone is
distracted with what's going on in Ukraine and Russia and it's like no one's talking
about Mexico.
That is, you know, like I posted something about that in the first 72 hours of that conflict,
which was basically an armed invasion from Russia into the Ukraine.
I feel outperformed that war zone in the first 72 hours as far as the body count, you know.
The amount of people that died in violent altercations related to cartel violence in
Mexico in the first 72 hours outperformed the war zone.
And this is happening right on the southern border.
Not just that, but also if you, you know, I'm not a numbers person, but people can look
them up.
The amount of people that have died in this conflict and the amount of people that are
missing or reported missing in Mexico is astounding.
And the amount of mass graves that are being found all over the country now.
And the sheer amount of control that some of these criminal groups have over territories
in Mexico.
There was a recent leak of military documents that has kind of come to light recently.
Waka Maya leaks is our version of the wiki leaks situation, basically.
Hacker group basically penetrated the computer systems of the Sedena.
I just read this.
And a lot of documents that the government itself has written are coming to light.
And I think some reporting down in Mexico has put the estimates that the military
themselves have put forth that over 70% of Mexico is under some sort of control over
for a criminal group.
And that there are, you know, there are no fly zones over some places because they're
afraid to get knocked down.
And this is happening on the southern border.
It's, to me, it's pretty amazing.
It's again, it's a conflict that's been going on for decades.
It is kind of it's interesting that the denial aspect of it that the US has or the media
has in the US or in the government as well, as far as not wanting to call it what it is
in Mexico, which is basically a multi-grouped armed insurgency going on right across the
border and utilizing in many cases military weaponry, fitting every single definition
of not only a criminal enterprise, but also a terrorist network in a lot of ways, very
much politicized, you know, we have, I think we have a record as far as the amount of political
candidates being assassinated in Mexico and also, you know, reporters that are reporting
on some of these things.
So if they don't meet the definition of a terrorist organization, I don't know, I don't
know what does, you know, but it's it's interesting that it's just not being given the attention
of a conflict as far as a war.
Do you think there's a reason that the US is trying to bury this or I mean, is it because,
let me phrase this differently, does the shit going on in Mexico benefit the United States
at all?
I mean, it's Mexico is so there's there's a few levels to it, I think, you know, Mexico
is the second largest consumer of American products that the US has, if you want to think
about it that way as well.
So we're very much dependent on each other.
You see a lot of people calling for like close the borders now and stuff like that.
That would there's a reason why it doesn't happen, you know, one of the reasons is because
US economy depends a lot on Mexico, you know, that's one that's an interesting link that
we have.
But it goes both ways.
Mexicans cross the border and work in this country in a lot of parts of the industry
that are very much a backbone of this country in a lot of ways, you know, you want to think
about how indispensable illegal immigration is to this country.
During COVID, you know, the the protozyles were stocked.
The what?
The protozyles were still stocked.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So we are Mexicans are essential workers in this country, I guess illegal immigration
is essential in the places where legislation has been passed to, you know, stop illegal
immigration working on fields, you know, you get the farming industry crashing these places
and some of these things get pulled back.
They send money back to Mexico.
So we're very, we're very much living in a, we're very much linked through blood, through
e-commerce, through an economy, and now through basically living next to the largest drug
market on the planet, which is the United States, having the experience of seeing the
poppy fields down in places like Michoacán and then training law enforcement in places
like Seattle, where I can get to see where that brown, light brown, light brown fentanyl
infused heroin ends up and seeing the government actually supply the tools to put that into
your body.
The state side has, it's been insane, you know, and surprising to me on that end and
seeing.
What do you mean they're supplying the tools?
There's a government programs out in places in the United States where they supply syringes
and means, crackbibes basically as well, you know, there's some government programs
out there that supply some of these things to people, which basically, they supply the
vessels to infuse things that are coming into this country illegally that are supplied
by cartel groups in Mexico, which is, you know, again, there's a weird denial in the
United States when it comes to some of these problems and also the mentality that a lot
of Americans have as far as it being a Mexico problem, like a foreign problem from a foreign
country that's all on Mexico and the responsibilities taken by Americans as far as their role in
some of these things, you know, from having industry that is completely dependent on
legal immigration and, you know, having the immigrants kind of be the bad guys in a lot
of mentalities in the United States, you know, and that narrative of them coming here to
take jobs and from people.
Yes, there is a problem with illegal immigration, but the problem isn't the people that are
coming over the border and working in industries that are essential for the United States.
The problem is in the immigration system and the basically the enforcement on that border
not being looked at closely and regulated, I mean, people coming here to get a job seasonally
should be a thing that could be regulated, I guess, you know, that has happened before
in history. Something went wrong, something happened, something changed. The only people
that benefit economically with the immigration being illegal are the people that are taxing
those immigrants when they cross that border. And those are not government officials, those
are cartels, those are criminal groups that basically make, in some cases, most of what
they earn comes from taxing people going across that border paying, getting protection fees
by some of the coyotes that work on that border. And putting some of these people in actual
slavery, you know, people, there's a big conversation in this country about historical
slavery when there's actual still slavery slavery going on in this country. People like
myself, Mexicans coming to this country illegally and not being able to pay for that process,
paying a coyote, half of their payment, or having their family's stateside paying for
that process over a time period, and then working, and then, and then working off that
payment through labor, slavery, you know, this happens in this country right now.
How much does it cost to get across the border?
You have numbers from 8,000 to 10,000, you know, you have 6,000 in some places, some
people say, well, I'll just go off myself and then get caught by by people on that
border and say, what are you doing crossing through our zone?
What is that process like? So if I'm living in Mexico, I'm living, you know, anywhere
in Mexico on the border or whatever, and I want to get across, who, who do I have to
go to?
You have to go to a smuggler. You have to go to a smuggler. I mean, people do it independently,
you know, they try and do it independently. Some of them get through some of them don't,
some of them die in the desert, you know, some of them get caught by the same smuggler.
So like, what are you doing trying to cross yourself? You need to pay us a toll. Some
of them get caught by the police down there and then get all of their stuff taken because
the cops down there, some of them are really bad and some of them are not to be trusted.
Take their, take their, take their meager belongings and then get tossed back into whatever
border town they're currently in.
The Border Patrol are, are working with them though, right? They're paying the Border Patrol.
Are they in cahoots?
I don't, I wouldn't say that. I know the Border Patrol, the US Border Patrol, I'll say this,
I've worked as an instructor with some members of the Border Patrol and I've also seen how
they operate on both sides of the border, both on the Mexican side with binoculars looking
at some of them, you know, looking the other way as a group of people cross by. So there
is corruption in that and there is corruption historically in the Border Patrol on the
US side.
You look at convictions as far as corruption charges. The US Border Patrol is one of the
ones that have the most convictions when it comes to corruption and it's clear that
it is not only underfunded, but it's undermanned, you know. I've also seen them perform acts
of great humanity and paying out of pocket for things like toothbrushes and toys and
cold medication for some of the people that are in detention centers. You also don't see
the fact that most of them are first generation or second generation Mexicans and do have
a vested not only interest in some of these people being treated mainly, but also for
them doing well. So it's a complicated issue as far as the Border Patrol. And yes, they
do and sometimes I've seen when I was down there, perform certain acts of corruption
as well. Corruption is state side as well. You know, it's not just, it's not something
that ends at the border. But then you go into Mexico and you see municipal, state and federal
police, police agencies also predated being predators as far as trying to get some of these
smuggling groups and tax them as well. Or some of these people that are coming to the border.
And it's known that if you're coming across the country to try and cross that border,
you probably have some cash on you. So they're perfect victims for anybody.
For a lot of people that are coming up upon that border, you know, specifically
authority figures. How did you get involved in Ukraine and training people to go to Ukraine?
It's not even that I train people specifically for that is that a lot of students that actually
came through some of my classes, including one specifically, Vince, he's out there and listen
to this. I love you brother. Basically, some students that went through some of the training
that I provide, you know, basically I train people how to working hostile environments.
And some of the stuff that I some of the classes that I've done, you know, some interesting people
have shown up, you know, people that have a background themselves, people have trained people
from the military, getting federal agencies and people of that nature. Some of them showed up
and said, wow, this material could be put to good use somewhere currently, you know,
you know, war zone, it's like, oh, that's awesome. You want to go ed? And I'm like, yeah,
yeah, I would want to go, but I'm just no conditions to go, you know, physically,
mentally, you know, I'm at 40, and I have a have a kid, you know, and I have my own fights,
you know, so some of them, can we take some of the material material out there? It's like, yeah,
you know, I gave them what I what I could as far as educational material and they took it with them
and they went out there front lines and trained a bunch of people specifically how to utilize
what they had on hand as far as a medical management emergency, improvising medical
management equipment, austere medical management type material that that I gathered from some of
the people that I worked with before. And also how to get out of bad situations, you know, restraints,
how to get out of handcuffs, how to get out of certain certain, certain improvised restraints
like zip ties and duct tape is a lot of a lot of stuff they're using out there. They're very,
they're not equipment rich, you know, these Russian forces, so they're improvising a lot of
stuff they're doing, which kind of like emulates or mirrors a lot of the stuff that I saw in
Mexico as far as some of the criminal groups abducting people out there. So made sense for
some of that material to be spread out out there. What has as far as like your communication with
the guys that are out there, what has shocked you the most or what has sort of surprised you
the most out of how they operate over there and some of the tactics they use, like you just said
using duct tape. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk about this
incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now after it was recommended to me
by nutritional scientist Dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast. I take Dom's advice when it comes
to anything related to nutrition, diet and longevity, because as we get older, these things
become more and more important. That is why I started using Verso. Verso is a company that is
dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase
longevity. I take cell being this one right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide,
or NMN based supplement, paired with naturally derived, micronized, trans resveratrol and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide idonine dinonucleotide,
which is commonly known as NAD. And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy cell repair
and longevity. If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten that
feeling of super high energy or mental clarity, it's because your body is activating these genes
called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes. The downside is as we age, NAD declines.
When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of sirtuins and naturally
activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold. And it is so much more affordable than doing NADIV
drips. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15% on your
entire order. That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout. And get 15% off your entire order or you can
just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E. It's linked below. Back to the show.
I mean, I think both sides are doing a lot of horrible stuff. It's a war zone and
there is no shining night in that situation and there is no clear heroic side. Some of
them are defending their homeland. That's to be admired and commended. And then there's
this Russian contingent coming in and some of them are mercenaries and they're performing
some barbaric acts against the civilian populace. Booby trapping, farming equipment as they're
leaving some of the areas, mining planted fields, leaving improvised booby trap explosives in schools
and places where people would try and scavenge food and stuff like that. I think it's something
that's pretty scary, alarming and unneeded in a war zone like that, but that's happening.
And then not to just focus on Russia. I've also heard from other people going out there to try
and fight for the Ukrainians, getting treated poorly by the Ukrainians.
Like civilians going out there?
Former military individuals, veterans, there's at least two Mexicans out there that I know of
who I used to work with who are now out there performing tasks out there and they've reported
back that they were treated poorly by some of the Ukrainian military because of the color of their
skin. So there's shit happening on both sides. There's some elements of the Ukrainian military
that are clearly very racist, culturally detached from the fact that there are people out there
that have brown skin that might want to go and help. Yeah, I heard there's a bunch of like rogue
neo-nazi groups out there. There are and there's some sentiment like that, not all of them again.
This is just some stuff that I've heard from people like that that went out there.
The shocking thing for me is that the whole targeting of a civilian populace basically,
how they're setting booby traps, man traps and explosive devices, they're going to be probably
plaguing that area for decades from now. Who are the ones that are setting those traps?
Is it both sides? Mainly Russia. Mainly Russian, Russian retreating forces that are
retreating in or moving back and letting some of that controlled territory or a baby placed back
in the hands of the Ukrainians. And this is the kind of stuff that you teach to be able to
survive and to be able to recognize? I mean, I don't show anything related to explosives,
but I do show things as far as trying to surveil urban environments and to see
risks involved in moving in places like that. We weren't exposed to a lot of
improvised explosives of that nature, well not improvised conventional explosives,
because a lot of these things are military grade explosives that are being utilized in
some of these conflict zones. Down in Mexico, we faced civilian drones being used to drop grenades
on people. That happened in Mexico. Like the little DJI drones? Yeah, that happened in Syria
first and then in Mexico. That happened in Syria first as far as it being shown publicly through
videos on social media. And then you started seeing it in Mexico. The first improvised explosive
that I saw in Mexico delivered by a drone was actually dropped in Baja. It was a grenade
that didn't explode in the end, but it was a grenade attached to a civilian drone that was
dropped in the backyard of the private residence of the secretary of public safety in the state of
Baja. And the first drone I saw used for criminal activity was actually crashed on the road to
Plaza Tijuana. It's a quad drone that was carrying a giant brick of meth. This was like 2011,
I think. I think I remember, 2011. So it's the rise of drone technology as far as where it was
going. It was apparent to a lot of us when we started seeing them being utilized for stuff like
that. I remember seeing some of the first videos coming out of Michoacán probably two, three years
ago. Michoacán right now for people that don't know, it's basically an active war zone in Mexico.
Can you tell, like paint a picture of where in Mexico is Michoacán? Michoacán is
center of Mexico towards the Pacific side ocean. It's next to a hot bit of activity that is related
to the new generation cartel, which is one of the largest, most militarized cartels coming out of
Mexico right now. It's kind of vying for power as far as the Sinaloa cartel and new generation cartel.
They are trying to gain entry and control of Michoacán, which is a very rich place as far as
the ability to plant and harvest things like poppy. And it's also on a drug route. So it's a
pretty strategic place for them. The Mexican federal government is actually allying themselves
with the Carteles Unidos out there, which is basically what is left of the cartels that used
to dominate that area. So they're involved in trench warfare against the new generation cartels.
And the new generation cartel, probably two years ago, I think some of these videos came out.
And I remember them coming out on social media and then kind of me sending them off to some of
my US-based friends, specifically EOD teams, so they can see it. Because I thought it was
interesting and they were surprised by the fact that they hadn't seen some of this stuff before.
They were basically weaponizing, using mining explosives, conventional mining explosives,
in combination with chemicals used to pesticide chemicals. So basically using the explosive
to disperse these pesticide chemicals, they're mixed and very harmful if you breathe them in.
And they were using them to drop on some of the fortified positions that the federal government
and the cartels, the Carteles Unidos had to fight against the new generation cartel.
So that whole exchange of information that's going on right now, as far as social media and
YouTube and LiveLeaks and all these online sources, basically exporting methodology has
been kind of like a really interesting part of all of these conflicts that have recently kind of
dawned on the world. How are they exporting the methodology? What do you mean by that?
I mean, you see Barmington back 40 millimeter grenades being dropped in Syria
to stabilize that grenade as it goes down from a drone. And somebody out there takes note of that
and then you see it in Mexico. And then somebody takes note of the fact that some specific drones
are better than others, taking some of that methodology and showing it to the Ukrainians.
And now Ukrainians are utilizing some of this. So this whole weird,
improvised civilian drone arms race that is going on right now in the world.
That combined with the group chats on WhatsApp of them sharing different things and photos and
videos and learning. WhatsApp signal, Telegram, social media. Facebook used to be like a place.
It's not anymore because of all the censorship. Instagram also used to be a place. I mean,
I remember I looked this morning. I was looking for you this morning. And for some reason,
I couldn't find your shadow ban. I'm shadow ban. Basically, you can't find a lot of a lot of
the stuff that I post because of repeated violations of the terms of service. And usually
they come from like news, me sharing news posts from our sister page demo that most of my
current strikes on the page have been of me sharing news about stuff that's going on in Mexico.
So some of the censorship online is pretty crazy. So I had to put most of my educational
information behind a paywall on Patreon because of this. Because there's just no way that people
can access that on social media without me getting some sort of strike on my accounts.
That's insane, man. That's insane that they're doing that. And are they doing that because of
your posting stuff that actually violates the terms of service? I'll give you an example of
something that got a strike on my page. There was a major offensive by a certain cartel in Mexico
and they left a bunch of their plate carriers, basically armored plate carriers that they carry
with them behind. And I shared a picture of one of those plate carriers that had the name of one
of these groups down there. That's the four letters. And that got a strike on my page because it was
promoting terrorist organizations. Or keywords in a news article related to that group,
also promoting terrorist or hate group organizations, basically.
Meanwhile, I was telling you earlier, Luis Shaparo, the reporter who ensued Ad Juarez,
was telling me that not only are El Chapo's kids and family all on Instagram,
but- Yeah, TikTok, Instagram.
As well as El Mayo's family and cousins and sons and-
They're all over TikTok. All over TikTok, Instagram. They have Instagram accounts.
Basically utilizing TikTok as a recruiting arm for them, for some of these cartel groups out there.
That's fucking insane, man.
I don't know how to describe it as far as experiencing it. You see,
I'm no saint. I post things that are, I think, informational or educational in some cases,
or some funny stuff as well related to PTSD and alcoholism and all that stuff that I'm going through.
But it's funny when you post something related to news or dispersing information in this country.
We have, again, we have a sister page that deals specifically with reporting on specific
cartel activities in Mexico in English, which is not an easy thing to do. They're based out of Mexico
and they're doing some amazing work. But they get reported on and their pages,
I think the first page they had was taken completely down by Instagram.
Specifically because they get strikes on their page because, again, the wording, the imagery,
it's not, and they're very good at blurring everything out. But that gets taken now.
And on the other side of the aisle, you see some of these organizations basically posting videos
and pictures of them spreading. Some of these, when COVID was happening, they were giving
the Spensas out there with the name of the cartel specifically. Here you go,
family, this is on behalf of this cartel. Or they were enforcing some of their mask mandates in
Mexico. And if you were caught without a mask outside or if you were caught partying outside,
you would get a tabla, which is basically a board, a flat board that you would use to hit
your ass. And you would see that on TikTok. You would see some of that on Instagram as well.
And it was up and nothing else. No problems. So yeah, there's definitely some
strange allowances that some of these groups have, or at least preferences that I think
we've seen as far as him looking at how some of the stuff he posts,
and how maybe he's being censored on some of the stuff he posts,
or how demoler posts, some things that are very much informational dealing with some of the
stuff that's going on down there. And it getting blocked or banned because of it. And meanwhile,
some of these accounts that are out there, specifically TikTok, I think TikTok is right
now, it's the main platform for a lot of people specifically in some of these criminal groups
who it's out there. No problem. Kids are running around, 17-year-olds running around with AK47s,
beating the shit out of people. That's so weird. I've heard the opposite about TikTok.
I've heard people have problems getting banned all the time on TikTok.
Well, they might get banned all the time on TikTok, but you can do a search of
specific criminal groups on TikTok right now and you'll find hundreds of videos of them rolling
around. What would you search for? Give me an example of what can we search for.
Cartel de Sinaloa. Cartel de Sinaloa. El Tres Letras, El Señor de los Gallos,
El Chapo Guzmán. You can look for a lot of these things and also they'll just pop up as far as
videos and imagery related to cartel and cartel corridos, for example. Popular music down there
that is glorifying some of these activities. The fact that it's being utilized as a
propaganda arm or a recruiting arm for them is very clear. Many people have reported on the
fact that some of these anonymous TikToks pop up every now and then. We saw a few of them
specifically in Baja related to recruiting people to a certain cartel. If you want to work for us,
reach out. We're here. We had an incident in Tijuana where a bunch of young kids
recruited by one cartel to put pressure on the government, basically burned a bunch of cars
and cost a lot of vehicular chaos in Tijuana. It was a specific day. They had this whole
orchestrated where they set some cars on fire in some major traffic zones during peak traffic hours
and later on when they put this message out on social media about them, what it was about,
and people basically setting a curfew. People don't go out because we're going to clean the
plaza basically. Then later they found out that some of these kids, after they were paid by
said criminal group and they skipped town, that a lot of them were basically recruited through
social media. A lot of them got like, hey, if you want to make some money, do it through here.
Wow. So, WhatsApp group, social media, signal, telegram. A lot of these things are being
utilized by some of these groups. How long have you been dealing with this censorship on Instagram,
like being shadow banned and your accounts gone down and come back, right? Many times.
Yeah. So, I mean, I met 300 something thousand. I've attempted to be verified. I've been quoted
by Al Jazeera, New York Times, BBC, and I've been on some pretty major podcasts. I've worked on some
movies. I've come right for a few magazines. I've talked to the Senate, some Senate hearings
and myself as well, you know, all of this documented. And I can't get a verification of that,
you know, because of the controversial, maybe it's because of the controversial nature of
what I talk about or maybe specifically it's because of some of the taglines and subject
matters that I talk about are considered banable offenses, I guess, on Instagram specifically.
Do you deal with any of that, like on other platforms at all, like Twitter and YouTube?
I've actually recently started posting more on Twitter and it's a breath of fresh air because
a lot of the stuff stays up. And Twitter let you post anything.
Yeah, but not Instagram. And again, it's hard for people to find me on Instagram.
And, you know, some of the stuff that I've been posting recently has been very benign and it's
mostly leads people to go and look at my stuff somewhere else. But still, it's bad.
Yeah, Luis Shaparo, he's one of his biggest media outlets, his Instagram for his stories too.
The funny thing, the interesting thing about people like him is especially when you decide to
live there near the border, like where he is, like him in particular, he is not like a gun guy.
He's like, he doesn't like to own a gun. And the question I have for you is if you're a journalist
living down there and reporting on these cartels, meeting with these cartels, would it be advisable
not to have a fucking gun on you? Or is it almost smarter to just not even have one and be considered
harmless? That's an interesting question. Like I am not a reporter. So my mentality around a lot
of this is completely different. Right, right, right. But you come from the opposite. But I have
trained a lot of reporters that work down there, including again, our sister page, Demo there,
who, you know, they work in Mexico and it's not easy. And, you know, there's there's some issues
to that. Arming themselves is not something I would advise for somebody that's going to go into
the the dragons then to talk to some of these people because it basically turns you into a
basically turns you into a combatant. Right. But that being said, not being safe or not knowing
how to be safe or trying to get yourself out of some of these situations is probably, you know,
ill advised. The, you know, the amount of reporters that are killed in Mexico is
mind boggling. It's one of the most dangerous jobs in Mexico is to be a reporter.
There was a lady that actually went on El Mañanero, which is basically the current president of
Mexico and Desmane Lopez Oredor has these these daily meetings where he addresses the nation and
rambles around about, you know, whatever, whatever thing is in his head that particular day.
And a reporter lady steps up and says, Hey, they've been threatened in my life. They want to kill
me. Can I talk to you about it? They had an exchange there and nothing happened. You know,
nothing was done. She went back to where she was from and it was popped. Basically, you know,
that is the level of insecurity in Mexico now. She told people what was going to happen and
happen. Right. She told the president of Mexico. Mind you, I speak ill of the government right
now and I will speak ill of the government that I was a part of when I was working for it from
Fede Pica, that on all the way to here, you know, I don't, I think all politics in Mexico is corrupt
as hell, you know, but the current government is is towards the left of political spectrum. And
there's a lot of sentiments of division in Mexico right now, as far as the left and the right.
The current presidency in Mexico said that they were going to make a civilian police force,
that they were going to take the military off the streets.
I was just the hugs not bullets. And now we have a militarized National Guard unit.
The civilian controlled federal police is gone. And he's doing exactly what his main rival,
Felipe Calderón did back in the day, which basically militarizes war.
And it's surprising to me that people on both sides are in denial about it too. You know,
I get attacked a lot about my criticism, as far as the current government,
but I criticize the whole of it, right? I was a part of that government as well. And I criticize
the shit out of the the Felipe Calderón government, and the Pena Nieto government,
and the current government. It's all of it is, there's there's no, there's no saving graces
for a lot of these, these, these, these presidencies in Mexico. And we've never lived in a more
dangerous time to be in Mexico, you know, as far as the amount of violence that that is occurring
in Mexico and at the scope that it is, you know, 90% of all murders aren't solved in Mexico.
If you are a civilian traveling down there, for example, like if you're someone just
traveling from Florida going on a surf trip, and you catch a ride to, you know, a local
beach to go surfing or whatever, and you end up running, getting intercepted by somebody in a
cartel, what kind of like, what should you do physically? And what should you do? Like, how can
you use words to get yourself out of a situation? You know, so first off, Mexico isn't all bad,
you know, there's a part, the parts of Mexico that are perfectly safe for people.
90% of all new houses in Tijuana are being bought by Americans. So I have a friend who lives in
Tijuana just built a new house, amazing. San Diego South, that's what they call it now, you know.
A weed trafficking is happening from San Diego to Tijuana, you know, that's that's the weird
thing about it. Mexico has a bunch of economic migrants from the US living in living in Mexico.
They're reviled in places like Mexico City, you know, some of them are they want them there
because they're driving up prices. So the whole notion of Mexico being this dangerous place is
in some parts it is very dangerous in some parts is very safe every now and then I see people
like, Oh, I live comfortably here and my kids go to town. Yeah, but you live in a fucking resort
fucking area. Of course you fucking could do that, right? And also you're American.
Your passport, even if you don't think that your password actually provides you with certain
immunity to some of the violence because criminal groups don't want to target Americans because
that'll bring in a lot of extra heat to them. Oh, really? So that is a product of that.
You know, you're more likely to be stopped by a corrupt local cop and get asked for a bribe
than get abducted by a criminal organization out there. So the nature of the beast down there
is completely different than the United States. I always tell people from the US, if you can't
travel with your sense of normal, you can't travel with your legal system and you can't travel with
your pillow rights. None of that means anything once you cross that border. So you have to adjust,
you know, your normal is a fluid concept. The same thing happens up here. I mean, I've been to,
I remember going to Detroit with some friends of mine were law enforcement and getting to see
certain parts of that city. I'm from Tijuana, man. Some of those parts of that city were pretty gnarly.
I will say, first off, you need to adjust what your sense of normal is and what you
expect somebody to react to or what you expect somebody to view as valuable on you or with you
to change. People going down to Mexico and getting their, you know, their truck stolen.
The thing, oh, the cartels are targeting me. You know, they want your truck because that is a
resource there. People going off to a foreign country with their iPhone and getting stabbed in
the neck for it by a 11 year old. That iPhone will pay for a lot of their issues in that place.
So it's, it's worthy as far as an object to steal from you and murder you for. So first off,
you have to regulate your sense of normal in some of these environments. Mexico is a place that is
varied. There's places that are safe. There are places that are safe for the locals. If you're
local there, you'll know what those places are. You are a sense of normal for somebody
from Tijuana is completely different from a sense of normal from somebody from San Diego,
for example. You know, the shootout happens and you duck behind the taco counter and then
you peek out, everything's fine and you continue wanting your tacos. Meanwhile, the American
across from you is calling the embassy to get extracted or something like that.
I'll say this. First off, you need to realize that you are in another country. If you're in
Mexico traveling or living down there, you need to realize you're another country that has a very
different set of rules that has a government that is pretty iffy as far as trusting it or not.
So they're not going to be the ones that you might have to call for something maybe.
Some of these places are cartel owned, you know, what you're seeing sometimes in some of these resort
towns with the violence that's going on inside of them is it's a fight for the giant drug market
created by Americans living down there. They brought their consumption with them when they
go down to Mexico and live in some of these places. So now it's an extra valuable place.
So people are trying to kill for some of the drug markets that people are creating.
That's another aspect of this whole drug war that people don't realize.
And Mexico has drug markets themselves. It's not just the U.S. drug market.
Mexico has giant drug markets themselves. And Americans not needing to cross the drugs into
San Diego, for example, to feed that drug market and have some of these Americans come down and
now live in Mexico and live in a place like Tijuana and bringing their habits with them.
That means that there is more violence as far as the people that are fighting war
feeding that habit down there. So advice, you know, realize that you have to adjust your
sense of normal. Even if you're, I'm from San Diego. I have my rights. I'm an American. I live
down here. Things should change. They don't give a shit where you're from. I don't give a shit
where you're from. Also, the locals will be less empathetic to you, you know, as far as you trying
to adjust things there. It's a hard issue. My buddy told me to tell, my friend told me to say,
if I ever got in a situation, say, Soy de Monterey. Oh, yeah. Mexican Wakanda is what I call Monterey.
That's where all the old money hides in Mexico. And you go down there, you'll see a Lamborghini,
more Seattle, just rolling down the street. He said also the white guys, too. He's like,
everyone in Monterey is white. Yeah, that's another aspect of Mexico that people don't realize.
There's a lot of white people out there in Mexico who are Mexicans and don't speak English.
My foster brother, Alberto, if he's listening to this, shout out to him. He doesn't speak pretty
clear English. And sometimes we would go to San Diego or kids and they would speak English to
him and not me. He was like, okay. And Luis E. K. is Mexican. I know that's crazy. I just learned
that like a couple of months ago. Luis E. K. is Mexican, more Mexican than a lot of these Mexican
American comedians out there as far as like he actually lived in Mexico. That's pretty insane
That is insane. But yeah, Mexico is pretty diverse. There's this whole, it's another
weird thing about American mindset as far as Mexico, that Mexico is a single place
where everybody's the same. People from Baja, like even Baja, like I was born in Tijuana.
It's actually rare to meet somebody that was born in Tijuana. It's not a common thing.
Transient place? It's a transient place. So I was born on 7th street in the hospital hospital
The León, which is a hospital with a lot of people. If you're born there, you're either the
son of immigrants that were kicked out of the US or you were on your way to the US and you
missed the date of your birth and you got born in Tijuana. So it's an interesting little part
of the world, Tijuana. It's a city of immigrants. It is one of those places. It's like a Narnia type
place, you know? Anything goes. Opportunity, food, street food is amazing there. Drugs are
prevalent there. There's a place called La Zona Rosa, the Tolerance Zone and La Zona Tolerancia
where prostitution is basically legal. On top of that, there's the ocean there. There's in
Sonala to the south. There's a wine valley there. It's an amazing place. There's a lot of opportunities
for people. There's beautiful parts of it. There's bad parts of it. Tijuana is whatever you want it
to be, basically. But people from Tijuana are known, you know, in other parts of the country
because when they pass through there, they're predated upon by people from Tijuana. I met
somebody, I think, in Oakland. He had a taco shop out there and I have this clear English because
I actually went through language school and I actually worked on not having an accent.
I can speak Spanish. I can speak English clearly. So I turn off my Spanish when I'm in the U.S.
For no other reason than I don't want to be treated differently, right? So I'm there.
Some friends of mine are there and they're kind of joking with this taco guy,
this taqueria guy. He's a great tacos, by the way. I wish I'd remember the name of the place.
It's in Oakland. It's near the Swapney. Amazing place. Speaking jokingly, he's from Puebla.
Just speaking jokingly with him was like, ah, what do you think about people from Tijuana,
and I'm standing there eating the tacos. They'll steal the t-shirt off your back
and sell it back to you. It just looks at you like, why do you say that?
When I went through there to try and jump that border, I bought some
gold necklaces for my daughters. I said, oh, these are beautiful. Thank you. Do you want to gift wrap
them? Yeah, which box do you want? That one, grab the box, wrap it. A few weeks later, when he was
up there, he opened up the boxes and the chains were gone. So he got duped. This is Tijuana,
and this is part of Tijuana. Also, there's a lot of that going on there. And then you go to places
like Puebla, which people are beautiful there. It's a beautiful place. Most of the best food
or the best people that make good food come from there. I think Bourdain
had a chef that worked in one of his restaurants that actually came from Puebla. He had a whole
episode down there, but it's very innocent. It is a very close-knit town. There's not a lot of
shady shit happening down there, so it's a completely different place than Tijuana. Then
you go to Monterey, where some of the old money is, and some of the people that have a lot of
opportunities that not a lot of Mexicans have live, and there's a certain aspect of
almost like a bubble around some of the richer communities that they don't get affected by
some of the stuff that happens in other places. And then there's Sinaloa, where everything goes.
It's a Wild West. People from Sinaloa are known for their thing. I think there was a ban on people
joining certain aspects of the military from Sinaloa for a while in Mexico. It was that kind
of note for it. But all in all, I've met people from all over the country of Mexico,
up here in the United States. Every time I'm up here, I see some, but he's like,
where are you from? And from Guadalajara and from here. And being so far away from home,
the feeling of warmth. Instant connection. It's a connection. The connection of
we have to earn our place here. We have to. It's like a responsibility for us,
not only our place, but the place of our children, which is something that I think
links most immigrants or every immigrant. We're always looking for a better place,
not only for ourselves, but for our kids. But there's another side to it. There's
a doggie dog eat mentality in some Mexicans as well. I always said this. My biggest critics
here in the United States are Mexicans, or second generation, third generation Mexicans that have
lost sight of what that struggle is. That say that I talk too negatively about Mexico,
or that I don't know what I'm saying, even though I came from that place. They might know better
if they've never been down there, or if the only experience with Mexico is going to resort town
somewhere or visiting La Vuelan de Rancho every a few years, I guess. But Mexico is a very diverse
place. If anything, you can't compare it to United States. I think I've seen more of the
United States than most Americans. Every weekend, I'm in a different state doing a class with the
locals or doing a glassware law enforcement. In the last two weeks, I was in Atlanta.
I was in Los Angeles. I was in San Diego. I was in Texas and a few parts of Texas,
and now I'm here. I think I'm going back to California.
Understanding Mexicans and Mexican culture and Spanish is such an important part of living in
Florida. I grew up in this town right here. It's been such a part of my childhood and growing up
and working. I'm trying to teach my kids Spanish at a really young age, because to be able to
communicate with the Mexicans around here, because there are so many of them, it's such an advantage
in life. That's another aspect of the whole fact that Spanish is very important. I remember
having this, people talk about racism here, and if I've experienced it, I've experienced a few
cases of that. I've lived in Kentucky for a while. I've never experienced any of that there.
I've been through this. I've been through all throughout the South, and certain parts of the
East Coast are considered kind of rural. The only time I've experienced that has been in California.
Really?
Yeah. Two times. One of them was in a grocery store in California. I won't say the town,
but it's in California. It was by probably a second generation Mexican berating me for the
fact that I was speaking Spanish to my kid in a restaurant. It was a restaurant attached to this
supermarket. She came over and said, you need to speak English. You're in the United States,
and you need to adapt. Also, if your kid's going to be here, she needs to speak English, too.
It was a weird moment, because I turned to her and I could see the brownness in her.
Yeah.
I could see some of that. That was odd. Another occasion was...
Did you understand her? Do you think she had good intentions, or do you think it was just...?
I switched to Spanish with her. See if you can talk back in Spanish. I just caught the
the fact that she had lost that Spanish, whatever Spanish she had was broken or that completely
unrecognizable to me. Maybe that was being expressed when she said that to me,
that she couldn't speak it anymore, or she lost that. I don't know. That was a weird one.
And the other one was related to my faith. I come from Mexico, and I have a very weird faith
to a lot of Americans, I guess. In Mexico, we have a really close relationship to death.
We party at the graves of our ancestors. We have...
That's one of the coolest things about Mexico.
We have that, and I've been trying to give that to my kid as well, that culture. I don't
want her to lose that. I had the situation where some people were calling me out on the fact that
I was wearing something very satanic, or demonic. I don't usually carry it out, but I usually carry...
Can you hold it up by your microphone so we can see it?
All right. Okay, that's cool. The Reaper.
So, I usually carry La Virgen de Guadalupe, which is like mother of Mexico,
and La Santa Muerte, which is something I grew up with as far as the faith.
And I had some people calling me satanic. That's devil worship, and that's the reason why
Mexico is so bad is because you're very satanic, and you have this demonic relationship with stuff.
And in my mind, I was like, you wouldn't have the balls to call somebody out on that.
If I was a Native American now, and I was expressing some of my Native American ancestry here,
you wouldn't have the balls to say anything about it. But I'm from Mexico. I'm an immigrant here,
and I'm a fair game person to say that to. And I just found this weird openness to attack that
faith aspect in me is interesting, maybe not racist, but pretty interesting as far as the
ability to be able to say something about that openly and freely. Yeah, that's on in California.
I feel like one of the most, one of the biggest misconceptions, at least from my point of view,
with Mexicans, is that they're all concerned, at least all the ones I know, they're like
conservative country. Yeah.
Like a lot of them, I know they walk around in cowboy boots, they're conservative minded,
like when it comes to politics, and love country music, driving jacked up trucks.
The identity politics that I encountered up here has been also pretty fascinating.
And you're Mexican, you should be to this side of the spectrum, or the discussions that I have
with Latinx terminology, that people want to Latinx ad like, like, gay, gay, they get something
Latinx. I have no idea that terminology means the assumption that I'm an immigrant, so my politics
should be of one and the other. Right. So first off, I don't like both sides, usually.
Right. On my end, I'm with you.
I don't like both sides. I don't particularly agree with a man in power that is completely
detached from my generational needs, and the generational needs of most of the people that I
know. The fact that he's clearly not mentally capable to be in office. And on the other side
of the political spectrum, there's this reality star who, you know, we can talk about some of the
stuff that he said about people like me and about some of the places where I come from.
And his politics, I mean, you know, to each his own, I'm not here to talk about that specifically.
But there's assumption that we should be on one side of the political spectrum or another.
I come from a country where we're not allowed to have guns. And I know what that freedom would
mean to a lot of Mexicans. If a lot of Mexicans were allowed to have that freedom, which is in
our constitution in Mexico, there's a there's a constitutional part of it that states that we
have the ability and the right to bear arms in our homes protection. But we have one gun store.
And we have a military that has monopolized that right. And if you are not a member of the
officers club in the military, you can't own or possess a firearm and carry it legally.
Or if you're a member of a police organization, you might be able to carry one as long as it
complies with the license. Other than that, you have to be upper middle class to afford a plane
ticket to fly to that single gun store and buy a gun that you're not going to be able to carry.
Meanwhile, on the other of the other end, the criminal groups are carrying around
grenade launchers and can take down helicopters, right? So coming to this country and seeing the
right to bear arms. I have a weird relationship to that, you know, because I know what that means
to people here. And I know what happens when that right is gone. But on the other end, I also see
things like fast and furious and how the proliferation of firearms in Mexico. And most of them,
it's probably 70% of weapons in Mexico come from the US. Civilian great AR-15s and
handguns that are converted into full auto in Mexico, for example, not all, but a lot of them do.
Can you explain what fast and furious is for people that don't know?
Fast and the furious was an operation that probably started during the Bush administration.
It's not people like the youth of Obama. But it started during the Bush administration,
what I know of it, externally. It started during the Bush administration and basically
a program that the ATF had to track small firearms purchases by gun runners in the United States.
Let them basically buy a bunch of firearms that the cartels wanted.
Know about it. Tell gun stores that, hey, let these walk. I know that's a very suspicious purchase,
but let these go. Let these walk. Let these walk out of your store. It's fine.
Them looking at these, following these gun straw purchasers,
take them to a gun runner. The gun runner loads them onto a car and then drives them to Mexico
and nothing happens because they were attempting to follow these somehow.
They were attempting to follow where the guns were going?
Yeah, they were trying to track them. But of course, nothing was tracked.
Then a lot of these guns were found in murder scenes across the country,
including, I mean, specifically have this memory of these FN-57 pistols.
High velocity around in these pistols that is able to go through soft body armor
and 50-cals in the box with the manual and everything, basically bought off an American
gun store and sent down to Mexico. Some of them were used to kill a friend of mine.
And I remember finding these in the murder scene and not knowing where they came from or
they were pretty new and like almost like out of the box. And you start finding them everywhere.
I only found out about them by watching the hearings related to the shooting of Ryan Terry.
Federal agent shot with some of these guns that later were traced back to the ATF's Fast and Furious
program. It is amazing that we know the names of these federal agents that were killed on the
US side with those guns, but we don't know about all the Mexicans that were killed with those guns
on the Mexico side. And for people that might want to say that I'm being anti-American with this,
and somehow I actually raised money for the Ryan Terry Foundation during a charity event for them,
despite the fact that I know that some of the people involved in this whole situation might
not know about some of the victims in Mexico about it. So I'm trying to be fair and bounce
about my views and some of my activism work that I do on both sides of the border,
but that operation did great harm to Mexico. There was probably some government participation
as far as keeping it quiet after it was found out in Mexico by the Calderon administration.
I'm probably almost sure about it, which was the administration in Mexico during that time,
the administration that I was working under. So there was shady stuff happening across that border,
but the sentiment or the mentality of Mexicans towards the United States after that happened
changed. The trust in certain circles as far as the US changed, and Mexico has had a
long-standing relationship of good and bad with the United States. We had some
suit massacres that were related to CIA activities in Mexico.
We have heard about those. I watched that documentary, The Last Narc. That was a very,
very dark, dark story. And you got Kiki Camarena, the DEA agent, and the CIA agent.
There's clear involvement of the CIA in Mexico utilizing drug running at that time to basically
piggyback weapons trafficking down to the Contras. But there has not been any apology about that.
Is that story, has that been verified, or is that still like quote-unquote conspiracy theory?
It wasn't in my time, of course. I started working in the early 2000s,
but I've met people that were from that age in that time, people that worked around that
environment. CIA and CIA involvement and a lot of stuff in Mexico has long been known.
Mexico City specifically has been a hotbed for back then Soviet era, espionage, and
activities. There's a few cases of Soviet spies being assassinated in Mexico.
Fidel Castro spent a long time in Mexico City. Some of his revolutionaries actually trained
in Mexico before they went off and took Cuba. So it's been a hotbed of activity. If people want
to equate it to something, Mexico has basically been a staging proxy war area for the United
States and its enemies for decades. Starting off with the Soviets, I guess. And now you see
influences from China in Mexico that seem to hint at some of the same kind of activity as far as a
foreign entity influencing or involving itself in certain aspects of Mexico and the United States
trying to combat that. Now it's no longer spies being sent to Mexico to spy on the United States.
Now it's a pipeline of fentanyl being pumped into Mexico to feed an American habit.
Before we go into the whole China thing, I wanted to, for people that are listening,
if they're not familiar with the last NARC, the story of that is there was a DEA agent working
in Mexico. I believe his name was Kiki Kamarena. He was kidnapped and taken to some sort of house,
and he was tortured for days. And eventually, I forget who blew the whistle on it, but
essentially one of the guys that was in there torturing him, his name was Felix Rodriguez,
who was a CIA officer. He was actually the CIA officer who was responsible for the capture
of Che Guevara, I believe. Yeah, there's a weird connection between that, the Bay of Pigs, Cuba.
And the Bay of Pigs, yeah. And again, this is Cuban intelligence,
CIA operations all over Mexico. This has been going on for decades. But that specific case
is interesting because to this day, we just saw the recent recapture and arrest of Cado Quintero,
who was one of the guys that was fingered for that.
Yes. And he was, when they interviewed him, they did, they brought him in front of the media for
some sort of thing after that. And he was just sort of like laughing and joking with everybody.
He's a scapegoat.
He's like, fuck you guys, I'll be out of here in two months.
No, he, I mean, he was, he was a high-level cartel guy, got arrested for it, that was pinned on him.
He was never extradited, which should be something that people should look into, you know.
He was freed under weird circumstances, you know, then made a run for it again.
Then he was placed on the most wanted list by the U.S. recently.
And then he was arrested again in Zina Law. Some people say it was betrayed.
But he's never going to be extradited to the United States, I don't think.
And there should, you know, I wonder why that is, you know.
What is, what does he know? I don't know.
But the interesting thing is that it was all pinned on him by the U.S. government has always
considered him to be the responsible guy as far as that murder, that, that, that torture
and murder of Kiki Kum. I don't know. There's a lot of questions there. There's a lot of,
you know, again, the whole aspect of corruption only being on the Mexican side or
shady stuff being done on the Mexican side. I always get a kick out of the comment section
when I post something about Mexico. I recently posted about this woman assassinated, one of the
ladies that led one of these, let's find our children groups, basically. It's a phenomenon
that's been happening across the country where women organize themselves and parents of people
are missing organize themselves to go and find their kids by trying to find clandestine graves
or knock on doors, basically doing the job that the police don't do down there because they're
either don't care or overwhelmed or whatever. And she was assassinated outside of her house.
Two guys in a motorcycle came in and shot her. And she's one of five, I think recently that
have been killed in this way. Now, you see this and in the comment section like, well,
the U.S. should get involved somehow, or we should send the, I don't know, some sort of
intervention, I guess, is what people think about. And I'm asked like, what is the public
sentiment as far as U.S. intervention in Mexico feel like right now? Yeah, nobody wants it.
Really? They feel like the U.S. is responsible?
A lot of them Mexicans don't view the U.S. as an innocent party or a savior of any sort.
They see your foreign policy, they see the U.S. is foreign policy history recently is not good.
So how come we can protect a guy like Kato Kintero, but we have El Chapo. How did we get El Chapo?
And why do you think we were able to get El Chapo? I mean, well, El Chapo wasn't,
you know, I don't know, people paint him as this major leader of the scene,
all cartel, which he wasn't, you know, he was probably, he was a member and leader,
he was a member in a leadership part of that, that federation of cartels, which the cartel groups,
which is the scene of all cartels basically a federation of smaller cartels that are all
allied themselves and are based out of scene of all. He was arrested and paraded in front of the
press as the main guy, you know. That's the biggest misconception of him. He's like the
head honcho that everyone thinks of him as the boss of this in a lower class. Which is, you know,
it probably, it probably was beneficial for the government at that time in New Mexico to parade
him out as that. And also for the U.S. government to kind of push their drug war policy as like,
oh, look at this success. We just arrested this guy. But nothing changed, you know. Drug prices
remained stable, you know. There was no, oh no, we had, there's a shortage of cocaine in the United
States now because we arrested the major, this major kingpin. Nothing changed. Why was he caught?
He was caught because he was, I think, this is my theory. I don't know if it's true or not, but,
you know, you saw his arrest after his meeting with Sean Penn and Cate del Castillo, who was a
Mexican telenovela star, you know. And I think that conversation or whatever was happening at that
point as far as Ocha Po's intentions were to put his story or his narrative out to people
and utilizing Hollywood for it. And whatever he was going to say about that was probably not
something that people wanted to want to know out there. That's my theory. I don't know if it's
true or not, but you saw his capture pretty soon after. So somebody got scared that he was going
to put his... I mean, he was talking to Sean Penn, you know. He wasn't arrested by the Mexican
military, by the way. That's another misconception about it, which is that he was, there was a raid
on some of the safe houses that we was at by the Mexican marina, the Marines, but he escaped.
And he was stopped a few miles away by federal road police. That's what he was arrested by.
He was stopped by two federal cops near the area where the raid happened. He was with his head,
what his head bodyguard covered in mud because they went through some sewer tunnels to get to
road outside. They carjacked somebody and took his car, and then he was stopped by these federal
road cops. And then the Marines showed up. So, again, narrative is very important in Mexico and
how to construct that narrative as far as who arrested him. So you see the military parade
him around. They dress him well and they parade him around and we arrested him. But there's a lot
of stuff that happens down there. Again, the narrative has to be controlled. And who's seen
as the victor, who's seen as the guy, the group that is specifically involved in arresting him.
It has to be the military because that is a narrative. So on the other side of it,
there's a lot of narrative influences as far as the cartel and what's happening down there,
but it's also the military is also doing its own narrative influence in Mexico.
Who is El Maio Sambada and how important is he to the Sinaloa cartel? And what was his
relationship with El Chapo? So what I know about him, and again, I'm a street level guy. I worked
on the streets in Baja as an agent and in a few other parts of the country, but specifically Baja.
And what I hear about him comes from people out there working in that field. El Maio Sambada
was somebody that learned his trade craft as far as how to move traffic and figure out drug routes
all the way from Colombia up into the United States. He learned his craft in Los Angeles,
not in Sinaloa. So a lot of people want to think of the Sinaloa cartel as a Mexican creation and
or originating itself in Mexico, but actually started in Los Angeles. So it's a very much
an American origin origin story. Through his relationship with somebody that was by marriage
linked to him, I think a Cuban national, if I don't misremember about it. He learned some
of the trade secrets as far as getting contacts, learning how to package what distributors in
the US to get to how to work distribution in the US and how to finance and figure these things out.
He learned it in LA. Later on, he went back to Sinaloa and started setting up some of his network
from Mexico and started figuring out how to get people involved. He's never been arrested.
The pictures we have of him are probably almost a decade old now of an interview he himself had
asked for with a magazine called Proceso down in Mexico. Did you say he asked for it?
Yeah, he asked to be interviewed by somebody from that magazine. He wanted to talk about
some things that were being said about him, I guess. But he's in the shadows. He's a shadowy
figure. You don't hear a lot about him. That's interesting to me that nobody knows about. Most
people have never heard his name. Well, I think now a lot of people have heard his name through
his son being arrested in the US. His son was not arrested in the US. He was arrested in Mexico,
but extradited to the US. There's a very amazing book written by a reporter, Annabela Choa, I think
is her name, that is basically an interview with his son, the son of El Mayo Sambada. His experience
in that family and the whole process of how he became involved in that business and how that
business relates to a lot of the corruption, not only in Mexico, but on the US side. There's this
whole story about that. Ask her on. She's somebody to talk to. But yeah, it's an interesting aspect
that he's never been arrested and that not a lot of people know about him.
What ended up happening to his son? I think he turned to state witness, I guess.
So that's at least what you gather from some of the stuff that he talks about in that book.
So he's probably in some sort of protective custody somewhere, probably.
So his dad wants to kill him? I don't know.
But yeah, it's interesting that you don't hear a lot about him.
And there's some aspects of some of these criminal groups down there. El Chapo was one
of those where I think they turn into some kind of celebrity figures. El Chapo escaped from
captivity a few times in a very dramatic way. One of them he was probably led out by the
prison guards. There's this story about him being in a laundry cart and stuff like that,
which again, I think is completely BS that the government said to not be embarrassed.
He was probably led out of that prison. And then the other one was a drug tunnel that was dug
underneath it. The prisoner was at and he was kept on the ground level for some insane reason.
And if you see the drug tunnel, the drug tunnel is shaped like that.
It's like you see some of the drug tunnels underneath the border that are shaped the same
way. Why are they shaped like that? It's the quickest way and the most stabilized way to
create a tunnel in a hurry without having to create a shaft with support beams on it.
So you make something that is shaped like that. Interesting.
And that was probably made by some of the same people that make the tunnels across the border
as it's a going theory. It was wild seeing the video that Vice did on that tunnel.
Like there was electricity throughout the whole thing with lights. It was a major
operation that cost a lot of money. And all the people that weren't in that jail were, you know...
They had to have been complicit.
But you can see his celebrity or his almost legendary status kind of
building from all these exploits he did. And it also tells you a lot about sentiment in Mexico,
how people that are working for the government are vilified because of all these major issues
with trust and the violation of trust and corruption. I understand that aspect of it.
I'm considered a villain because of where I worked. Even though I despise and say a bunch of
shit about the government that I used to work. But I was still an agent in Mexico, a policía.
So that means all of us are corrupt and all of us are evil. But on the other side of it, you see
the Netflix series where the romanticized version of cartel members who are Robin Hood
characters almost in all these cases and are romanticized. And you see...
Why do you think that is? Why do you think American culture is so fascinated by
cartel lore and cartel and drugs origin?
It's a Robin Hood. You can't help but root for the Robert in these cases. It's a Robin Hood figure.
I guess I don't know. It's one of the oldest examples I think Mexico has of this kind of
phenomenon of rooting for the... I won't say bad guys because I think Mexico is beyond
good and bad right now. There's devils on both sides. But one of the first cases of this Robin
Hood type sentiment was a guy that later on turned into the saint of traffickers, Jesus Malverde.
Jesus Malverde is a folk saint in Mexico that came out of Sinaloa. You see him depicted as a
man well-dressed with a mustache, usually carrying around money bags or weed on the bottom of them,
like in the statues that they have of them. They call him El Santo El Colgadito or the hanged saint,
basically. He was a bandit, a bandit that lived in the state of Sinaloa back when
turned to the sentry. Rich landowners used some of the rural roads to go in and out of the area
and he would rob them, just like Robin Hood would. He would rob them and he was known hard to get.
He would know his ways around the rural area so he would escape these government troops that were
after him. He became a legendary bandit. Eventually, the government got tired of his shit. He tried
to rob a rich landowner somewhere out there and he got shot in the process and wounded. He hit
himself in the hills. He knew he was going to die so he told one of his friends to basically turn him
in. I don't think I remember clearly, but 10 gold coin reward on him, so 10 gold coins for him.
So he said to his friend, turn me in, get the money, just give it to the townspeople.
Well, that's the legend. He was caught, he was hung and there was an order for him not to be
buried, so just let him rot. Eventually, his bones made it to the ground and the townspeople one by
one put a rock over his remains. There was a mound of rocks there eventually. People started praying
to his anima sola, which is basically this soul that's stuck in purgatory type belief that a lot
of Catholics have. They view people that died unjustly like that as a link or as a way to
ask for favor or ask for intervention. So he started granting miracles.
And there's a big shrine to him in Zinaloa, and you go there and you'll see
pictures of some of these traffickers in the U.S. with their big trucks and their big houses,
and thank you, Malverde, for granting me this miracle. I think that is an interesting aspect
of the psyche in Mexico, this almost rebellion against authority or government that we have
in us. And specifically, higher in places where people don't have a lot of opportunities.
The reason why some of these criminal groups are so large and so powerful in Mexico is because
we have a lot of youth. We have a lot of expendable youth bodies that have absolutely no
opportunities other than going to work with some of these criminal groups down there.
Right. They start working for cartels as young as 11 or 12, don't they?
Yeah. You can work them in the fields, and then they turn into Alcones. You'll see
13, 14-year-olds with a cell phone and a radio on the rooftops, their eyes and ears.
There's no way you can get close to any of these towns that are cartel controlled without
them spotting you from a mile away. Then we'll be able to ride a motorcycle,
so now they're following around military convoys in a city so they can report back
all their movements. And then you'll get an AK and you'll be in back of a truck,
or you'll get a gun and you'll get tasked with going to shoot somebody.
And the dream they used to have was through music. You would hear about the exploits of this
guy, this cartel guy. You would hear corrido about this guy. You would hear
stories about this other guy. You would see a Mexican B movie in VHS about so and so,
and you would get inspired. But now we have Narcos Mexico, and now we have a bunch of these
online series related to them. Now we have TikTok, now we have Instagram,
and now we have a lot of things that will give youth a window into some of these lifestyles.
I want to be that. That's the way to get out. That's the way to give my family what I didn't
have. This is the way, I guess. This is the lottery ticket.
It's like the easiest way to get out of poverty, right?
I mean, it's the way. It's the way. There's no other options. In some places in Mexico,
there's no other options. You said you were born in Tijuana. Were you raised as a young child
there, or where were you born? Tijuana and Tecate. It's basically the two municipalities
that are joined. We had a ranch with a pig farm on it. I would go back and forth between the
city and this pig farm area. Is there a key moment you can remember or reflect on in your life where
you ever made a choice to go in that direction, or where you had a choice to enter that world?
Yeah. I mean, again, when I was my, my teenage years were in the late 90s in Tijuana, where the
whole Narco Junior phenomenon was happening in that part of the world. Narco Juniors were basically
middle-class kids being brought into cartel activity. I think at that time, the Ariana
Fuze cartel was the main cartel in that area. So they were basically bringing, Tijuana was
thriving. It had poverty in it, but it also had a very big middle-class population.
And they saw in this middle-class population opportunities for them to infiltrate regular
industry, to utilize some of the sons and kids that some of these families that are well off.
To gain entry into industry, gain entry into transport, gain entry into means of moving
across the border through regulator legal means by utilizing transport companies and stuff like that.
So, you know, I saw friends of mine in that time frame that went off to work for some of these
criminal groups and saw them go from not being able to, and I was a skateboarder back then,
you know, that was my thing. I played in a punk band. I think, I think a lot of that mentality
that I got from that culture kept me, kept me out of it. But some of my friends left that behind,
or some of my friends were never part of that whole kind of culture, counterculture type of thing.
So, I saw them go from, you know, driving around, you know, beat up a Hyundai Excel to then showing
up in a Ram, Dodge Ram, a brand new Dodge Ram sport, a sport, a sport or one with blue and
a stripe going down the middle of it, and then showing them, they're showing me their AKs,
you know, at, at, at, at the, at the street parties, you know.
What about the old Ford lightnings?
Yeah.
Remember those, the old school F-150 lightnings?
Yeah. I mean, you would see these, these guys go from nothing to, to everything, you know,
they, and they would come and like, hey, yeah, look, check this out. I'm, I'm standing there
wearing dickies, uh, wearing air walks, uh, and people, you know, my, uh, blind skateboard that
its tails were all worn down because that's, you know, been riding around all this, uh,
all this time and independent trucks. So people know that I'm legit. I'm just talking about my board.
Um, but I'm sitting there holding this and these, these guys show up and they're like,
walk out of this car wearing, you know, Italian stuff on them, you know, clothing and boots and
flashy, you know, monies everywhere and women are there. And it's like,
what the fuck am I doing? You know, you have these moments of like, where am I going? You know.
Right.
Uh, but there was a, there was a specific place I used to hang out.
Uh, it was a, it was a straight street and everybody on that street, all the kids went
to work, went to work in the, in that industry, you know, and I remember when I was active,
it almost became like this list that I would go down because I kept finding them in murder and
executed scenes. You know, a lot of these kids that I remember from that time, all of a sudden are
found in pieces over here. There's another kid that's found dead over there.
Um, their houses were fucking raided and burned, you know, um, and you saw this whole generation
of people just get eaten. I think them, uh, there was one night when we found 12,
12, uh, kids ranging from 17 to 28, uh, just, uh, tied up, beaten, tortured and strangled and
shot some of them, uh, in one night, 12 of them and going through and looking at them and seeing,
oh, I think I know that guy. And some of our other guys that were there, like, I think I know him
and these were kids, you know, and it's, they were part of this machine that was trying to gain
control of that part of the, that part of the country to control the port of entry into the
largest drug market on the planet, which is California. And that's why they're dead, you know.
Do you see an end to this in, in the future? Like, even if it's the long-term future or are
cartels forever just going to be a part of Mexico?
That's a, that's an interesting question. And I have something that I thought, like, I consider,
like, we, we talk, people talk about fully legalization or decriminalization of, uh,
some of these substances across the board. Um, there's, uh, there was a moment in a time when
some of these criminal groups only focused on moving narcotics across the board. I mean, you've,
you, we've found, uh, seen a lot of cartel activity all the way in Europe and Northern Africa and
Southeast Asia, you know, they're, they're everywhere, you know, it was a time and place when
that was their only means of, of, uh, money making, but now they're local drug market,
giant local drug markets in Mexico as well. So you can decriminalize things in the United States,
but that's not going to end anything in Mexico. So that's an aspect of it that is no longer just
like it's, Mexico is no longer just a drug route. It's also a giant drug market itself
that is feeding a lot of these criminal groups. So unless it's going to be a,
like a regional decriminalization of narcotics of all kinds to, to, to, to regulate that, that's
not going to be an issue. We already saw the legalization of marijuana in certain parts of
the United States. And all that, all that that is that turned marijuana fields into poppy fields.
That's what happened. So they just, you know, shifted or adapted. The reason why they started
putting fentanyl in the marrow and in the, uh, in the poppy and the heroin was that a lot of these
places where they were planting these poppy fields were already leached as far as nutrients.
And they didn't, that, that wasn't their industry. So the potency of this, uh, lighter colored heroin
was low. So, you know, this is kind of legalization of pot in places like California was kind of
around the same time that the, the prescription opiate epidemic was ending, was, was kind of
petering out in the United States. So it was like a perfect storm, you know, you started seeing
these marijuana fields now turn into poppy fields and people started putting, you know,
an extra kick fentanyl into the, into the heroin and it became the product.
Is it the fentanyl cheaper?
Yeah. I mean, it's a, it's a time dependent. So during COVID it was not cheaper
because of the shutdown, although a single cartel was the one that was getting most of it.
I think there was a case I've seen a law cartel actually smuggling some of the fentanyl from
the U.S. into Mexico to load their drugs, but it definitely gave it a kick, you know? I mean, as
far as whatever potency heroin had coming out, coming from now on there, they added the fentanyl
in it and it just turned into, and not only drugs, but isn't the cartel also involved in
like lots of other main industries? Like even if like we have a Ford factory down there,
isn't the cartel somehow like doing any major industry in Mexico is either in some way, shape,
or form financing criminal groups around it by paid protection schemes, by racketeering
rackets related to robberies inside of some of the mining industry, for example.
And my, you know, feeding some of the drug habits in the communities around some of these industries,
they have their hand in human trafficking. They have their hands in regular industry. There's
been a few tequila companies that later were found out to be owned and operated by families
that are attached to some of these criminal enterprises. So, yeah. I mean, the interconnectivity
of the United States and Mexico, as far as all of these illicit activities, the whole
aspect or concept that Americans have of this is a problem that is all the way out there in Mexico
doesn't touch us. It's like I think about, is there a time in the future where like the cartel
could just evolve into it's now the government? Well, some of these leaks have...
We're going to start making our own rules. We're going to develop our new constitution
of the cartel. The reason why you're seeing so many political candidates being assassinated in
Mexico right now is because that's what they're already doing. They already have their candidates.
They already have their governors. You think the governor of Sinaloa can be the governor of
Sinaloa without the Sinaloa cartel saying that he's going to be the governor of Sinaloa?
I would bet no. So, that's an example. That's an example of that. And
the Mexican military doesn't work with the Marina, with the Mexican Marines. They don't work together.
So, they don't trust each other. So, if members of the federal government don't trust each other
in that way to work together in conjunction, something's at a very high level wrong or broken.
And they themselves are admitting that they are compromised in a way. So, when you
ask if the cartels will one day govern, they are already in a way, criminal groups are already
in a way governing large segments of Mexico through influence. That's already happened.
Because one of the presidents labeled them terrorist organizations, right?
So, I think the people will think back on Trump talking about the fact that these
groups would be labeled or the possibility of labeling cartel organizations as terrorist
organizations. And this happened after the massacre of Mexican American Mormons in Sinaloa.
There was a massacre of this family group in Sinaloa. There's a bunch of stories out there as
far as if they were involved in cartel activities or not. If they had some sort of connection to
any of that, conspiracy theories abide out there as far as that. I'm not here to say exactly what
the motives were. I know that it was a bunch of women and children in cars that were basically
shot and burned alive. That's what I know. I know that they were Mexican Americans. They had
American passports and they had Mexican nationalities. So, they had both nationalities.
When that happened, there was also this surge of the migrant caravans going on as well.
And this was at the beginning of the Trump administration's efforts. And also, we had a
new leftist president in Mexico who was utilizing all the anti-American sentiment.
Just Lopez?
Yeah. He was utilizing a lot of the anti-American sentiment that Trump himself created
as a political pressure point. So, when the migrant caravan happened and all these people
moved through the country towards the border, Trump was trying to figure out a way to pressure
the Mexican government to reinforce its own southern border. And one of the ways that he
put political pressure on them was to put this threat out as far as the United States
labeling cartel organizations as terrorist organizations, which never happened. It just
made the threat. It was used as a political pressure thing.
What would that mean if he labeled the cartels as terrorist?
It means that anybody supporting them, relating to them, harboring them, working with them,
financing them, moving their money or anything of that nature would now be fair game for the
U.S. military to go after.
I think of Saddam Hussein and what happened in Iraq when that happened and the Taliban.
But Iraq had a lot of resources that we wanted. What would the U.S. gain by going and invading
Mexico? Well, we have most of the minor lithium on the planet underneath the same place where
all those Mormons were. Really? If you want to talk about resources, Mexico has a lot of resources,
and I think it's main resources, it's people. But there's also a lot of...
I had this conversation with a former CIA agent yesterday, and I asked him this question.
He said the biggest incentive for any country is to improve its GDP, to grow its GDP. Revin
is resources and money. He's like, what will we gain by doing that to Mexico? That was his question.
Most of the minor lithium on the planet is...
It is the number one deposit of lithium, I think, right?
It's the biggest, mind-able deposit of lithium on the planet, I think. And if you see what's
happened to other South American countries that have lithium, that have had regime changes recently
in the recent history, you would see some of the influences the United States have had,
some of these regime changes. South America is going to the left, and this sentiment against
the United States is prevalent throughout Latin America right now. When that threat was made
of labeling cartels as a terrorist organization, it moved whatever apparatus was there to
fortify the southern border, to admit the whole policy that United States now had,
as far as them saying, hey, I know you're coming here illegally. You wait in Mexico,
wait your turn, but in Mexico. And the only reason all of that happened was because of
some of the political pressure that happened with that threat. Now, think about it. You label
cartel organizations, terrorist organizations. Now, do they meet that definition? Are they
politically motivated? You see all these political candidates are fascinated.
You can say yes.
Do they have an ideology that they want to put forth? They're the heroes in their own story,
so there's an ideology there. There's some certain cartel groups and leaders in the past that have
actually turned themselves into saints. In some parts of Mexico, there's a case of a
cartel member, nicknamed El Mazloco, who turned himself into a crusader type saint and made statues
and shrines to himself out there. So there's clearly some of that to be said about some of
these organizations. They utilize assassination, murder, torture, and terror-related tactics
to further their intentions as far as what they're working on. A lot of the highly produced ISIS
videos of executions and stuff like that that came out back then were actually influenced by
some of the Narco blog and execution videos that the cartels had. So even there, they've
been influencing that type of stuff. Now, I consider that they meet every single definition
of that terminology. I don't think they will be labeled that because that means that the United
States will have to fight that battle on both sides of this border. If the cartel organizations
are labeled a terrorist organization, it means that any industry, government, or people that are
harboring, helping, aiding, supplying, all of that will be fair game. And I think there's a lot of
that industry and stuff like that here in the United States as well. And there's a lot of
the political influence- U.S. government helping create terrorist organizations.
The U.S. government not being too far-sighted with their foreign policy specifically in Mexico
was probably fair to say. Well, I'm just looking at what happened in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Somebody that's not from here, and I don't know a lot about that war, but the fact that you were
attacked by a bunch of Saudis and Egyptians, and then you went off and took down the Iraqi
government and now looking at it now and seeing the Taliban back in power, that's an interesting
lesson for other countries that are looking to the U.S. for solutions. The lesson is learned by
the international community, specifically your neighbors down south. Mexico doesn't want the
U.S. and Mexico to intervene or come as a savior. That's not in the mind. That's no longer in the
headspace of most people down there, which again, you talk about looking for solutions and stuff
like that. It's hard to come up with any sort of solution that doesn't involve a bottom-up
transformation of Mexico that includes its people. If you want to talk about true change,
I think it comes from a grassroots effort from the people in Mexico that doesn't include the
government and doesn't include the military in Mexico because I think, and these recent leaks
of documents have shown that they are completely under-equipped and overwhelmed by this problem
down there. It seems like if you could just alleviate all the fucking bloodshed and violence
and brutality in these cartels that you could make shit way better. Do you see any sort of way
to just fix the problem when it comes to the killing and the murder? If you could legitimize
them somehow or give them some sort of power, like, look, stop the killing, stop the murder,
let's make this work. Keep the cartels, lose the death.
It's interesting that the drug war that was kicked off by President Felipe Calderon
chopped off the heads of certain leadership in some of these criminal groups, which basically meant
now one group is two. This group over here now has a vested interest in attacking this one,
so it was basically kicking a beehive and not having a B-suit on is the analogy that I want to give
it. I think whatever options we have had of pacification or, I don't know what to call it,
are gone. I think these groups are fractured, like the Cine Law Cartel is a fractured
entity. I mean, they have killings going on between their members.
You see places like Baja and Tijuana specifically, where you have one side fighting the other for
control of the local drug market. Most of the murders that happen in Tijuana are related to
local drug sales, so they're killing each other's sales points of people.
And then you see some of these criminal groups that are no longer able to maintain their organization
through trafficking means, so they start going into local extortion, going into abduction for
ransom, going into people trafficking, and going into other types of things and making the
situation worse and worse and worse. And all we have to combat that in Mexico is a government
that is in complete denial about the fact that every five years, six years where a president
comes in, all the stuff that was done before gets completely discarded, even if it was successful,
demonized, and all that is bad. Now we're going to do this new thing.
An example of this, current president Lopez over there. And again, I'm not
to the left or the right of political inspector. People want to say that I am to the right or
something like that. I want to smoke a joint and take mushrooms at my gay best friend's wedding
with a gun on my hip, and I don't want the government to come in to say those are my political
views, right? You can't put a calderon in a box. No, I mean, I'm cool. I'm cool. Everybody wants
to live their own lives. I'm fine. I'm about small government. I'm about responsibility.
If there's one thing I would change in the world, it would be to declare the ability and the means
to protect yourself and your loved ones as a human right. And that would mean firearms.
That would mean to be able to take that responsibility for yourself, because in places
like Mexico, that's not available to people. So people want to see my politics. That's
pretty much it. It's about responsibility and about being able to do that for yourselves.
The president right now in Mexico is doing this thing called a cuarta transformación.
And he's being, he's highly popular as far as the masses. To the right of the political spectrum
down in Mexico, there's the conservative people that have done a horrible job at governing Mexico.
And it's clear now because of the complete disdain that the populace has towards them.
They have no political candidates that's going to rival anything that the Andres Manuel Lopez
over there is going to put forth as far as the next person that's coming into the presidency
in the next two years. So, but the main thing that the current administration does is criticize
the right for their handling of, you know, the drug war, criminal, the drug policy and all these
things. And they're doing exactly the same things that the past administrations have done,
which is basically militarized the police, militarized the counter cartel activities,
go after, go into a fragmented effort against all cartel organizations out there, favoring some,
not favoring others. And the main thing that they promised was to create a civilian police,
federal policing organization across the country, which they didn't. They basically changed the
uniform of the military from green to white camouflage and put a military member in charge
of this new police group, which now the federal police is gone. All these guys who had a lot of
training, a lot of the counter, counter narcotics, operational skills and experience are gone.
Where are they? This mass of people that work for that institution. Where are the skills?
They're probably at work somewhere else, right? A lot of these criminal organizations are recruiting
somewhere else, so they're probably somewhere currently working against our best interest.
So, where are they? And this is basically us shooting ourselves in the foot again.
When I left the job where I was, the same thing happened. The group that I worked with
and some of the people in the leadership that I worked with did an amazing job in Baja. We took
the Tijuana specifically off the most dangerous that he list on the planet with the work that not
only we did, but some of the local government did there. We were given a clean slate to try
and figure that out. And when that ended, political rivals came into power and everything was vilified
and demonized and all of us were now the villains, right? Because there's a case of systemic amnesia
that happens every five years. So, it's gonna happen again. Things are really bad right now in
Mexico as far as control that some of these organizations have over vast amounts of the
population. The leaks that just came out, these guacamaya leaks that just came out that basically
put bare all of the mistakes that this current administration has had and also past administrations
have had, how it taints all of their hands from Felipe Calderón to the current administration,
how the military is completely under-prepared and ill-equipped to fight this problem and how
they are holding on to the responsibility and the power that was given to them by letting them go
out of their barracks and do this stuff on the streets to try and gain control of it.
We just had some legislation passed that's gonna put them on the streets even for like five more
years because they were trying to be put back into their military barracks. Now they're involved
in creating hospa and creating airports, trains, they're trying to create this whole,
they're involved in all this infrastructure work down there which is making a lot of people some
money. So, you see all this systemic problem basically cycling and people are fighting as
far as the political left and political right when there's the same problem that's just repeating
itself just under a different banner. It sounds just like the United States but with different
issues. Yeah, I mean that division is what it is. God, we never explained it but what were you doing
specifically in Baja? I was a member of a state organization that started as a state organization
basically. It's an attempt in Baja to Americanize police forces. It's a modern police force that
they attempted to create. They were successful in some of it, basically the initial efforts of it.
We were put through FBI background checks or backgrounds were checked, financials, house visits
put through a paramilitary style training regiment and we were basically used the tip of the spear
basically to work against some of these cartel organizations in the area. When I started the
federal police were soldiers dressed in gray and they would ride around the back of the truck
with us. It's funny now that the soldiers are dressed in white and the same thing happened,
they're riding in the back of the truck. So, I was part of that organization for 12 years.
I did a lot of stuff in that organization from working in conjunction with federal agencies,
the military. Sometimes I would get embedded with military units because they would know
their way around because of the way the military works in Mexico. If you join the military in
one part of the country, they'll send you to another. So, sometimes these specialized military
units were doing counter narcotic operations or counter cartel operations but they didn't
know their way around. So, we would have to have us as guides in some of these areas.
So, I worked with some of these mixed groups basically doing some of those jobs in that area,
not just in Baja. I worked in other parts of the country and also the U.S. I got to do a lot of
executive protection and bodyguarding with some high-level people including the governor of Baja
and actually got to work here in the United States of protecting him and his family.
Oh, wow. So, that's another aspect of some of the work that I did.
That led me to get exposed to American military training. We did some time in Coronado and actually
trained with some people in NSW and NCIS. So, I remember getting this feeling or this taste
of what we could be as a law enforcement and what our military could turn into if we had the backing
of our government and we had the confidence and faith of our people but we don't. So, I did that
for 12 years until it became completely unsustainable for me. What I mean by that is I could no longer
do that job without being compromised as far as my person. I was never on the take in any way,
shape, or form like in people that doubt that. I currently have a contract with the federal
government and they looked at my background before I could get any of these. So, I trained
federal agents in the United States and have in the past and I left that job with nothing,
basically. There was a moment where I was basically brought into the office after
most of that situation was ended and I was offered either to work for a team or not and I just
resigned. I had the opportunity that not a lot of people have of coming to the United States
through marriage. I had a marriage. I married an American and came to the United States.
I'd never envisioned myself to come into the United States and living up here. I was married
for a few years down there and our plan was to live in Mexico. It's not expensive. We would figure
it out. Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine I was going to leave that job alive or not just
do that for the rest of my life. But it became less and less sustainable until it just became
corrupted at the highest levels. When I was up here going through my immigration process
and finally finalizing that, I remember seeing the arrest of Martínez Luna, Garcia Luna,
the guy that was head of counter cartel operations for the federal government when I was active.
He's up here in the United States on cartel charges. This is somebody that was awarded FBI
recognition and the government was saying, this is the best guy out there. He was the guy that was
in charge of overseeing the organizations that would keep us honest, the people that would go and
put us through polygraph examinations every year or if something would happen, they would evaluate
us and investigate all of us. All of a sudden, this is our boss and now he's under arrest up here
for cartel charges. How many times did you get approached when you were doing that?
Many times. What are their tactics to do in that? They try to blackmail, leverage, what do they do?
Through others, through other people that are working in the same organization as you,
basically, you'll get approached by people inside and there's a culture in Mexico of
you don't want to tell on people and it is understood that there's people in there that
have, they're on the take and there's people that are not on the take.
So you just drive a nice car, living in nice houses.
Yeah, people suddenly get to a giant house and arrive at working in a Hummer H2.
Some people out there are going to listen to this that work with me and they're not going to let
me lie about this. There was a guy that showed up to work one day in a yellow Hummer H2 and
everybody there was like, what the fuck? He was later to let go of the job and he got into some
shit and arrested and all this type of stuff. But at that time, I was working as a bodyguard
for one of the directors of the group that I used to work with and I remember him looking
out the window and being like, it looked back at me and I was driving around a
Sunfire Plymouth, I think it's Plymouth Sunfire. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know what car you're talking
about. Shitty ass car, you know, but that's what I could afford on that salary. And this
arrives in that car. You know, I was basically driving a loner car from my, it was my brother's
car and he loaned me that car because my truck was all fucked up. And this guy just shows up in
this car. It happened regularly or just getting, we would change our phone numbers every now and
then just to, you know, for security. And my phone would always get, you know,
somebody would call me and threaten the people that I was working with. Hey, tell your boss that
he's going to fucking die. It's like, shit, who's that? Yeah, I don't even want to know.
You know, our information, our emergency contact numbers and personal information
found in photocopy form at a safe house somewhere, you know, and all of us having to get a call and
like, hey, your information was found somewhere. We were everything around, you know,
it was a constant thing. And also, there was a lot of cases where you would approach people
and they were clearly, clearly more of them than there were of us. And you would have to just,
you know, stand, stand down or stand back or getting a call from high up and say,
whatever you're going to, yeah, don't go. Okay. There was a lot of that.
What were the guys thinking that would show up like the guy driving an H2 like he must have
known that everybody was obvious, right? I mean, to when that happened, I remember
everybody was like, it's obvious. But it was at a weird moment in that institution's time where we
didn't have a lot of backing and we didn't have a lot of people basically looking out for everybody's
interest. We were kind of compartmentalized and these guys over here were doing what they were
doing. These guys over here were doing what they were doing. It was true throughout my time there
where we had people that we knew who we recognized who was cool to work with and who was not doing
shit and we recognized who wasn't. There was a very influential man that came and was in leadership
during some time when I was there. His name is Lieutenant Colonel Lisa Hola, a very famous
character in Mexico, one of the most famous lawmen in Mexico basically. He had a documentary
done on him. Oh yeah, I've heard of this. Uncorruptable dude, senior, sorry, not dude, man.
So he's still out there and I'm probably going to talk to him pretty soon. He came out of the
military. He's a Lieutenant Colonel. He came out of the Lord College, an amazing man, fearless.
When you talk about superhero characters like these men that you meet that are
supernatural, that has to be one of them for me. The first time I met him,
he came to Tijuana to take control of the institution that I was in, the organization that
I was in. The guy that I was working with as a party guard said, you're going to drive him around.
So I go over and I introduce myself. He looks at me. He looks at my equipment. He looks at
all the stuff like he looks at my firearm and things that are on it. And he says, who got you
this equipment? It's like I did. How'd you pay for it with my salary? Do you like this job?
So yes, what don't you like about it? I wish we had more support. I wish you had more training.
I wish we had more equipment and I wish we had better firearms.
And he just nodded and then I got into a car with him and we started patrolling Tijuana the
first night he was active. He would walk out of the car straight into shit. And I was supposed
to be guarding him and I was like, sir, you can't. What kind of shit would he walk into?
Cartel members being stopped somewhere and he would just walk in. I was like,
who are you? Who are you working for? This man was fearless. He was a fearless man.
He had several assassination attempts on his life. Several. They tried to poison him.
Is that something that... When you walk into those situations like that, you explained him
walking into just a group of cartel guys and he was fearless. Is that something they can sniff
very easily? Can they sense people's fear and they take advantage of that?
Yeah. I mean, they sense that people not being too sure about what they were doing or who are
these guys? Who they say they are? Who are they calling? Who did they call before we stopped them?
You're watching your backs. You would stop some suspicious people and you wouldn't have to put
people on the sides of the road pointing at both ways in case you would get ambushed by somebody
trying to rescue them for something like that. But he changed a lot of the ways we operated.
He basically turned us into a counterinsurgency in a lot of ways. He started developing these
nucleuses or cells of people that would move around the city at all hours of the night and
operate and nobody knew what was going on. They would just move around the city and he would
keep some of these groups on edge because where are these guys going? What do they know that we
don't know? He got us better firearms. I remember we had one AR-15 in two through three and one in
nine millimeter in the armory and that's what we would roll with every night. Some of the cells
that I would work with at night, that's what we had as far as to arm ourselves. We were moving
five, six man strong groups and all of a sudden all of us were carrying around G-3 assault rifles
and G-36s and we had the full backing of the military and now we were a thing to be feared and
we were operating in very much a almost again a counterinsurgency way against some of these groups
and we had the backing of the government at that time so they were pretty behind his efforts.
We changed a lot of stuff in there. We changed a lot of it. I remember the first thing that I
kind of noticed is that he had a selection process as far as who was going to be in charge and he
put the standards in front of us so it was no longer who you knew or who your compadre was as
far as if you wanted to be in leadership now you had to prove yourself. It didn't last though.
It lasted a few years and he was moved. He did some great work in Tijuana. He was a police chief
of the Tijuana Police Department for a while as well. He was the one that disarmed the whole
of the police department in Tijuana which was insane. Tijuana was basically without an armed
police force for a few weeks because of him. How did that happen? He had the military with him.
Oh shit. He surrounded them with the military and they said give the guns up. Specifically he
wanted those guns to go through forensics because a lot of them were being utilized as the
murder weapons because they were a lot of the municipal police department in Tijuana was
undertake not only undertake but they were being utilized by some of the cartel forces to move drugs
around and perform hits. He did such a good job that he was then sent by the federal government
to take leadership of the police precinct in Juarez and he did the same out there. He lowered
the violence out there with the same approach he took in Tijuana.
Paul is going to change. Abnesia comes in so he was on his way out of Juarez and
he was with one of his kids and he was shot in the back in his last assassination attempt
and lost to the use of his legs. Jesus. When that happened all of us were like
it to the people that knew him and that worked with him and you know it was it was kind of hard
but then he came back. He came back with a vengeance and he politicized. He started he
wanted to be the municipal president of Tijuana. So he's made the run on the office of that three
times now I think. Really? Yeah. I held a political rally for him at my family's house.
Where does he live now? He's around. Is he in Mexico? He's in Mexico. Okay. But he's hard to
find. Right right for good reason. But he's you know if there's anybody that people should look
at as far as like I don't think I think Mexico's lost or I think there's nobody out there to trust
or nobody out there to kind of look at they should look at him. I think he's what we need
as far as a leader in Mexico right now. He's not only proven himself as a leader as far as some
of these problems that we have in Mexico but he's also there's a reason why they try to kill him
so many times is because they could buy him off. That's the reason why they try to kill him so many
times. What was the most optimistic point of your career working in Mexico doing this stuff working
on these on these counter narcotics operations or what was like the most successful point in your
career where you thought like like I'm working for something that's greater than me that could
actually fix this country and then at what point did you lose hope?
I remember this.
It was a almost a joke every night as far as how much bodies we would find
like every night there was three over there five over there six over there 12 at one night
you know shootouts in the middle of the day. I remember coming to this point
during some of the time that I was actually working as a bodyguard for the governor of Baja
towards the end where I was sent to the police academy for retraining
and during that retraining process that we got we were basically told to tone it down a bit
they said your militaristic approach or this sense that you're still in this
war and doing this job that you used to do is not what we need anymore we need more community
policing so you need to chill out and then we were shown some of the numbers and how
the state itself was actually more peaceful than it was a few years back
and how some of the work that we did made a difference and now we were being told to chill
out basically so murders were down and some of these things kind of pacified or calmed down
you know if you want I was no longer on the most dangerous city list on the planet
and I had like I was like I had this moment of well it worked
but then you know then it came back with a vengeance and it's been back for a few years now
people forget there's a short memory in Mexico I guess and what was done correctly for a while
was forgotten or suppressed or pacified you know they they saw no wolves so they
shot all the guard dogs basically is what I kind of got gathered from there the the political
efforts down there when I was when I was coming out of that experience and
it wasn't whatever was successful wasn't popular anymore because it was it represented a pass
administration what was it like leaving was it difficult to get out of there yeah yeah I mean
I've invested my 20s to it my life my body to it you know there's a few teeth missing
my nose is a pretty good example of some of the shit that went on as far as that work
some of the shit I saw is stuck with you transformative you know I had this
notion that I was going to die in that job you know I didn't think I was going to live to see 30
but I was okay with it you know because I was you know I was doing something you know I felt
like I was doing something and for people that are involved in the military or that do work like
that in the world it's never about the politics behind it you know the people that went to Afghanistan
and are seeing the exit and of that whole conflict and stuff like that they're not worried about the
politics they were they were worried about the people they were there with them you know they
were worried about things mattering life and death shit mattering at that moment when we're there so
that was that was similar for me I wasn't in a far off land I was where you know I was where I grew
up so it really mattered to me and I was worried about the people that I was with I was worried
about some of the people that I was going to leave behind when I was uh when I was in a command
position I had a few people go to school because of the influence that I had so I left a few lawyers
and a few psychologists came out of with careers came out of the time that I was in command down
there so I left at a better place in a lot of ways I I had a lot invested in that
and all of a sudden I find myself in a place where I'm you know being told to either work for one
side or the other and there's no backing anymore like I you know all the people that I mentor I'm
mentored under were gone or not in a command position some of the politicians that I work with
are gone it's a different place
so I just made the choice to jump you know it wasn't easy it was I felt a sort of abandonment
by the people that were behind me at that time and also a betrayal of a sort from the government
that I gave so much to when I was in this position and I had nobody to look to I'm still waiting for
my severance pay they never they never paid me when I left the job
the I asked for a license basically to leave the job and come back to it after I did some things
because I was I was under a lot of pressure and I had a lot of shit going on in my personal life
I wasn't given to me so it was one of those moments where like fuck it and I just fucking
risked everything literally risked everything I had a two-year-old at this time
and no other means of supporting her and I decided to say well it's either my me being
dead and her getting life insurance policy or me being alive and struggling but figuring it out
mm so I
I had a lot of threats when I left you know like why are you leaving this doesn't make any sense
you're you're have a good salary you have a category in the police basically a category
there's they would have categories as far as your your level and in how much time you would work
there so I had a good category had a very good salary and why are you leaving that's suspicious
what you're working for what's going on you're like all this type of stuff because I got called
like a bunch of calls threats I grabbed all my stuff and left they question your motives like
what you could be doing like you could be going to the other side or yeah I mean it's uh it's
it was odd I guess to them and also suspicious so but I just couldn't continue on there so I left
I found myself in the U.S. during the election of Trump so that was a unique time you know
it wasn't easy at all very unique time it was not easy at all luckily I had some pretty good
people with me that friends that I made on the U.S. side during my time active helping me out
through some of the process of making my way up here and I found myself in a place where I was
trying to forget or leave that shit behind me you know leave that whole experience behind me
and then finding out that the only bankable skill that I had was that past behind me you know my
experience and it's just lowering slowly yeah always it really
so uh you know I found I find myself in the U.S. and I find myself in the U.S. without
what I thought was in no bankable skills and that experience is what I was looked out for I mean
I started doing classes related to somewhat just a counter abduction for example and like
what's your experience base and I'm like well you know I did 12 years here and they would be like oh
that's an interesting experience base um and I just realized that uh one of the things that I could
do as far as changing things was to take that experience and take some of that voice that came
from that experience and use it and you were it was you moved here for the first time it was right
in the beginning of Trump when he was running for president yes how did you meet Joe that so
that's a whole that was like right during the time you first went on his show yeah so
it's like you came straight from here went straight to his studio no not at all
uh I was going I was going through my process of uh
basically my immigration process um and like I got it it was very complicated the thing that
made it complicated with the election for Trump is that everybody thought that window was going to
close for people so everybody went after it so a process that would take eight months turned into
two years um I started uh being involved in going off and training people specifically people that
wanted or needed to know some of the things that I knew about moving and operating in a place like
Mexico just for personal safety what to carry what not to carry how to social you know engineers
certain certain things and I realized that oh I have this whole experience space that I know
uh one of the first companies that hired me in the U.S. was a company called triple law design
it's a clothing company but they they used to run a training wing uh based out of San Francisco
shout out to those those people um great people great company um and started doing training uh
open classes for people basically there and they would sell out and I was like man I'm on to something
at this time as well I had a blog that I was running a first off tumblr then facebook and
instagram and I had a lot of people following since I was active when I didn't have my name
out there what I would just blog about some of the stuff that I would see so my name started
kind of being known out there was that did you call it Ed's manifesto yeah so the Ed's manifesto
thing I was actually something that came out of my time in Coronado training with the NCIS guys
and then it's W people uh they would see me write down everything in a little black moleskin
notebook and they'll say what are you writing in your old manifesto that's where that's manifesto
came from um that's cool so I started posting a lot about Mexico and then when some of the horrible
violence started happening in Mexico again and uh it was at a time when social media and people
would cut camera phones and cell phones and videos were more prevalent and a lot of the people that
I used to work with would send me some of this stuff that would they would gather directly from
the field wow so I started sharing some of these things on my social media platforms
and talking about or commentating around that led into me being invited to write for a few magazines
and then to talk to the to the news and to be quoted by a few news agencies and then all of a
sudden I would look at my following and I would see different people on my following that were known
you know um he had a he had uh Joe Rogan had a guy on uh an author that talked about cartel
activities was it uh Grillo I think yeah I think it was him um and a lot of people in the comment
section said you would have you would you should have Ed to talk about some of these issues I mean
he was actually working down there uh and uh and then he just reached out directly that's amazing
I got a DM and and then I realized that he had been following for a while uh not only following
but also kind of like actually legitimately wanting to learn about some of the issues down there
he asked me a bunch of questions and all of a sudden I found myself uh I found myself in a studio
you know um that's incredible I did two episodes with him and it's you know it was life changing
you know the life changing to to be certain um but specifically for me all it changed was
now more people know about me right but as far as uh as far as uh it changing my life in other
ways I mean I've been since I came up here I've basically been on a road not only training people
but also you know learning stuff for myself you know I go out there and train with other people
myself to better myself and I've been on this weird you know kind of pilgrimage to try and
figure things out as far as my own healing after my experience down there and kind of how to make
sense of all of it you know um so how long how long has china been an influence in mexico
and when did you first find out what was this happening or were you aware of this
happening when you were in mexico not not uh not specifically I think uh
there was an arrest of a of a mexican chinese national in mexico and who had a record as far
as the amount of money that was found in his house uh zen is she le gong I think I don't I don't
remember the name clearly but it was uh it was basically somebody was involved in the pharmaceutical
industry of mexico uh chinese mexican american uh mexican national he had over a hundred million
dollars worth of cash in his house the stack was about the height of this table um gold all you name
it his house is basically just giant money pit and uh the government the federal government
obviously took this money and you know made it disappear and you know he got involved in
in in some assuming that sued the mexican government there was this whole case around it
but that was the first sign of public kind of very public sign of chinese national
involvement in some of the issues related to precursors coming into the country
and what the pipeline might look like as far as some of these products and and precursors to
create meth or to construct meth in mexico and also the proliferation of some of these chemists
chinese chemists actually teaching or bringing some of the equipment to mexico to create some of
these substances in mexico some of the first fentanyl uh production facilities in mexico
were kind of found around that time and this is this Philippa Catheron administration era
so that kind of started being a thing you know specifically around meth production not not
fentanyl but fentanyl started kind of looming in the background um meth production in mexico
and the quality of meth that was produced in mexico that was better than anything was being
produced uh stateside you know the things that inspired probably the uh that uh that uh series
here in the u.s the breaking bad breaking bad yeah the whole finding these giant crystal
shards that are clear and the quality in them uh coming from mexico into the united states
and some of these industrial level laboratories in mexico kind of popping up and who was showing
them how to cook it how to create in some of the equipment to make it it was in the precursors to
make these were some chinese source so that's kind of as far as on my radar that's when they first
kind of started popping up as a player in mexico what is the motive what do you think the primary
motive is uh developing and helping produce all this stuff in mexico and traffic it around the
world is do you think it's financial motivations or is there something else so there's there's no
there's there's no criminal enterprise in china that's happening without the government knowing
right right there's no there's no chinese mafia moving fentanyl and having an alliance alliance
with mexican cartel that that that doesn't exist that shouldn't really kind of make sense to anybody
so it's impossible to have some rogue organization that's not tied to government it's impossible
for anything coming in or china without the chinese government knowing about it not doing
anything about stopping it okay so it's that's what i'm saying okay so there's a pipeline of
fentanyl coming out of china into mexico and into united states as well through there through a lot
of ports probably canada as well so there's a pipeline of precursors to make methamphetamines
and also to make uh to to fentanyl coming into mexico and other parts of the of the world but
specifically mexico that is happening under the watchful eye of china right this is produced in
laboratories in chemical plants in in china then are clearly under supervision of somebody
ups up there and there's people have gone out there to report on these things you know all you
have to do is change a molecule in some of these substances and it's turns into something else
there's people out there manufacturing making these things and kind of circling back and
engineering some of these things but whatever it is it's coming out of china with chinese know how
they know about it i mean i don't know if they're making money off it and the government's like
using it to fund anything but they know about it and they're not doing anything about it basically
that's one part of it another part of it is basically all the money that's made off some
of these processes and some of these trafficking and distribution networks goes into sometimes
goes into chinese money laundering networks and banking networks two years ago there was a news
breaking about chinese and chinese banking apps used by chinese money brokers stateside to basically
take money earned from sales and distribution in the united states to go into the chinese banking
system basically disappearing from the us is and then materializing in mexico with another money
broker down there so even in that case there there's an involvement you know as far as moving money
and moving funds from one part to another to another now this is a place where people have
social credit you know right people are being watched where there's uh there's people that
can't move from one part of the country to another right this is big brother area area so there's
nothing happening there without them knowing how is it possible for this criminal enterprise is to
be operating completely in the open and utilizing some of these systems that they're completely
supervised and under supervision without the chinese government knowing about it and knowing
what they do or what they do with those funds or what where those funds come from they either don't
care or they are seeing it as a way to affect this country and saying oh that's a pretty interesting
thing that's happening with this uh whole process let's just not do anything about it is the united
states the biggest country or is it the most affected by fentanyl deaths do you know i don't
know about if it's the most affected by fentanyl deaths i think it from what i see in the amounts
of the numbers that are being reported it's clearly that that's killing a major a major amount of
people and in youth i've some of the arguments i've heard of china trying to specifically
disrupt america is that there this is happening in a bunch of other countries that no one just
just nobody's talking about i mean there's fentanyl deaths in mexico there's a giant
market in mexico and but that doesn't matter to americans i guess people dying in mexico
from fentanyl related deaths but it definitely happens um you know i'm not i'm not i don't
come from the war college i'm not somebody that's involved in uh international geopolitics or war
war scenarios but if you wanted to affect the united states in a big way you would you know
if you can't attack it directly militarily because you guys have the want to spend more than any
other country on the planet as far as your military industrial complex right uh you attack it indirectly
yeah and one of the most indirect ways of attacking it is through your youth
you know and influence you know i think the fact that the mba can't say things like taiwan is a
country is mind blowing to me in this that to be living through a day in age when the us
when uh when the private entity like the nba can't have its players say that giant that taiwan is
in a country that wants a country right else that will get you know so there's you know to talk about
the influence and censorship it's going on you know so that i think i think they're very much
playing the long game as far as influence in this country and the their their their pipeline as far as
fentanyl and their completely passive reactions to its banking institutions and monetary systems
being utilized to move around money is just a clear sign that they're you know not looking out for the
passengers in the united states and i'm sure i'm sorry united states is doing the same oh that's
just the number of deaths according to the cdc 107 000 people in the u.s died of drug overdoses
and drug poisonings in the last 12 months ending in january 2022 staggering 67 of those deaths
involved synthetic opioids like fentanyl okay yo so fentanyl's an opioid yeah some of these deaths
were attributed of fentanyl mixed with other illicit drugs like cocaine see that's what i don't
understand if you're selling cocaine why would you mix it with fentanyl that's just going to kill
somebody like fentanyl's the opposite right it's uh it's uh it's insanely cut down maybe they're
they're they're small time distributors they're trying to figure out how to you know give a kick
to their product that is extremely cut down you know you want to make more money you're greedy
it's an illicit market so nobody's going to supervise you hey went to buy these drugs right
what i'm saying is like if you if you got a clientele buying cocaine and it's killing everybody
they're gonna stop buying you this is in ford mortar company they're not worried about being
sued or anything no but right but they're worried about making money they're worried about selling
their cocaine right they're not apparently they're not apparently uh they don't they don't give a
shit some of these people don't give a shit do you think it's deliberate or do you think it's
by mistake i think it's by mistake i mean being able to to give percentages as far as the mixture
the amounts is these these people on chemist some of these guys are getting some of their
product from alibaba to weird underground black market means arriving at their houses and they're
just cutting the shit at their their basement right just to make a quick buck um now you're
seeing the change right now is not specifically related to putting it into uh existing uh stuff
like heroin now they're actually involved in manufacturing fake pain pain medication and
camouflaging and or creating their own packaged pills so not even that is safe anymore i saw that
when i was in i forget where i think i was like i was i forget the name of the town but it's uh
it's like one of the biggest tourist destination places near punta mita okay and uh what i remember
going through town there's all these pharmacies like pharmacy every single drug every prescription
drug was there by agris yallas and bike it in the uh what's a white people meth is what they call
they call some some of that down there white people meth yeah basically uh a lot of stuff is
over the counter and even if it isn't over the counter you can go down there get a prescription
like hey i need you need a prescription for it okay where can i get it and the guy just turns
around you know and hello i'm here to do it you know that's one aspect of it down there
it's interesting that there's a giant pharmaceutical industry down there should
people should question that why is there so much uh so much so many pharmacies and giant
pharmaceutical industry down there it makes you wonder what else they're making you know behind
that car are there u.s pharmaceutical companies based down there or operating down there that's
um it's a lot of the bigger ones are mostly mostly mexican ones that are operating on
the uh guys of making similar pharmaceuticals as the major ones for the for the populace that
are more affordable oh wow and right now what you're seeing what china does it's it's with
everything else that's the that's the influence i guess but what you're seeing now is the evolution
into fake medication and fake pain medication and things that look exactly like a prescription
opiate who which is ventilated phental loaded fake opiates uh pain uh pill presses being found in
safe houses and manufacturing facilities in Mexico um packaging so why would i risk smuggling a
break of something when you can just put it in medication just put it in a purse crossing the
board so that that's that's what you're seeing now as far as an evolution of some of these things
as far as the us um so they're sending chemists over here and the cartels are working directly
with chinese chemists and they're teaching them how to manufacture this that's something that's
been documented and it's happened a few times yeah that's that's that's already documented and
that's happened yeah and that is and how does that benefit these like the sinaloa cartel does that
just save them money yeah it's a money saver i mean they're they don't have to go to even though so
another thing to kind of think about as far as some of these criminal groups in mexico
they they operate in all the way down to columbia now but there's there's there's there's factions
of the sinaloa and in generation cartel operating in columbia at the source i mean they're not taking
control of the whole operation but they're already down there kind of like basically doing this in
canada you know wow they're in northern africa they're in europe you know there's a network of them
that are now trying to find a way into like places like australia you know they're they're they're
everywhere jesus as far as they're uh
you know if you if they can figure out a way to produce and not depend on anybody that makes it
more money you know when covid happened it was a big hit to some of these groups because they
couldn't get access to precursors and fentanyl specifically it was interesting that you had
a cartels that were on the pacific side that had control over some of the pacific side ports in
mexico like the new new generation cartel actually grow during this time period because they had
access to the pacific side ports which led into a route directly to china even during covid they
were getting supplied uh so that's again an interesting phenomenon of that but you see this uh
this whole proliferation is specifically around fentanyl and kind of cartels and criminal groups
moving into manufacturing and creating it for themselves you know that's going to be the
moneymaker in the future they can figure out how to basically develop that industry and stabilize it
there it's going to be just a supply line what else is china doing in mexico i mean lithium buying
mine buying there was there was uh there was rumors of them uh gaining ownership over a canadian
mining company that was actually a chinese owned company that wanted to gain some of those mining
rights and and in the state of us in the state of sonora you know there's there was a massive
exodus of american companies during the trump administration when he was basically you know
bring our companies back that whole policy right that didn't affect the economy in mexico at all
because chinese chinese interest in chinese interest he just moved in quickly you know
so there's there's a lot of influence and as far as china as far as industry in mexico a big big
influence um politics in mexico again is moving far from the us uh from the us for a lot of reasons
it's popular to be anti-american in mexico really yeah uh you know the ukrainian thing
they voted they didn't they abstained from voting for the during the ukrainian resolution thing you
know during covid they got supplied with some of the sputnik uh the russian uh vaccines so there was
mexico did yeah so it was like uh there was a this this this relationship of you know pro russia
thing in mexico interesting but a lot of people in mexico putin seems like uh you know he's kind
of like fits into the into the macho well it's kind of like it's it's interesting to hear that i've
heard that from other people too and and what's interesting about that is how we have the in
america you have this constructed lens of russia like we have our we're under our own propaganda
we we can't see it clearly because the way our government our media feeds it to us is different
than how people in mexico see it yeah can you see do you notice a difference in like the propaganda
in the u.s compared to mexico on on what the views of russia are i mean i i think uh i think
in a lot of way i don't know like uh you get the sentiment in mexico that the rush is basically
trying to unify its uh its historical territory that's the sentiment that but that's the sentiment
i get from a lot of the a lot of people that have talked to them there and the u.s is is basically
destabilizing and pushing and pushing its influence in places where it shouldn't and it's uh propping
up a corrupt regime which is the ukrainian regime that it's currently there right they see
its current president as a as an american plant right uh they see they saw some of the troubles
that happened there as american backed situations you know so they see that again the whole aspect
of the u.s being like a like meddling in foreign affairs and and putting its influence and and
supporting things to an extent and then leaving those people behind or abandoning them is something
that is kind of in the hearts and minds of a lot of people out there what it what happened in afghanistan
what's happening in ukraine now where you're sending you know armaments and but you're not
you know you're not going to be there if the Russians actually didn't get to get to the capital
you know yeah it's like with ukraine um we're just it's like an excuse for us to to use up all of our
surplus weapons and war machines that we have and be able to test new things for when it does when
the time does come that we have to face china this is like an excuse for us to i think it's an
interest it's an interesting uh you know example of the fact that you know russia wasn't everything
at everything they said they were right wasn't that crazy but also the u.s isn't really backing
the ukraine no they said and also all this uh green energy um sustainable energy politics in europe
have made it completely a slave to russian energy so and so that's an interesting aspect of it that
people are now kind of realizing that this whole uh this whole thing about uh how people were moving
green and stuff like we're really not green you know they're they're kind of dependent on on this
energy this dirty energy from russia and as far as uh as far as the visuals of it for other people
including myself uh seeing the exit from afghanistan and what happened to the people that you supported
in that country and now they're left to their devices right what might happen in the ukraine
you know i don't know what's going to happen there you know people are celebrating russian
retreats and and people are leaving russia's russia's retreating and stuff like that and you see it in
the media as a major victory but then you see the russian media and they say it's there and then you
see some military advisors that looks like a tactical retreat and they're gathering forces
they're probably going to do an offensive on this side of the country next right so you don't know
um the fact that some of these uh weapon systems that are being uh sent to the ukraine
like are showing up at black market uh stinger missiles and remote control guided missiles
and stuff like that they are that's uh that's something that's been documented out there
some of these things are gonna be are gonna disappear off that batter battlefield and
no remote remote control guided missile of that nature might show up somewhere
imagine if one of the cartels got their hands on a nuke i don't know about a nuke uh but uh
they got submarines what they have why can't they get a nuke i mean i don't know what what they would
do with a nuclear bomb but uh specifically with a remote guided missile you know the ability to
take down a helicopter which they already done you know the ability to take out a plane which
may or may not have already happened you know uh it's scary capabilities like that are scary
you know and uh
you know my my whole fear is uh you know the some of some of the stuff that is being now
kind of in the wind you know like a rocket launcher a rocket launcher can do a lot of things
you know a 50 cal a 50 cal rifle which is a civilian-grade rifle here in the united states
in some parts you can buy a 50 cal right my father yeah my my father in law has one of my
buddy just bought one yeah a single one of those rounds somewhere in the in the power grid they're
like that big a single a single round like that somewhere in the power grid right right you know
if again there's there's uh well yeah because the power grid's already going down everywhere in
ukraine right yeah so the the the amount of fuckery basically that we can do with military
great equipment that is now out there or with something small a drone technology you know
we're going the the thing that people should wait for and see is swarm technology related to
drones cheap swarm technology militarized in this war field that we're seeing right now in the
ukraine i think if when people see that that's when we all of us have to really worry about what is
that uh swarm technology basically utilizing a bunch of a bunch of drones in unison to attack a
specific target let's say a hundred drones in unison swarming a specific target you can have
military-grade technology trying to take all them down but not all of them one of them will get
through or a lot of them will get through so imagine that that ability which has already been
showcased by china i think has already done the public demonstrations with that technology
and it's viable it's accessible it's possible so seeing some of that technology in the wrong
hands people worry about a nuke i worry about swarm what do you think about those fucking
things that those fighter pilots are seeing off the off those ships off of san diego ah those uh
i don't know is that cartel technology it could be and they have the money to make some shit like
that uh i don't know i've seen some weird shit in my life i've seen some weird lights and shit
like that too but uh like i don't i don't know i don't know what that is you know you see them
how they move the fact that the military and some of these pilots are reporting on it those
guys are yeah you want to talk about people that go through a lot of scrutiny yeah i mean those guys
are go go through all the crazy thing is they just started seeing it when they got the upgraded
radars on their jets like they never saw it before then they all upgraded their radar and now
there's they were seeing them everywhere the weird thing about them the night that gets to me like
again i'm not you know i'm a alex jones you know yeah but the mexican alex jones
bad there there's a cartel alien drones no i worked on that for a while i got a shout out
from them once i was weird um the the the the ability these are the ability for them of them
to go into the water and also go into like a hillside which have seen you know evidence of that
kind of like i talked about that's weird the fact that they interplay with what's observing them is
also kind of weird i don't know i don't know what they are like i have no idea for me i don't think
they're for me i don't think they're aliens yeah i don't i don't i don't see that may i don't know
that they they very much perform or act like drones like something you would send like a probe or
something like that is what they seem like i don't know i don't know if there's something in them but
i know something's controlling them probably right that's what i think i don't know i mean
i dread the day that those things are what are being used for warfare
i can't i can't fucking imagine i don't know again this is me just they don't seem like they're
they're they don't seem like war technology they seem more like surveillance maybe yeah that
well there's a lot of stuff that's being declassified of them appearing around nuclear facility yes
and you know the the the the the historical presence of them as far as mass people the
mass of people knowing about them was around nuclear testing right yeah there was more there
was more those more UFO sightings during all of the nuclear jet yeah there's a great documentary
called the phenomenon and they actually show a graphic of like the map of the world and they
show like the timeline where all the nukes were detonated in history and like the time the period
in time where there was the most detonated nukes like when they were doing all the nuclear testing
in arizona and shit yeah and the russians were doing all their nuclear testing that was the biggest
spike correlated in UFO sightings that's a weird that's a weird thing that's the my funniest alien
related thing i like a lot is that you know you go to egypt you know aliens made this
you go to mexico all those pyramids out there mexicans
who says the mexicans made them yeah all of us the Aztecs yeah well you know we made those
man yeah i saw those pyramids like can i aliens didn't make this shit you see the mortar is
she like ah we made that shit you know you can see it you know you can see the hand of man there
man there's a lot of fucking pyramids in south america and mexico yeah a lot of crazy like
temples and pyramids and shit the the interesting thing about some of the stuff in mexico as far
as the culture wise you know we're very advanced you know there's the cradle of culture in in
mexico as far as you know the the the astronomy uh math writing uh you know when the spanish came
there's this whole misconception that the spanish took down denocetlan you know they
that took down the the mehica empire the athic empire as it's called now that's not true but
they came and they allied themselves with all the enemies of the mehica empire the their enemies
are the ones that took down that empire and they were aided by the spanish but it was basically an
cultural implosion what happened in mexico that's we took ourselves down in a lot of ways
interestingly thinking about the spanish coming to mexico and doing that conquest
they were conquesting themselves before that right they were coming off the moorish conquest
so a conquested people that got liberated went to another part of the world and conquested another
people mm-hmm you know uh my how my maternal grandmother uh is uh from uh i think she is uh
last caltecan uh ancestry they're the ones that allied themselves with the spanish when when they
came really yeah warrior people wow uh they've got finished taking down the athic empire and they
got on a boat in a place called barra de navidad it's a little uh coastal town on the pacific
side of mexico that went there uh a year ago uh there's a big placard there where this is where
the uh the uh expedition to the philippines went from so when they got done doing what they did in
mexico they got on a boat and went to the philippines to do the same thing oh at some point in history
mexican warriors fought samurai pirates in the ocean in the philippines i want to see a movie made
about that wow that was that happened somewhere in history out that'd be that'd be a cool movie to
watch that'd be a cool fucking movie holy shit um but yeah the uh mexico has a like uh as far as a
a place and a lot of the stuff that happens and it happened in mexico historically and
where why it is how it is now you know so much history there the you know we're so rich in culture
and history like uh you want to talk about old things and i remember going to boston and somebody
well this is this church is from this right and i'm like that's not old i've been to you know i've
been to the i've i've i've stood on top of the uh the the pyramid of the sun you know that's old
you know when talking about old things right yeah and uh i don't know i think it's something we forget
as mexicans about how old our culture is how rich it is and how many times people have tried to
destroy it take it over the deconstruct it suppress it and it's still holding on i just learned that
el dia de los muertos was based off of um the younger dryest cataclysms
so like el dia de los muertos was supposed to be a couple days before a crazy comet impact
wiped out civilization and that's where the stories of like Noah's arcs comes in and that was
like somewhere between 11,500 or 12,500 years ago so dia de los muertos a lot of people consider
it like a native celebration of some sort that actually came as a nationalistic movement in
Mexico during uh during a presidency we had a president down there who uh nationalized petroleum
and did a lot of stuff from Mexico and part of his uh part of his efforts was to create a national
holistic sentiment about the culture in Mexico so he created the other muertos which is not a native
celebration actually it is kind of a created institution or celebration that was wanted to
rival some of the other celebrations out there in the world as far as halloween and stuff like that
so it doesn't go all the way back to to to to Aztec or or mehica culture but it uh it definitely
has some sort of influence as far as there's always other other parts of the world celebrate
in that specific period in time frame i don't know if that's anything maybe that was halloween
specifically maybe it wasn't el dia de los muertos i just thought there was a connection there
um anyways thank you man for doing this no thank you for the invitation
fascinating where can people find you if they want to find me i'm super shadow band on instagram
but uh edsmanifesto underscore at edsmanifesto underscore if you want to find me on instagram
um i have a website double you double you dot edsmanifesto.com you can find out about the
training i do classes i do some of the appearances i have and uh you can also find your way to the
patreon that i have where i kind of put everything related to my personal notebooks observations
video interviews and uh i have a podcast too oh you do yeah uh manifesto radio uh manifesto
radio on youtube uh specifically focusing on talking to people that have similar experiences
than the of the of mine um people that i've met and learned from and my first guest was a rapper
named conejo uh he was arrested on murder charges uh in tijuana he was wanted by the fbi back then
and i was part of the organization that uh arrested him uh and i got to he was my first guest uh our
kids were playing outside while we're talking so it's a pretty good example of how you know time
is a flat circle that's so some of these conversations are on my uh on my youtube channel
manifesto radio are you gonna get that guy on there who uh was the leader of your your group in
mexico we're we're trying to get a we're trying to get him on uh to basically have him you know
one-on-one conversation with him i can't wait to hear that one uh he is uh he's he's gonna run for
american and uh if people want to look at an example of somebody that's actually providing hope for
people or somebody that could make a change you know look him up cool all right well thanks again man
goodbye world
